23909851|Thymelaea passerina, a herbaceous weed native to Europe, is reported as new to Ohio. The plant has been previously recorded in North America from Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, and Illinois. A description of the species and an illustration are included.
23909847|Phaedranassa brevifolia is described from Ecuador. Chromosome number of P. brevifolia is 2n = 46, as has been reported for other species of the genus. Eucharis moorei, E. cyaneosperma, and E. formosa are described from Ecuador and Amazonian Peru and Colombia. Eucharis moorei is putatively the most primitive species in the genus, with many ancestral characters of the genus. All three Eucharis species have a chromosome number of 2n = 46, the most common somatic number in the genus. Karyotypic differences between Peruvian and Ecuadorean E. formosa are reported.
23909859|The following thirty taxa are being reported new to Oklahoma: Amaranthus gracilis Desf., Amorpha nana Nutt., Apium leptophyllum (Pers.) Muell., Astragalus leptocarpus T. & G., Botrychium biternatum (Sav.) Underw., Cardamine angustata O.E. Schulz var. multifida (Muhl.) Ahles, C. a. var. ouachitana E.B. Smith, Carex digitalis Willd., Croton argyranthemus Michx., Erianthus ravennae (L.) Beauv., Euphorbia exstipulata Engelm., Geranium texanum (Trel.) Heller, Helianthus decapetalus L., Hordeum leporinum Link, Melica altissima L., Myagrum perfoliatum L., Pinaropappus roseus (Less.) Less., Poa canbyi (Scribn.) Piper, Potentilla paradoxa Nutt., Rubus invisus (Bailey) Britt., Rumex conglomeratus Murr., Salsola collina Pall., Scirpus fluviatilis (Torr.) Gray, Sisyrinchium minus Engelm. & Gray, Solidago auriculata Shuttleworth, Solidago wrightii Gary var. adenophora Blake, Utricularia radiata Small, Uvularia perfoliata L., Vicia exigua T. & G., Vaccinium fuscatum Ait., and Gentiana puberulenta Pringle are documented as occurring in Oklahoma. The type of Dalea phleoides (T. & G.) Shinners var. phleoides is most likely from Oklahoma.
23909852|Populations of Borreria terminalis Small and B: verticillata (L.) G.F.W. Meyer in southern Florida were studied to determine whether the recent reduction of the former to the synonymy of the latter was justified. Vegetative characters were found to distinguish populations but provided no means of separating the species. Marked differences were found between the species in several characters related to flower size. The consistency of the floral differences and the absence of hybrids supported the continued recognition of B. terminalis as a distinct species endemic to southern Florida.
23909849|As highlighted by the SEM, surficial sculpturings of the achenes of seven species of Ranunculus section Echinella adventive within the southeastern United States show two species with incurved trichomes and five species with protuberances and spines of varying lengths and frequency. A key, descriptions, habitats, and ranges within the southeastern United States of the seven species are included.
23909856|Six species are recognized in a revision of Digitaria section Digitaria in North America. The taxonomy is based on phenetic and statistical analyses of 2,530 specimens from 245 populations. Recognized species include D. bicornis, D. ciliaris, D. horizontalis, D. nuda, D. sanguinalis, and D. setigera. The DELTA computer programs were used to produce the descriptions and key.
23909858|Eustachys caribaea (Sprengel) Herter was recently collected from Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana and represents the first report of this South American taxon in the United States. A previous report of this species under the name Chloris capensis (Houtt.) Thell. has proved to be erroneous. The method of introduction is unknown but, it appears to have been unintentional. Two other adventive and four native species of Eustachys are now known in the United States.
23909855|Eriochloa is a genus of the grass tribe Paniceae, with a base chromosome number of x = 9. Most species are tetraploids (2n = 36); however, diploids (2n = 18), hexaploids (2n = 54) and octoploids (2n = 72) have been reported. The first chromosome count for E. michauxii is reported (2n = 36). The genus is represented in North and Central America by eight perennial and seven annual species which are predominantly distributed in the southwestern U.S. and Mexico. Keys and descriptions were produced using the DELTA computer programs. Distributions and representative specimens are provided for all taxa. The binomial E. acuminata was found to have priority over E. gracilis, and the new combination E. acuminata var. minor (Vasey) R.B. Shaw was required. Two taxa are reduced to varietal rank with the new combinations E. aristata var. boxiana (Hitchc.) R.B. Shaw and E. setosa var. ekmanii (Hitchc.) R.B. Shaw presented. The occurrence of E. pseudoacrotricha, an Australian species, is reported for the first time in North America. The name E. fatmensis is applied to specimens previously identified as E. procera.
23909848|Hexastylis shuttleworthii var. harperi, a new heartleaf from Alabama and Georgia, is described. Unlike Hexastylis shuttleworthii (Britten & Baker) Small var. shuttleworthii, H. shuttleworthii var. harperi has elongated and branched rhizomes, often forming a continuous ground cover in and around bogs where it is usually found. This heretofore undescribed variety is well-known in cultivation.
23909853|Preparation of a treatment of Cynanchum for the Chihuahuan Desert Flora resulted in a reevaluation of the varieties of Cynanchum barbigerum (Scheele) Shinners and recognition of a new variety of C. maccartii Shinners.
23909857|Coutaportla pailensis is described from the Sierra de la Paila, southern Coahuila, Mxico. Its closest relative appears to be C. ghiesbreghtiana from central Mxico from which it differs in a number of salient features.
23909854|Vauquelinia is a genus of small trees and shrubs endemic to Mexico and southwestern United States. Due to considerable overlap in vegetative characteristics, the 11 taxa are grouped into three species: V. australis of Oaxaca and Puebla; V. californica with four subspecies, subsp. californica, subsp. pauciflora, subsp. sonorensis, and subsp. retherfordii from Arizona and New Mxico south to Durango, Coahuila and Baja California, and; V. corymbosa with 6 subspecies, subsp. corymbosa, subsp. heterodon, subsp. angustifolia, subsp. karwinskyi, subsp. saltilloensis, and subsp. latifolia from Hidalgo, Quertaro north to Nuevo Len, Coahuila, and trans-Pecos Texas. Data on leaf, flower anatomy, as well as floral vascularization are also included.
41967419|Calycanthus brockiana occurs within populations of Calycanthus floridus var. floridus and van glaucus and is characterized by pale yellowish-green flowers and lighter textured leaves. It breeds true under selfing but fails to produce seed when crossed with C. floridus var. floridus.
41967426|A re-examination of Arabis serotina Steele shows that several morphological characters consistently correlate with the flowering time which clearly separates this species from its close relative, Arabis laevigata (Muhl.) Poir. var. burkii Porter. A chromosome count of 2n = 14 is reported. This information supports the original contention that Arabis serotina is a good morphological species.
41967410|Vitis nesbittiana, a new species in series Aestivales Planchon (Vitaceae), is described and compared with two morphologically similar members of Aestivales. Vitis nesbittiana is restricted to tropical cloud forests around Jalapa, Mxico at elevations from 1700 - 2120 m.
41967424|There are nine species of Cuscuta attributed to Louisiana. Three others are expected. This treatment includes keys, description of taxa, names of hosts, phenology, drawings of flowering and fruiting materials of 12 species, distribution maps for nine species, and a new varietal name combination.
41967412|Erigeron turnerorum, a new species from northern Nuevo Len, Mxico, is described and illustrated. It is most similar to E. tenellus, E. geiseri, and E. tenuis from the eastern United States and northeastern Mxico and to E. lobatus and E. velutipes from Arizona and northwestern Mxico.
41967417|Gossypianthus and Guilleminea are recognized as distinct genera. Two species of Gossypianthus are recognized, G. brittonii restricted to Cuba, and the more widespread G. lanuginosus with two varieties: var. lanuginosus from Hispaniola, Oklahoma, Texas and northeastern Mxico; and var. tenuiflorus from Oklahoma, eastern and coastal Texas. Two species of Guilleminea also also recognized, G. elongata from Uruguay, and G. densa with three varieties: G. densa var. densa in South America from Ecuador to Argentina and naturalized in Queensland, Australia and southern Africa; var. aggregata in Texas, New Mexico, south to Oaxaca, Mxico; and var. gracilis from high elevations in northern Argentina and adjacent Bolivia.
41967413|Cyanococcus cuthbertii Small is lectotypified from discordant elements.
41967421|Amsonia ludoviciana (Apocynaceae), recently placed under review for possible listing as an endangered species by the United States Department of the Interior, is shown to be of very limited occurrence in north central Louisiana. Populations discovered in 1983 and 1985 represent the only known natural populations of the species and total fewer than 1000 individuals. Because the only complete description of A. ludoviciana was published nearly 60 years ago and was based on observations of only three specimens, a redescription of the species is provided.
41967422|Leaves of eight species of Muhlenbergia composing the M. repens complex were analyzed for anatomical detail. Analysis of transverse section and epidermis shows that most species can be clearly defined. Muhlenbergia plumbea is the most unique species in the complex; characters by which it differs suggest there is little relationship between it and the other species. Differences between M. richardsonis and M. squarrosa were not found, supporting the current interpretation that these are conspecific. A few differences between M. villiflora and M. villosa were found, suggesting that these be maintained as distinct entities. In M. utilis, sclerenchyma formed an abaxial girder between the colorless cells and the epidermis as well as between the vascular bundle and the epidermis. Sclerenchyma in M. fastigiata was present on the adaxial side or associated with the abaxial side of primary bundles only; secondary bundles were absent and no girders were formed on tertiary bundles. The occurrence of rows of short cells on the epidermis appears to be correlated with the presence of sclerenchyma below the epidermis. The anatomical data suggests there are seven well defined taxa, two of which (M. villiflora and M. villosa) are distinguishable by only a few characters.
41967409|Actinea Juss. is reduced in status to a section of Helenium L., and a taxonomic treatment is presented for the three presently recognized taxa: Helenium radiatum (Less.) Bierner (= H. alternifolium [Sprengel] Cabrera), H. donianum (Hook. & Arn.) Cabrera van donianum, and H. donianum var. linearifolium (Kuntze) Bierner. The latter, which was originally described as a variety of Actinea heterophy Juss. (= H. radiatum), has not been recognized as a valid biologic entity since its description. Sectional relationships and sectional dis-junctions are also discussed. This treatment takes into account all known morphologic, cytologic, and chemical data.
41967411|The name Vitis simpsonii Munson has been applied by Munson and other authors to two different taxa. This has resulted in nomenclatural confusion in attempts to characterize and classify these taxa. Vitis simpsonii Munson of 1887 is treated in synonomy under Vitis cinerea Engelm. ex Millard. var. floridana Munson of series Cinerascentes. Vitis simpsonii Munson of 1890 is synonomized under Vitis aestivalis Michaux var. smalliana (Bailey) Comeaux of series Aestivales.
41967427|This treatment is based on field and herbarium research conducted over an eight year period and the examination of over 7,900 specimens of Sclerta from the United States and Canada. Major emphasis is placed on achene sculpturing, and on pubescence of achenes, scales, bracts, leaves, and culms. Achenes from many species examined vary from glabrous to highly pubescent and from almost smooth to deeply papillose or reticulate. Scales, bracts, leaves, and culms on many species vary in vestiture. The taxonomic importance of these characters is questionable in view of the variability. Descriptions often species, a new combination, and a new key are presented. Several significant range extensions are reported.
41967414|Hymenocallis palmeri S. Watson and H. floridana (Raf.) Morton, closely related species which grow sympatrically in the wetlands of Florida, were studied morphometrically to determine whether they could be consistently distinguished. Information was collected on leaf width and seven characters of the inflorescence from several populations in southern Florida. Analysis of this data suggested that the two species were separable on the basis of flower size and leaf width. Differences in habitat and blooming period were found to corroborate the separation of the two species.
41967519|Diaspores of burrograss (Scleropogon brevifolius Phil.) possess morphological features that enhance dispersal and seed implantation by wind on flat, non-vegetated ground. The awns of the female spikelet orient the diaspore to facilitate implantation of the floret into soil cracks, and the callus hairs hold the floret in the soil. In areas with even slight ground cover, however, the awns prevent contact of soil and diaspore and implantation of the floret is prevented.
41967510|Fifty genera are recognized in a taxonomic account of the Paniceae for the New World. A description of the tribe, based on a summation of variation in the recognized genera, is presented. A bracketed key is given and based on a computer analysis of the variation among the genera. A set of synoptic descriptions is presented and based on an accumulation of diagnostic characters. Panicum acostia R. Webster is proposed as a new name. English, Portuguese, and Spanish versions of the character list, key, and comprehensive descriptions are included on an accompanying microfiche.
41967517|A new species, Polymnia cossatotensis, is described from the Cossatot Mountains, a range of mountains in the Ouachita Division of the Interior Highlands. It was found growing abundantly on and among cherty novaculite talus. Polymnia cossatotensis is most closely related to P. laevigata and P. canadensis but is easily distinguished by its annual habit, cordate cauline leaves, fewer rays, and larger achenes.
41967513|A new variety of Carex lucorum Willd. ex Link (C. lucorum var. austrolucorum) from the southern Appalachians is proposed. Carexartitecta Mackenzie and C. physorhyncha Liebm. exSteud. are reduced to varieties of C. emmonsii Dewey ex Torrey (C. emmonsii var. muhlenbergii and C. emmonsii var. australis, respectively). Se propone una nueva variedad de Carex lucorum Willd. ex Link (C lucorum var. austrolucorum)del sur de la sierra Appalachia. Se reduce C. artitecta Mackenzie a variedad de C.emmonsii Dewey ex Torrey (como C. emmonsii var. muhlenbergii) as como C. physorhynchaLiebm. ex Steud. (como C. emmonsii var. australis).
41967511|Recent collections from the state of Chihuahua, Mxico, reveal a new species, Acourtia dieringeri, which coexists with A. thurberi and is similar to it in some characters.
41967518|Carex asynchrona, a new species of section Griseae, is described from the Gomez Farias area of southwestern Tamaulipas, Mexico. It differs from its close relatives (C. hitchcockiana, C. impressinervia, C. oligocarpa, and C. ouachitana) in that it possesses brown bases, glabrous sheaths, upper 3-4 spikes overlapping, and crowded, definitely beaked perigynia. Locally frequent in the upper elevational limit of cloud forest, C. asynchrona exemplifies the floristic affinity of the Gomez Farias cloud forest with forests in the southeastern United States.
41967514|This treatment, which takes into account all known morphologic, ecologie, cytologie, and chemical data, recognizes Helenium L. sect. Amarum Bierner with two taxa: Helenium amarum (Raf.) Rock var. amarum and H. amarum var. badium (A. Gray ex S. Wats.) Waterfall. These are the only taxa of Helenium in North America with leaves not decurrent along the stem.
41967512|Seven species of Aristida (POACEAE) are known from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands: A. spiciformis Elliott, A. chaseae Hitchcock, A. portorkensis Pilger, A. adscensionis L., A. suringarii Henrard, A. cognata Trin. et Rupr., and A. refracta Griseb. Aristida chaseae, previously known only from the type collection, was rediscovered and Aristida portorkensis was found in new localities. Aristida suringarii previously unknown for Puerto Rico, is reported from Mona Island. The two endemic, potentially threatened species may benefit from management practices. A key and illustrations are provided for all species. Se conocen siete especies del gnero Aristida (Poaceae) originarias de Puerto Rico y de las Islas Vrgenes: A. spiciformis Elliott, A. chaseae Hitchcock, A. portorkensis Pilger, A. adscensionis L., A. suringarii Henrard, A. cognata Trin. et Rupr., and A. refracta Griseb. Se descubri nuevamente a Aristida chaseae, conocida anteriomente slo a partir de coleccin tipo, y se encontr a Aristida portorkensis en nuevos lugares. En el presente trabajo, se informa sobre la existencia en la Isla Mona de Aristida suringarii, antes desconocida para Puerto Rico. Las prcticas de manejo que se recomiendan en este artculo podran beneficiar a las dos especies endmicas pontencialmente amenazadas. Se incluyen una clave e ilustraciones para todas las especies.
41967515|Seeds of Draperia systyia, sometimes considered to be a close relative of Nama, have been examined using scanning electron microscopy. Seeds are ovate-elliptic in outline, average 1.8 mm in length and exhibit an alveolate surface pattern. Secondary deposits are found in the outermost testa cells. The deposits fill the lower 1/3-1/2 of each cell and continue upward as a veneer of decreasing thickness to the apex of radial walls. Removal of deposits, by sonication, reveals that radial walls of these outermost cells have both pits and thickenings, a radial wall pattern not found in seeds of any species of Nama. Seeds of D. systyia are distinct from those of Nama and do not suggest the two genera are closely related.
41967520|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Carex willdenowii var. megarrhyncha, Crepis pulchra, Galium obtusum, Gnaphalium helleri, Iris fulva, Polygala nuttallii, and Scutellaria thieretii (mistakenly reported as S. drummondii in an earlier paper). Some additions to the Florida panhandle are documented here, and several significant range extensions, particularly for rare or endangered taxa within our area, are given.
41967516|Trifolium stoloniferum Muhl. ex A. Eaton (Fabaceae) (running buffalo clover) is Federally listed as an Endangered species by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. This species formerly grew in eight states from West Virginia to Kansas. As of 1987 this species was confirmed extant at only five sites in Indiana, Kentucky, and West Virginia. Trifolium stoloniferum was known historically from eight counties in southern Ohio, the last collection being in 1907. In 1988 this species was rediscovered at eight sites in Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren counties. Population sizes range from 1 to ca. 110 individuals. Historic and modern habitats for running buffalo clover are described. Trifolium stoloniferum seems restricted to mesic sites in semishade where there is a pattern of long term disturbance, such as mowing, trampling, or grazing. The decline of running buffalo clover in Ohio seems related to the decimation of herbivores on which the species depended for dispersal and subsequently to maturation of habitats.
41967484|A new species is described, Aster saxicastellii Campbell & Medley. It is closely related to the northeastern A. radula Aiton, but differs in its chromosome number (2n = 54); leafshape (broader, petioled, and more coarsely serrate); flowers (generally larger and paler); and cypselas (larger, pubescent, and with a white pappus). It has been found in only one locality, about 100 miles west of the most southern known station for A. radula. It grows on boulder-cobble bars along about three miles of the Rockcastle River in Pulaski and Laurel counties, Kentucky. It is concentrated in the shrubby transition from the open grassy bars to the adjacent forested terraces or slopes. This unusual vegetation is described.
41967494|Chromosome numbers in Thymophylla tenuiloba var. tenuiloba and congeners are evidently all based on x = 8. Past reports of n = 13 for taxa referable to Thymophylla probably resulted from incorrect interpretations of meiotic figures in triploids with 2n = 3x = 24. Reproduction in the triploids is apparently apomictic.
41967488|Muhlenbergia capillaris and its allied species, M. expansa and M. filipes have been variously classified in the past as three distinct species or a single species with three varieties. A numerical analysis was performed on data taken from herbarium specimens collected throughout the geographic distribution of these taxa. Analysis of variance, principal components analysis, cluster analysis, and discriminate analysis indicate there is a continuum of morphological variation present. A single species with three varieties (var. capillaris var. filipes and var. trichopodes is recognized. A key to the varieties and descriptions of each are presented.
41967490|The rare Florida endemic Ziziphus celata (Rhamnaceae), last collected in 1955 and presumed extinct, was rediscovered in Highlands and adjacent Polk counties. The fruit is here described for the first time.
41967487|This paper reports on the occurrence of nine species of grasses (Poaceae) not previously reported for Puerto Rico (Britton & Wilson 1924, Liogier & Mattorell 1982): Aristida suringari Henrard, Brachiaria arreca (Dur. & Schinz) Stent, Imperata brasiliensis Trin., Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus, Panicum venezuelae Hack., Paspalum macrophyllum Kunth, Paspalum pulchellum Kunth, Sorghastrum stipoides (Kunth) Nash, and Tricholaena repens (Willd.) Hitchc. Este articulo trata sobre la presencia de nueve especies herbaces (Poaceae) de Puerto Rico que no han sido descritas previamente (Britton & Wilson 1924, Liogier & Martorell 1982): Aristida suringari Henrard, Brachiaria arrecta (Dur. & Schinz) Stent, Imperata brasiliensis Trin., Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus, Panicum venezuelae Hack., Paspalum macrophyllum Kunth, Paspalum pulchellum Kunth, Sorghastrum stipoides (Kunth) Nash, y Tricholaena repens (Willd.) Hitchc.
41967489|Crotalaria avonensis DeLaney & Wunderlin is described from the xeric white sand scrub habitat of Highlands County, Florida. It is compared with C. rotundifolia.
41967480|Two new species, Valeriana bryophila and Valeriana gallinae, from Cerro de Teotepec in Guerrero, are described. Valeriana gallinae is closely related to V. pilosiuscula, differing most obviously in having fruits that are glabrous and lanceolate, rather than hirsute or pilose and ovate. The relationships of V. bryophila are less obvious; characters of the inflorescence and fruits suggest a possible relationship with V. pulchella, a species that is perennial rather than biennial, and in which the basal leaves are compound rather than simple. Se describen dos especies nuevas de Cerro Teotepec, Guerrero, Mxico. Valeriana gallinae asemeja a V. pilosiuscula Mart. & Gal., pero se distingue por frutos lanceolados y glabros en lugar de frutos ovados y pilosos o hirsutos. Las relaciones de V. bryophila son ms enigmticas; parece superficialimente a V. pulchella, una especie perene con hojas compuesta. Al obstante la especie nueva es bianual y presenta hojas basales simples.
41967492|The generic relationships and subtribal placement of the monotypic genera Mexianthus and Neobintonia are discussed using macro and micromorphological characters as well as chromosome numbers reported here for the first time. Neohintonia (x= 10) is placed in synonymy as a species of Koanophyllon (x= 10). The discussion is appended with a key to the genera Mexianthus (x= 16), Decachaeta (x= 16), and Koanophyllon. Descriptions and distributions for Mexianthus and Koanophyllon monanthum are provided.
41967481|Prunus cercocarpifolia (subgenus Amygdalus) is described and illustrated from southern Coahuila. It is closely related to P. microphylla (H.B.K.) Hemsl. but differs from it in leaf and floral characters.
41967495|Chromosome counts are reported for 24 species of Mexican Asteraceae, 12 of these previously unreported. Newly reported counts include Stevia latifolta, n = 45 I; S. lucida var. bipontini, n= 12 II; Desmanthodium fruticosum, n= 17 II; Viguierapotosina, n= 17 II, Dyssodia glandulosa, n= 13 II; Geissolepis suadaefolia, n = 8 II; Gymnolaena oaxacana, n= 13 II; Leucactinia bracteata, n= 16 II; Machaeranthera stenophylla, n= 4 II; Porophyllum calcicola, n= 12 II; and Pinaropappus multicaulis, n= 9 II. Reports for species of Desmanthodium, Geissolepis and Leucactinia represent new generic counts. Chromosome counts are reported for six species in four genera of the tribe Tageteae and are compared with all numbers previously reported in the tribe. When deemed appropriate, phyletic digressions are made.
41967491|The case for lectotypification of Azalea rosea Loiseleur fails on two major points. Primarily, because the only type included in Loiseleur's description of Azalea rosea is that of Azalea canescens Michaux (a previously validly published name) and secondly because the lectotype recently designated is in conflict with the protologue and the intent of the original author.
41967493|Disseminules from the following fourteen plants are reported as additions to those previously documented from beaches of Santa Rosa Island, Florida: Astrocaryum sp., Canavalia rosea, Carya glabra, Corylus sp., Crescentia cujete, Crinum americanum, Dioclea reflexa, Entada gigas, Manicara saccifera, Mucuna sloanei, Nyssa aquatica, Rhizophora mangle, Spondias mombin, and Terminalia catappa.
41966632|Phylogenetic tree diagrams have been used for over a century to portray visually the estimated phylogeny of plant groups. These often accompany revisionary studies and usually summarize the classification and evolutionary relationships. Despite their widespread use, most trees do not show all possible relationships among the taxa, and frequently the relationships are shown in an ambiguous fashion. This hampers communication about the systematics of the group and makes comparisons of several different competing classifications for the same group difficult. A phylogenetic tree which shows all possible relationships is called a phylogram, and it contains information about (1) cladistics (branching patterns), (2) chronistics (time of divergence), (3) phenetics (over-all similarity and/or difference among extant taxa), and (4) patristics (total evolutionary change). Use of explicitly derived phylograms with high informational content in routine revisionary work is recommended. A method is presented for making a phylogram showing all four relationships using the genus Lagascea (Compositae) as a model.
41966639|Aster section Patentes is a group of base-5 asters of the eastern United States. The group is characterized by widely-spaced, strongly-clasping cauline leaves, abruptlyreduced peduncular bracts, and glandular, green-tipped phyllaries. Three species are recognized in the section: Aster phlogifolius Muhl. ex Willd., a tetraploid, Appalachian taxon; Aster georgianus Alexander, a decaploid, Piedmont taxon; and Aster patens Ait., a wide-ranging taxon including both diploid and tetaploid populations, and divisible into three geographic varietiesthe southwestern var. gracilis Hook., the Interior Highland var. patentissimus (Lindl.) T. & G., and the eastern var. patens. The results of historical, morphological, chromosomal, hybridization, and ecological studies are presented, and the taxa are keyed, described, mapped, and synonymies are given.
41966634|The Sterculiaceae is represented in the southeastern flora by four genera and seven species which grow without cultivation. Distribution in the flora area is primarily in the warmer portions, mostly in the Coastal Plain Province. Taxa are highly polymorphic yet are well marked species in our range.
23909542|Study of trichomes and stomata on epidermal surfaces using the scanning electron microscope is presented with augmentation from sectioned and imprinted materials viewed using the light microscope. Trichomes always occur on flowers and abaxial leaf surfaces; they rarely occur on epidermis of mature twigs. The trichomes are mostly in fascicles of two to four parallel hairs; they vary in density and size. Stomata are cyclocytic with prominent stomatal rims and peristomatal rims, the latter usually in the form of buttressed cups. Comparisons are made with trichomes and stomata of related taxa.
23909545|This paper presents new information, derived from herbarium data, about the nature of variation in the Desmodium paniculatum complex. Three confluent species, Desmodium paniculatum, D. perplexum, and D. glabellum, are recognized, their discrimination, however, being subjective. Determination of the level of interbreeding in nature and of the effect of environment on the expression of phenotypes might lead to a clarification of interpretations.
23909544|Poa tracyi and P. occidentalis were found to be distinct, but closely related, species. Character differences between the taxa correspond to differences in breeding system, phenology, ecology, distribution, and possibly chromosome number. The species are rarely closely sympatric. Nevertheless, some intergradation and a few intermediate plants are apparent. Stepwise discriminant analysis correctly identified 99% of the 278 specimens tested. Geographic range of P. tracyi extends from northern Colorado to south central New Mexico; that of P. occidentalis from southwestern Colorado to southern New Mexico, east central Arizona and west Texas. New chromosome number reports are: P. tracyi 2n = 28; P. occidentalis, 2n = ca 28 with meiotic irregularities, and; P. reflexa, 2n = 28. A key to P. tracyi, P. occidentalis, and similar species, P. leptocoma, P. reflexa, and P. curta is included.
23909549|New distribution records are reported for four locations in New Mexico, one in Texas, and one in Mexico. The first count for meiotic chromosome divisions is reported as 2n = 44. Pollen fertility and caryopsis germination tests were made in an attempt to explain the rarity of the species. Scarcity of the specific habitat, limestone rock with chert or limestone derived soils on north facing slopes, is apparently more important in restricting distribution than the plant's reproductive capabilities.
23909546|Erigeron concinnus appears to be a distinct species rather than a subspecies of E. pumilus. Detailed study of E. concinnus and E. pumilus subsp. intermedius in Nevada and adjacent areas shows them to be allopatric and morphologically non-intergrading. Further, previous literature has reported that E. concinnus does not intergrade with E. pumilus subsp. pumilus where their ranges approach each other in Colorado. A new combination is proposed: E. concinnus var. subglaber (Cronq.) Nesom.
41968600|One new hybrid genus, Pascoelymus = Pascopyrum  Elymus, and 12 new combinations are presented for North American grasses. Six of the new combinations are for hybrids in the Triticeae. Stipa arnowiae is transferred to Achnatherum and Hystrix californica ( Elymus californicus) to Leymus. Agropyron riparium is recognized as a subspecies of Elymus lanceolatus; Ammophila champlainensis is reduced to a subspecies, based on the findings of others, and the previously recognized subspecies of Pseudoroegneria spicata are reduced to forms. Reasons for the changes are provided. Se presenta un nuevo gnero hbrido, Pascoelymus = Pascopyrum  Elymus, y 12 combinaciones nuevas de gramneas norteamericanas. Seis de las nuevas combinaciones son de hbridos en Triticeae. Stipa arnowiae se transfiere a Achnatherum y Hystrix californica (= Elymus californicus) a Leymus. Agropyron riparium se reconoce como una subespecie de Elymus lanceolatus; Ammophila champlainensis se reduce a una subespecie, basndonos en los hallazgos de otros, y la subespecie reconocida previamente de Pseudoroegneria spicata se reduce a formas. Se aportan razonamientos de los cambios.
41968650|The distribution of white-flowered Hedyotis australis is extended to Missouri and Florida as well as within Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Tennessee. This distribution is compared to allied homostylous species H. crassifolia and H. rosea which also flower as winter annuals in the southcentral United States. Hedyotis crassifolia is a diploid species having a flowering peak earlier than the tetraploid H. australis. An example of possible out-crossing within H. crassifolia via bee pollination is discussed. Hedyotis rosea is now considered extirpated in Missouri. Hedyotis australis de flores blancas se encuentra distribuida por Missouri y Florida as como tambin en Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, y Tennessee. Su distribucin se compara la de las otras especies homostilas H. crassifolia y H. rosea las cuales florecen como anuales de invierno en la regin centrosur de Estados Unidos. La especie diploide Hedyotis crassifolia tiene un pico de floracin ms temprano que la especie tetraploide H. australis. Se discute un ejemplo de posible entrecruzamiento dentro de H. crassifolia va polinizacin por abejas. Hedyotis rosea se considera ahora extinguida en Missouri.
41968593|Stenanthium diffusum Wofford, sp. nov., is described as a new species from Fentress, Morgan, Pickett, and Scott counties on the northern Cumberland Plateau of Tennessee. It is most closely related to S. gramineum but differs in having (1) a more diffuse inflorescence, (2) flowers on the mid-portion of lateral panicle branches spaced 8 mm apart and with distinct pedicels (1.6-4 mm long), and (3) the uppermost non-bracteal stem leaf less than 15 cm above ground level. It also flowers later and has ecological requirements differing significantly from S. gramineum. Stenanthium diffusum is an extremely rare rockhouse endemic in need of consideration for state and federal endangered species status. Se describe una nueva especie Stenanthium diffusum Wofford, sp. nov., de los condados de Fentress, Morgan, Pickett, y Scott del norte del Cumberland Plateau de Tennessee. Est estrechamente relacionada con S. gramineum pero difiere por tener (1) una inflorescencia ms difusa, (2) flores en la parte media lateral de las ramas del panculo espaciadas 8 mm y con pedicelos diferenciados (1.6-4 mm de longitud), y (3) la hoja superior del tallo no bracteal a menos de 15 cm sobre el nivel del suelo. Tambin florece ms tarde y tiene requerimientos ecolgicos que difieren bastante de S. gramineum. Stenanthium diffusum es un endemismo extremadamente raro de roquedos que requiere el estatus de especie amenazada estatal y federalmente.
41968566|Cuscuta pentagona, C. campestris, and C. glabrior are closely similar taxa recognized here at specific rank. Closely related to these are C. runyonii, C. harperi, C. plattensis, and C. sandwichiana, as well as C. obtusiflora var. glandulosa and C. polygonorum. Cuscuta runyonii, C. harperi, and C. sandwichiana are relatively narrow endemics, C. plattensis and C. glabrior have wider but apparently discrete ranges, while C. obtusiflora var. glandulosa, C. polygonorum, and especially C. pentagona and C. campestris are widespread and broadly sympatric in North America, at least in some regions. Cuscuta campestris is one of the most widespread species in the world, being additionally recorded from South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Comparisons among these nine species are presented as a key and as comparative descriptions. SEM images are provided for flowers, fruits, seeds, and pollen. Cuscuta pentagona, C. campestris, y C. glabrior son taxa fuertemente semejantes, reconocidos aqu como especies. Estrechamente relacionadas con stas estn C. runyonii, C. harperi, y C. plattensis as como tambin C. obtusiflora var. glandulosa y C. polygonorum. Cuscuta runyonii, C. harperi y C. sandwichiana son endmicas con reas pequeas, C. plattensis y C. glabrior tienen rangos geogrficos ms amplios pero aparentemente distintos, mientras que C. obtusiflora var. glandulosa, C. polygonorum, y especialmente C. pentagona y C. campestris son comunes y ampliamente simptricas en Norteamrica, al menos en algunas regiones. Cuscuta campestris ocurre fuera de Norteamrica, siendo mencionada de Sudamrica, Europa, Asia, Africa, y Australia. Las comparaciones entre estos seis taxa se presentan en forma de clave y descripciones comparativas. Se ofrecen imgenes de SEM de las flores, frutos, semillas, y polen.
41968629|This report compares fungi found in galled and non-galled plants of Borrichia frutescens (L.) DC., Asteraceae. Fungi were observed in the plant galls of the midge, Asphondylia borrichiae Rossi & Strong. A variety of endophytic fungi were cultured from the apical meristems, stems and leaves of galled and non-galled plants collected from several coastal sites in Florida. Fifteen percent of midges examined (n = 60) carried fungal spores of Alternaria sp. Este artculo compara los hongos encontrados en plantas con y sin agallas de Borrichiafrutescens (L.) DC., Asteraceae. Se observaron hongos en las agallas de Asphondylia borrichiae Rossi & Strong. Se cultiv una variedad de hogo endof tico de los meristemos apicales, tallos y hojas de plantas con y sin agallas colectadas en varios lugares costeros de Florida. El quince por ciento de las agallas examinadas (n = 60) tenian esporas de Alternaria sp.
41968585|Se proponen varias novedades nomenclatures en el gnero Mandevilla, incluyendo una nueva especie (M. tristis J.F. Morales), una nueva combinacin (M. angustata (Steyermark) J.F. Morales), y un nuevo sinnimo (M. bella (Pittier) Woodson). Nuevas adiciones a la Flora de Venezuela en los gneros Aspidosperma (A. rigidum Rugby, A. schultesii Woodson), Mandevilla (M. vanheurckii (Mll. Arg.) Markgr.) y Odontadenia (O. killipii Woodson) son reportadas. Several nomenclatural novelties are proposed in the genus Mandevilla, including a new species (M. tristis J.F. Morales), a new combination (M. angustata (Steyermark) J.F. Morales) and a new synonym (M. bella (Pittier) Woodson). New additions to the Venezuelan Flora in the genera Aspidosperma (A. rigidum Rugby, A. schultesii Woodson), Mandevilla (M. vanheurckii (Mll. Arg.) Markgr.), and Odontadenia (O. killipii Woodson) are reported. Several nomenclatural novelties are proposed in the genus Mandevilla, including a new species (M. tristis J.F. Morales), a new combination (M. angustata (Steyermark) J.F. Morales), a new report ((M. vanheurckii (Mll. Arg.) Markgr.) and a new synonym (M. bella (Pittier) Woodson).
41968647|Clematis morefieldii (Morefield's leather flower, Huntsville vasevine), a federally endangered species, is documented for the flora of Tennessee for the first time. Eighteen plants were discovered along a small rocky ravine positioned on the lower slopes of the western escarpment of the Cumberland Plateau in Franklin County, Tennessee. A general description of the habitat and associated flora is included. Clematis morefieldii (flor de cuero de Morefield,), especie en peligro, se documenta para la flora de Tennessee por primera vez. Se descubrieron dieciocho plantas a lo largo de un pequeo barranco en las laderas inferiores del escarpe occidental del Cumberland Plateau en Franklin County, Tennessee. Se incluye una descripcin general del hbitat y de la flora asociada.
41968583|Bahiella J.F. Morales (Apocynoideae, Echiteae), un nuevo gneroendmico al estado de Bahia en Brasil, es descrito, proponindose una nueva combinacin, B. blanchetii (A. DC.) J.F. Morales y una nueva especie, B. infundibulijlora J.F. Morales. Se incluyen descripciones completas, ilustraciones y especmenes examinados. Adicionalmente, se realiz un anlisis cladistico para determinar las posibles relaciones intergnericas de Bahiella, el cual incluy un total de 44 especies (19 gneros) de la tribu Echiteae como grupo interno y 10 especies (7 gneros) de las tribus Apocyneae, Malouetieae y Mesechiteae como grupos externos. Los resultados sugieren que Bahiella pertenece a las Echiteae, pero sus relaciones intergenricas ms cercanas no pueden ser determinadas por ahora. Bahiella J.F. Morales (Apocynoideae, Echiteae), a new genus endemic to Bahia, Brazil is described and illustrated. A new combination, B. blanchetii (A. DC.) J.F. Morales and a new species, B. infundibuliflora J.F. Morales are proposed. All the taxa are fully described and illustrated. Aditionally, a cladistic analysis was performed to determinate the possible intergeneric relationships of Bahiella, including 44 species (19 genera) as ingroup of the tribe Echiteae, and 10 species (7 genera) of the tribes Apocyneae, Malouetieae y Mesechiteae as outgroup. The results suggests that Bahiella belong to the Echiteae, but their intergeneric relationships can't be established by now.
41968625|An annotated, vouchered checklist is provided of the vascular plant taxa of the 5,806 hectare Big Sandy Creek Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, Polk County, southeastern Texas. Documented for the unit are 693 total taxa with 45 of them exotic. Se ofrece un listado con anotaciones, y testigos de los taxa de plantas vasculares de las 5,806 hectreas de Big Sandy Creek Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, Polk County, Sureste de Texas. Se documentan para la unidad un total de 693 de los que 45 son exticas.
41968582|A new species in Fargesia Franch. from China, and a new variety in Drepanostachyum falcatum (Nees) Keng f. from the eastern Himalayas, are described. Four new combinations are made in Borinda Stapleton for species from western China, previously placed in the genus Fargesia, and one new combination is made in Indocalamus Nakai for a Japanese species described in Pseudosasa Nakai. Se describe una nueva especie de Fargesia Franch. de China, y una nueva variedad de Drepanostachyum falcatum (Nees) Keng f. del Este del Himalaya. Se hacen cuatro combinaciones nuevas en Borinda Stapleton para especies del Oeste de China, previamente colocadas en el gnero Fargesia, y se hace una combinacin nueva en Indocalamus Nakai para una especie japonesa descrita en el gnero Pseudosasa Nakai.
41968614|Chromosome numbers were determined from somatic material for 73 individuals of Antennaria Gaertn. (Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae) representing 10 species from western and arctic North America. These counts support, and represent the typically more frequent, previously reported chromosome number determination for the respective species and as such are presented without comment, though they do supplement our knowledge relative to chromosome number distributions for these species. Se contaron los nmeros cromosomticos en material somtico de 73 individuos de Antennaria Gaertn. (Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae) que representan a 10 especies del oeste y el rtico de Norte Amrica. Estos recuentos apoyan, y representan el nmero tpicamente ms frecuente, previamente citado para la especie respectiva y como tales son presentados sin ningn comentario, aunque complementan nuestro conocimiento relativo a las distribuciones de nmeros cromosomticos de estas especies.
41968618|James Brigham McFarlin contributed to Florida botany and his work provided a rare glimpse into the diversity that once existed in the central part of the state three-quarters of a century ago. James Brigham McFarlin contribuy a la botnica de Florida y su obra dio una ojeada rara a la diversidad que exista en Florida central hace 75 aos.
41968562|Gentianella fabrisii (Gentianaceae) is proposed as a new species. It is known only from the type collection from the northwestern of Argentina (Prov. Tucumn); a key to distinguish this species from its closer relatives is provided. New synonyms for Cicendia quadrangularis, Curtia tenuifolia, Gentiana prostrata, Zygostigma australe and for 4 species of Gentianella are proposed. The ocurrence of Chelonanthus viridiflorus and Schultesiaguianensis in Argentina and Paraguay is confirmed. These two last species are described and illustrated in detail. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Gentianella (G. fabrisii), que habita en el noroeste de la Argentina (Prov. Tucumn), y se provee una clave para diferenciarla de sus congneres ms prximos. Se dan a conocer nuevos sinnimos para Cicendia quadrangularis, Curtia tenuifolia, Gentiana prostrata, Zygostigma australe y para 4 especies de Gentianella. Se confirma la presencia de Chelonanthus viridiflorus y Schultesia guianensis para la Argentina y Paraguay, las que se describen e ilustran detalladamente.
41968622|Starkey Wilderness Preserve, owned and managed by the Southwest Florida Water Management District, contains 7,739.5 hectares with 18 plant communities. A floristic inventory was conducted on 449.2 hectares within the property which consists of 11 community types and is considered as representative of the entire Preserve. The objective of this study, conducted from May 2003 to October 2004, was to compile a list of the vascular plant taxa found to be used by the Southwest Florida Water Management District to help in their management regimes. A total of 483 taxa were collected, representing 104 families, and 271 genera. Of these, 444 are native taxa, 16 Florida endemic taxa, 39 non-native taxa, 12 endangered, threatened or commercially exploited taxa, and 33 county records. Each plant community is described and an annotated list of the vascular plant taxa is presented. La reserva de Starkey Wilderness, gestionada por el Southwest Florida Water Management District, tiene 7,739.5 hectreas con 18 comunidades vegetales. Se realiz un inventario florstico en 449.2 hectreas de la reserva que contiene 11 tipos de comunidades y que se consideran representativos de la Reserva entera. El objetivo de este estudio, realizado desde mayo de 2003 hasta octubre de 2004, fue compilar una lista de taxa de plantas vasculares usadas por el Southwest Florida Water Management District para ayudar en su rgimen de gestin. Se colectaron un total de 483 taxa, que representan 104 familias, y 271 gneros. De ellos, 444 son taxa nativos, 16 taxa endmicos de Florida, 39 taxa alctonos, 12 taxa en peligro, amenazados o explotados comercialmente, y 33 citas del condado. Se describen las comunidades vegetales y se presenta una lista comentada de los taxa de plantas vasculares.
41968577|Bumelia macrocarpa Nutt. languished in obscurity for more than 150 years. Thomas Nuttall (1786-1859) collected this low shrub in 1830 and described it in 1849. Asa Gray relegated it to the synonymy of B. lanuginosa (Michx.) Pers. in 1886, apparently due to the lack of subsequent collections and without seeing any material of Nuttall's plant. In 1940 Robert Clark identified type material of B. macrocarpa as B. reclinata (Michx.) Vent., failing to notice the fact that more than one species had been mounted on the sheet, with only one small fragment actually representing B. macrocarpa. Since Bumelia Swartz is now considered to be a synonym of Sideroxylon L., the restoration of this distinctive species, endemic to southeastern Georgia (U.S.A.), requires a new combination, S. macrocarpum (Nutt.) J.R. Allison. Bumelia macrocarpa Nutt. languideci en la oscuridad durante ms de 150 aos. Thomas Nuttall (1786-1859) coleccion este arbusto bajo en 1830 y lo describi en 1849. Asa Gray lo releg a la sinonimia de B. lanuginosa (Michx.) Pers. en 1886, aparentemente debido a la carencia de colecciones subsiguientes y sin ver ningn material de la planta de Nuttall. En 1940 Robert Clark identific el material tipo de B. macrocarpa como B. reclinata (Michx.) Vent., al no notar el hecho que se haba montado en la lmina ms de una especie, con un solo fragmento pequeo que representa en realidad B. macrocarpa. Puesto que Bumlia Swartz se considera actualmente un sinnimo de Sideroxylon L., la restauracin de esta especie distintiva, endmica al sureste de Georgia (EEUU), requiere una nueva combinacin, S. macrocarpum (Nutt.) J.R. Allison.
41968595|Dodecatheon austrofrigidum is described as a species occupying scattered sites in the Coast Ranges of northwestern Oregon and adjacent Washington, U.S.A. It is similar in floral morphology to, but widely disjunct from, D. frigidum, a species of the interior mountains and arctic tundra of Alaska and northern British Columbia. It also is ecologically distinct, being associated with streams, waterfalls, cliffs, rocky river banks, and high elevation moist grassland and basalt talus slopes in a maritime climatic zone. Its relationships are with members of Sect. Dodecatheon, but its seedling morphology is different from any described thus far in the genus. Morphology of the seed testa is illustrated by scanning electron microscopy. Dodecatheon austrofrigidum se describe como una especie que ocupa lugares espaciados de la Cordillera Costera del Noroeste de Oregon y de Washington, U.S.A. Es similar en la morfologa floral, pero muy disyunta de, D. frigidum, una especie de las montaas interiores y la tundra rtica de Alaska y norte de British Columbia. Tambin es ecolgicamente diferente, estando asociada a arroyos, cascadas, acantilados, lechos rocosos de ros, y praderas hmedas a gran altitud y laderas baslticas en una zona climtica marina. Est relacionada con los miembros de la Sect. Dodecatheon, pero la morfologa de sus plntulas es diferente de cualquiera de las hasta ahora descritas en el gnero. Se ilustra la morfologa de testa seminal al microscopio electrnico de barrido.
41968602|Pappus variation in eight genera, 58 species, and 94 taxa of the Chrysopsidinae was examined; quadruple, triple, double and sometimes simple pappi were found with variation in the size, shape and numbers of short outer scales/bristles and mid to long barbellate bristles. In the genera with a higher chromosome base number (x = 9)Heterotheca, Noticastrum, Pityopsis, and probably Tomentaurumpappus elements are more numerous and in a greater number of series. This is interpreted as the primitive condition, similar to, but with less clavate inner bristles, than found in Doellingeria and Eucephalus, the basal genera in the North American Clade of the Astereae. All four genera have a quadruple pappus consisting of four, sometimes intergrading, series: a short secondary outer series of scales or scaly bristles; a secondary inner series of mid-length tapered bristles; a primary outer series of tapering bristles 80-95% the length of the inner series; and a primary inner series of usually weakly clavate bristles. Both ray and disc florets have a similar arrangement, except for the epappose ray fruits of H. sect. Heterotheca. In some species, the four series are distinct and in others they grade into each other. In Croptilon, the number of pappus series decreases with the dysploid reduction from x = 7 to x = 4. In the lower base number genera Bradburia, Chrysopsis, and Osbertia, a reduction in the number of series was observed, with quadruple, triple, double and sometimes simple pappi occurring. In Chrysopsis, the secondary outer series is well developed, but the secondary inner series is absent or reduced to a few bristles. In Osbertia, the pappus appears simple or includes a second series of 1-2 short bristles; all the long bristles are tapering or at best only very weakly clavate. In small sample per species, the number of bristles per fruit ranged from 20-125: Noticastrum, 46-125 averaging 87 bristles; Tomentaurum, 80-85; Heterotheca, 23-80 averaging 43 bristles; Pityopsis, 25-46, averaging 37; Bradburia, ray florets, 30-36, discs 0-5; Chrysopsis and Croptilon, 18-36 averaging 28; Osbertia, 20-35, averaging 27. The fruits with lower numbers of bristles had 0-few mid-length secondary inner series bristles. Se examin la variacin el vilano en ocho gneros, 58 especies, y 94 taxa de Chrysopsidinae; se encontraron vilanos cudruples, triples, dobles y a veces simples con variacin en el tamao, forma y nmeros de las escamas cortas externas y las sedas barbeladas medias a largas. En los gneros con un nmero cromosomtico bsico ms alto (x = 9)Heterotheca, Noticastrum, Pityopsis, y probablemente Tomentaurumlos elementos del vilano son ms numerosos y estn en mayor nmero de series. Esto se interpreta como una condicin primitiva, similar pero con menos sedas interiores clavadas de las que se encuentran en Doellingeria y Eucephalus, los gneros bsales del clado norteamericano de las Astereae. Los cuatro gneros tienen un vilano cudruple que consta de cuatro series, a veces intergradadas: una serie corta secundaria de escamas o sedas escamosas; una serie secundaria interna de sedas afiladas de longitud media; una serie primaria externa de sedas afiladas del 80-95% de la longitud de la serie interna; y una serie primaria interna de sedas normalmente clavadas. Tanto las flores radiadas como las del disco tienen una ordenacin similar, excepto los frutos sin vilano de H. sect. Heterotheca. El algunas especies, las cuatro series son distintas y en otras se intergradan entre ellas. En Croptilon, el nmero de series del vilano decrece con la reduccin disploide de x = 7 a x = 4. En los gneros con nmero base inferior Bradburia, Chrysopsis, y Osbertia, se ha observado una reduccin en el nmero de series, con vilanos cudruples, triples, dobles y a veces simples. En Chrysopsis, la serie secundaria externa est bien desarrollada, pero la serie secundaria interna est ausente o reducida a unas pocas sedas. En Osbertia, El vilano es simple o incluye una segunda serie de 1-2 sedas cortas; todas las sedas largas son afiladas o como mucho slo dbilmente clavadas. En una pequea muestra por especie, el nmero de sedas por fruto vari entre 20-125: Noticastrum, 46-125 con una media de 87 sedas; Tomentaurum, 80-85; Heterotheca, 23-80 con una media de 43 sedas; Pityopsis, 25-46, con una media de 37; Bradburia, flores radiadas, 30-36, del disco 0-5; Chrysopsis and Croptilon, 18-36 con una media de 28; Osbertia, 20-35, con una media de 27. Los frutos con menor nmero de sedas tuvieron 0-few en la serie secundaria interna de longitud media.
41968624|Sonoita Creek State Natural Area (SCSNA) and San Rafael State Park (SRSP) are the first two naturalarea parks in Arizona established with funding provided by the Heritage Initiative. Both sites are in Santa Cruz County, and both have riparian communities that are rare in the arid Southwest. The upland vegetation of SCSNA is primarily semidesert grassland, while that of SRSP is Plains grassland. The flora of SCSNA includes 525 native species and 36 exotic species; that of SRSP includes 407 native species and 50 exotic species. Significant taxa include one new species, Phacelia sonoitensis, found at SCSNA. Taxa new to the flora of Arizona include Pennellia robinsonii (SRSP), Rhynchosia minima (SCSNA), and Sibara virginica (SRSP). Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva, an endangered species, was found at SRSP. The floras of both SCSNA and SRSP are strongly Apachian in their affinities. Species found at SCSNA but not at SRSP have relatively greater affinities with the flora of the Sonoran Floristic Province, while those found at SRSP but not SCSNA have a greater affinity with the Great Plains. Sonoita Creek State Natural Area (SCSNA) y San Rafael State Park (SRSP) son los primeros parques naturales establecidos con fondos aportados por la Iniciativa de Herencia. Ambos lugares estn en el condado de Santa Cruz, y ambos tienen comunidades ribereas que son raras en el Suroeste rido. La vegetacin del altiplano de SCSNA es un pastizal semidesrtico y la de SRSP es un pastizal de las Grandes Llanuras. La flora de SCSNA incluye 525 especies indgenas y 36 especies exticas; la de SRSP incluye 407 especies indgenas y 50 especies exticas. Entre las plantas significativas se incluye una especies nueva, Phacelia sonoitensis, encontrada en SCSNA. Entre las especies nuevas para la flora de Arizona se incluyen Pennellia robinsonii (de SRSP), Rhynchosia minima (de SCSNA), y Sibara virginica (de SRSP). Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva, una especie en peligro fue encontrada en SRSP. Las floras de SCSNA y SRSP son fuertemente Apachianas en sus afinidades florsticas. Las especies encontradas en SCSNA pero no en SRSP tienen una afinidad ms grande con la flora de la provincia florstica de Sonora y las especies encontradas en SRSP pero no en SCSNA tienen una afinidad ms grande con las Grandes Llanuras.
41968610|The new combination Polytrichastrum alpinum var. sylvaticum (Menzies) G.L. Merrill is provided. Se aporta la nueva combinacin Polytrichastrum alpinum var. sylvaticum (Menzies) G.L. Merrill.
41968558|Clematis carrizoensis, a new narrowly endemic species of subgenus Viorna, is described from the Carrizo Sands of northeastern Texas. This species belongs to a complex of similar species characterized by glaucous and glabrous abaxial leaf surfaces and stems. Four additional species comprise this complex: C. addisonii, C. glaucophylla, C. texensis, and C. versicolor. Clematis carrizoensis is morphologically most similar to the scarlet sepaled C. texensis and the purplish-red to bluish-lavender sepaled C. versicolor. It differs from those two species in having yellowish-cream and lightly lilac-tinged sepals. From C. addisonii and C. glaucophylla, C. carrizoensis differs in sepal color and in having thicker and more reticulate leaves. All five species of the complex are allopatric and occupy somewhat different habitat types in different physiographic provinces. Further discussion of their morphological differences, geographic distribution, and habitat preferences is provided. Se describe Clematis carrizoensis, una nueva especies del subgnero Viorna, endmica de Carrizo Sands en el noreste de Texas. Esta especie pertenece a un complejo de especies similares caracterizadas por tener los tallos y el envs glaucos y glabros. El complejo tiene otras cuatro especies: C. addisonii, C. glaucophylla, C. texensis, y C. versicolor. Clematis carrizoensis es la ms similar morfolgicamente a C. texensis de spalos escarlata y C. versicolor de spalos que van del rojo prpura al lavanda azulado. Difiere de estas dos especies por tener los spalos amarillo crema ligeramente teidos de lila. De C. addisonii y C. glaucophylla, se diferencia C. carrizoensis por el color de los spalos y por tener las hojas ms gruesas y ms reticuladas. Las cinco especies del complejo son aloptricas y ocupan diferentes hbitats en provincias fisiogrficas diferentes. Se ofrece una discusin sobre sus diferencias morfolgicas, distribucin geogrfica, y preferencias de hbitat.
41968626|Biogeographers have divided Arkansas into physiogeographic provinces and ecoregions. Using quantitative methods, we examined the north-south floristic transition across Arkansas to see if phytogeographic regions are detectable by abrupt changes in the flora. We found only gradual change even though there are abrupt and major physiographical discontinuities. Los biogegrafos han dividido Arkansas en provincias fisiogeogrficas y ecorregiones. Usando mtodos cuantitativos, examinamos las transiciones norte-sur a travs de Arkansas para ver si las regiones fitogeogrficas son dtectables por cambios abruptos en la flora. Hemos encontrado slo cambio gradual aunque hay discontinuidades fisiogrficas abruptas y mayores.
41968640|We report the first record of Carex bicknellii Britt. for Arkansas. The species was collected by the authors in 2003 and 2005 from Baker Prairie Natural Area, an unplowed tallgrass prairie remnant in Boone County, Arkansas. Se realiza la primera cita de Carex bicknellii Britt. para Arkansas. La especie se colect por los autores en 2003 y 2005 en Baker Prairie Natural Area, una pradera de hierba alta remanente en Boone County, Arkansas.
41968628|Southern Arkansas appears to be at the edge of the potential range for naturalization of the water hyacinth, Eichhornia crassipes (Martius) Solms, due to the cold intolerance exhibited by the plant. A population discovered growing in DeGray Lake, Clark County, Arkansas, was examined from 2002-2003 to determine whether the population could survive after the freezes common during winter. The population was of particular interest because it had become rooted and remained submerged with higher lake levels during the surface freezes of winter. Rosettes that fragmented from the population established new growth during the next growing season, but fluctuating lake levels eventually stranded this growth and caused extirpation of the population. Arkansas meridional parece estar en la frontera del rango potencial para la naturalizacin del jacinto de agua, Eichhornia crassipes (Martius) Solms, debido a la intolerancia al fro exhibida por la planta. Una poblacin se descubri creciendo en el Lago DeGray, Condado de Clark, Arkansas, se examin entre 2002-2003 para determinar si la poblacin podra sobrevivir despus de las heladas comunes durante el invierno. La poblacin era de inters particular porque haba llegado a arraigar y quedaba sumergida con los niveles ms altos de lago durante las congelaciones de la superficie en invierno. Rosetas que se fragmentaron de la poblacin tuvieron crecimiento nuevo en la siguiente estacin de crecimiento, pero los niveles fluctuantes del lago desfavorecieron finalmente este crecimiento y causaron la extincin de la poblacin.
41968635|Described in this paper are two new records for Kansas, Myagrum perfoliatum L. (Brassicaceae) and Lespedeza thunbergii (DC.) Nakai (Fabaceae), with details about their local introduction and establishment. Se aportan dos nuevas citas para Kansas, Myagrum perfoliatum L. (Brassicaceae) y Lespedeza thunbergii (DC) Nakai (Fabaceae), con detalles de su introduccin local y establecimiento.
41968578|The reproductive mode (sexual diploid vs. apomictic polyploid) of prairie fleabane (Erigeron strigosus Muhl. ex Willd.) in Texas was estimated through the analysis of pollen quality for herbarium specimens from the Botanical Research Institute of Texas (BRIT) and the University of Texas (TEX). The approximate geographic coordinates for 285 unique collections were determined and geographic distributions of sexual vs. apomictic plants were plotted using Geographic Information System (GIS) software. The species as a whole occurs throughout the eastern half of Texas, although one outlying specimen was recorded from the northern Panhandle. Apomictic plants were far more common than sexual plants (245 vs. 40 specimens), and exhibited greater ecological amplitude with respect to natural area, precipitation, and soil. Sexual plants were restricted to Piney woods and Post Oak Savannah habitats in extreme eastern Texas, and correspond to Erigeron traversa Shinners. This taxon was described in 1964 but subsequently included as a synonym of E. strigosus. This geographical pattern is similar to that recorded for other taxa that include sexual and apomictic populations. The new combination E. strigosus var. traversa (Shinners) Noyes is proposed. El modo de reproduccin (diploide sexual vs. poliploide apomictico) de Erigeron strigosus Muhl. ex Willd. en Texas se estim mediante el anlisis de la calidad del polen en especmenes de herbario del Botanical Research Institute de Texas (BRIT) y de la Universidad de Texas (TEX). Se determinaron las coordenadas geogrficas aproximadas de 285 colectas y se representaron las distribuciones geogrficas de plantas sexuales contra apomcticas usando un software de Sistemas de Informacin Geogrfica (GIS). La especie en conjunto est por la mitad este de Texas, aunque se registr un espcimen del norte de Panhandle. Las plantas apomcticas fueron mucho ms frecuentes que las sexuales (245 vs. 40 especmenes), y mostraron mayor amplitud ecolgica con respecto al rea natural, precipitacin, y suelo. Las plantas sexuales estuvieron restringidas a habitats de pinares y robledales en el extremo este de Texas, y corresponden a Erigeron traversa Shinners. Este taxon se describi en 1964 pero despus fue incluido como sinnimo de E. strigosus. El patrn geogrfico es similar al registrado para los otros taxa que incluyen poblaciones sexuales y apomcticas. Se propone la nueva combinacin E. strigosus var. traversa (Shinners) Noyes.
41968646|Ten species of vascular plants, all native or naturalized in the southeastern United States, are reported as new or noteworthy for Arkansas. Of these, five are native and five are non-native. Seven are reported as state records, and the accounts for the other three species provide clarifications, including updates on the status of two aquatic weeds, one federally listed as an invasive non-native weed (Hydrilla verticillata) and another erroneously thought to be native to the United States (Salvinia minima). Species reported as a state record are: Amaranthus blitum, Chamaesyce hypercifolia, Chamaesyce opthalmica, Euphorbia gramnea, Hedyotis corymbosa, Ipomoea quamoclit, and Parietariafloridana. Se citan diez especies de plantas vasculares, todas nativas o naturalizadas en es sureste de los Estados Unidos, como nuevas o notables para Arkansas. De estas, cinco son nativas y cinco no nativas. Siete se citan para el estado, y para las otras tres especies se aportan clarificaciones, incluyendo puestas al da del estatus de dos plantas acuticas, una de ellas del listado federal de plantas invasoras no nativas (Hydrilla verticillata) y otra que se pens errneamente que era nativa de los Estados Unidos (Salvinia minima). Las especies citadas como nuevas para el estado son: Amaranthus blitum, Chamaesyce hypercifolia, Chamaesyce opthalmica, Euphorbia gramnea, Hedyotis corymbosa, Ipomoea quamocliU y Parietariafloridana.
41968644|A population of the introduced and expanding Cayratia japonica (Thunb.) Gagnep. (Vitaceae) is reported for North Carolina. Voucher specimens are cited and an updated key to the genera of Vitaceae in the Carolinas is presented. Se cita de Carolina del Norte una poblacin de la especie introducida y en expansin Cayratia japonica (Thunb.) Gagnep. (Vitaceae). Se dan los pliegos testigo y se presenta una clave puesta al da de los gneros de Vitaceae en las Carolinas.
41968648|Gratiola brevifolia (Plantaginaceae) is reported as a rare and native addition to the flora of Delaware, the Delmarva Peninsula, and to the Mid-Atlantic. This species is disjunct approximately 835 km (520 mi) from the closest known population in Burke Co., Georgia. Gratiola brevifolia (Plantaginaceae) se cita como una especie native rara para aadir a la flora de Delaware, la Pennsula de Delmarva, y as to the Mid-Atlantic. Esta especie est disyunta 835 km (520 mi) aproximadamente de la poblacin conocida ms cercana en Burke Co., Georgia.
41968573|The Cuscuta indecora complex (Cuscuta subsect. Indecorae) in North America is characterized by fleshy, papillose flowers, corolla lobes with inflexed tips, and capsules with a thickened stylopodium. It includes C. indecora, C. coryli, C. warneri, and C. jepsonii. Recent taxonomists have proposed to treat the latter three taxa at varietal rank within C. indecora or as synonyms of it. We maintain C. warneri and C. jepsonii at specific rank because of their distinctive morphology, even though the latter is known only from the type collection and the former from a very limited number of specimens. Cuscuta indecora includes var. indecora, var. longisepala, and C. indecora var. attenuata (Waterfall) Costea, comb, et stat. nov. Cuscuta indecora vars. bifida and neuropetala are treated as synonyms of C. indecora var. indecora. Cuscuta warneri and C. coryli are reported as new floristic records from New Mexico and Qubec, respectively. El complejo Cuscuta indecora (Cuscuta subsect. Indecorae) en Amrica del Norte est caracterizado por flores papilosas y suculentas, lbulos de la corola con puntas inflexionadas, y cpsulas con un estilopodio engrosado. El complejo incluye C. indecora, C. coryli, C. warneri, y C. jepsonii. Recientemente algunos taxnomos han propuesto tratar las ltimas tres variedades dentro de la categora C. indecora o como un sinnimo del mismo. Mantenemos que C. warneri y C. jepsonii estn en una categora especial por su morfologa distinta, a pesar de que la ltima se conoce slo por la coleccin del tipo, y la primera es conocida mediante un nmero de especmenes muy limitado. Cuscuta indecora incluye var. indecora, var. longisepala, y C. indecora var. attenuata (Waterfall) Costea, comb, et stat. nov. Cuscuta indecora vars. bifida y neuropetala son tratadas cmo sinnimos de C. indecora var. indecora. Cuscuta warneri y C. coryli figuran como nuevas citas florsticas de Nuevo Mxico y Quebec, respectivamente.
41968564|A new genus of Stipeae (Poaceae), Amelichloa, is described. It differs from other genera in the tribe in the woody, sharp tips of it basal leaves, the presence of smooth longitudinal ribs on its caryopses, its persistent stylar bases and in the frequent presence of cleistogamous panicles in the axils of its basal leaf sheaths. There are five species in the genus: A. ambigua, A. brachychaeta, A. brevipes, A. caudata, and A. clandestina. The first four species are native to South America; A. clandestina is native to northern Mexico. A key to the species is provided. Three of them, A. brachychaeta, A. caudata, and A. clandestina, have become established in disturbed areas on other continents. The name honors Dr. Maria Amelia Torres. Se describe Amelichloa, un nuevo gnero para la tribu Stipeae (Poaceae). El mismo difiere de otros gneros de la tribu por presentar pices de las hojas bsales punzantes y muy resistentes; suaves lineas longitudinales en la superficie del cariopse y bases estilares persistentes, as como en la frecuente presencia de cleistgenos en las axilas de las hojas bsales. El gnero se encuentra constituido por cinco especies: A. ambigua, A. brachychaeta, A. brevipes, A. caudata y A. clandestina. Las cuatro primeras nativas de Sudamrica; A. clandestina del norte de Mxico. Se incluye una clave para especies. Tres de las especies A. brachychaeta, A. caudata y A. clandestina se han establecido en reas disturbadas de otros continentes. Se dedica este gnero a la Dra. Mara Amelia Torres.
41968590|This paper deals with Crataegus series Parvifoliae (Rosaceae, subfamily Pyroideae) in the main part of its range, the southeastern United States. Two species, C. uniflora and C. brittonii, are recognized together with one putative interserial hybrid, C.  vailiae. A number of other obscure entities are also discussed. The series and constituent species are provided with detailed descriptions, full synonymy, keys to taxa and are typified so far as possible. Line illustrations and county level distribution maps, the latter derived from a database of over 1200 records, are also given for each species treated. Este artculo trata de Crataegus serie Parvifoliae (Rosaceae, subfamilia Pyroideae) en la parte principal de su rea, el sureste de los Estados Unidos. Se reconocen dos especies, C. uniflora y C. brittonii, junto con un hbrido putativo interserial, C. _ vailiae. Se discuten tambin un nmero de entidades poco claras. Tanto de la serie como de las especies constituyentes se ofrecen descripciones detalladas, sinonimia completa, claves de los taxa, y se tipifican en lo posible. Para cada especie tratada se dan ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin a nivel de condado derivados de una base de datos de ms de 1200 registros.
41968569|The Cuscuta californica complex (Cuscuta subsect. Californicae) is recircumscribed to include the species from subsect. Subinclusae. The species include C. salina, C. susksdorfii, C. californica, C. occidentalis, C. subinclusa, and C. howelliana. A summary of relevant taxonomic information is provided, along with a key to species and varieties, synonymy, distribution, host range, and conservation status. Morphology and micromorphology of flowers, seeds, and capsules are analyzed and illustrated. El complejo Cuscuta californica (Cuscuta subsect. Californicae) est circunscrito a incluir las especies de subsect. Subinclusae. Las especies incluyen G salina, C. susksdorfii, C. californica, C. occidentalis, C. subinclusa, y C. howelliana. En este trabajo se presenta un resumen de la informacin taxonmica junto con una clave para identificar las especies y variedades, sinnimos, distribucin, variabilidad de huspedes y estato de conservacin. Se analizan e ilustran la morfologa y micromorfologia de las flores, de las semillas y de las cpsulas.
41968604|Four asclepiadaceous types not listed in a previous type catalogue of the collections of the Instituto de Ecologa y Sistemtica, Habana, Cuba (HAC) are provided, along with a discussion of typification problems associated with the associated Charles Wright collections. Lectotypif ications are provided for Gonolobus stephanotrichus Griseb., Orthosia acuminata Griseb., Orthosia oblongata Griseb., and Poicilla ovatifolia Griseb. Se aportan cuatro tipos de Asclepiadaceae no listados en el catlogo previo de tipos de las colecciones del Instituto de Ecologa y Sistemtica, Habana, Cuba (HAC), juntocon una discusin de los problemas de tipificacin asociados con las colecciones Charles Wright. Se aportan lectotipificaciones de Gonolobus stephanotrichus Griseb., Orthosia acuminata Griseb., Orthosia oblongata Griseb., y Poicilla ovatifolia Griseb.
41968616|Over the last four decades, the size and density of populations of Lophophora williamsii (peyote) have diminished markedly in large areas of South Texas where licensed peyote distributors harvest the cactus for ceremonial use by the Native American Church. Part of the problem lies in the fact that some harvesters are cutting plants too low on the subterranean stem or taproot. That practice precludes the regeneration of new stems and ultimately results in the death of the decapitated plants. To address this problem, we describe the anatomical distinctions between subterranean stem and root in L. williamsii as follows: The stem cortex can be distinguished by the cortical bundles running through the parenchyma, in contrast to the root cortex, which consists of pure parenchyma without cortical bundles. The pith at the center of the stem is pure parenchyma (without xylem) and is readily distinguished from the dilatated metaxylem (with masses of dark-staining metaxylem tracheary elements) occupying the center of the root. With these new anatomical tools, it is now possible to set up titration experiments, first in the greenhouse and then in the field, to generate practical biometrie data to determine the maximum depth at which the peyote harvesters can cut the plants without significantly reducing the survival rate of the rootstocks left in the ground after harvest. Durante las ltimas cuatro dcadas, el tamao y densidad de las poblaciones de Lophophora wiilliamsii (peyote) han disminuido drsticamente en grandes extensiones del sur de Texas donde se dan permisos a distribuidores de peyote para recolectar especmenes de uso en las ceremonias religiosas de la Native American Church. Parte del problema estriba en el hecho de que algunos colectores estn cortando plantas muy abajo, o en el tallo subterrneo o en la raz pivotante. Esta prctica impide la regeneracin de nuevos tallos y finalmente ocasiona la muerte de las plantas decapitadas. Para abordar este problema, nosotros describimos las caractersticas anatmicas que distinguen el tallo subterrneo y la raz de L. williamsii como sigue: El tejido cortical del tallo se distingue por la presencia de haces corticales que se distribuyen por el parnquima, atributo que contrasta con el tejido cortical de la raz, el cual consiste en puro parnquima sin haces corticales. En el centro del tallo la mdula es puro parnquima (sin xilema), y se reconoce claramente del metaxilema dilatado (parches de elementos traqueales del metaxilema teidos de oscuro) que ocupa el centro de la raz. En base a estas caractersticas anatmicas ser posible hacer experimentos de corte, primero en invernadero y despus en el campo, con la finalidad de generar datos que permitan determinar la profundidad mxima a la cual los recolectores de peyote pueden cortar las plantas sin reducir significativamente la supervivencia de los individuos que quedan en el suelo despus de la colecta.
41968638|Documented records are reported for 89 taxa (81 species, 7 varieties, and one hybrid) from Collier County (31 taxa) and from Lee County (71 taxa), Florida (102 records altogether). A newly discovered hybrid, Carex gigantea  Carex lupuliformis, is discussed. Se realizan las citas documentadas de 89 taxa (81 especies, 7 variedades, y un hbrido) de Collier County (31 taxa) y de Lee County (71 taxa), Florida (102 citas en total). Se discute un hbrido descubierto nuevamente, Carex gigantea  Carex lupuliformis.
41968599|Two new species of Elymus L. are described, E. churchii J.J.N. Campb. and E. texensis J.J.N. Campb. Elymus churchii grows in the Ouachita and Ozark Mountains of Arkansas, Missouri and Oklahoma. It is similar to E. svensonii G.L. Church, but differs in its lemmas, which are usually pubescent, and have longer awns; its spikelets, which have fewer florets; its rachis internodes, which are longer, with hispid dorsal ridges and green longitudinal bands; and its foliage, which is typically less pubescent and less glaucous. Elymus texensis grows on the Edwards Plateau in southwest Texas. It is similar to E. pringlei Scribn. & Merr., but differs in its larger anthers; its glabrous lemmas; its larger spikelets; its longer spikes, with rachis internodes that are longer, with green longitudinal bands, and generally glabrous; and its foliage, which is sometimes densely pilose. The new species are known from few collections, and need much more study to assess their phylogentic status and geographic distribution. They are published here to allow inclusion in the Flora of North America, volume 24, and to stimulate further attention to them. Some additional notes and corrections are appended regarding the author's previous publications on Elymus. Se describen dos nuevas especies de Elymus L., E. churchii J.J.N. Campb. y E. texensis J.J.N. Campb. Elymus churchii vive en las montaas Ouachita y Ozark de Arkansas, Missouri y Oklahoma. Es similar a E. svensonii G.L. Church, pero se diferencia por sus lemas, que son usualmente pubescentes, y tienen aristas ms largas; sus espiguillas, que tienen menos flores; sus internudos del raquis, que son ms largos, con costillas dorsales hspidas y bandas verdes longitudinales; y su follaje, que es tpicamente menos pubescente y menos glauco. Elymus texensis vive en el Edwards Plateau en el sureste de Texas. Es similar a E. pringlei Scribn. & Merr., pero difiere por sus anteras ms grandes; sus lemas glabros; sus espiguillas ms grandes; sus espigas ms largas, con internados del caquis que son ms largos, con bandas verdes longitudinales, y generalmente glabras; y su follaje, que es a veces densamente piloso. Las nuevas especies se conocen de pocas colecciones, y necesitan mucho ms estudio para evaluar su estatus filogentico y distribucin geogrfica. Se publican aqu para que puedan incluirse en la Flora de Norte Amrica, volumen 24, y para estimular la atencin sobre ellas. Se aaden notas adicionales y correcciones a publicaciones previas del autor sobre Elymus.
41968606|The recent transfer of Chaptalia hintonii to Gerbera is doubted, as is any transfer of New World members to the Old World part of the Gerbera-complex. On a biogeographic basis it seems more probable that Gerbera is an Old World clade, while Chaptalia, Trichodine, and T. hieracioides (sometimes considered to be a Gerbera) are New World groups. The geographic distribution of Leibnitzia (North America, Asia) and Amblysperma spathulata (W. Australia) is enigmatic. Additional input of data is needed for a full understanding of the phylogeny in the Gerbera-complex. La reciente transferencia de Chaptalia hintonii a Gerbera es dudosa, como lo es cualquier transferencia de elementos del Nuevo Mundo a la parte del complejo Gerbera del Viejo Mundo. En base a la biogeografa parece ms probable que Gerbera es un ciado del Viejo Mundo, mientras que Chaptalia, Trichodine, y T. hieradoides (a veces considerado como una especie de Gerbera) son grupos del Nuevo Mundo. La distribucin geogrfica de Leibnitzia (Norte Amrica, Asia) y Amblysperma spathulata (Oeste de Australia) es enigmtica. Se necesitan datos adicionales para una completa comprensin de la filogenia del complejo Gerbera.
41968560|A taxonomic treatment of Bauhinia subgenus Bauhinia section Amaria is presented. Fifteen species are recognized in series Decandrae and one species is recognized in series Stenanthae. Bauhinia amatlana Wunderlin from southern Mexico, Bauhinia arborea Wunderlin from Ecuador, Bauhinia ayabacensis Wunderlin from Ecuador and Peru, and Bauhinia geniculata Wunderlin from Colombia are described and the combination Bauhinia petiolata (DC.) Triana ex Hooker f. var. caudigera (S.F. Blake) Wunderlin is proposed. Keys, descriptions, and distribution data are provided. Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico de Bauhinia subgnero Bauhinia seccin Amaria. Se reconocen quince especies en la serie Decandrae y una en la serie Stenanthae. Se describen Bauhinia amatlana Wunderlin del Sur de Mxico, Bauhinia arborea Wunderlin de Ecuador, Bauhinia ayabacensis Wunderlin de Ecuador y Per, y Bauhinia geniculata Wunderlin de Colombia, y se propone la combinacin Bauhinia petiolata (DC.) Triana ex Hooker f. var. caudigera (S.F. Blake) Wunderlin. Se aportan claves, descripciones, y datos sobre la distribucin.
41968641|A new population of Platanthera lacera is reported for Vernon Parish, southern Louisiana. Se cita una nueva poblacin de Platanthera lacera de Vernon Parish, Sur de Louisiana.
41968633|Specimens forming the basis of reports of Ficus palmata (F. pseudo-carica) in North America are misidentified and actually belong to F. carica, so F. palmata must be excluded from the adventive flora of North America. Morus nigra is present as a rare waif in California and Nevada. It is best distinguished from other Morus species in the area by its deeply cordate leaves and densely pubescent styles 3-5 mm long. Los especmenes en que se basan las citas de Ficus palmata (F. pseudo-carica) en Norte Amrica estn mal identificados y pertenecen a F carica, por lo que F palmata debe excluirse de la flora adventicia de Norte Amrica. Morus nigra est presente como una planta rara abandonada en California y Nevada. Se diferencia de otras especies de Morus en el rea por sus hojas profundamente cordadas y estilos densamente pubescentes de 3-5 mm de longitud.
41968561|Dendrophorbium restingue (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), a new species from So Paulo state, Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared with the related species D. paranense (Malme) Matzenb. & Baptista. Dendrophorbium restingue (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), una nueva especie de Sao Paulo, Brasil, es descrita, ilustrada y comparada con la especie relacionada D. paranense (Malme) Matzenb. & Baptista.
41968580|This paper presents a taxonomic treatment of nine species of Oldenlandia occurring as native or adventive in United States or Mexico. The subgenus Oldenlandia is represented by four species: O. corymbosa, O. lancifolia, O. uniflora, and O. boscii. Subgenera for the remaining species are undetermined. Four species are native to Mexico: O. pringlei, O. microtheca, O. ovata, and O. drymarioides. A ninth species, O. salzmannii, is native to South America and adventive in northwest Florida and adjacent Alabama. Keys, descriptions, and scanning electron micrographs of the seeds are provided. Este artculo presenta un tratamiento taxonmico de nueve especies de Oldenlandia que ocurren como nativas o adventicias en Estados Unidos o Mxico. El subgnero Oldenlandia est representado por cuatro especies: O. corymbosa, O. lancifolia, O. uniflora y O., boscii. Los subgneros para la especie restante son indeterminados. Cuatro especies son nativas de Mxico: O. pringlei, O. microtheca, O. ovata y O. drymarioides. Una novena especie, O. salzmannii, es nativa de Suramrica y adventicia en el noroeste Florida y Alabama adyacente. Se proporcionan claves, descripciones, y fotografas al microscopio electrnico de barrido de las semillas.
41968597|A detailed account is presented of the historical events relating to the discovery of Croton alabamensis var. alabamensis (Euphorbiaceae s.s.) by E.A. Smith in 1877 and its subsequent study by 19th century American botanists. A lectotype is designated and its provenance discussed. Este artculo presenta una descripcin detallada de los eventos relacionados con el descubrimiento de Croton alabamensis var. alabamensis (Euphorbiaceae s.s.) por E.A. Smith en 1877 y su estudio subsiguiente por botnicos en el siglo XIX. Adems, se designa un lectotipo para esta especie y se discute su origen.
41968617|The taxonomic position of 131 medicinal plants from the canal-irrigated areas of Punjab belonging to 112 families and 52 genera is presented. Their life form, parts used and pharmaceutical uses are also described. The most important family was Fabaceae containing 21 medicinal species, followed by Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Lamiaceae, Solanaceae (6 species each), Cucurbitaceae, Malvaceae, and Poaceae (5 species each). Life form analysis of these medicinal plants indicates that all life forms are represented with the majority herbaceous. To conserve this natural wealth, an integrated strategy for both saving species and meeting the increased demand for medicinal plants is suggested. The main points of this strategy should include formulation of a comprehensive policy, increased ethnobotanical surveys and sustainable production of medicinal plants through their cultivation. Se presenta la posicin taxonmica de 131 plantas medicinales de las reas irrigadas del canal del Punjab pertenecientes a 52 familias y 112 gneros. Se describen tambin las formas vitales, partes usadas y usos farmacuticos. La familia ms importante es Fabaceae con 21 especies medicinales, seguida por Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Lamiaceae, Solanaceae (6 especies cada una), Cucurbitaceae, Malvaceae, y Poaceae (5 especies cada una). El anlisis de las formas vitales de estas plantas medicinales indica que estn representadas todas con predominio de las herbceas. Para conservar esta riqueza natural, se sugiere una estrategia integrada tanto para salvar las especies como para abordar la creciente demanda de plantas medicinales. Los puntos principales de esta estrategia seran incluir la formulacin de una pol'tica integral, incremento de estudios etnobotnicos y la produccin sostenible de plantas medicinales mediante su cultivo.
41968637|Eleocharis liesneri is reported here for the first time from Brazil and Colombia. These newly discovered specimens represent the only collections known besides the type of the species, and suggest that this taxon might have a peri-Amazonian distribution. A detailed description, key, and illustration to aid in separation of E. liesneri from other South American species of Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa with which it has been confused are provided. Eleocharis liesneri se cita aqu por primera vez de Brasil y Colombia. Estos especmenes representan las nicas recolecciones conocidas aparte del tipo de la especie, y sugieren que este taxon pudiera tener una distribucin periamaznica. Se ofrece una descripcin detallada, una clave, e ilustracin para ayudar en la separacin de E. liesneri de otras especies suramericanas de Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa con las que ha sido confundido.
41968620|We report the results of a tree species inventory of seven hectares of lowland subtropical moist forest in the Palma Real River watershed of lower Madre de Dios, Peru, where we discovered a type of palm swamp forest vegetation that has not previously been studied. The goal of the study was to investigate the forest vegetation of the Palma Real watershed with special emphasis on a comparison between the wetland forest vegetation and the surrounding terra firme forests. A total of 3534 trees 10 cm DBH belonging to 442 species in 62 families were measured and identified in the seven plots. Three distinct forest types resulted from Principal Components Analysis (PCA) and WPGMA cluster analysis of both family and species abundance data, including two types of terra firme forests and a palm swamp forest. The five terra firme forest plots sampled, with a range of 104-138 species, were less diverse than other one-hectare forest plots reported from the region, which have a diversity ranging from 151-197 species. The two palm swamp forest plots, with 126 and 167 tree species, were more diverse than surrounding terra firme forest plots sampled in this study. One of the palm swamp forest plots was extremely diverse with 167 species, only seven species less than the average diversity across 14 one-hectare terra firme plots sampled by other investigators in Madre de Dios, Peru. Both palm swamp forest plots had a greater number of stems distributed across smaller size classes. Both Fabaceae and Arecaceae were the most important plant families across all plots. The Arecaceae contributed significantly to distinguishing the palm swamp forest plots, composing 16-25% of all stems compared to only 9% of the stems in terra firme plots of the region. This high abundance of the palm family is from where we derive the name we are applying to this wetland forest type in the Palma Real watershed. Using satellite imagery we illustrate the importance of the extent of these palm swamp forests throughout the region. Reportamos los resultados de un inventario floristico de siete hectreas en un bosque subtropical hmedo en la cuenca de la quebrada Palma Real, en Madre de Dios, Per. El objetivo de este estudio fue investigar la vegetacin de la Quebrada Palma Real con especial nfasis en una comparacin entre un tipo de vegetacin de pantano con palmeras y la vegetacin de terra firme circundante. En total de 3534 rboles mayores a 10 cm de dimetro (DAP) pertenecientes a 442 especies en 62 familias fueron medidos e identificados en siete parcelas. Tres tipos de bosque resultaron de los anlisis de componentes principales y anlisis de agrupamiento WPGMA mediante datos de abundancia por familia y por especie en los dos tipos de vegetacin. Las cinco parcelas muestreadas en terra firme, con un rango de 104-138 especies por parcela, fueron menos diversas que otras parcelas estudiadas en la regin, las cuales tienen un rango de 151-197 especies. Las dos parcelas muestreadas en bosque pantanoso de palmeras, con 126 y 167 especies, fueron ms diversas que las parcelas de terra firme circundantes. Una de las parcelas del bosque pantanoso de palmeras fue extremadamente diversa con 167 especies, solo siete especies menos que el promedio reportado para 14 otras parcelas estudiadas por otros investigadores en Madre de Dios. Ambas parcelas del bosque pantanoso con palmeras tuvieron una alta densidad de tallos distribuidos en las clases diammetricas ms pequeas, lo cual podra ser una explicacin de la alta diversidad de especies. Fabaceae y Arecaceae fueron las familias ms importantes para todas las parcelas. Arecaceae contribuy significativamente a distinguir el bosque pantanoso con palmeras, comprendiendo entre el 16-25% de todos los tallos, comparado con solo el 9% de tallos en bosque de terra firme de la region. Esta alta abundancia de palmeras determin el nombre que nosotros aplicamos a este tipo de bosque muy hmedo en la cuenca de la Quebrada de Palma Real. Usando imgenes satelitales nosotros ilustramos la importancia por su extensin, de estos bosques pantanosos de palmeras en la regin. Finalmente nosotros instamos a desarollar mas estudios de largo plazo sobre la diversidad y ecologa en la regin, con nfasis en la importancia de estos bosques de Palma Real en la extraccin de castaa (Bertholletia excelsa, Lecythidaceae) y otros recursos para la regin y sus moradores.
41968575|In the Piedmont Physiographic Province of the southeastern U.S.A., the endemic North American genus Pediomelum is known only from three dry, rocky, partly open sites near the Fall Line. The first collections were made in 1984, from Richland County, South Carolina; in 1996, from more than 100 km. to the west, in Columbia County, Georgia; and in 2005, from Lexington County, South Carolina, less than 20 km from the Richland County site. The two late-twentieth-century collections were referred, with reservations, to P. canescens, a species of sandy soils on the adjacent Atlantic Coastal Plain. This was the only known Pediomelum that resembled the Piedmont plants in having the petioles shorter than the petiolules and the only similarly erect and caulescent species east of the Mississippi River. Subsequent collections and study by the authors indicate that the Piedmont populations share a consistent morphology that is unique within the genus in combining subsessile leaves with congested, many-flowered inflorescences. These plants differ from P. canescens in additional ways (e.g., fruiting calyces gibbous and more narrowly campanulate, bracts conspicuously larger and broader, and leaflets more narrowly elliptic). The Piedmont plants also cannot be considered a sessileleaved variant of any of the western species, and therefore they are described as Pediomelum piedmontanum Allison, Morris, & Egan, sp. nov. En la Provincia Fisiogrfica de Piedmont del sureste de EEUU, el gnero Pediomelum, endmico de Norteamrica, se ha encontrado solamente en tres sitios secos y rocosos y parcialmente abiertos que estn cerca de la Fall Line. Las primeras colecciones se hicieron en 1984 en el Condado de Richland, Carolina del Sur; en 1996, a ms de 100 km al oeste, en el Condado de Columbia, Georgia; y en 2005 en el Condado de Lexington, Carolina del Sur, a menos de 20 km del sitio en el Condado de Richland. Las dos colecciones de finales del siglo XX se refirieron, con reservas, a P. canescens, una especie de los suelos arenosos en el Atlantic Coastal Plain contiguo. Este era el nico Pediomelum conocido que se asemejaba a las plantas del Piedmont en tener los pecolos ms cortos que los pecilulos y la nica especie semejante al este del Ro Mississippi erguida y caulescente. Las colecciones subsiguientes y los estudios por los autores indican que las poblaciones del Piedmont comparten una morfologa coherente que es nica dentro del gnero en combinar las hojas subssiles con las inflorescencias congestas y multif loras. Estas plantas se diferencian de P. canescens de otros modos (p.ej., los clices fructferos gibosos y ms angostamente campanulados, las brcteas visiblemente ms grandes y ms anchas, y las hojuelas ms angostamente elpticas). Las plantas del Piedmont tampoco se pueden considerar como una variante, con las hojas subssiles, de cualquiera de las especies occidentales, y por lo tanto se describen como Pediomelum piedmontanum Allison, Morris, & Egan, sp. nov.
41968643|Upon review of herbaria specimens and recent collections, it is clear that Seymeriafalcata B.L. Turner occurs in the Dead Horse Mountains of southern Brewster County, Texas. This is the first report of this species for Texas and the United States. Basndonos en la revisin de especimenes herbario y colecciones recientes est claro que Seymeria falcata B.L. Turner ocurre en las Montaas Caballos Muertos en el condado meridional de Brewster, Tejas. ste es la primera cita de esta especie para Tejas y los Estados Unidos.
41968579|During the preparation of a monograph of the Ebenaceae for Mexico, numerous collections previously determined to be Diospyros conzattii Standley and Diospyros riojae Gomez-Pompa could not be reconciled with their original descriptions, type specimens and illustrations. It was determined that collections of putative D. conzattii from Costa Rica represent a new species, D. costaricensis, described here. All but one collection of putative D. riojae from the Mexican states of Queretaro, Hidalgo, Tamaulipas, and San Luis Potosi, represent a new species, D. gomeziorum, described here. Putative collections of D. riojae from Veracruz additionally include specimens of D. conzattii, a species previously unreported for the state, and a new species from the Sierra de Los Tuxtlas, D. tuxtlensis, described here. We provide emended descriptions of D. riojae and D. conzattii, and describe three new species of Diospyros for Tropical America. We also provide comments on distribution, ecology, conservation, ethnobotany and provide illustrations for each of these taxa. Durante la preparacin de la monografa de Ebenaceae para Mxico, numerosas colecciones previamente determinadas como Diospyros conzattii Standley y Diospyros riojae Gomez-Pompa no pudieron ser reconciliadas con las descripciones originales, el espcimen tipo y las ilustraciones. Se determin que la coleccin putativa D. conzattii de Costa Rica, representa una especie nueva, D. costaricensis descrita aqu. Todas, excepto una de las colecciones putativas de D. riojae de los estados mexicanos de Quertaro, Hidalgo, Tamaulipas y San Luis Potos representan una especie nueva de D. gomeziorum, descrita aqu. Adicionalmente, las colecciones putativas de D. riojae de Veracruz, incluyen especmenes de D. conzattii, una especie no citada previamente para ese estado y de una especie nueva de la Sierra de los Tuxtlas D. tuxtlensis, descrita aqu. Proveemos descripciones corregidas de D. riojae y D. conzattii y describimos tres especies nuevas de Diospyros para Amrica tropical. Tambin hacemos comentarios sobre la distribucin, ecologa, conservacin, etnobotnica y aportamos ilustraciones de todos los taxa.
41968559|A newly recognized species of Arundinaria from the southern Appalachian Mountains is described, illustrated, and compared with the related species A. gigantea and A. tecta. Arundinaria appalachiana is distinguished by a combination of vegetative morphological characters including features of branching and leaf morphology, leaf anatomy, and ecology. Recognition of this species is consistent with genetic data that provide evidence for monophyly of the species and its sister relationship with A. tecta. A key for the identification of Arundinaria species in North America is included along with a comparative table based on morphology, leaf anatomy, and ecology. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Arundinaria del sur de la Cordillera de los Apalaches y se la compara con las especies relacionadas A. gigantea y A. tecta. Se distingue Arundinaria appalachiana por una combinacin de caracteres morfolgicos vegetativos, entre ellos aspectos de la ramificacin, morfologa y anatoma de las hojas, y ecologa. El reconocimiento de esta especie concuerda con datos genticos que apoyan la monofilia de la especie nueva y su posicin como especie hermana a A. tecta. Se incluye una clave para la identificacin de especies de Arundnaria en Amrica del Norte y una tabla comparativa basada en la morfologa, anatoma de las hojas, y ecologa.
41968612|The new combination Tetraphispellucida Hedw. var. trachypoda, is proposed to clarify the taxonomic rank of the moss Tetraphis trachypoda and to recognize the morphological difference of having a straight, slightly papillose seta. A revised key to the genus, a diagnosis of var. trachypoda, and specimens examined are provided. Se propone la nueva combinacin Tetraphis pellucida Hedw. var. trachypoda, para aclarar el rango taxonmico del musgo Tetraphis trachypoda y para reconocer las diferencias morfolgicas de tener una seda derecha ligeramente papilosa. Se ofrece una clave revisada del gnero, una diagnosis de la var. trachypoda, y los especimenes examinados.
41968571|Cuscuta umbrosa is the correct name for the species often recognized as C. megalocarpa. It apparently intergrades in some features with C. gronovii, but the two are generally distinct across a broad region of sympatry. Three varieties are recognized within C. gronovii: var. gronovii is widespread; var. latiflora is broadly sympatric with var. gronovii but is maintained because relationships with C. gronovii var. gronovii and C. cephalanthi art not clear; var. calyptrata is more distinct and narrowly restricted in range, although it also is sympatric with var. gronovii. Cuscuta umbrosa es el nombre correcto para la especie reconocida recientemente como C. megalocarpa. Es ampliamente simptrica y algo intergradada con C. gronovii, pero las dos especies son generalmente claras. Se reconocen tres variedades dentro de C. gronovii: var. gronovii que est muy esparcida; var. latiflora es ampliamente simptrica con la var. gronovii pero se mantiene debido a la relacin con C. gronovii var. gronovii y C. cephalanthi no est clara; la var. calyptrata es ms clara y estrechamente restringida en su distribucin geogrfica, aunque sea tambin simptrica con la var. gronovii.
41968613|A new combination, Bromus catharticus var. elata (E. Desv.) Planchuelo is proposed. This taxon has hitherto been treated either as B. stamineus E. Desv. or as B. cebadilla Steud. Recent morphological evidence supports its recognition as a variety of B. catharticus. Detailed illustrations are included along with a morphological description, synonym list, geographical distribution, and representative specimens. Se propone la nueva combinacin Bromus catharticus var. data (E. Desv.) Planchuelo. Este taxn fue previamente tratado indistintamente como B. stamineus E. Desv. o B. cebadilla Steud. Evidencias morfolgicas recientes validan su ubicacin como una variedad de B. catharticus. El trabajo se complementa con una detallada ilustracin, descripcin morfolgica, lista de sinnimos, distribucin geogrfica y especimenes representativos.
41968588|The previous lectotypification of Lantana camara L. is evaluated by examination of characters of the lectotype, review of other original material, and documentation of current usage of the name. The current usage is analyzed by surveying pertinent literature and by sampling specimens for annotations between 1753 and the present in relation to critical characters of those specimens. Current usage of L. camara includes a widely cultivated and naturalized cultigen species of hybrid origin that is taxonomically distinct from L. camara. To determine the correct name of the cultigen, all names in Lantana sect. Lantana are reviewed, typified if necessary and possible, and taxonomically disposed. No available name applies to the cultigen, which is newly described as Lantana strigocamara R.W. Sanders. Origin of the named hybrids in the L. camara complex is hypothesized. Two new combinations are made, Lantana cantara subsp. aculeata (L.) R.W. Sanders and Lantana nivea Vent, subsp. mutabilis (W.J. Hook.) R.W. Sanders. Nineteen lectotypifications and seven epitypifications are made. La lectotipificacin previa de Lantana camara L. se evala mediante examen de los caracteres del lectotipo, revisin de otro material original, y documentacin del uso actual del nombre. El uso actual se analiz revisando la bibliografa adecuada y por muestreo de especmenes entre 1753 y el presente por comentarios en relacin a caracteres crticos de esos especmenes. El uso actual de L camara incluye una especie ampliamente cultivada y naturalizada de origen hbrido que es taxonmicamente diferente de L camara. Para determinar el nombre correcto de la planta cultivada se revisaron todos los nombre de Lantana sect. Lantana, se tipificaron cuando fue necesario y posible, y taxonmicamente decidido. No hay nombres disponibles para la planta cultivada, que se describe como Lantana strigocamara R.W. Sanders. Se hace una hiptesis del origen de los hbridos nombrados en el complejo L. camara. Se hacen dos combinaciones nuevas, Lantana cantara subsp. aculeata (L.) R.W. Sanders y Lantana nivea Vent, subsp. mutabilis (W.J. Hook.) R.W. Sanders. Se realizan diez y nueve lectotipificaciones y siete epitipificaciones.
41968627|The physical conditions of mature seeds were examined from representatives of six Kentucky populations and one Indiana population of the endangered species Short's goldenrod (Solidago shortii, Asteraceae). A random sample of seeds from the Kentucky populations revealed the majority (71%-99%) were incapable of successful seedling development, being damaged due either to an insect predator or to unsuccessful fertilization or embryo abortion. Successful seedling development from phenotypically normal seeds ranged from 71% to 96% in the sampled Kentucky populations. The majority of the damaged seeds were necrotic, ranging from 62%-90%. The Indiana population exhibited the lowest level of herbivory (2%) observed for the species. Two congener goldenrod species (S. canadensis var. altissima and S. nemoralis) found growing either within or adjacent to three populations of Short's goldenrod exhibited lower levels of necrosis and higher levels of herbivory. A third congener species (S. gigantea) exhibited equal levels of the two seed conditions (herbivory and necrosis). The influence of seed inviability upon the persistence of natural populations of Short's goldenrod is at present unknown. Las condiciones fsicas de semillas maduras de la especie amenazada "Short's goldenrod" (Solidago shortii, Asteraceae) fueron examinadas en seis poblaciones de Kentucky y una poblacin de Indiana. La mayora de las semillas de poblaciones muestreadas al azar en Kentucky, presentaron un nmero reducido de plntulas. Altos niveles de herbivora, infertilidad, o aborto de embriones pueden explicar estas observaciones. Semillas normales encontradas en las poblaciones de Kentucky generaron plntulas que se desarrollaron con xito en un 71% a 96%. En la mayora de las semillas daadas los niveles de necrosis fluctuaron en un 62%-90%. La poblacin de Indiana present el menor nivel de herbivora (2%) observado en la especie. En dos especies de "goldenrod" (S. canadensis var. altissima y S. nemoralis) distribuidas entre o cerca de tres poblaciones de "Short's goldenrod" se observaron bajos niveles de necrosis y altos niveles de herbivora. En un una tercera especie de "goldenrod" (S. gigantea) se observaron condiciones similares de herbivora y necrosis. Se desconoce la influencia de inviabilidad de semillas en la persistencia de poblaciones naturales de Short's goldenrod.
41968587|Heterotheca villosa (as treated by Semple 1996, 2006) is a complex species with nine varieties, most of which are sympatric in various degrees. Heterotheca villosa var. nana and H. villosa var. scabra are essentially allopatric and intergrade little, but each is widely sympatric with H. villosa and distinct from it. Recognition at specific rank accurately reflects the status of var. nana and var. scabra, and they are treated here, respectively, as Heterotheca hrrida (Rydb.) Harms and Heterotheca polothrix Nesom, nom. et stat. nov. Heterotheca stenophylla sensu stricto is distinct from H. stenophylla var. angustifolia (sensu Semple) and sympatric with it, and the latter is appropriately treated as H. villosa var. angustifolia (Rydb.) Harms. The New Mexico endemic Heterotheca villosa var. sierrablancensis Semple is raised to specific rank as Heterotheca sierrablancensis (Semple) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov. Identifications of vars. villosajoliosa, bailarn, and minor (all sensu Semple) require arbitrary judgements because of their broad sympatry and extensive intergradation. The distinction between var. pedunculata and H. zionensis is not clear, and both taxa apparently intergrade broadly with more typical H. villosa. Variety depressa is maintained at specific rank as H. depressa (Rydb.) Dorn. Maps show the generalized distributions of the taxa of the H. villosa complex sensu Semple, and a nomenclatural summary outlines an alternative taxonomy. Heterotheca villosa (as treated by Semple 1996,2006) es un complejo de especies con ocho variedades, la mayora de las cuales son simptricas en varios grados. Heterotheca villosa var. nana y H villosa var. scabra son esencialmente aloptricas y se intergradan poco, pero cada una de ellas es ampliamente simptrica con H. villosa y diferente de ella. El reconocimiento a nivel especfico refleja con precisin el estatus de var. nana y var. scabra, y son tratadas aqu, respectivamente, como Heterotheca hrrida (Rydb.) Harms y Heterotheca polothrix Nesom, nom. et stat. nov. Heterotheca stenophylla sensu stricto es diferente de H. stenophylla var. angustifolia (sensu Semple) y simptrica con ella, y esta ltima es tratada apropiadamente como H. villosa var. angustifolia (Rydb.) Harms. La endmica de Nuevo Mxico Heterotheca villosa var. sierrablancensis Semple se eleva al rango especfico como Heterotheca sierrablancensis (Semple) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov. Las identificaciones de las vars. villosa, foliosa, ballardii, y minor (todas sensu Semple) requieren juicios arbitrarios debido a su amplia simpatria e intergradacin extensa. La diferenciacin entre var. pedunculata y H. zionensis no es clara, y ambos taxa aparentemente se intergradan con la ms tpica H. villosa. La variedad depressa se mantiene en el rango especfico como H. depressa (Rydb.) Dorn. En los mapas se muestran las distribuciones generales de los taxa del complejo H. villosa sensu Semple, y un resumen nomenclatural delinea una taxonoma alternativa.
41969108|Plants of Hexalectrisgrandiflora A. Richard & Galeotti (Orchidaceae) collected in Dallas County, Texas in 2005 and 2006 extend the range of this species northeast by more than 700 km and indicates greater diversity for the genus Hexalectris in Dallas County than previously observed. These observations suggest either the absence of sufficient data on this species' range in intervening counties, or the loss of populations between the north central Texas and western Texas locations, and argue for continued study of Hexalectris throughout the state. Las plantas de Hexalectris grandiflora A. Richard & Galeotti (Orchidaceae) colectadas en el condado de Dallas, Texas en 2005 y 2006 aumentan el rea de esta especie hacia el noreste ms de 700 km e indican mayor diversidad para el gnero Hexalectris en el condado de Dallas de la que se haba observado previamente. Estas observaciones sugieren tanto la ausencia de datos suficientes del areal de esta especie en los condados afectados, o la prdida de poblaciones entre el norte-centro de Texas y las localidades del oeste de Texas, y se aportan argumentos para continuar el estudio de Hexalectris en todo el estado.
41969063|Two new species of Myrtaceae from Ecuador and Peru are described and illustrated: Catyptranthes manuensis and Eugenia yasuniana. Se describen y se ilustran dos especies nuevas de Myrtaceae del Ecuador y Peru: Calyptranthes manuensis y Eugenia yasuniana.
41969091|A Geocarpon minimum population growing on a sandstone glade in Dade County, Missouri was monitored for ten years (1994-2003). Plants were counted annually in eight permanent plots at two scales (0.01 and 1.0 m) to determine population fluctuations through time. Soil depths as well as cover of bryophytes, lichens, vascular plants, and bare rock/soil were recorded in subplots between 1994 and 2000 to determine any possible association with G. minimum numbers. The number of G. minimum plants in the eight plots varied from 1 to 4230, with a mean of 1332. Mean soil depth of subplots containing G. minimum was 19 mm. There was a weak association (rs=0.16, P<0.0001) between soil depth and Geocarpon density. Regression analyses show that G. minimum numbers tend to increase with increasing soil depth to about 20 mm and decline thereafter. In addition, there were significant differences among vegetation types (P < 0.05) with the exception of lichens (P > 0.05). There was a significant difference between G. minimum population numbers and year (P < 0.05). There was discontinuity with scale and the Spearman rank correlations, however, when ecological groups were combined into larger categories (i.e., lichens and bryophytes were lumped into cryptogams), patterns were clearer across scales. Documentation of bare rock areas indicates a dynamic process of soil movement into and out of plots, but cover data did not indicate a consistent increase in coverage of moss, vascular plants, or lichens during the ten years of the study. It is concluded that G. minimum utilizes habitats with periodic soil disturbance and with minimal competition from bryophytes or perennial vascular plants. Although seed bank was not a subject of this study, its importance was evident from annual census data that showed the population is capable of rebounding dramatically following years with virtually no seed production. Una poblacin de Geocarpon minimum fue monitoreada durante diez aos (1994-2003) en un afloramiento de arenisca y suelo poco profundo en el condado de Dade en el estado de Missouri. Para determinar la fluctuacin del nmero de plantas en la poblacin durante el perodo de estudio, las plantas se contaron anualmente en ocho parcelas permanentes usando dos escalas (0.01 y 1.0 m). Durante los aos 1994 hasta el 2000 fueron evaluados datos sobre profundidad de suelo, cobertura de briofitas, liqenes, plantas vasculares y rea de tierra o rocas sin plantas en subparcelas con el propsito de determinar la posible asociacin de estas variables con el numero de plantas de G. minimum. El nmero de plantas de G. minimum en las ocho parcelas vari de 1 a 4230 con un promedio de 1332. La profundidad promedio del suelo de las subparcelas con G. minimum fue de 19 mm. La asociacin entre la profundidad de suelo y densidad de plantas de Geocarpon fue mnima (rs = 0.16, P < 0.001). El anlisis de regresin demostr que el nmero de G. minimum parece aumentar a medida que la profundidad de suelo alcanza los 20 mm y disminuye a mayor profundidad. Adems, la diferencia entre tipos de vegetacin (P < 0.05), con excepcin de los liqenes (P >= 0.05), fue significativa. La diferencia fue significativa tambin entre el nmero de plantas de G. minimum y el ao del muestreo (P < 0.05). Se observ una discontinuidad entre escala y las correlaciones de rango de Spearman, sin embargo, al combinar los grupos ecolgicos en categoras mayores (por ejemplo, los liqenes y las briof itas se unieron en la categora de las criptgamas), los patrones fueron ms claros a travs de las escalas. La documentacin sobre reas de afloramiento de rocas indica la existencia de un proceso dinmico de movimiento del suelo dentro y fuera de las parcelas, pero los datos sobre cobertura no indican un crecimiento constante de cobertura de musgos, plantas vasculares o liqenes durante los diez aos del estudio. La conclusin es que G. minimum utiliza habitats de suelos que estn cambiando constantemente y tienen poca competencia de briof itas y plantas perennes vasculares. Aunque el banco de semillas en el suelo no se investig en este estudio, su importancia fue evidente. En base a los datos anuales, esta poblacin de G. minimum tiene la capacidad para reproducirse considerablemente en aos siguientes aunque no exista produccin de semilla en aos anteriores.
41969048|A new species of witch-hazel, Hamamelis ovalis, is described from Perry County in southern Mississippi, U.S.A. The red flower color, clonal habit, and late winter flowering suggest affinity with the Ozarkan endemic H. vernalis; however, the large leaves, unlike any specimens examined of American or Asian witch-hazels, readily differentiate H. ovalis from its congeners. The problematic H. macrophylla is discussed. Se describe una nueva especie de la avellana-bruja, Hamamelis ovalis, del condado de Perry, Mississippi del sur, los Estados Unidos. El color rojo de la flor, el hbito clnico, y la floracin tarda en invierno sugieren afinidad con el Ozarkan endmico H. vernalis. Sin embargo, las hojas grandes, diferentes de cualquier espcimen examinado de avellanas-brujas americanas o asiticas distinguen fcilmente H. ovalis de sus congneres. Se discute el problemtico H. macrophylla.
41969059|Poa matri-occidentalis P.M. Peterson & Soreng, sp nov., is described and illustrated. Poa matri-occidentalis subsp. matri-occidentalis is known from steep rocky slopes of Cerro Gordo, Durango, and Poa matri-occidentalis subsp. mohinorensis Soreng & P. M. Peterson, subsp. nov. is known from rocky cliffs of Cerro Mohinora, Chihuahua. The new species is morphologically similar to Poa kelloggii but differs by having leaf sheaths that are closed near the base 2/3 to 4/5 their length, entire ligules that are 3.5-6 mm long, nodding panicles, ovate lemmas with obtuse to acute apices, and non-visible rachilla internodes. A key distinguishing 11 species now reported from northern Mxico is provided. Se describe e ilustra Poa matri-occidentalis P. M. Peterson & Soreng, sp. nov. Poa matri-occidentalis subsp. matrioccidentalis se encuentra en la zona de cuestas rocosas escarpadas de Cerro Gordo, Durango, y Poamatri-occidentalis subsp. mohinorensis Soreng & P.M. Peterson, subsp. nov. se encuentra en la zona de laderas rocosos del Cerro Mohinora, Chihuahua. La nueva especie es morfolgicamente similar a Poa helloggii pero difiere de sta ltima por tener las vainas de las hojas cerradas en la parte inferior de la base de 2/3 a 4/5 de su longitud, por tener lgulas enteras de 3.5-6 mm de largo, panculas recurvadas, lemas ovadas con pices agudos a obtusos y raquilla con entrenudos no-visibles. Se proporciona una clave para distinguir las 11 especies reportadas actualmente del norte de Mxico.
41969070|Crataegus series Pulcherrimae (Rosaceae) is reviewed, Beadle's group Sargentianae being incorporated. Ten species, C. sargentii, C. gilva, C. mendosa, C. pulcherrima, C. pinetorum, G venusta, C. opima, C. tecta, C. pallens, and C. eximia are recognized. In addition, a possible eleventh species, C. ? robur, is suggested but the evidence is not yet final on this. All species are lectotypified here except C. pinetorum, which is neotypified. Epitypes are proposed for two species, C. opima and C. venusta. Synonyms are also typified. Each species is keyed out and is represented by the most detailed description to date. Detailed line illustrations and county level range maps, in both cases generally the first for each species, are provided. Repesentative specimens are cited. Se revisa Crataegus serie Pulcherrimae (Rosaceae), se incorpora el grupo Sargentianae de Beadle. Se reconocen diez especies, C. sargenta, C. gilva, C. mendosa, C. pulcherrima, C. pinetorum, C. venusta, C. opima, C. tecta, C. pallens, y C. eximia. Adems, se sugiere una posible undcima especie, C. ? robur, pero no hay pruebas finales an. Se lectotipifican todas las especies excepto C. pinetorum, que es neotipificada. Se proponen epitipos para dos especies, C. opima y C. venusta. Tambin se tipifican los sinnimos. Se aporta una clave para todas las especies y se ofrece la descripcin ms detallada hasta la fecha. Se realizan ilustraciones detalladas y se aportan mapas de distribucin a nivel de condado, de ambos generalmente es el primero para cada especie. Se citan especmenes representativos.
41969080|Drepanostachyum falcatum var. sengteeanum Stapleton, a variety of bamboo thought to have originated from the Himalayas and cultivated in the west for over a century is discussed. The application and the typification of the name under which it was once grown, Arundinaria falcata var. glomerata Gamble, are considered, along with the application of the name Arundinaria falcata Nees. Arundinaria falcata var. glomerata is lectotypified in accordance with the protologue and current use of the name in India, placing it in synonymy of Drepanostachyum falcatum (Nees) Keng f., for which an epitype is designated to support its own incomplete lectotype. Se discute Drepanostachyum falcatum var. sengteeanum Stapleton, una variedad de bamb que se piensa que se origin en el Himalaya y se ha cultivado en el oeste durante ms de un siglo. Se consideran la aplicacin y la tipificacin del nombre bajo el que fue cultivado, Arundinariafalcata var. glomerata Gamble, junto con la aplicacin del nombre Arundinaria falcata Nees. Se tipifica Arundinaria falcata var. glomerata de acuerdo con el protlogo y el uso actual del nombre en la India, colocndolo en la sinonimia de Drepanostachyum falcatum (Nees) Keng f., para el que se designa un epitipo para apoyar su lectotipo incompleto.
41969106|This paper reports the occurrence of two species previously unknown to the flora of Oklahoma. Galium tricornutum, a Eurasian introduction, was discovered in a cement drainage ditch in Hughes County in central Oklahoma. Parentucellia viscosa, an introduction from Europe, was discovered in disturbed grassland in McCurtain County in extreme southeastern Oklahoma. Este artculo cita la ocurrencia de dos especies previamente desconocidas de la flora de Oklahoma. Galium tricornutum, una introduccin eurasitica, fue descubierta en una zanja de drenaje de cemento en el condado de Hughes en el centro de Oklahoma. Parentucellia viscosa (L.) Caruel, una introduccin de Europa, fue descubierta en un prado alterado en el condado de McCurtain en el extremo sudeste de Oklahoma.
41969107|Two new sites are reported for Capraria mexicana (Scrophulariaceae) in the United States. Se reportan dos nuevos sitios para Capraria mexicana (Scrophulariaceae) en los Estados Unidos.
41969073|Crataegus series Bracteatae and Triflorae, both of the southeastern United States, are revised and shown to possess significant similarities. In each series, one of the two species recognized is moderately common, the other possibly extinct in the wild, raising conservation concerns. A key to series is provided and full descriptions for both series. Each series has a key to species, detailed species descriptions, and county level distribution maps for each species, these being the first such known to be produced. In addition, each species except C. harbisonii (ser. Bracteatae), which has an excellent illustration in Lance and Phipps (2000), is provided a with new line illustration. All species are typified and representative specimens are cited for each. Crataegus series Bracteatae y Triflorae, ambas del sudeste de los Estados Unidos, se revisaron y mostraron tener similitudes significativas. En cada serie, una de las dos especies reconocidas es relativamente comn, la otra posiblemente extinta en la naturaleza y presentando problemas de conservacin. Se ofrece una clave para las series y una descripcin completa de ambas. Cada una de las series tiene una clave de especies, descripciones detalladas de las especies, y mapas de distribucin a nivel de condado de todas las especies, siendo la primera vez que se produce esto. Adems, se aporta una ilustracin todas las especies excepto C. harbisonii (ser. Bracteatae), que tiene una ilustracin excelente en Lance y Phipps (2000). Se tipifican todas las especies y se citan especmenes representativos de cada una de ellas.
41969051|Six new combinations are required in Dodecatheon L. for a forthcoming treatment of the genus in Flora of North America north of Mexico: D. clevelandii Greene var. gracile (Greene) Reveal, D. clevelandii var. insulare (H.J. Thomps.) Reveal, D. clevelandii var. patulum (Kuntze) Reveal, D. pulchellum var. macrocarpum (A. Gray) Reveal, D. pulchellum var. shoshonense (A. Nelson) Reveal, and D. utahense (N. H. Holmgren) Reveal. Se necesitan seis combinaciones nuevas en Dodecatheon L. en el tratamiento del gnero en la Flora of North America north of Mexico: D. clevelandii Greene var. gracile (Greene) Reveal, D. clevelandii var. insulare (H.J. Thomps.) Reveal, D. clevelandii var. patulum (Kuntze) Reveal, D. pulchellum var. macrocarpum (A. Gray) Reveal, D. pulchellum var. shoshonense (A. Nelson) Reveal, y D. utahense (N.H. Holmgren) Reveal.
41969077|A new species, Eugenia haberi Barrie (Myrtaceae), is described from the Pacific slope in Guanacaste and Puntarenas provinces of Costa Rica. It may be distinguished from E. rhombea by characters of the leaves and flowers, especially the calyx. The species is apparently restricted to cliff edges at elevations of 1100 to 1350 meters. Se describe una nueva especie, Eugenia haberi Barrie (Myrtaceae), de las provincias de Guanacaste y Puntarenas en el lado pacfico de Costa Rica. Puede diferenciarse de E. rhombea por caracteres de las hojas y flores, especialmente el cliz. La especie est restringida aparentemente a bordes de acantilados a elevaciones de 1100 a 1350 metros.
41969060|Bromus ayacuchensis, a new species from Departamento Ayacucho, Peru, is described and illustrated. The new species is similar to species in Bromus sect. Ceratochloa, particularly B. cebadilla, because of its strongly keeled lemmas. It differs from B. cebadilla by having densely pilose culms near the base, adaxially pilose ligules 3-6.6 mm long, lower glumes 1-veined, upper glumes 3-veined, pilose lemmas (especially along the margins and near the apex), lemma margins that are tightly involute on lower 1/5-1/4, and lemma awns 3-5.5 mm long. Phylogenetic analyses of sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA place B. ayacuchensis in a dade with species of sect. Ceratochloa, whereas analyses of plastid data from the trnL intron and the 3'-end of ndhF indicate that B. ayacuchensis is closely related to this dade. Confirmed records are provided for B. modestus and B. cebadilla in Peru, and B. coloratus and B. flexuosus are reported for the first time in Peru. A key to the 12 species of Bromus now known from Peru is included. Se describe y se ilustra Bromus ayacuchensis Saarela & P. M. Peterson, sp. nov, una nueva especie dd Departamento de Ayacucho, Per. La nueva especie es similar a las especies de Bromus secc. Ceratochloa, particularmente B. cebadilla, porque tiene lemas muy carenadas. Se diferencia de B. cebadilla por tener clmenes densamente pilosos cerca de la base, lgulas 3-6.6 mm de largo y pilosas en la parte ventral superior, glumas inferiores con 1 nervio, glumas superiores con 3 nervios, lemas pilosos (especialmente a lo largo de los mrgenes y cerca del pice), los mrgenes del lema son firmemente involutos en la porcin 1/5-1/4 inferior del lema y aristas de 3-5.5 mm de largo. Los anlisis filogenticos de los datos de la secuencia de ADN de las regiones transcritas internas del espaciador ribosmico nuclear colocan a B. ayacuchensis en un ciado con las especies de la sect. Ceratochloa, mientras que los anlisis de los datos del intrn del plstido del trnL y de los extremos 3' del ndhF indican que B. ayacuchensis est ntimamente relacionado pero no es parte de este ciado. Proporcionamos ejemplares de especmenes B. modestus y B. cebadilla provenientes del Per, y B. coloratus y B. flexuosus encontrados por primera vez en Per. Se incluye la clave para las 12 especies de Bromus conocidas en Per.
41969049|Eriogonum callistum, a new species of subg. Eucycla Nutt. from the Tehachapi Mountains of Kern Co., California, is the sole representative of Sect. Lanocephala, a new section allied to Sect. Lachnogyna Torr. & A. Gray, a taxon mainly of the Great Plains, but probably more closely related to Sect. Latifolia Benth. of the Pacific Coast. The new species differs in forming large, compact, roundish mounds of densely clothed caudex branches and rosettes of new leaves from which arise several upright scapose flowering stems terminated by a capitate inflorescence subtended by many bracts with many involucres containing numerous, hairy, bright white flowers on long, hairy pedicels, and glabrous, trigonous achenes. Eriogonum callistum, una nueva especie del subg. Eucycla Nutt. de las montaas Tehachapi de Kern Co., California, es el nico representante de la Sect. Lanocephala, una seccin nueva prxima a la Sect. Lachnogyna Torr. & A. Gray, un taxon de las Grandes Llanuras principalmente, pero probablemente ms relacionado con la Sect. Latifolia Benth. de la costa pacfica. La nueva especie difiere por formar grandes masas compactas redondeadas de ramas hojosas y rosetas de hojas nuevas, de las que surgen hacia arriba varios tallos floridos escaposos que terminan en una inflorescencia capitada subtendida por muchas brcteas, con muchos involucros que contienen numerosas flores blanco brillante, sobre pedicelos largos y pelosos, y aquenios trgonos glabros.
41969055|A new species of waterlily, Nymphaca minuta, is described from Madagascar. It is closely related to N. stellata Willd. but displays a characteristic combination of morphological characters and two growth forms in its life history. The undersurfaces of the leaves are muddy-gray to brownish-violet in color, a unique feature of the taxon. Nymphaea minuta in nature is a dwarf with small, submerged, cleistogamous flowers. In cultivation, it exhibits two distinct growth forms: a submerged form and an emergent form with floating leaves and larger, emergent, chasmogamous flowers. Se describe una nueva especie de lirio de agua, Nymphaea minuta, de Madagascar. Est muy emparentada con N. stellata Willd. Pero tiene una combinacin peculiar de caracteres morfolgicos y dos formas de crecimiento en su ciclo vital. El envs de sus hojas es de color gris-pardo a marrn-violceo, una caracterstica singular del taxon. Nymphaea minuta en la naturaleza es una planta enana, sumergida, con flores deistgamas. En cultivo, muestra dos formas de crecimiento diferentes: una forma sumergida y una forma emergente con hojas flotantes y flores ms grandes, emergentes y casmgamas.
41969064|A new species of Zeuxine Lindl., Zeuxine pantlingii Av. Bhattacharjee & H.J. Chowdhery closely allied to Z. goodyeroiaes Lindl. is described from West Bengal, India. A brief life sketch and a portrait of Robert Pantling after whom the species is named is also provided. Se describe una nueva especie de West Bengal, India de Zeuxine Lindl., Zeuxine pantlingii Av. Bhattacharjee & H.J. Chowdhery fuertemente relacionada con Z. goodyeroides Lindl. Se aporta tambin un breve resumen de la vida y un retrato de Robert Pantling a quien se dedica la especie.
41969084|The Natural History Museum, London, is the repository of a large volume containing plants collected by John Fraser in the southeastern United States in the 1780s and commonly known as the "Walter Herbarium." The importance of this collection is that many of its specimens were seen and perhaps used by Thomas Walter, author of Flora Caroliniana, the first American flora to adopt Linnaean binomials and classification. A description is provided here of this folio and the collection it contains. El Natural History Museum de Londres, es el depositario de un gran volumen que contiene plantas colectadas por John Fraser en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos en los 1780s y conocido normalmente como el "Walter Herbarium." La importancia de esta coleccin radical en que muchos de sus especmenes fueros vistos y quizs usados por Thomas Walter, autor de la Flora Caroliniana, la primera flora americana en adoptar la clasificacin Linneana y la nomenclatura binomial. Se hace una descripcin de este volumen y la coleccin que contiene.
41969076|Carex reznicekii is described as new from mesic to dry-mesic forests of Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. Previously, C. reznicekii had mostly been misidentified as either G umbellata or C. nigromarginata. It is distinguished from these species as well as other members of section Acrocystis by a combination of lack of basal spikes, short culms, narrow leaves, and only slightly red pistillate scales. A key to the 19 taxa of section Acrocystis that occur in eastern North America is provided. Se describe como nuevo Carex reznicekii de los bosques msicos a xrico-msicos de Alabama, Arkansas, Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur, Connecticut, Delaware, Distrito de Columbia, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, y Virginia. Previamente, G reznicekii, haba estado en su mayor parte mal interpretada como G umbellata o C. nigromarginata. Se distingue de estas especies as como de otros miembros de la seccin Acrocystis por la combinacin de carencia de espiga basal, clmenes cortos, hojas estrechas, y escamas femeninas slo levemente rojas. Se proporciona una clave para los 19 taxa de la seccin Acrocystis que ocurren en el este de Norteamrica.
41969104|Additions to the vascular flora of New Mexico are reported herein: Achnatherum nelsonii var. nelsonii, Betula glandulosa, Cardamine cordifolia var. incana, Carex deweyana var. deweyana, Carex rosea, Cynosurus echinatus, Drabagrayana, Equisetum nelsonii, Erigeron nivalis, Geum triflorum var. triflorum, Heuchera halliijuglans nigra, Lactuca biennis, Lepidium ramosissimumvar. bourgeauanum, Neoparrya lithophila, Penstemonglabervar. alpinus, Piptatherum pungens, Potentillafissa, Prunus persica, Ranunculus alismifolius var. montanus, Ranunculus repens, Rorippa sylvestris, Rudbechia laciniata var. laciniata, and Syringa vulgaris. Se aportan las adiciones siguientes a la flora vascular de Nuevo Mxico: Achnatherum nelsonii var. nelsonii, Betula glandulosa, Cardamine cordifolia var. incana, Carex deweyana var. deweyana, Carex rosea, Cynosurus echinatus, Draba grayana, Equisetum nelsonii, Erigeron nivalis, Geum triflorum var. triflorum, Heuchera halliijuglans nigra, Lactuca biennis, Lepidium ramosissimumvar. bourgeauanum, Neoparrya lithophila, Penstemonglaberwar. alpinus, Piptatherum pungens, Potentillafissa, Prunus persica, Ranunculus alismifolius war. montanus, Ranunculus repens, Rorippa sylvestris, Rudbecka laciniata var. laciniata, y Syringa vulgaris.
41969096|An annotated, vouchered checklist is provided of the vascular plant taxa of the 10,100 hectare Lance Rosier Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, Hardin County, in southeastern Texas. Documented for the unit are 694 taxa of which 71 (10%) are exotics. Se aporta un catlogo con comentarios y pliegos testigo de los txones de plantas vasculares de las 10,100 hectreas de la reserva Lance Rosier Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, del condado de Hardin, en el sureste de Texas. Se documentan para la unidad 694 txones de los que 71 (10%) son exticos.
41969109|Erodium malacoides (Geraniaceae) is reported as an addition to the flora of Texas. A description of the species and a key for identifying the Texas species of Erodium are provided. Se cita Erodium malacoides (Geraniaceae) como una nueva adicin a la flora de Texas. Se aporta una descripcin de la especie y una clave de las especies de Erodium de Texas.
41969110|Several species of Eupatorieae occur in southern Arizona and New Mexico at the northern end of their otherwise Mexican distribution: Stevia salicifolia (reported from New Mexico by a single collection, the exact locality unknown and perhaps in immediately adjacent Mexico), Ageratina (Eupatorium) thyrsiflora (known from Arizona by a single collection), and Koanophyllon (Eupatorium) palmeri (previously confused with K. solidaginifolium). Reports of K. palmeri or K. solidaginifolium from New Mexico have not been confirmed. Chromolaena (Eupatorium) bigelovii, primarily a species of northeastern Mexico, is documented for the U.S.A. by three Texas collectionsits occurrence was recorded in Arizona (cited from only the type collection), but that record apparently reflects a confusion of label data for the type, which almost certainly was collected along the Texas-Mexico border. Lectotypes are chosen for Eupatorium arborescens, Koanophyllon (Eupatorium) palmeri (var. palmeri), and Ageratina (Kyrstenia) thyrsiflora. Varias especies de Eupatorieae viven en el sur de Arizona y Nuevo Mxico en el extremo norte de su distribucin que de otro modo sera nicamente mexicana: Stevia salicifolia (citada de Nuevo Mxico con una sola recoleccin, cuya exacta localidad es desconocida y quizs adyacente a Mxico), Ageratina (Eupatorium) thyrsiflora (conocida de Arizona con una sola recoleccin), y Koanophyllon (Eupatorium) palmeri (previamente confundida con K. solidaginifolium). Las citas de K. palmeri o K. solidaginifolium de Nuevo Mxico no han sido confirmadas. Chromolaena (Eupatorium) bigelovii, primariamente una especie del noreste de Mxico, se documenta para los Estados Unidos mediante tres colecciones de Texassu ocurrencia fue citada en Arizona (nicamente don la coleccin del tipo), pero esa cita refleja aparentemente una confusin de los datos de la etiqueta del tipo, que casi con seguridad fue colectado a lo largo de la frontera de Texas y Mxico. Se eligen lectotipos de Eupatorium arborescens, Koanophyllon (Eupatorium) palmeri (var. palmeri), y Ageratina (Kyrstenia) thyrsiflora.
41969067|Preparation of the Apiaceae for Bolack San Juan Basin Flora has necessitated the following new combinations: Cymopterus breviradiatus, C. davidsonii, C. glomeratus var. fendleri, and C. sessiliflorus. La preparacin de las Apiaceae para la Flora de Bolack San Juan Basin ha necesitado las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Cymopterus breviradiatus, C. davidsonii, C. glomeratus var.fendleri, y C. sessiliflorus.
41969065|On-going study of subtribe Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) in the West Indies resulted in the discovery of four new species from Hispaniola: Matelea corynephora, M. phainops, M. rhynchocephala, and M. torulosa. Matelea pauciflora is lectotypified. Se describen cuatro especies nuevas de Matelea de la Espaola como resultado del estudio de la subtribu Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) en las Indias Occidentales: Matelea corynephora, M. phainops, M. rhynchocephala y M. torulosa. Se lectotipifica Matelea pauciflora.
41969079|The eastern North American Symphyotrichum patens has been treated by Jones (1983,1992) and other botanists to include var. patens, var. patentissimum, and var. gracile. These taxa have been distinguished primarily by habit, involucral size and vestiture, and phyllary orientation. Morphological distinctions between var. patens and var. gracile have been viewed as overlapping and the two taxa have been interpreted as sympatric over a wide region; the present study concludes that it is not possible to distinguish them in an unarbitrary or evolutionarily meaningful way, and var. gracile is not recognized. Variety patens sensu lato apparently comprises two diploid and three or four tetraploid population systems. Variety patentissimum is morphologically distinct and consistently tetraploid, and it intergrades with tetraploid var. patens where their ranges are contiguous or overlapping. A county-level map shows the distribution of the two infraspecific taxa of S. patens, as interpreted in the present study. A similar map shows ploidal distribution within the species, based on data available from previous studies. Symphyotrichum patens del este de Norte Amrica ha sido tratado por Jones (1983,1992) y otros botanicos para incluir las var. patens, var. patentissimum, y var. gracile. Estos taxa han sido distinguidos principalmente por el hbito, tamao involucral y pubescencia, y la orientacin de los filarios. Las distinciones morfolgicas entre var. patens y var. gracile ha sido vista como solapada y los dos taxa han sido interpretados cornos simptricos en una regin amplia; el presente estudio concluye que no es posible distinguirlos de un moso que no sea arbitrario o en una lnea evolutiva significativa, y la var. gracile no se reconoce. La variedad patens sensu lato comprende aparentemente dos sistemas de poblaciones diploides y tres o cuatro tetraploides. La variedad patentissimum es morfolgicamente diferente y constantemente tetraploide, y se intergrada con la var. Patens, que es tetraploide, all donde sua areales son contiguos o se solapan. Un mapa a nivel de condado muestra la distribucin de los dos taxa infraespecficos de S. patens, tal como se interpretan en el presente estudio, un mapa similar muestra la distribucin ploidal de la especie, basado en datos disponibles de estudios previos.
41969061|Psidinm cauliflorum, from the Brazilian state of Bahia, is described and illustrated. It differs from all other species of Psidium in having its flowers borne in clusters on older branches and trunks. It may belong to a complex of species including P. oligospermum, P. sartorianum, P. glaziovianum, P. schenckianum, and perhaps P. appendiculatum. Psidinm cauliflorum, uma nova espcie do estado da Bahia, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Essa espcie, distinta das demais do gnero pelas inflorescencias aglomeradas em ramos velhos e troncos,  possivelmente relacionada ao complexo que inclu P. oligospermum, P. sartorianum, P. glaziovianum, P. schenchianum, e talvez P. appendiculatum.
41969099|It has been a quarter century since a checklist of the vascular flora of Caddo Parish, Louisiana, was published. Therefore, we revise and update the Caddo Parish checklist, accepting only vouchered species. We found 1405 species (1168 native, 237 non-native). Additionally, we examine the Caddo Parish flora in terms of its phytogeographical affinities. It is closely associated with the eastern United States and particularly with the southeastern United States. Caddo Parish appears to be particularly species rich compared to other parishes and counties of approximately the same size across the southeast. This may be not only because Caddo Parish is diverse but because it has been particularly well-collected. Among communities occurring in Caddo Parish, xeric sandylands are particularly well-represented and account for a high percentage of West Gulf Coastal Plain endemic and rare species. Hace ya un cuarto de siglo que se public el catlogo de la flora vascular de Caddo Parish, Louisiana. Por ello, revisamos y ponemos al da el catlogo de Caddo Parish, aceptando nicamente especies con pliegos testigo. Encontramos 1405 especies (1168 nativas, 237 no nativas). Adems, examinamos la flora de Caddo Parish en trminos de sus afinidades fitogeogrficas. Est muy asociada con el este y particularmente con el sureste de los Estados Unidos. Caddo Parish parece ser particularmente rico en especies comparado con otros condados de aproximadamente el mismo tamao en el sureste. Esto puede que no sea solo porque Caddo Parish es diverso sino porque ha sido particularmente bien muestreado. Entre las comunidades que aparecen en Caddo Parish, estn muy bien representados los campos arenosos xricos y aparece un alto porcentaje de especies raras y endmicas de la llanura costera del oeste del golfo.
41969081|Selection of 997.18 (LINN) as the lectotype of Aster amellus L. is rejected because the specimen is in conflict with the protologue. A new lectotype is designated from authentic material seen by Linnaeus. Rejecting the original lectotypification and selecting an appropriate specimen circumvents the need for conservation or redefining the concept of the genus Aster L. Herb. Linn. 997.16 (LINN) is designated the new lectotype of Aster amellus. Se rechaza la seleccin del pliego 997.18 (LINN) como lectotipo de Aster amellus L. porque el espcimen est en conflicto con el protlogo. Se designa un nuevo lectotipo a partir de material autntico visto por Linnaeus. El rechazo de la lectotipificacin original y la seleccin de un espcimen apropiado evita la necesidad de conservacin o redefinicin del concepto del gnero Aster L. El pliego Herb. Linn. 997.16 (LINN) se designa nuevo lectotipo de Aster amellus.
41969053|A previously undescribed, distinctive subspecies of rabbitbrush has been recently discovered in south-central Colorado where it is the dominant plant on sandsheet and is frequent on low sand dunes. It is here named Ericameria nauseosa subsp. ammophila. A detailed description is given. Comparisons are made with related taxa, and a key is provided. Se ha descubierto recientemente una nueva subespecie de chamiso en el centro-sur de Colorado dinde es la planta dominante en el arenal y frecuente en dunas bajas. Se ha nombrado como Ericameria nauseosa subsp. ammophila. Se aporta una descripcin detallada. Se hacen comparaciones con otros taxa relacionados, y se aporta una clave.
41969088|Islands are fragile ecosystems, and are especially sensitive to introduced species, particularly large herbivores. In Mexico, there are some dramatic cases. We evaluated the influence of feral goats, as well as the natives black jackrabbit and desert woodrat on the vegetation of Espiritu Santo Island, a land-bridge island in the southern part of the Baja California Peninsula. We found that goats consumed 36 vascular plant species, three times more species than natives jackrabbits and almost seven times more than woodrats. Also, goats consume all plant organs except roots, but reiterate browsing gradually affect vegetative and reproductive plant fitness. Our results support plans for the eradication of goats to spontaneously and progressively restore of the natural vegetation structure and composition. Further, a monitoring plan is recommended. Las islas son consideradas ecosistemas muy frgiles. Estas son sensibles a la introduccin de especies exticas, particularmente herbvoros mayores. En Mxico existen casos dramticos. En este trabajo se evala el efecto sobre la vegetacin en complejo insular Espritu Santo, Baja California Sur, Mxico, de las cabras silvestres contra el causado por las especies nativas, la liebre negra y la rata de campo. Las cabras consumen 36 especies de plantas vasculares, tres veces ms especies que las liebres y casi 7 veces ms que las ratas. Tambin, se encontr que las cabras consumen todo tipo de rganos vegetales excepto races, pero el ramoneo reiterado afecta tanto la aptitud vegetativa y reproductiva de los vegetales. Los resultados apoyan el plan de erradicacin de las cabras con la finalidad de que espontnea y progresivamente se restaure la vegetacin en estructura y composicin. Adicionalmente se requiere de un plan de monitoreo.
41969054|Boltonia montana, a new species from depression wetlands and riverine habitats in the Appalachian Mountains of Virginia, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, is described. This taxon has most often been collected under the name Boltonia asteroides (L.) L'Her. due to its relatively large heads which are usually few in number, and vegetative similarities. Cypselae morphology of the new taxon, however, is dissimilar to that of B. asteroides and most closely resembles Boltonia caroliniana (Walt.) Fern., a species characteristic of coastal plain and piedmont bottomlands of the Carolinas and Virginia. Boltonia montana differs from the latter taxon in terms of inflorescence structure, head dimensions, ray color, phyllary morphology and size, plant stature, and leaf shape. Evidence of its distinctiveness is provided and its wetland habitat is discussed. Se describe Boltonia montana, una nueva especie de las tierras hmedas de depresiones y habitats ribereos de los Apalaches de Virginia, Nueva Jersey, y Pennsylvania. Este taxon se ha colectado la mayora de las veces con el nombre de Boltonia asteroides (L.) L'Her. Debido a sus cabezuelas relativamente grandes que estn usualmente en un nmero pequeo, y similitudes vegetativas. La morfologa de las cipselas del nuevo taxon, sin embargo, es diferente de la de B. asteroides y se parecen mucho ms a Boltonia caroliniana (Walt.) Fern., una especie caracterstica de la llanura costera y base del pie de monte de las Carolinas y Virginia. Boltonia montana difiere de este ltimo taxon en trminos de estructura de la inflorescencia, dimensiones de la cabezuela, color de los radios, morfologa y tamao de los filarios, tamao de la planta, y forma de la hoja. Se aportan pruebas de su diferenciacin y se discute su habitat de zonas hmedas.
41969083|Mature leaves and twigs from thirty red oak species, mostly endemic to Mexico, were examined with SEM to assess trichome morphology. Ten trichome types were identified: two glandular and eight nonglandular. Described for the first time in the oak literature are fasciculate contorted, fasciculate crested, and multiple stellate trichomes. Furthermore, three trichome types are reported for the first time in red oaks: stellate, fused stellate, and glandular branched. The most common types on the twigs examined are fasciculate sessile and multiradiate trichome while the most frequent types on the abaxial leaf surfaces are fasciculate sessile, fasciculate stipitate, and multiradiate trichomes. In contrast to the significant morphological variation found in oak leaf shape, trichome complements within each species are nearly invariable and therefore useful in the identification of most species. In summary, together with vegetative and reproductive characters, trichome morphology provides additional information for the identification and characterization of Mexican oak species. Hojas maduras y ramillas de treinta especies de encinos rojos, principalmente endmicos a Mexico, fueron examinadas con microscopa electrnica de barrido para evaluar la variacin morfolgica de tricomas. En este trabajo se identificaron diez tipos de tricomas: dos glandulares y ocho no glandulares. De estos, se describen por primera vez para encinos los tricomas fasciculado contorto, fasciculado crestado y estrellado multiple. Adems, se reportan por primera vez para encinos rojos tres tipos de trichomes: estrellado, estrellado fusionado y glandular ramificado. Los tipos de trichoma ms comunes en ramillas son el fasciculado ssil y el multiradiado, mientras que en el envs de las hojas los tipos de tricoma ms frecuentes son el fasciculado ssil, fasciculado estipitado y el multiradiado. Aunque los encinos muestran una gran variacin en morfologa foliar, los tipos de tricomas presentes en cada especie son constantes y por lo tanto son muy tiles en la identificacin de la mayora de las especies. En resumen, los caracteres vegetativos y reproductivos junto con la morfologa de trichomes proporcionan informacin valiosa para la identificacin y caracterizacin de las especies Mexicanas de encino.
41969069|Sphagnum mcqueenii, S. kenaiense, S. bergianum, S. beothuk, S. sitchense, and S. talbotianum, are described and illustrated as new species for North America. Se describen se ilustran como especies nuevas de Norte Amrica, Sphagnum mcqueenii, S. kenaiense, S. bergianum, S. beothuk, S. sitchense, y S. talbotianum.
41969075|Amelanchier obovalis and A. canadensis (Rosaceae: Maloideae) are similar taxa with overlapping geographical ranges on the Atlantic Coastal Plain of the United States. Conflicting circumscriptions, polyploidy, hybridization, and agamospermy may have contributed to the taxonomic confusion in these species. In this study I perform a morphometric examination of these two species on the Coastal Plain of Delaware, Maryland and the eastern shore of Virginiacollectively called the Delmarva Peninsula. I developed a dataset of eleven flowering, fruiting and vegetative characters taken from marked individuals. A second dataset contains six minimally correlated characters that were obtainable from the type specimen of Amelanchier obovalis. I use Principal Components Analysis (PCA) to summarize phenetic similarities and dissimilarities between individuals and agglomerative, hierarchical Cluster Analysis to aid in visualization of morphological groups. Selection of groups (putative taxa) to inform a testable group model was performed iteratively using concordance in phenetic methods (PCA and Clustering) and inferential descriptive statistics. Analysis supported a four-group model for which I found a significant overall multivariate effect (Pillai's Trace, F = 7.29, P >; F <; 0.0001) using Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA). Two well-supported groups (1 & 4) corresponded to Amelanchier obovalis and Amelanchier canadensis. The remainders of the sample are intermediate between Amelanchier obovalis and Amelanchier canadensis and may be the product of recurrent hybridization between these taxa. Lack of clearly delimited morphological character space and apparent ecological and genetic exchangeability in these taxa suggests the taxonomic rank of variety under the earliest combination in Amelanchier, e. g., Amelanchier canadensis var. canadensis and Amelanchier canadensis var. obovalis as originally proposed by Michaux (1803). I present a taxonomic treatment and historical analysis of the species taxonomy and a dichotomous key to the varieties. Amelanchier obovalis y A. canadensis (Rosaceae: Maloideae) son taxa similares con reas geogrficas solapadas en la llanura costera atlntica de los Estados Unidos. Las circumscripciones conflictivas, poliploida, hibridacin, y agamospermia pueden haber contribuido a la confusin taxonmica en estas especies. En este estudio realizo un examen morfomtrico de estas dos especies en la llanura costera de Delaware, Maryland y costa este de Virginiallamados colectivamente Pennsula de Delmarva. He desarrollado un conjunto de datos de once caracteres de flores, frutos y vegetativos tomados de individuos marcados. Un segundo conjunto de datos contiene seis caracteres mnimamente correlacionados que se obtuvieron del espcimen tipo de Amelanchier obovalis. Utilizo el Anlisis Componentes Principales (PCA) para resumir las similitudes fenticas y disimilitudes entre individuos y un Anlisis de Clusters jerarquizado para ayudar en la visualizacin de grupos morfolgicos. La seleccin de grupos (taxa putativos) para informar de un modelo de grupo comprobable se realiz iterativamente usando la concordancia en los mtodos fenticos (PCA y Clustering) y estadstica descriptiva inferencial. El anlisis da un modelo de cuatro grupos para el que encontr un efecto multivariante general significativo (Pillai's Trace, F = 7.29, P > F < 0.0001) usando Anlisis de Varianza Multivariante (MANOVA). Dos grupos muy claros (1 & 4) correspondieron a Amelanchier obovalis y Amelanchier canadensis. Los restos de la muestra son intermedios entre Amelanchier obovalis y Amelanchier canadensis y pueden ser el producto de hibridacin recurrente entre estos taxa. La falta un espacio de caracteres morfolgicos claramente delimitados y aparente intercambio ecolgico y gentico en estos taxa sugiere el rango de variedad bajo la combinacin ms antigua en Amelanchier, e. g., Amelanchier canadensis var. canadensis y Amelanchier canadensis war. obovalis como fue propuesto originalmente por Michaux (1803). Presento un tratamiento taxonmico y anlisis histrico de la taxonoma de las especies y una clave dictoma para las variedades.
41969057|Trisetum howellii Hitchc, an endemic species from the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador, and Trisetum pinetorum Swallen, an endemic species from Guatemala, are transferred into Peyritschia [P. howellii (Hitchc.) Finot & P. M. Peterson; P. pinetorum (Swallen) Finot & P.M. Peterson]. Peyritschia is now circumscribed to include seven species with new areas of distribution documented in South America. A key distinguishing the species and table comparing the salient morphological features of all species within Peyritschia are provided. Trisetum howllii Hitchc, especie endmica de las Islas Galpagos, Ecuador, y Trisetum pinetorum Swallen, especie endmica de Guatemala se transfieren a Peyritschia [P. howellii (Hitchc.) Finot & P. M. Peterson; P. pinetorum (Swallen) Finot & P. M. Peterson]. Peyritschia, as circunscrita, incluye siete especies con nuevas reas de distribucin documentadas en Sudamrica. Se proporciona una clave para distinguir las especies y un cuadro donde se comparan las caractersticas morfolgicas sobresalientes de todas las especies de Peyritschia.
41969085|Viola hookeriana and V. grahamii (Violaceae) are closely related species in section Viola, subsection Mexicanae occurring in mountainous habitats across much of central Mexico. In various locations, these species grow sympatrically, and the occurrence of many individuals with intermediate morphological characters has suggested hybridization between these species. Using a combination of morphological, ecological, and molecular evidence we evaluated two mixed populations of V. grahamii and V. hookeriana in mountains surrounding Lake Ptzcuaro in the state of Michoacn to determine the potential of distinct hybrid morphologies, the strength of phenological differences and ecological preferences among the species and putative hybrid, and to evaluate the level of gene flow between the two species. Our results indicate that hybridization is occurring and that hybrids are morphologically distinct from the parental taxa. Pre-mating isolation is weak and has favored extensive hybridization due to largely overlapping blooming times, weak ecological isolation and absence of spatial isolation. Hybrids are morphologically and genetically closer to Viola grahamii, but do show unique alleles as well. Viola hookeriana y V. grahamii (Violaceae) son dos especies pertenecientes a la Subseccin Mexicanae dentro de la Seccin Viola del gnero Viola. Estas especies crecen simptricamente en varias regiones en el centro del Mxico y la presencia de individuos con caractersticas intermedias ha sugerido la existencia de hibridizacin entre las especies. Usando una combinacin de datos morfolgicos, ecolgicos y moleculares evaluamos dos poblaciones mixtas de V. grahamii y V. hookeriana en las montaas cercanas al lago de Ptzcuaro en el estado de Michoacn en Mxico para determinar la presencia de morfologas caractersticas a los hbridos, el grado de diferencias fenolgicas y ecolgicas entre las especies y el nivel de flujo gnico entre ellas. Nuestros resultados indican la presencia de hbridos y que estos son morfolgicamente distintos a los padres. Los mecanismos de aislamiento entre las especies parentales no son muy fuertes y esto ha favorecido la hibridizacin extensa entre ellas debido a tiempos de floracin similares, muy poco aislamiento ecolgico y la ausencia de separacin espacial entre las especies. Los hbridos son morfolgicamente y genticamente mas similares a Viola grahamii, pero muestran aleleos que son nicos a ellos.
41969093|Schoenoplectus hallii (A. Gray) S.G. Smith (Cyperaceae), a rare plant restricted to wetland habitats, is of conservation concern throughout its range. Taxonomy of the species recently has been clarified; however, quantitative descriptions of achene and flower morphology are incomplete and life history information is lacking. Because of its scarcity and the transient nature of populations, any large-scale study of the species will require the recovery of achenes from bulk soil samples and the identification and separation of the dimorphic achenes. The objectives of this study were to separate, identify and photograph the two achene types; to quantify the size and morphological differences that will be useful in separating terminal and basal achenes; and to determine the range of variability in style morphology and achene size within and among 12 populations in four states. Although each achene type varies significantly in size among populations, size differences between terminal and basal achenes are statistically significant, and the range of sizes within each achene type is larger than has been previously reported. Terminal achenes are significantly smaller in length, width, beak length, mass and surface area than basal achenes, and noticeable differences occur in surface ridging. Differences in style morphology are distinct: terminal flower styles are predominantly bifid and consistent in shape, while basal flower styles, which are six times longer than terminal styles, are trifid with a wide variety of branching patterns. Terminal and basal achenes can be separated accurately and conveniently from bulk soil samples using a series of soil sieves. The visual and quantitative descriptions provided in this study will facilitate the collection and identification of terminal and basal achenes of S. hallii from plants, soil and wildlife. Schoenoplectus hallii (A. Gray) S.G. Smith (Cyperaceae), una planta rara restringida a habitats de lugares hmedos, es para ser conservada en toda su rea. La taxonoma de la especie se ha clarificado recientemente; sin embargo, las descripciones cuantitativas del aquenio y la morfologa floral son incompletas y falta informacin de su ciclo vital. Debido a su escasez y a la naturaleza transitoria de sus poblaciones, cualquier estudio a gran escala de la especie requerir la recuperacin de aquenios a partir de grandes muestras de suelo y un mtodo adecuado de identificacin y separacin de los aquenios dimrficos. Por lo tanto, los objetivos de este estudio fueron separar, identificar y fotografiar los dos tipos de aquenio; cuantificar el tamao las diferencias morfolgicas que sern tiles en la separacin de los aquenios terminales y bsales; y determinar el rango de variabilidad en la morfologa del estilo y tamao del aquenio en y entre 12 poblaciones en cuatro estados. Aunque cada tipo de aquenio vara significativamente en tamao entre poblaciones, las diferencias de tamao entre aquenios terminales y basales son significativas estadsticamente, y el rango de tamao para cada tipo de aquenio es mayor de lo que se haba indicado previamente. Los aquenios terminales son significativamente ms pequeos en longitud, anchura, longitud el pico, masa y rea de su superficie que los aquenios bsales, y hay diferencias notables en las costillas de la superficie. Las diferencias en la morfologa del estilo son distintas: los estilos de las flores terminales son predominantemente bfidos y de forma constante, mientras que los estilos de las flores basales, que son seis veces ms largos que los estilos de las flores terminales, son trfidos con una amplia variedad de patrones de ramificacin. Los aquenios terminales y bsales pueden separarse con precisin y de un modo prctico a partir de muestras de suelo voluminosas usando una serie de cribas para suelos. Las descripciones visuales y cuantitativas aportadas en este estudio facilitarn la recoleccin e identificacin de aquenios terminales y basales de S. hallii a partir de plantas, suelo y de la naturaleza.
23909564|Forty-seven new taxa are reported to the Oklahoma flora and specimens of four additional taxa are cited which verifies their present occurrence in the state. The fifty-one taxa are as follows: Lycopodium adpressum, Potamogeton natans, Cenchrus echinatus, Panicum verrucosum, Eleocharis smallii, Eleocharis tortilis, Scirpus supinus, Rhynchospora gracilenta, Rhynchospora rariflora, Scleria muhlenbergii, Scleria verticillata, Carex decomposita, Carex leptalea, Carex Swanii, Wolffia punctata, Eriocaulon decangulare, Juncus capitatus, Melanthium virginicum, Burmannia capitata, Habenaria repens, Spiranthes odorata, Glinus radiatus, Paronychia Drummondii, Tillaea aquatica, Parnassia grandifolia, Aeschynomene indica, Amorpha paniculata, Colutea arborescens, Geranium dissectum, Polygala cruciata, Bowlesia incana, Eryngium integrifolium, Cynoctonum sessilifolium, Lysimachia quadriflora, Phlox paniculata, Scutellaria integrifolia, Linaria canadensis var. canadensis, Bacopa monnieri, Epifagus virginiana, Utricularia inflata, Utricularia subulata, Aster ptarmicoides, Cirsium muticum, Euthamia graminifolia, Euthamia leptocephala, Evax candida, Onopordum acanthium, Solidago arguta var. Boottii, Solidago flexicaulis, Solidago gigantea var. gigantea, Solidago patula var. strictula.
23909567|Corispermum (Chenopodiaceae) is an Eurasian genus of annual herbs containing members which have become established in the North American flora. The taxonomy of the representatives of this genus occurring in North America has not received careful attention for some time. The most recent taxonomic revision of North American Corispermum was actually that of P. C. Standley (1916) in which the following species were recognized: C. hyssopifolium L., C. nitidum Kitaibel ex Schultes, C. emarginatum Rydberg, and C. villosum Rydberg. Standley considered the first two species to be introduced and the latter two native. In the present study, herbarium specimens were examined from 14 different herbaria. On the basis of literature and observations of these herbarium specimens, only three species of Corispermum, all introduced, are recognized in North America: C. hyssopifolium L., C. nitidum Kitaibel ex Schultes, and C. orientale Lamarck. A study of distributional data acquired from herbarium specimens and state floras suggests that the geographic range for all three species has increased with time.
23909563|A reevaluation of nine taxonomic characteristics presently used to identify Juncus roemerianus, in view of recent morphological, populational and distributional information, indicates that existing descriptions are inadequate or incorrect. A new description of the species is given.
41967386|Keys, distribution maps, habitats, nomenclature, and notes are given for the ferns and fern allies known to occur naturally or naturalized in Mississippi.
41967385|In the most recent monograph of Vernonia in North America, this species-group was treated as four species (V. texana, V. greggii, V. schaffneri, and V. ervendbergii). Information from ecological observations, comparative morphology, biochemical systematics, transplant studies, hybridization experiments, and geographical distribution is presented and used to establish a new classification. Two species are now recognized in the group: V. texana, from the south central United States, and V. greggii with four subspecies from the Sierra Madre Oriental in Mexico.
41967383|Kochia in North America as revised includes three species, two native and one introduced. A historical summary of work on the genus in North America is presented, and typification, distribution, and systematics of the species are discussed. Specimens from each county recorded are cited for the native species.
41968988|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Prestonia, y sus relaciones con taxas relacionados son discutidas. Se brinda un total de 13 nuevas citas de Apocynaceae para Bolivia y se proponen nuevas sinonimias en los gneros Himatanthus, Prestonia, y Tabernaemontana. A new species of Prestonia is described and illustrated, and its relationships with related taxa are discussed. In addition, 13 new records of Apocynaceae (subfamily Apocynoideae) are reported for Bolivia and new synonymy on Himatanthus, Prestonia, and Tabernaemontana are proposed.
41968991|Three species of Prenanthes occur in Texas. Prenanthes carrii Singhurst, O'Kennon, & Holmes is described as a new species endemic to the Edwards Plateau vegetational region. Prenanthes altissima is known only from Jasper and Newton counties in extreme southeastern Texas. Prenanthes barbata is more widespread but rare in rich hardwood and pine-oak forests in the Pineywoods of eastern Texas, with one record in the Post Oak Savannah of Lamar County. A key to species, descriptions, distribution map, and lists of exsiccatae are included. En Texas hay tres especies de Prenanthes. Se describe Prenanthes carrii Singhurst, O'Kennon, & Holmes como especie nueva endmica de la regin de vegetacin de Edwards Plateau. Prenanthes altissima se conoce nicamente de los condados de Jasper y Newton en el extremo sureste de Texas. Prenanthes barbata es ms frecuente pero raro en los bosques de madera dura y de pino-roble en los pinares del este de Texas, con una cita en la sabana de Post Oak del condado de Lamar. Se incluye una clave de especies, descripciones, mapas de distribucin, y listas de exsicatas.
41968969|Four taxa of Erigeron art raised from varietal to specific rank: E. breweri var. klamathensis to E. klamathensis (Nesom) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, E. decumbens var. robustior to E. robustior (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, E. engelmannii var. davisii to E. davisii (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, and E. utahensis var. sparsifolius is treated as E. sparsifolius Eastw. The morphological distinctions of these taxa are equivalent to those of other accepted species of Erigeron. Erigeron poliospermus var. disciformis (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, is raised in rank from E. poliospermus forma disciformis. Erigeron dokeyi var. pinzliae Nesom, var. nov, occupies the major portion of the range of the species; the typical variety is restricted to Clark Co., Nevada. Erigeron greenei Nesom, nom. nov, representing a species endemic to California, replaces the later homonym Erigeron angustatus Greene. Erigeron tracyi Greene is an earlier name for E. colomexicanus A. Nels. Taxonomic clarifications are provided for E. acris, E. uncialis and E. cavernensis, and for the interrelated species E. radicatus, E. ochroleucus, E. lackschewitzii, and E. parryi. A lectotype is designated for E. stenophyllus var. tetrapleurus. Cuatro taxa de Erigeron se elevan del rango varietal al especfico: E. breweri var. klamathensis a E. klamathensis (Nesom) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, E. decumbens var. robustior a E. robustior (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, E. engelmannii var. davisii a E. davisii (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, y E. utahensis var. sparsifolius es tratado como E. sparsifolius Eastw. Las diferencias morfolgicas de estos taxa son equivalentes a las de otras especies aceptadas de Erigeron. Erigeron poliospermus var. disciformis (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, se eleva de rango desde E. poliospermus forma disciformis. Erigeron dokeyi war. pinzliae Nesom, var. nov, ocupa la mayor parte del rea de la especie; la variedad tpica est restringida a Clark Co., Nevada. Erigeron greenei Nesom, nom. nov, que representa una especie endmica de California, reemplaza al homnimo posterior Erigeron angustatus Greene. Erigeron tracyi Greene es un nombre ms antiguo para E. colomexicanus A. Nels. Se ofrecen clarificaciones taxonmicas para E. acris, E. uncialis y E. cavernensis, y para las especies interrelacionadas E. radicatus, E. ochroleucus, E. lackschewitzii, y E. parryi. Se designa un lectotipo para E. stenophyllus var. tetrapleurus.
41968971|Erigeron grandiflorus is restricted to the western U.S.A. and southwestern Canada and is treated here to include widespread diploid populations (E. simplex) as well as triploids (E. grandiflorus sensu stricto). The distinction between E. grandiflorus and E. simplex has been made primarily on the basis of differences in size and ploidal level, but identifications based on morphology often are arbitrary because differences appear to be widely overlapping. Plants previously identified as E. grandiflorus var. arcticus Porsild are here treated as Erigeron porsildii Nesom & Murray, nom. nov. Distinctions are clarified among E. grandiflorus sensu stricto, E. porsildii, E. muirii, E. yuhonensis, and the Asian E. koraginensis. Erigeron hultenii has not been relocated beyond the type collection and is tentatively regarded as an anomalous plant whose relationships are unknown. Erigeron denalii includes E. purpuratus var. dilatatus and E. mexiae and is contrasted with E. pallens (an endemic of southwestern Canada) and E. purpuratus. Recent collections document the occurrence of E. ochroleucus in arctic and boreal Alaska and immediately adjacent Yukon, disjunct more than 2800 kilometers from the closest localities in its main range to the south. Erigeron grandiflorus est restringido al oeste de Estados Unidos y suroeste de Canad y es tratado aqu para incluir las poblaciones diploides extensas (E. simplex) as como a las triploides (E. grandiflorus sensu stricto). La distincin entre E. grandiflorus y E. simplex ha sido hecha en base a las diferencias de tamao y nivel de ploida, pero las identificaciones basadas en la morfologa son a menudo arbitrarias porque las diferencias parecen estar ampliamente solapadas. Plantas identificadas previamente como E. grandiflorus var. arcticus Porsild se tratan aqu como Erigeron porsildii Nesom & Murray, nom. nov. Se clarifican las diferencias entre E. grandiflorus sensu stricto, E. porsildii, E. muirii, E. yukonensis, y la asitica E. koraginensis. Erigeron hultenii no ha sido vuelta a localizar despus de la coleccin tipo y se trata como una planta anmala cuyas relaciones son desconocidas. Erigeron denalii incluye E. purpuratus var. dilatatus y E. mexiae y se contrasta con E. pallens (un endemismo del suroeste de Canad) y E. purpuratus. Recientes colecciones documentan la existencia de E. ochroleucus en Alaska rtica y boreal y en Yukon, con una disyuncin de ms de 2800 kilmetros desde las localidades ms prximas en su rea principal en el sur.
41968974|This paper discusses the circumscription of Crataegusstr. Rotundifoliae and provides identificatory materials (full descriptions, line illustrations and specimen citations where not previously available) for the taxa of the series occurring in western Canada, defined for the purposes of this paper as British Columbia and Alberta. The variable, widespread and common species C. chrysocarpa is reviewed for this area and a local, rather distinct new variety, var. vernonensis, is recognized. In addition, one species new to science, C. sheila-phippsiae is described. Se discute la circunscripcin de Crataegusstr. Rotundifoliae y se ofrecen materiales de identificacin (descripciones completas, ilustraciones y citas de especmenes que no estaban disponibles previamente) para los taxa de la serie que se encuentran en el oeste de Canad, definido a los efectos de este artculo como Columbia Britnica y Alberta. La especie variable, muy difundida y comn C chrysocarpa es revisada para esta rea y se reconoce una nueva variedad local bastante diferente, var. vernonensis. Adems se describe una nueva especie para la ciencia, C. sheila-phippsiae.
41969023|The vegetation around five populations of yellow lady-slipper orchid (Cypripedium kentuckiense Reed) at Fort Polk, Louisiana were sampled using circular nested plots. Measurements included frequency, mean density, mean cover percent, mean dbh, importance value, and diversity (richness). The yellow lady-slippers at Fort Polk were associated with forests composed mainly of American beech (Fagus grandifolia), eastern hophornbeam (Ostrya virginiana), white oak (Quercus alba), horsesugar (Symplocos tinctoria), and witch hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) in the overstory and an abundance of poison ivy (Rhus radicans) and broad beechfern (Thelypteris hexagonoptera) in the understory. Se muestre la vegetacin alrededor de cinco poblaciones de Cypripedium kentuckiense Reed en Fort Polk, Louisiana mediante parcelas anidadas circulares. Las medidas incluyen frecuencia, densidad media, recubrimiento medio, dimetro medio a la altura del pecho, valor de importancia, y diversidad (riqueza). Cypripedium kentuckiense en Fort Polk est asociado a bosques compuestos principalmente por haya americana (Fagusgrandifolia), Ostrya virginiana, roble blanco (Quercus alba), Symplocos tinctoria, y Hamamelis virginiana en el dosel arbreo y abundante zumaque (Rhus radicans) y Thelypteris hexagonoptera en el sotobosque.
41969011|The following new combination in Persicaria is made: Persicaria meisneriana (Cham. & Schltdl.) M. Gmez var. beyrichiana (Cham. & Schltdl.) C.C. Freeman. Se hace la siguiente combinacin nueva en Persicaria: Persicaria meisneriana (Cham. & Schltdl.) M. Gmez var. beyrichiana (Cham. & Schltdl.) C.C. Freeman.
41968980|A new combination, Dendrocalamus stocksii (Munro) M. Kumar, Remesh & Unnikrishnan, is proposed to accommodate a widely occurring economically important bamboo in South and central India which was formerly described under Oxytenanthera Munro and Pseudoxytenanthera Soderstr. & R.P. Ellis. Se propone una nueva combinacin, Dendrocalamus stocksii (Munro) M. Kumar, Remesh & Unnikrishnan, para acomodar un bamb de amplia distribucin e importante econmicamente del sur y centro de la India que fue descrito anteriormente en Oxytenanthera Munro y Pseudoxytenanthera Soderstr. & R.P. Ellis.
41969014|Rhodiola rosea is a widespread species in Norway. It is well known in Norwegian folk tradition, with a variety of vernacular names, of which many reflect its traditional uses. Past use as a cure for scurvy in cattle may explain names with the prefix kalv-("calf"). Its widespread use as a hair wash is also reflected in vernacular names. In the past, Rhodiola was planted on turf roofs to protect them from fire, i.e. as an apotropaic (supposedly averting evil forces); this tradition is documented as early as the 13th century. Rosenrot Rhodiola rosea er en vanlig og vidt utbredt art i Norge. Den er vel kjent i folketradisjonen, med en lang rekke folkelige navn. En god del av disse gjenspeiler artens tradisjonelle bruksomrder. Bruk som et botemiddel mot skjorbuk hos kyr kan forklare de mange navnene p kalv. Den f littige bruken til hrvask gr likeens igjen i mange lokale navn. Tidligere ble rosenrot of te plantet p tovtak for  beskytte dem mot brann, dvs. som er vernerd; denne tradisjonen er dokumentert allerede p 1200-tallet.
41968997|The following new name and new combination are proposed: Solidago caesia var. zedia, Solidago curtisii var. flaccidifolia. Se proponen el siguiente nombre y combinacin nueva: Solidago caesia var. zedia, Solidago curtisii var. flaccidifolia.
41968982|Taxonomic limits of Gonolobus (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) in the southeastern United States have been controversial, with some authors recognizing two species and others only one. Over the past 30 years, most authors have tended toward recognition of a single species. However, the morphological variation within the taxon appears complicated and has not been analyzed using a quantitative approach. We analyzed the morphological variation within southeastern Gonolobus, based on 143 herbarium specimens from 13 southeastern states, using ANOVA, and mapped taxon distributions. Two distinct Gonolobus entities, based on differences in floral character states and geographic tendencies, appear to exist in the southeast, although questions regarding rank recognition remain. Los lmites taxonmicos de Gonolobus (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) en el sureste de los Estados Unidos han sido controvertidos, con unos autores que reconocen dos especies y otros slo una. En los ltimos 30 aos, la mayora de los autores han tendido al reconocimiento de una sola especie. Sin embargo, la variacin morfolgica del taxon parece complicada y no ha sido analizada usando mtodos cuantitativos. Hemos analizado la variacin morfolgica en los Gonolobus del sureste, en base a 143 especmenes de herbario de 13 estados del sureste, usando ANOVA, y distribuciones cartogrficas del taxon. En el sureste parecen existir dos entidades distintas de Gonolobus, basadas en diferencias de los estados de carcter florales y las tendencias geogrficas, aunque an quedan cuestiones acerca del rango que merecen.
41969027|The objective of this study is to fill a f loristic data gap for southwest Oklahoma. Based upon a review of the Atlas of the Flora of Oklahoma database, it was noted that Tillman County was floristically under-documented. This paper reports the results of an inventory of the vascular plants in Tillman County. A total of 371 taxa of vascular plants in 253 genera and 74 families were collected. The most species were collected from the families Asteraceae (65), Poaceae (67), and Fabaceae (25). There were 123 annual and 248 perennial species. Forty-one species of woody plants were present. Forty-two exotic species were collected representing 11% of the flora. A total of 266 previously unreported species were documented. Five species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were located, none of which were Federally listed as threatened or endangered. El objetivo de este estudio es completar los datos f lorsticos del suroeste de Oklahoma. Basados en una revisin de la base de datos del Atlas of the Flora of Oklahoma, se percibi que el Tillman County estaba subdocumentado f loristicamente. En este artculo se publican los resultados de un inventario de las plantas vasculares en Tillman County. Se colectaron un total 371 taxa de plantas vasculares de 253 gneros y 74 familias. La mayora de las especies se colectaron de las familias Asteraceae (65), Poaceae (67), y Fabaceae (25). Haba 123 especies anuales y 248 perennes. Estaban presentes cuarenta y una especies de plantas leosas. Se colectaron cuarenta y dos especies exticas que representan el 11% de la flora. Se documentan un total de 266 especies no citadas previamente. Se localizaron cinco especies con seguimiento por el Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory, ninguna de las cuales estaba listada federalmente como amenazada o en peligro.
41968981|Se describe una nueva especie de Struthanthus (Loranthaceae) para Costa Rica. Adems se adjunta una clave para las especies del genero presentes en el pas, incluyendo taxas no reportados an, pero presentes en zonas cercanas de Nicaragua y Panam. A new species of Struthanthus from Costa Rica is described. A key to the species currently known for the country is given, including two species recorded from Panama and Nicaragua, but not reported from Costa Rica yet.
41969017|We examine the etymology and the first names of Cuscuta, as well as some unexplored aspects in the early history of parasitism concept. The name "Orobanche" was used for the first time by Theophrastus possibly for Cuscuta, however for sure not for the today's broomrapes. The etymology of the generic name is neither Arab nor Greek, as commonly thought, but Aramaic and/or Hebrew. The ideas of parasitism from medieval ages are merely a regression of the Greek ancient concept. Whereas the ancient Greeks view the parasites as originating from their own seeds, during the medieval times and as late as the 17th century, Cuscuta plants were literally believed to arise from their hosts. Several lesser known uses of these plants during ancient and medieval times are explored in the Old as well as in the New World. Se examin la etimologa de los primeros nombres de Cuscuta, as como, aspectos no explorados en la historia del concepto de parasitismo. El nombre "Orobanche," fue utilizado por la primera vez por Teofrasto, posiblemente refirindose a Cuscuta; sin embargo, seguramente no para los actuales "jopos de lobo." La etimologa del nombre genrico no es ni rabe ni griega, como se crea comnmente, aunque puede ser arameo y/o hebreo. El concepto con respecto a las plantas parsitas desde la edad media es solamente una regresin al antiguo concepto griego. Mientras que, el punto de vista de los antiguos griegos era que las plantas parsitas se originaban de sus propias semillas, en la Edad Media, a finales del siglo XVII, las plantas de Cuscuta se consideraron que literalmente surgan de sus hospedadores. Los usos de estas plantas en los tiempos antiguos y en la Edad Media son prcticamente desconocidos, por lo que stos se estn explorando en el Viejo y el Nuevo Mundo.
41969042|The paper evaluates the taxonomic and conservation status of Osmorhiza bipatriata Constance & R.H. Shan. The available phylogenetic data support its recognition as a distinct species. It has a highly restricted distribution on Mt. Livermore of the Trans-Pecos region in Texas, as well as in Coahuila and Nuevo Len, Mexico. Its habitat on Mt. Livermore is highly restricted within the mesic Pinus strobiformis community, where it is associated with several other taxa that are also rare in Texas, such as Polemonium pauciflorum S. Watson subsp. hinckleyi (Standl.) Wherry and Aquilegia longissima A. Gray. The population of O. bipatriata on Mt. Livermore is small (< 20 individuals), although apparently healthy, with a full range of age structure. Application of the IUCN Red List criteria shows that O. bipatriata is an endangered species [B2ab(iv)] We recommend careful monitoring of O. bipatriata and its associated habitat, and restricted access to its only known locality within the United States. En este artculo se evala el estatus taxonmico y de conservacin de Osmorhiza bipatriata Constance & R.H. Shan. Los datos f ilogenticos disponibles apoyan su reconocimiento como una especie independiente. Tiene una distribucin muy restringida en el Mt. Livermore de la regin Trans-Pecos en Texas, as como en Coahuila y Nuevo Len, Mxico. Su habitat en el Mt. Livermore est muy restringido dentro de la comunidad msica de Pinus strobiformis, donde est asociado con otros varios taxa que tambin son raros en Texas, tales como Polemonium pauciflorum S. Watson subsp. hinckleyi (Standl.) Wherry y Aquilegia longissima A. Gray. La poblacin de O. bipatriata en el Mt. Livermore es pequea (< 20 individuos), aunque aparentemente saludable, con una estructura de edad con el rango completo. La aplicacin de los criterios IUCN para la Lista Roja muestran que O. bipatriata es una especie amenazada [B2ab(iv) I Recomendamos un control cuidadoso de O. bipatriata y su habitat asociado, y acceso restringido a su nica localidad conocida en los Estados Unidos.
41969033|The historical presence of Pseudognaphalium luteoalbum in Colorado and Pennsylvania is documented by collections from the 19 th century, and it is first reported from Louisiana by a recent collection. The species is common in the southern half of California and locally common in southern Florida but uncommon or rare in other states. Historical collections from ballast also record its presence in New York, Oregon, and Washington, but it has not persisted in any of those states. La presencia histrica de Pseudognaphalium luteoalbum en Colorado y Pennsylvania est documentada mediante colecciones desde el siglo XIX, y esta es la primera cita de Luisiana mediante una coleccin reciente. La especie es frecuente en la mitad sur de California y localmente en el sur de Florida pero poco frecuente o rara en otros estados. Las colecciones histricas procedentes de lastre tambin sealan su presencia en New York, Oregon, y Washington, pero no ha persistido en ninguno de estos estados.
41968967|Amaranthus acanthobracteatus is described as a new species from the sand dunes at Bilbao near Viesca in southern Coahuila, Mexico. It is a sister species to the dioecious A. acanthochiton, that has been recognized as a distinct genus Acanthochiton. Both species are psammophytic, dioecious annuals with large chartaceous, sharp-pointed pistillate bracts. The new taxon differs from A. acanthochiton in its longer, less cordate, distally recurved pistillate bracts, its larger seeds, larger pistillate inflorescences, and in many minor characteristics. The new species also is larger, with pistillate plants maturing as tumbleweeds. Se describe Amaranthus acanthobracteatus como especie nueva para la ciencia, de las dunas de arena de Bilbao, cerca de Viesca, en el sur de Coahuila, Mxico. Representa una especie hermana de A. acanthochiton, especie dioica que ha sido segregada en un gnero distinto, Acanthochiton. Ambas especies son anuales, dioicas y psamf ilas, y ambas presentan las brcteas pistiladas grandes, cartceas y puntiagudas. El taxon nuevo se distingue de A. acanthochiton por las brcteas pistiladas ms largas, menos cordadas, y recurvadas distalmente, por las semillas ms grandes, por las inflorescencias pistiladas ms grandes y por muchas caractersticas de ndole menor. Adems, las plantas de la especie nueva son ms grandes y, al madurar y secarse, las plantas pistiladas son dispersadas por el viento.
41969020|A pH drift experiment was conducted to determine the HCO uptake potential of Texas wild rice (Zizania texana Hitchc). In 15 separate experimental runs, total inorganic carbon to alkalinity ratio varied between 0.93-0.99 and final pH varied between 8.54-9.21, strongly suggesting Texas wild rice is an obligate CO plant unable to utilize HCO. The estimated CO compensation point for Texas wild rice is 2 mol 1. Data from this study provide physiological evidence for the positive relationship between current velocity and biomass productivity observed in Texas wild rice (Power 1996a, 1996b, 2000; Poole & Bowles 1999; Saunders et al. 2001) and provides water resource managers with information they need to manage and protect the San Marcos River ecosystem. Un experimento de la variacin del pH fue utilizado para determinar el potencial de absorcin de HCO del arroz salvaje de Tejas (Zizania texana Hitchc.). En 15 experimentos separados, la relacin entre el carbono inorgnico y la alcalinidad vari entre 0,93-0,99 y el pH final vari entre 8,54-9,21, sugiriendo que el arroz salvaje de Tejas es una planta CO obligatoria incapaz de utilizar el HCO. El punto estimado de compensacin del CO en el arroz salvaje de Tejas es 2 mol 1. Los datos de este estudio proporcionan la evidencia fisiolgica para la relacin positiva entre la velocidad actual y la produccin de la biomasa observadas en el arroz salvaje de Tejas (Power 1996a, 1996b, 2002; Poole y Bowles 1999; Saunders et al. 2001) y ofrecen a los encargados de los recursos hdricos la informacin que necesitan manejar y proteger el ecosistema del ro San Marcos.
41968965|Leucophyllum coahuilensis is described from a gypsum area in central Coahuila, Mexico. It is characterized by small, sessile leaves, a vestiture of dendritic hairs with long, slender radii, and blue to violet corollas with white on the throat floor with orange maculations. It is unique within the genus in having only 2 ovules per ovary. Recent cytological and molecular data regarding relationships between the Scrophulariaceae and Myoporaceae are discussed. Se describe a Leucophyllum coahuilensis como una especie nueva de suelos yesosos del centro de Coahuila. Se caracteriza por presentar las hojas pequeas y ssiles, un indumento de pelos dendrticos con radios largos y tenues, y las corolas de color violeta con la superficie interna abaxial de la garganta blancuzca o amarillenta con mculas anaranjadas. La nueva especie es la nica del gnero que tiene dos vulos por ovario. Se discuten datos citolgicos recientes, y las relaciones del gnero con las familias Scrophulariaceae y Myoporaceae.
41968999|The following 18 new combinations in Eremogone art proposed: Eremogone capillaris var. americana, E. congesta var. cephaloidea, E. congesta var. charlestonensis, E. congesta var. crassula, E. congesta var. glandulifera, E. congesta var. prolifera, E. congesta var. simulans, E. congesta var. subcongesta, E. congesta var. suffrutescens, E. congesta var. wheelerensis, E. eastwoodiae var. adenophora, E. franklinii, E. franklinii var. thompsonii, E. kingii var. plateauensis, E. kingii var. rosea, E. macradenia var. arcuifolia, E. macradenia varjerrisiae, and E. macradenia var. kuschei. Se proponen las siguientes dieciocho combinaciones nuevas en Eremogone: Eremogone capillaris var. americana, E. congesta var. cephaloidea, E. congesta var. charlestonensis, E. congesta var. crassula, E. congesta var. glandulifera, E. congesta var. prolifera, E. congesta var. simulans, E. congesta var. subcongesta, E. congesta var. suffrutescens, E. congesta var. wheelerensis, E. eastwoodiae var. adenophora, E. franklinii, Ejranklinii var. thompsonii, E. kingii var. plateauensis, E. kingii var. rosea, E. macradenia var. arcuifolia, E. macradenia var. jerrisiae, y E. macradenia var. kuschei.
41969016|A literature search was conducted to determine the medicinal flowering plants found in Pakistan and used as remedies for various disorders or diseases. The taxonomic position, distribution and flowering period of these plants are described to facilitate their collection at blooming. There are 95 species belonging to 85 genera and 43 plant families. Most of the species belong to Fabaceae and Asteraceae (17 and 13 species respectively), followed by Malvaceae (7 species), Lamiaceae (6 species) and Boraginaceae (4 species). Apocynaceae and Rosaceae contained 3 species each. It is important for the sustainability of Pakistani medicinal plant industry to consolidate the plant-resource database and explore the national and international markets for its medicinal flora. It is imperative that large scale cultivation projects be implemented and that priority species of the medicinal plants be salvaged. Pakistan also needs expanded research efforts into cultivation, production and conservation of medicinal plants. Institutional linkages are urgently needed between all the Pakistani research and development organizations dealing with medicinal and aromatic plants. Se realiz una exhaustiva bsqueda bibliogrfica acerca de las angiospermas medicinales de Pakistn utilizadas como remedios contra enfermedades de diversa naturaleza. Se prepar una lista de las especies encontradas con referencia a su posicin taxonmica. Se incluye su distribucin y perodo fenolgico para facilitar su recoleccin en el momento ptimo de la floracin. El listado comprende un total de 85 gneros y 95 especies pertenecientes a 43 familias. La mayora de las especies pertenecen a las familias Fabaceae y Asteraceae (17 y 13 especies respectivamente) seguidas de Malvaceae (7 especies), Lamiaceae (5 especies) y Boraginaceae (4 especies); Apocynaceae y Rosaceae presentan 3 especies cada una. Resulta importante para la industria sostenible pakistan de plantas medicinales consolidar el banco de datos disponibles y explorar los mercados nacionales e internacionales que ataen a su flora medicinal. Es imperativo aumentar los proyectos de cultivos a gran escala y preservar la prioridad de las plantas medicinales. Pakistn necesita tambin extender los esfuerzos de investigacin a los problemas sobre cultivo, produccin y conservacin de plantas medicinales. Destacamos asimismo la imperiosa necesidad de desarrollar un sistema de transferencia institucional entre la investigacin y las organizaciones de desarrollo que intervienen en los procesos industriales de plantas medicinales y aromticas en Pakistn.
41969012|Anthenantia, a small Panicoid grass genus of the southeastern U.S.A. is evaluated morphologically. The two previously known taxa, A. rufa (Elliott) Schultes, and A. villosa (Michx.) Beauv, together with a proposed new species, A. texana, are described, compared, and illustrated, and their relationships are discussed. Se evala morfolgicamente Anthenantia, un pequeo gnero de gramnea panicoide del sureste de Estados Unidos. Los dos taxa conocidos previamente, A. rufa (Elliott) Schultes, y A. villosa (Michx.) Beauv, junto con la nueva especie propuesta, A. texana, se describen, comparan, e ilustran, y se discuten sus relaciones.
41969021|Quantitative methods were used to compare the flora of the Post Oak Savanna and Oak-Pine-Hickory ecoregions of the West Gulf Coastal Plain. The analyses show that the two areas are nearly identical floristically. Se usaron mtodos cuantitativos para comparar la flora de las ecoregiones Post Oak Savanna y Oak-Pine-Hickory de la llanura costera del West Gulf. Los anlisis muestran que las dos reas son casi idnticas f lorsticamente.
41968973|Formal nomenclature and typification are detailed for taxa of the Pluchea odorataPluchea camphorata group. Lectotypes are designated for Plucheaglabrata DC, Conyza marilandica Michx., Gynema viscida Raf., Pluchea petiolata Cass., and Conyza camphorata Pursh. Pluchea (Conyza) marilandica (Michx.) Cass., which is the type of the genus, is based on a Dillenius illustration that shows features anomalous for Pluchea. The identity of several other pertinent taxa also remains ambiguous, but none of them appears to have a bearing on currently accepted nomenclature. Se detalla la nomenclatura formal y la tipificacin de taxa del grupo Pluchea odorataPluchea camphorata. Se designan lectotipos para Pluchea glabrata DC, Conyza marilandica Michx., Gynema viscida Raf., Pluchea petiolata Cass., y Conyza camphorata Pursh. Pluchea (Conyza) marilandica (Michx.) Cass., que es el tipo del gnero, est basada en una ilustracin de Dillenius que muestra caractersticas anmalas para Pluchea. La identidad de otros varios taxa tambin queda ambigua, pero ninguno de ellos parece tener importancia en la nomenclatura normalmente aceptada.
41968993|Microseris laciniata subsp. siskiyouensis and subsp. detlingii are described as endemics of the floristically "central" region of the Siskiyou Mountains of Oregon and adjacent California. These taxa have novel morphological features differentiating them from the related Microseris laciniata subsp. laciniata and subsp. leptosepala also found in this region. The populations are kept separate by allopatry and by adaptation to different edaphic conditions, and thus have different vegetation associations. Intermediate populations occur where pairs of taxa meet and the ecological differences are modified by habitat disturbance. Se describen Microseris laciniata subsp. siskiyouensis y subsp. detlingii como endemismos de la regin florstica "central" de las Montaas Siskiyou de Oregn y la adyacente California. Estos taxa tienen caracterstica morfolgicas que los diferencian de sus parientes Microseris laciniata subsp. laciniata y subsp. leptosepala que tambin se encuentran en esta regin. Las poblaciones se mantienen separadas por alopatria y por adaptacin a condiciones edficas diferentes, y as tienen diferentes asociaciones de vegetacin. Aparecen poblaciones intermedias donde contactan pares de taxa y las diferencias ecolgicas se modifican por alteraciones del habitat.
41969001|New combinations and new genera for species in Xylothamia are provided, reflective of recent phylogenetic data indicating the polyphyletic nature of that genus and the need to revise its taxonomy. Four species of Xylothamia are subsumed under the genus Gundlachia, necessitating the following new combinations: G. diffusa, G. riskindii, G. triantha (the type for Xylothamia), and G. truncata Four new genera are recognized for lineages without available generic names. Neonesomia includes N. johnstonii and N. palmeri. Each of the other three genera are monotypic, Chihuahuana, Medranoa, and Xylovirgata, and they accommodate C. purpusii, M. parrasana, and X. pseudobaccharis, respectively. Las nuevas combinaciones y los nuevos gneros que se ofrecen para las especies en Xylothamia son el reflejo de los datos filogenticos recientes que indican la naturaleza polifiltica de ese gnero y de la necesidad de revisar su taxonoma. Cuatro especies de Xylothamia se incluyen en el gnero Gundlachia que hace necesarias las nuevas combinaciones siguientes: G. diffusa, G. riskindii, G. triantha, (la tipo para Xylothamia), y G. truncata. Se reconocen cuatro nuevos gneros para los linajes sin nombres genricos disponibles. Neonesomia incluye N. johnstonii y N. palmeri. Cada uno de los otros tres gneros es monotpico, Chihuahuana, Medranoa, y Xylovirgata, e incluyen a C. purpusii, M. parrasana, y X. pseudobaccharis, respectivamente.
41969037|Sixteen vascular plant taxa not previously documented for West Virginia are reported with vouchers for each county of occurrence. These comprise of 2 lycophytes, 1 gymnosperm, 6 monocots and 7 dicots. Eleven species are native to the United States while 5 species have been introduced to the United States. Diecisis plantas vasculares que no haban sido previamente documentadas para West Virginia son reportadas con testigos para cada condado en donde estn presentes. Estas incluyen 2 licopodios, una gimnosperma, 6 monocotiledneas y 7 dicotiledneas.
41969034|Two native grasses are reported new to Ohio's flora, Dichanthelium scoparium (Lam.) Gould and Muhlenbergia glabrifloris Scribn. Both species share a similar coastal plain and Mississippi embayment distribution pattern. They were found at localities less than 4.5 km apart and in an area known for southern species reaching their northern limit. Dos gramneas nativas se citan como nuevas para la flora de Ohio, Dichanthelium scoparium (Lam.) Gould and Muhlenbergia glabrifloris Scribn. Ambas especies comparten un patrn de distribucin en una llanura costera y desembocadura del Mississippi. Se encontraron en localidades a menos de 4.5 km y en un rea conocida de especies meridionales que alcanzan all su lmite norte.
41969006|George Engelmann, in his description of Passiflora affinis, never designated a holotype for the species, nor has a lectotype been designated in subsequent literature addressing Engelmann's work or North American Passiflora. A lectoype is designated here and a discussion and clarification of the geographic range of this species in the United States is provided. George Engelmann, en su descripcin de Passiflora affinis, nunca design un holotipo para la especie, ni tampoco se ha designado un lectotipo en la literatura subsiguiente que trata el trabajo de Engelmann o las Passiflora norteamericanas. En este trabajo se designa un lectotipo, y adems se hace una discusin y clarificacin de la distribucin geogrfica de la especie en los Estados Unidos.
41969015|The roasted/ground seeds of the Kentucky coffeetree (Gymnocladus dioicus, Fabaceae) were sparingly used in pioneer times as a substitute for arabica coffee. Preparation of the beverage, opinions on its smell and taste, toxicity of the plant, and history and present-day status of this use of the seeds are discussed. Las semillas del caf de Kentucky {Gymnocladus dioicus, Fabaceae) se usaron en los tiempos de los pioneros como un sustituto del caf. Se discute la preparacin de la bebida, opiniones sobre su olor y sabor, toxicidad de la planta, historia y estatus actual del uso de las semillas.
41968986|Se discute la utilidad taxonmica de los spalos para delimitacin de secciones dentro del gnero Prestonia. Asimismo, se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Ecuador, P. amabilis, muy inusual por su cliz campanulado. The taxonomic use of the sepals features for intergeneric delimitation in Prestonia is discussed. Prestonia amabilis (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae), a new species from Ecuador, is described and illustrated.
41969032|I am reporting two new records of Eurybia mrita (A. Nelson) G.L. Nesom for California (Siskyou County), and new records of Aster alpinus L.subsp. vierhapperi Onno for Idaho (Lost River Range) and Wyoming (Beartooth Pass). Se hacen dos nuevas citas de Eurybia mrita (A. Nelson) G.L. Nesom de California (Siskyou County), y dos nuevas citas de Aster alpinus L. subsp. vierhapperi Onno de Idaho (Lost River Range) y Wyoming (Beartooth Pass).
41968995|Six new varieties are proposed in North American Cirsium (Asteraceae: Cardueae): C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. tenuisectum D.J. Keil var. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. viperinum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. edule Nutt. var. wenatchense D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. occidentale (Nutt.) Jeps. var. ludanum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. robustum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. toiyabense D.J. Keil, var. nov. Additionally, twenty new combinations are presented: C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. bipinnatum (Eastw.) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. chellyense (R.J. Moore & Frankton) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. rothrockii (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. clavatum (M.E. Jones) Petrak var. americanum (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. clavatum (M.E. Jones) Petrak var. osterhoutii (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. cymosum (Greene) J. T. Howell var. canovirens (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B. L. Rob. var. eiiocephalum (A. Nelson) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. hespeiium (Eastw) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. peckii (L.F. Hend.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. var. clokeyi (S. F. Blake) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. edule Nutt. var. macounii (Greene) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. horridulum Michx. var. megacanthum (Nutt.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. inamoenum (Greene) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. inamoenum (Greene) D.J. Keil var. davisii (Cronquist) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. ochrocentrum A. Gray var. martinii (P. Barlow-Irick) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. pulcherrimum (Rydb.) K. Schum. var. aridum (R.D. Dorn) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. americanum (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. citrinum (Petrak) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. coloradense (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. congdonii (R.J. Moore & Frankton) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov. Lectotypes are designated for several of these taxa. Se proponen seis variedades nuevas en Cirsium (Asteraceae: Cardueae) de Norteamrica: C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. tenuisectum D.J. Keil var. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. viperinum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. edule Nutt. var. wenatchense D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. occidentale (Nutt.) Jeps. var. lucianum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. robustum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. toiyabense D.J. Keil, var. nov. Se presentan adems veinte combinaciones nuevas: C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. bipinnatum (Eastw) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. chellyense (R. J. Moore & Frankton) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. rothrockii (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. clavatum (M.E. Jones) Petrak var. americanum (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. clavatum (M.E. Jones) Petrak var. osterhoutii (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. cymosum (Greene) J.T. Howell var. canovirens (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. veiiocephalum (A. Nelson) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. hesperium (Eastw.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. peckii (L.F. Hend.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. var. clokeyi (S. F. Blake) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. edule Nutt. var.macounii (Greene) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov., C. horridulum Michx. var. megacanthum (Nutt.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. inamoenum (Greene) D.J. Keil, comb, nov., C. inamoenum (Greene) D.J. Keil var. davisii (Cronquist) DJ. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. ochrocentrum A. Gray var. martinii (P. Barlow-Irick) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. pulcherrimum (Rydb.) K. Schum. var. aridum (R.D. Dorn) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. americanum (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. citrinum (Petrak) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. coloradense (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. congdonii (R.J. Moore & Frankton) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, Tambin se designan lecttipos de varios de estos taxa.
41969010|Two new varietal combinations in Packera (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) are made based on work completed for the Flora of North America north of Mexico project. Se hacen dos nuevas combinaciones varietales en Packera (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) en base al trabajo completado para el proyecto Flora of North America north of Mexico.
41968983|A cladistic analysis was performed to test the monophyly of Echues (Apocynaceae: Apocynoideae: Echiteae). For the analysis 40 morphological characters were coded for 42 ingroup taxa (22 genera) and three outgroup species (two genera). The results indicate that Echues as currently circumscribed is polyphyletic. However, species that fall within the original descriptions of the two subgenera described in Echues form monophyletic clades. Se realiz un anlisis cladstico para comprobar la monofilia de Echues (Apocynaceae: Apocynoideae: Echiteae). Para el anlisis se codificaron 40 caracteres morfolgicos de 42 taxa del grupo (22 gneros) y tres especies como outgroup (dos gneros). Los resultados indican que Echues tal como se circunscribe normalmente es polifiltico. Sin embargo, las especies que estn en las descripciones originales de los dos subgneros descritos en Echues forman ciados monofilticos.
41969038|The occurrence of Phalaris arundinacea L., Reed canarygrass, in Texas is reported and a key to the genus Phalaris in Texas is provided. Se reporta la presencia de Phalaris arundinacea L., en Texas y se provee una clave para el genero Phalaris en Texas.
41968989|Stellaria oxyphylla B.L. Rob. has been rediscovered in northern Idaho; a taxon rarely noted in the literature since its original description in 1898. Our study indicates that Stellaria oxyphylla is congeneric with Pseudostellaria, thus the new combination is provided. The three western North American members of Pseudostellaria have six capsular valves that dehisce by rolling back tightly 2 or 3 revolutions, forming a shallow dish, thus exposing the seeds. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla differs from P. sierrae Rabeler & R. L. Hartman and P. jamesiana (Torr.) W.A. Weber & R.L. Hartman in having internodal lines of hairs (0.5-5 mm wide) on the stems and branches of the inflorescences, but like the last taxon, the stems of P. oxyphylla are square in cross section. In general appearance, P. oxyphylla is most similar to P. jamesiana, the congener widely distributed in the western United States. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla and P. sierrae share a reduction in stamen number from 10 to 5 and seeds with elongate, rounded tubercles each with 5 to 12 or more minute stipitate glands or conical projections, respectively. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla is found along stream banks, often under and near conifers. Se ha redescubierto Stellaria oxyphylla B.L. Rob. en el norte de Idaho; un taxon raramente presente en la bibliografa desde que se describi en 1898. Nuestro estudio indica que Stellaria oxyphylla es congenrica con Pseudostellaria, por lo que se hace una nueva combinacin. Los tres miembros del oeste de Estados Unidos de Pseudostellaria tienen seis valvas en su cpsula, que se abre enrollndose hacia atrs 2  3 vueltas, formando un plato plano, exponiendo de este modo las semillas. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla difiere de P. sierrae Rabeler & R.L. Hartman y P. jamesiana (Torr.) W.A. Weber < Sr R. L. Hartman por tener lneas de pelos internodales (0.5-5 mm de ancho) en los tallos y ramas de las inflorescencias, pero como el ltimo taxon, los tallos de P. oxyphylla son cuadrados en seccin transversal. En su aspecto general, P. oxyphylla es ms semejante a P. jamesiana, el congnere ampliamente distribuido en el oeste de los Estados Unidos. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla y P. sierrae comparten una reduccin en el nmero de estambres de 10 a 5, y semillas con tubrculos alargados y redondeados, cada uno con 5 a 12 o ms glndulas estipitadas diminutas o proyecciones cnicas, respectivamente. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla se encuentra a lo largo de los bancos de torrentes, a menudo debajo y cerca de coniferas.
41968976|Croton bigbendensis B.L. Turner, sp. nov., is described from Trans-Pecos, Texas. It is closely related to C.dioicus Cav. and has passed for that species in most treatments of Croton for the Southwestern United States and Mexico. Croton bigbendensis is largely confined to the lower elevations of the Big Bend Region in Brewster, Presidio, and Hudspeth counties where it dominates sandy flats along the Rio Grande. It is readily distinguished in the field by its bushy habit, and elongate upper internodes, the latter having linear-lanceolate leaves. So far as known, it does not co-occur with C. dioicus, nor does it appear to intergrade with the latter in regions of near contact. Se describe Croton bigbendensis B.L. Turner, sp. nov, de Trans-Pecos, Texas. Est muy emparentada con C. dioicus Cav. y ha pasado por tal especie en la mayora de los tratamientos de Croton para el suroeste de los Estados Unidos y Mxico. Crotn bigbendensis est confinado a las pequeas elevaciones de la regin de Big Bend en los condados de Brewster, Presidio y Hudspeth donde domina a lo largo de las llanuras arenosas del Ro Grande. Se distingue fcilmente en el campo por su hbito arbustivo, e internudos superiores elongados, los ltimos con hojas linear-lanceoladas. Por lo conocido hasta ahora no convive con C. dioicus, ni tampoco parece intergradarse con l en las regiones de contacto cercano.
41969003|An unusual form of Calycadenia from north central California was studied in greenhouse culture and confirmed to be self-compatible, a condition rare in Calycadenia. Based on the distinctive morphology and breeding system of this taxon, it is described and illustrated as a new species, Calycadenia micrantha. Although clearly related to G truncata and apparently included in C. truncata DC subsp. microcephala H. M. Hall ex D. D. Keck, this name was rejected as a basionym for the new species because of ambiguities regarding the type, the original description, and specimens cited and/or annotated by Keck. Se estudi una forma inusual de Calycadenia del centro-norte de California en cultivo de invernadero y se confirm que es autocompatible, una caracterstica rara en Calycadenia. Se describe e ilustra como una nueva especie basada en la diferente morfologa y sistema reproductor de este taxon, Calycadenia micrantha. Aunque claramente emparentada con G truncata y aparentemente incluida en G truncata DC subsp. microcephala H. M. Hall ex D.D. Keck, este nombre fue rechazado como basinimo para la nueva especie por algunas ambigedades relacionadas con el tipo, la descripcin original, y los especmenes citados y/o anotados por Keck.
41968985|Allotoonia (Apocynaceae) a new neotropical genus segregated from Echues is described. In addition, a key to species, descriptions, distribution maps, illustrations and specimens examined are provided for all species. Allotoonia (Apocynaceae), un nuevo gnero neotropical segregado de Echues es descrito. Se brinda una clave para todos los taxa, as como descripciones, mapas de distribucin, ilustraciones y especmenes examinados para todas las especies.
41969040|Recent collections of Cyperus drummondii Torr. & Hook, from Texas coastal prairies known as "Nash Prairie" and "Bailey's Prairie" are reported along with ecological notes and a synopsis of its Texas distribution. Se citan colectas recientes de Cyperus drummondii Torr. & Hook, de las praderas costeras de Texas conocidas como "Nash Prairie" y "Bailey's Prairie". Se aaden notas ecolgicas notes y una sinopsis de su distribucin en Texas.
41969018|The genus Amsonia was named for Dr. John Amson, a physician in Williamsburg, Virginia, in the mid-nineteenth century. El genero Amsonia fue nombrado por Dr. John Amson, un mdico de Williamsburg, Virginia, en la mitad del siglo diez y nueve.
41968998|The new combination Krigia cespitosa (Raf.) K.L. Chambers var. gracilis, based on Apogon gracilis DC, is proposed, and a lectotypification of the basionym is given. A neotype is created for Serinia cespitosa Raf. The hexaploid hybrid Krigia  shinnersiana is described from the Blue Ridge Parkway, North Carolina, representing an allopolyploid of the cross Krigia biflora (Walter) S. F. Blake  Krigia montana (Michx.) Nutt. Se propone la nueva combinacin Krigia cespitosa (Raf.) K.L. Chambers var. gracilis, basada en Apogon gracilis DC, y se hace una lectotipificacin del basinimo. Se crea un neotipo para Serinia cespitosa Raf. El hbrido hexaploide Krigia  shinnersiana se describe del Blue Ridge Parkway, North Carolina, y representa un alopoliploide del cruce Krigia biflora (Walter) S. F. Blake  Krigia montana (Michx.) Nutt.
41969005|Agoseris grandiflora var. leptophylla occurs predominately west of the Cascade Mountains from southwestern British Columbia to western Oregon and is morphologically and geographically distinct from A. grandiflora var. grandiflora. The two varieties are parapatric and intermediate forms are found where they occur together.Agoseris heterophylla var. quentinii is known from Sonoran Desert regions of Arizona and New Mexico and is geographically isolated and morphologically distinct. Agoseris grandiflora var. leptophylla est predominantemente al oeste de las Montaas de las Cascadas desde el suroeste de la Columbia Britnica hasta el oeste de Oregon y es morfolgica y geogrficamente distinta de A. grandiflora var. grandiflora. Las dos variedades son paraptricas y se encuentran formas intermedias all donde conviven. Agoseris heterophylla var. quentinii es conocida de las regiones del desierto de Sonora en Arizona y Nuevo Mxico, est aislada geogrficamente y es diferente morfolgicamente.
41969029|Sawtooth oak (Quercus acutissima Carruth.), native to eastern Asia, is widely planted in the eastern United States as a source of food for wildlife (especially turkeys) and as a landscape tree in developed areas. Spontaneous reproduction of sawtooth oak outside of cultivation has now been confirmed for Alabama, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and the District of Columbia. A complete description and an illustration are provided. Feral populations of sawtooth oak are mostly confined to open, often disturbed areas, and it spreads very slowly, apparently due to limited dispersal of the acorns. Planting of large stands of Quercus acutissima in natural areas or revegetating areas for wildlife food is likely to result in the establishment of this exotic species and its spread into adjacent habitats, but the use of sawtooth oak as a landscape tree in developed areas usually poses much less danger of escape. Quercus acutissima Carruth., nativo del este de Asia, est ampliamente cultivado en el este de los Estados Unidos como fuente de alimento para la fauna salvaje (especialmente pavos) y como rbol de paisaje en reas desarrolladas. Su reproduccin espontnea fuera de cultivo se ha confirmado ahora en Alabama, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, y el Distrito de Columbia. Se aporta una descripcin completa y una ilustracin. Las poblaciones silvestres de Quercus acutissima estn mayormente confinadas a reas abiertas alteradas, y se expande muy lentamente, debido aparentemente a la dispersin limitada de sus bellotas. El establecimiento de grandes plantaciones de Quercus acutissima en reas naturales o reas de revegetacin para alimento de la fauna salvaje es probablemente la causa del establecimiento de esta especie extica y su expansin en los habitats adyacentes, pero el uso de Quercus acutissima como rbol de paisaje en reas desarrolladas tiene mucho menos peligro de escape.
41968978|Centaurium blumbergianum B.L. Turner, sp. nov., is described from near Ruidosa, Presidio Co., Texas. It is a perennial species with broad open, cymes having no obvious close relatives among the North American taxa described to date. It occurs only along saline streams and in seeps at the base of limestone walls in dead-end canyons where it grows with or near a number of other rare taxa such as the recently described localized endemic, Arida mattturneri and the equally rare A. gypsitherma (cf. Sida 20 [4]). Photographs of type material are presented, along with an account of its possible relationships to other taxa. Se describe Centaurium blumbergianum B.L. Turner, sp. nov., de cerca de Ruidosa, Presidio Co., Texas. Es una especie perenne con cimas abiertas anchas, que no tiene parientes prximos entre los taxa norteamericanos descritos hasta ahora. Ocurre solamente a lo largo de torrentes salinos y en filtrados de la base de paredones calcreos de los finales ciegos de caones donde crece junto o cerca de cierto nmero de otros taxa raros tales como el endemismo descrito recientemente, Arida mattturneri y la igualmente rara A. gypsitherma (cf. Sida 20 [4]). Se presentan fotografas del material tipo, junto con una relacin de su posible parentesco con otros taxa.
41969013|Calamagrostis coahuilensis P.M. Peterson, Soreng & Valds-Reyna, sp. nov, and Calamagrostis divaricata P.M. Peterson & Soreng, sp. nov., from Mxico are described and illustrated. Calamagrostis coahuilensis occurs on calcareous slopes in the mountains of southeastern Coahuila and southwestern Nuevo Len; and C. divaricata occurs on moist slopes and mossy cliffs of southwestern Durango. Calamagrostis coahuilensis is morphologically similar to C. purpurascens but differs by having shorter anthers (1-1.2 mm long), nearly smooth ligules, scaberulous rachises, glabrous or minutely antrorsely scabrous sheath summits, and somewhat dense but not spikelike, greenish panicles. Calamagrostis divaricata seems morphologically allied to C pringlei but differs by having wider panicles (4-10 cm) with branches ref lexed spreading and divaricate, shorter spikelets (3.4-4.3 mm long), shorter glumes (3.4-4.3 mm long) that are both 1-veined, and shorter lemmas (3.8-4.3 mm long) with an awn inserted on upper 1/4 to 1/3. Se describen y se ilustran para Mxico Calamagrostis coahuilensis P.M. Peterson, Soreng & Valds-Reyna, sp. nov., y Calamagrostis divaricata P.M. Peterson & Soreng, sp. nov. Calamagrostis coahuilensis se encuentra en laderas calcreas en las montaas del sureste del estado de Coahuila y suroeste del estado Nuevo Len; y C divaricata se encuentra en laderas hmedas y riscos musgosos del suroeste del estado de Durango. Calamagrostis coahuilensis es morfologicamente similar a G purpurascens pero difiere en poseer anteras ms cortas (1-1.2 mm largo), lgulas casi lisas, raquis escaberuloso, pices de las vainas glabros o escasamente con escabrosidad antrosa, y panculas densas pero no espigadas, de color verdusco. Calamagrostis divaricata parece morfologicamente relacionado a C. pringlei pero difiere en poseer panculas mas amplias (4-10 cm) con ramificaciones reflexas, extendidas y divaricadas, espiguillas mas cortas (3.4-4.3 mm largo), glumas ms cortas (3.4-4.3 mm largo) ambas uninervadas, y lemas mas cortas (3.8-4.3 mm largo) con una arista insertada desde 1/4 hasta 1/3 arriba de la mitad.
41969025|Baygalls are a plant community associated with small streams in west central Louisiana. Plots from a 1986 study on the effects of sedimentation on baygall vegetation were resampled in 2001. Nested subsamples were used and the same areas were sampled during each time period. Importance values were calculated using frequency, individual density, stem density, and dbh. In 1986, the sedimented and control baygalls were significantly different in all variables except for woody individual density and woody stem density. In 2001, dbh was the only variable not significantly different between the control and sedimented baygalls. In the sedimented area between 1986 and 2001, the woody plant variables increased while herbaceous plant variables decreased. Woody species, Liquidambar styraciflua and Alnus serrulata showed a large decrease, however, Toxicodendron radicans, Smilax rotundifolia, and Ligustrum sinense increased. In the control baygalls, four fern species increased in importance value. Los "Baygalls" son una comunidad vegetal asociada a pequeos torrentes en el centro-oeste de Luisiana. Las parcelas de un estudio en 1986 sobre los efectos de la sedimentacin en la vegetacin baygall se volvieron a muestrear en 2001. Se usaron submuestras anidadas y se muestrearon en cada periodo las mismas reas. Los valores de importancia se calcularon usando frecuencia, densidad individual, densidad de tallos, y dimetro a la altura del pecho. En 1986, los baygalls sedimentados y de control fueron significativamente diferentes en todas las variables excepto para la densidad individual de leosas y densidad de tallos leosos. En 2001, el dimetro a la altura del pecho fue la nica variable no significativamente diferente entre el control y los baygalls sedimentados. En el rea sedimentada entre 1986 y 2001, las variables de plantas leosas aumentaron mientras que las variables de plantas herbceas disminuyeron. Las especies leosas Liquidambar styraciflua y Alnus serrulata mostraron una gran disminucin, sin embargo, Toxicodendron radicans, Smilax rotundifolia, y Ligustrum sinense aumentaron. En los baygalls de control, cuatro especies de helchos incrementaron su valor de importancia.
41969036|Schoenoplectus saximontanus and S. hallii (Cyperaceae) are rare in North America and of conservation concern in every state in which they occur. Although the distribution of S. saximontanus extends farther west than that of S. hallii, they are thought to be sympatric in five states in the central portion of their range in the U.S. The two species are indistinguishable vegetatively, but style morphology and achene characteristics are distinctive. In this paper, we report the collection of a putative hybrid from a mixed population of the two species in the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge in OK, describe achenes of S. saximontanus, S. hallii and Ss  Sh that were collected from the site in 2002, and discuss the potential effects of hybridization on the two species. Schoenoplectus saximontanus y S. hallii (Cyperaceae) son raros en Norte Amrica y con preocupaciones por su conservacin en los estados en que aparecen of. Aunque la distribucin de S. saximontanus se extiende ms al oeste que la de S. hallii, son simptricos en cinco estados en la parte central de su rango en los Estados Unidos. Las dos especies son indiferenciables vegetativamente, pero la morfologa del estilo y las caractersticas del aquenio son diferenciables. En este artculo, se cita la coleccin de un hbrido putativo en una poblacin mixta de las dos especies en la Wichita Mountain Wildlife Refuge de Oklahoma, se describen los aquenios de S. saximontanus, S. hallii y Ss x Sh que fueron colectados en dicho lugar en 2002, y se discuten los efectos potenciales de la hibridacin de las dos especies.
41968372|Schoenoplectus hallii (A. Gray) S. Galen Smith, Hall's bulrush, has been discovered in the Lyndon B. Johnson National Grasslands, Wise County, Texas. Previous reports of this species in Texas were based on misidentif ied specimens, and the current report apparently represents the first record for the state. Schoenoplectus hallii (A. Gray) S. Galen Smith, ha sido descubierto en los Lyndon B. Johnson National Grasslands, Wise County, Texas. Las citas Previas de esta especie en Texas estaban basadas en especmenes mal identificados, y la presente cita es aparentemente la primera para el estado.
41968352|A literature search was conducted to determine the medicinal legume trees found in Pakistan and used as remedies for various human disorders or diseases. The taxonomic position of these trees is discussed and their distribution is described to facilitate their collection. There are 40 medicinal, legume tree species belonging to 25 genera of Fabaceae (Leguminosae). Most of these medicinal legume trees belong to Caesalpinioideae (10 genera and 16 species) followed by Mimosoideae (7 genera and 14 species) and Papilionoideae (8 genera and 10 species). This constitutes about half of the Pakistani legume trees possessing medicinal properties used for various ailments. The plant parts used for medicinal purposes included bark, roots, stem, leaves, flowers, fruits and seeds. These medicinal trees have good vegetative growth under cultivated conditions and are in ample supply for commercial exploitation. There is potential for growing medicinal plants in Pakistan as an income generating activity and for sustainable utilization of these medicinal legume trees. However, there is a need for systematic cultivation, commercial extraction using scientific methods and sustainable conservation of endemic medicinal legume trees for substantial utilization through community participation. Se realiz una bsqueda bibliogrfica para identificar los rboles medicinales de las leguminosas que se encuentran en Pakistn y se usan como medicina para varias enfermedades humanas. Se discute la posicin taxonmica de estos rboles y se describe su distribucin para facilitar su recoleccin. Hay 40 especies medicinales de leguminosas arbreas, pertenecientes a 25 gneros de Fabaceae (Leguminosae). La mayora de estas leguminosas arbreas medicinales pertenecen a las Caesalpinioideae (10 gneros y 16 especies) seguidas de Mimosoideae (7 gneros y 14 especies) y Papilionoideae (8 gneros y 10 especies). Esto constituye cerca de la mitad de las leguminosas arbreas Pakistanis que tienen propiedades medicinales usadas para varios remedios. Las partes de la planta usadas con propsitos medicinales incluyen la corteza, races, tallos, hojas, flores, frutos y semillas. Estos rboles medicinales tienen buen crecimiento vegetativo en condiciones de cultivo y tienen amplio abastecimiento para la explotacin comercial. En Pakistn hay potencial para el incremento de las plantas medicinales como actividad generadora de recursos econmicos y para uso medicinal sostenible de estas leguminosas arbreas. Pero, se necesita un cultivo sistemtico, extraccin comercial mediante mtodos cientficos y conservacin sostenible de leguminosas arbreas medicinales endmicas para una utilizacin importante mediante participacin de la comunidad.
41968291|The infrageneric classification of Gilia is reviewed and revised on the basis of numerous phenetic and some molecular characters and by using a taxonomic approach. The result is a broadly defined multisection genus Gilia composed of two subgenera and seven sections (sects. Gilia, Arachnion, Saltugilia, Giliastrum, Giliandra, Gilmania, Campanulastrum), and a monotypic segregate genus (Lathrocasis). This system is compared with that of Porter and Johnson (2000) based primarily on molecular evidence and a cladistic approach. The two systems agree in some dispositions; in fact, the present system follows Porter and Johnson in recognizing Lathrocasis; but in other respects the two systems differ greatly. For example, the core genus Gilia is divided into six smaller genera in addition to Lathrocasis by Porter and Johnson. Basic differences between taxonomic and molecular cladistic approaches lead to the incongruences between alternative systems found here and elsewhere in the Polemoniaceae and in other plant families. These differences are discussed. A weakness of molecular cladistics is the attempt to classify groups by using DNA evidence primarily or exclusively. Better results can be obtained by combining the molecular characters with phenetic characters. There is a continuing need for new taxonomic revisions in the Polemoniaceae and other families that do this. Se revisa la clasificacin infragenrica de Gilia en base a numerosos caracteres fenticos y algunos moleculares, usando una aproximacin taxonmica. El resultado es el gnero multiseccin ampliamente definido Gilia compuesto de dos subgneros y siete secciones (sects. Gilia, Arachnion, Saltugilia, Giliastrum, Giliandra, Gilmania, Campanulastrum), y un gnero monotpico segregado (Lathrocasis). Este sistema se compara con el de Porter y Johnson (2000) basado primariamente en pruebas moleculares y una aproximacin cladistica. Los dos sistemas concuerdan en algunas disposiciones; de hecho, el presente sistema sigue a Porter y Johnson en el reconocimiento de Lathrocasis; pero en otros aspectos los dos sistemas difieren enormemente. Por ejemplo, el ncleo del gnero Gilia se divide en seis gneros ms pequeos en adicin a Lathrocasis segn Porter y Johnson. Las diferencias bsicas entre la aproximacin taxonmica y la cladistica molecular dan lugar a incongruencias entre sistemas alternativos como se encuentra aqui y en otros estudios sobre Polemoniaceae as como en otras familias. Se discuten estas diferencias. Un punto dbil de la cladistica molecular es el intento de clasificar grupos usando primaria o exclusivamente DNA. Se pueden obtener mejores resultados combinando caracteres moleculares con caracteres fenticos. Hay una necesidad creciente de nuevas revisiones taxonmicas en las Polemoniaceae y otras familias de igual comportamiento.
41968351|Sedum wrightii A. Gray, a west Texas native succulent, is one of a growing number of species known to reproduce by vegetative means. Detached leaves of S. wrightii produce plantlets on the basal portion of the adult leaf in association with callus tissue from what appears to be thinned-walled parenchyma and epidermal cells of the petiole. Shoot primordia appear first, emerging over lateral regions of the callus tissue by about day 5, with the roots emerging several days later. Sedum wrightii A. Gray, planta suculenta nativa de Texas, pertenece al creciente grupo de especies conocidas que se reproducen vegetativamente. Las hojas arrancadas de S. wrightii producen plntulas en la porcin basai de la hoja adulta, en asociacin con callo de lo que parece ser parnquima de paredes finas y clulas epidrmicas del pecolo. Primero aparecen los primordios del vastago, emergiendo de las regiones laterales del callo sobre el quinto da, y las races emergen varios das ms tarde.
41968302|Oenothera pennellii Munz (Oenothera sect. Oenothera subsect. Nutantigemma) was recently placed in synonymy with the widespread and variable O. pubescens Willd. ex Spreng. A series of recent collections from Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, Tamaulipas, and Zacatecas, Mexico, show that O. pennellii is a distinctive, subacaulescent, apparently perennial species restricted to northeastern Mexico at relatively high elevations. It is largely allopatric from the widespread, caulescent, annual or biennial O. pubescens. Like O. pubescens, O. pennellii is a permanent translocation heterozygote species. Oenothera pennellii Munz (perteneciente a Oenothera subsect. Nutantigemma) fue colocada recientemente en la sinonimia de O. pubescens Willd. ex Spreng., una especie muy variable y de amplia distribucin. Las colecciones procedentes de Coahuila, Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas, y Zacatecas en Mxico, muestran que O. pennellii es una especie distinguible por su hbito sub-acaulescente y que aparentemente est restringida al noreste de Mxico en elevaciones relativamente altas, donde es ampliamente aloptrica con O. pubescens, especie caulescente, anual y de amplia distribucin.
41968332|The taxonomy of Eriophorum russeolumE. scheuchzeri complex in North America is reviewed, including the northwestern North American related species E. chamissonis. A key to the taxa including new characters of the medial fertile scales and achenes is presented. The new nothosubspecies Eriophorum  medium subsp. album J. Cayouette is described; it represents the hybrid between E. russeolum subsp. leiocarpum and E. scheuchzeri subsp. scheuchzeri from northeastern Canada (northern Quebec and Nunavut), based on intermediate characters observed in herbarium specimens. The typical hybrid subspecies, E.  medium subsp. medium (E. russeolum subsp. russeolum  E. scheuchzeri subsp. scheuchzeri) is also characterized and added to the flora of North America (Quebec and Labrador). The two hybrid subspecies are compared to their parental subspecies. Another related taxon, E. scheuchzeri subsp. arcticum, poorly known in North America, is compared to the typical subspecies and its range is established in northeastern North America. Lectotypes of E. russeolum Fries and E. russeolum var. majus Sommier are here designated. Une rvision taxonomique du groupe des Eriophorum russeolumE. scheuchzeri en Amrique du Nord est propose, incluant l'espce voisine E. chamissonis du nord-ouest de l'Amrique. Une clef des taxons base sur des caractres indits des cailles fertiles mdianes et des aknes est prsente. Une nouvelle notho-sous-espce, l'Eriophorum  medium subsp. album J. Cayouette, est dcrite, reprsentant l'hybride entre l'Eriophorum russeolum subsp. leiocarpum et l'E. scheuchzeri subsp. scheuchzeri, et localise dans le nord-est du Canada (nord du Qubec et Nunavut),  partir d'observations de caractres intermdiaires sur des spcimens d'herbier. La sous-espce typique de l'hybride, l'E.  medium subsp. medium (E. russeolum subsp. russeolum  E. scheuchzeri subsp. scheuchzeri), est galement caractrise et rapporte comme nouvelle pour l'Amrique du Nord (Qubec et Labrador). Les deux sous-espces de l'hybride sont compares  leurs sous-espces parentales respectives. Un autre taxon voisin, l'E. scheuchzeri subsp. arcticum, peu connu en Amrique du Nord, est compar  la sous-espce typique, et son aire de rpartition est prcise dans le nord-est de l'Amrique. Les lectotypes de l'E. russeolum Fries et de l'E. russeolum var. majus Sommier sont dsigns.
41968324|Antennaria pulcherrima subsp. eucosma (Fernald & Wiegand) R.J. Bayer, comb, nov., is based on Antennaria eucosma (Fernald & Wiegand) from North America. The new combination is essential as a result of the expansion of the circumscription of A. pulcherrima to include A. eucosma. Antennaria pulcherrima subsp. eucosma (Fernald & Wiegand) R.J. Bayer, comb, nov., se basa en Antennaria eucosma (Fernald & Wiegand) de Norteamrica. La nueva combinacin es esencial como resultado de la extensin de la circunscripcin de A. pulcherrima para incluir A. eucosma.
41968347|Seed and capsule characters of several species of Arcytophyllum, Bouvardia, and Manettia (Hedyotideae; Rubiaceae) are described and compared. Seed characters are illustrated by scanning electron microscopy. Morphological similarities and differences are emphasized and outlined by a descriptive key. All characters of Arcytophyllum serpyllaceum and A. muticum were compared in tabular format, and a strong similarity was noted. These results support previous work that considered A. serpyllaceum a member of the genus Arcytophyllum. Las semillas y frutos de algunas especies de Arcytophyllum, Bouvardia y Manettia (Hedyotideae; Rubiaceae) son descritas y comparadas. Los caracteres de las semillas son representados mediante imgenes producidas por un microscopio electrnico de barrido. Las semejanzas y diferencias morfolgicas de estos gneros son enfatizadas y esquematizadas por medio de una clave descriptiva. Todos los caracteres de Arcytophyllum serpyllaceum y A. muticum fueron comparados en una tabla, mostrando stos un alto grado de similitud. Los resultados obtenidos, apoyan la nocin sugerida por estudios previos, de que Arcytophyllum serpyllaceum es en realidad un miembro del genero Arcytophyllum.
41968374|An unknown plant collected in 1998 at Fort Pulaski, Chatham County, Georgia has been identified as Hybanthus parviflorus (Violaceae), a South American native. The Georgia collection represents only the third report of this species in North America, and the first since the 1880s, when it was collected on ship's ballast at two port cities in New Jersey. It is possible that the introduction of the species to Georgia was also via ship's ballast, as Fort Pulaski would have been a port of call for ships going to and from Savannah, a major seaport in the 18th and 19th centuries; if the Georgia plant was introduced on ballast, it is apparently established. It is also possible that it is a more recent introduction; if so, however, the means of introduction of this species is obscure, as it is not typically an agricultural weed, nor of horticultural interest. The use of digital imagery and electronic mail facilitated the rapid and accurate identification of this alien species, which should now be considered an established, though rare, component of the North American flora. Una planta desconocida colectada en 1998 en Fort Pulaski, Chatham County, Georgia ha sido identificada como Hybanthus parviflorus (Violaceae), nativa de Sur Amrica. La coleccin de Georgia es la tercera cita de esta especie en Norte Amrica, y la primera desde los 1880s, cuando fue colectada en lastre de barcos en dos ciudades portuarias de New Jersey. Es posible que la introduccin de la especie en Georgia haya sido tambin mediante lastre de barco, ya que Fort Pulaski podra haber sido un Puerto de llamada para barcos que van o regresan de Savannah, un gran puerto en los siglos XVIII y XIX; si la planta de Georgia fue introducida en el lastre, est aparentemente establecida. Es tambin posible que sea una introduccin ms reciente; en este caso, sin embargo, el sistema de introduccin de esta especie no est claro, ya que tpicamente no es una mala hierba agrcola, ni de inters hortcola. El uso de imgenes digitales y correo electrnico facilit la identificacin rpida y precisa de esta especie invasora, que podra ahora ser considerada como un componente establecido, aunque raro, de la flora de Norte Amrica.
41968373|Pseudognaphalium jaliscense is first reported from Nebraska, documented here from twelve counties; an earlier report of this species from California was based on collections of a form of P. stramineum. Pseudognaphalium roseum is first documented as occurring in the U.S.A., where it has been collected in southern California. Pseudognaphalium jaliscense se cita por primera vez de Nebraska, se documenta aqu de doce condados; una cita previa de esta especies de California estaba basada en colecciones de una forma de P. stramineum. Pseudognaphalium roseum se documenta por primera vez de U.S.A., donde ha sido colectado en el Sur de California.
41968308|A new species, Scutellaria petersonaie B.L. Turner & J.L. Reveal is described from the state of Guerrero, Mexico. It is closely related to S. hintoniana of the section Crassipedes, but amply distinct. Se describe una nueva especie, Scutellaria petersonaie B.L. Turner & J. L. Reveal del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Est muy relacionada con S. hintoniana de la seccin Crassipedes, pero es muy diferente.
41968369|Gamochaeta stagnalis is reported for the first time for the United States (Arizona and New Mexico). In Arizona these plants have previously been identified as Gamochaeta purpurea and Gamochaeta falcata. The species is common in Mexico and apparently is at the northern limit of its distribution in Cochise, Pima, and Santa Cruz cos., Arizona, and Hidalgo Co., New Mexico. Gamochaeta purpurea sensu stricto also occurs in Arizona, disjunct from its main range in the eastern U.S.A. Plants of the southeastern U.S.A. previously identified in some treatments as Gamochaeta falcata are separated into two species: Gamochaeta calviceps and Gamochaeta antillana. A lectotype is chosen for G. antillana. Gamochaeta calviceps is known primarily from the southeastern U.S.A. but is reported from two collections in California. Gamochaeta coarctata is first reported for Arkansas and Virginia and further documented for California. Gamochaeta stachydifolia, a South American native, is reported from two counties in California. For each of the 12 Gamochaeta species recorded for the U.S.A., a hypothesis of nativity is given, with a brief rationale. Se cita Gamochaeta stagnalis por primera vez para los Estados Unidos (Arizona y Nuevo Mxico). En Arizona estas plantas han sido identificadas previamente como Gamochaeta purpurea y Gamochaeta falcata. La especie es comn en Mxico y aparentemente tiene su lmite Norte de distribucin en los condados de Cochise, Pima, y Santa Cruz, en Arizona, y condado de Hidalgo, en Nuevo Mxico. Gamochaeta purpurea sensu stricto aparece tambin en Arizona, disyunta de su rea principal en el Este de U.S.A. Las plantas del Sureste de U.S.A. a veces identificadas previamente como Gamochaeta falcata se separan en dos especies: Gamochaeta calviceps y Gamochaeta antillana. Se escoge un lectotipo para G. antillana. Gamochaeta calviceps se conoce primariamente del Sureste de U.S.A. pero se citan dos colecciones en California. Gamochaeta coarctata se cita por primera vez de Arkansas y Virginia, y se documentan otras citas para California. Gamochaeta stachydifolia, nativa de Sur Amrica, se cita de dos condados de California. Para cada una de las 12 especies de Gamochaeta citadas para U.S.A., se ofrece una hiptesis de la posibilidad de ser nativas, con un informe razonado.
41968300|This, the fourth part of our series discussing typification and nomenclature in the lichenized ascomycete genus Usnea attempts to clarify the application of the names Usnea stuppea (Rsnen) Motyka and U. substerilis Motyka. Both names are lectotypified and the differences between the two taxa are discussed. Esta, que es la cuarta parte de nuestra serie que discute la tipificacin y nomenclatura en el gnero de ascomycete liquenizado Usnea intenta clarificar la aplicacin de los nombre Usnea stuppea (Rsnen) Motyka y U. substerilis Motyka. Ambos nombres son lectotipificados y se discuten las diferencias entre los dos taxa.
41968314|Gamochaeta spicata "(Lam.) Cabr." is based on an illegitimate later homonym (Gnaphalium spicatum Lam. 1788, non P. Miller 1768) and is to be attributed as Gamochaeta spicata Cabr., nom. nov. Cabrera's "nomen novum," however, also is illegitimate because Gnaphalium coarctatum Willd., a replacement name for Gnaphalium spicatum Lam., is the first legitimate name for Lamarck's plant. Details in the publication and specimen citations are clarified for the typification of Gamochaeta coarctata (Willd.) Kerg., the correct name in Gamochaeta for this species. Gnaphalium spicatum P. Miller is a synonym of Pterocaulon virgatum (L.) DC. Gnaphalium spicatum (Forssk.) Vahl is a synonym of Ifloga spicata (Forssk.) Sch. Bip. Gamochaeta spicata "(Lam.) Cabr." est basado en un homnimo posterior ilegtimo (Gnaphalium spicatum Lam. 1788, non P. Miller 1768) y debe consignarse como Gamochaeta spicata Cabr., nom. nov. El "nomen novum" de Cabrera, sin embargo, es tambin ilegtimo ya que Gnaphalium coarctatum Willd., un nombre reemplazo de Gnaphalium spicatum Lam., es el primer nombre legtimo para la planta de Lamarck. Para la clarificacin de la tipificacin de Gamochaeta coarctata (Willd.) Kerg., el nombre correcto en Gamochaeta de esta especie, se brindan detalles acerca de la publicacin y citacin de los especmenes. Gnaphalium spicatum P. Miller es un sinnimo de Pterocaulon virgatum (L.) DC Gnaphalium spicatum (Forssk.) Vahl es sinnimo de Ifloga spicata (Forssk.) Sch. Bip.
41968362|For the past five years, the Woodlot Forestry Research and Development Program at North Carolina State University has been assisting with the implementation of the Land Condition Trend Analysis (LCTA) program at Camp Butner. A plant inventory has been an ongoing aspect of associated research. This checklist represents a preliminary inventory of the flora of the site, comprising 78 families, 178 genera, and 241 species. En los cinco aos anteriores, el Woodlot Forestry Research and Development Program de la Universidad del Estado de Carolina del Norte ha estado ayudando con la implementacin del programa Land Condition Trend Analysis (LCTA) en Camp Butner. El inventario vegetal ha sido un aspecto de la investigacin asociada. Este listado representa un inventario preliminar de la flora local, que comprende 78 familias, 178 gneros, y 241 especies.
41968356|Laboratory experiments were carried out in England to test the specificity and environmental requirements of a Peruvian isolate of the fungus Puccinia lantanae Farlow, known to attack the invasive plant Lantana camara L. a serious problem in Galapagos. Eight species of plants representing five families were inoculated with the fungus and kept in a dew chamber for 48 hours. Lantana peduncularis Andersson and Lantana camara were sourced from Galapagos; other species related to Lantana were sourced from other places. Dew periods of 5,8,11,14, and 20 hours were tested to determine the period necessary for basidiospore formation and host infection. Only Lantana camara from Galapagos and Peru developed visible symptoms 6 days after inoculation and after 15 days sori were fully developed. No non-target species developed macroscopic symptoms. Most importantly the rust did not attack the closest host relative from Galapagos, the endemic Lantana peduncularis. Eight hours in the dew chamber was enough to induce basidiospore formation and host infection, but times up to 20 hours induced progressively more sori. Although we have not completed yet the experiments to determine the host range specificity, P. lantanae shows promise as a biocontrol agent for Lantana cmara in Galapagos. Se realizaron experimentos de laboratorio en Inglaterra para determinar el nivel de especificidad y requerimientos ambientales del hongo Puccinia lantanae Farlow como potencial agente de control biolgico de la especie invasora Lantana cmara L. en Galpagos. Ocho especies de plantas pertenecientes a cinco familias relacionadas a L. camara, fueron inoculadas con pstulas del hongo y mantenidas durante 48 horas en la cmara de roci. Lantana peduncularis Andersson y Lantana camara fueron colectadas en Galpagos, las otras especies relacionadas con Lantana se obtuvieron en otros lugares. Para determinar el periodo de roci necesario para la produccin de basidioesporas, las plantas de L. camara fueron inoculadas y sometidas a diferentes periodos de rocio (5,8,11,14,20 horas). Puccinia lantanae se desarrollo y afect nicamente a L. camara proveniente de Galapagos y Per. Los sntomas aparecieron seis das despus de la inoculacin y a los 15 das las pstulas estuvieron completamente desarrolladas. No se detectaron sntomas macroscopicos en las otras especies, principalmente en la endmica L. peduncularis que es la especie mas cercana. Puccinia lantanae fue capaz de esporular e infectar L. camara luego de ocho horas de roci; el mayor grado de infeccin y desarrollo de pstulas se obtuvo dentro de las 20 horas de roci. No se han realizado todas las pruebas necesarias para determinar si el nivel de especificidad es adecuado para liberar el agente, sin embargo hasta el momento, P. lantanae se muestra como un potencial agente de control biolgico de L. camara para Galpagos.
41968376|Panphalea heterophylla (Compositae) is a new genus and species for the United States. This also is the first known occurrence of the genus from outside of its native range in southern South America. Panphalea heterophylla (Compositae) es un gnero y especie nueva para los Estados Unidos. Este es tambin el primer reporte del gnero fuera de su rea de ocurrencia nativa en Sur Amrica.
41968366|Cunila origanoides has been rediscovered in Texas based on recent herbarium and field studies. Cunila origanoides ha sido redescubierta en Texas mediante estudios recientes de herbario y campo.
41968357|Fifty-seven species of fungi belonging to 23 genera were isolated and identified from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of 65 plant species, belonging to 58 genera and 19 families from Sindh and Baluchistan, (Pakistan). A greater number of fungi were isolated from the rhizosphere than from the rhizoplane. In the rhizosphere, fusarium solani and Aspergillus spp. were dominant followed by Drechslera australiensis. In the rhizoplane, Fusarium solani was also dominant. Biocontrol agents like Trichoderma harzianum, T. koningii, T. viride, V. chlamydosporium, and Stachybotrys aira were isolated in low frequency suggesting their poor competence in the rhizosphere. Memnoniella echinata from Zea mays and Sorghum bicolor and Stachybotrys parvispora from Zea mays were reported for the first time from Pakistan. Microorganisms in agricultural soils are known to exert profound influences on the soil fertility status as well as on the suppression of soil-borne plant diseases. Multiple microbial interactions involving bacteria and fungi in the rhizosphere are shown to provide enhanced biocontrol in many cases in comparison with biocontrol agents used singly. Importantly, a soil that is suppressive to one pathogen is not necessarily suppressive to another, and so specificity in soil-plant-microbe interactions for disease suppression exists. Modern methods for analyzing microbial community structures may prove particularly valuable to help define the key organisms or groups of organisms responsible for such natural suppression as well as for monitoring the spread and impact of introduction of specific biocontrol agents or other management practices on natural microbial populations. Cincuenta y cinco especies de hongos pertenecientes a 23 gneros, fueron aisladas e identificadas en la rizosfera y rizoplana de 65 especies vegetales, pertenecientes a 58 gneros y 19 familias de Sindh y Baluchistan, (Pakistn). Fue aislado un nmero mayor de hongos en la rizosfera que en el rizoplana. En la rizosfera, Fusarium solani y Aspergillus spp. fueron los dominantes seguidos de Drechslera australiensis. En el rizoplana, Fusarium solani fue dominante tambin. Agentes de biocontrol como Trichoderma harzianum, T. koningii, T. viride, V. chlamydosporium, y Stachybotrys se aislaron en baja frecuencia lo que sugiere una competencia pobre en la rizosfera. Memnoniella echinata de Zea mays y Sorghum bicolour, y Stachybotrys parvispora de Zea mays se citan por primera vez de Pakistn. Los microorganismos de los suelos agrcolas ejercen profundas influencias en la fertilidad del suelo as como en la supresin de enfermedades de las plantas originadas en el suelo. Las interacciones microbianas mltiples que implican bacterias y hongos en la rizosfera se ve que ejercen un biocontrol incrementado en muchos casos en comparacin con los agentes de biocontrol usados aisladamente. Es importante, que un suelo que es supresivo para un patgeno no es necesariamente supresivo para otro, y as la especificidad en las interacciones suelo-planta-microbio para la supresin de la enfermedad existe. Los mtodos modernos para analizar la estructuras de la comunidad microbiana pueden ser muy valiosos para ayudar a definir los organismos clave o grupos de organismos responsables de tal supresin natural as como para la supervisin de la extensin y el impacto de la introduccin de agentes de biocontrol especficos u otras prcticas de gestin de poblaciones microbianas naturales.
41968311|Four species of Nototriche are recognized for Ecuador, all are endemic. N. hartwegii is re-established. A key, descriptions, and illustrations of the species are provided. Se reconocen cuatro especies de Nototriche para el Ecuador, todas endmicas. Se restablece N. hartwegii. Se presentan clave, descripciones e ilustraciones de las especies.
41968292|A new species of Verbenaceae, Citharexylum danirae Len de la Luz et Chiang, is described and illustrated. It is known only from the type collection at the north face of Evermann volcano in the remote Socorro Island, the largest of the Revillagigedo Archipelago, in the tropical Mexican Pacific Ocean. Its relationship to C. caudatum L. and C. affine D. Don is discussed. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de la familia de las Verbenceas, Citharexylum danirae Len de la Luz et Chiang. Hasta hoy es slo conocida del ejemplar tipo, procedente de la vertiente norte del volcn Evermann, en la remota Isla Socorro, en el archipilago de las Islas Revillagigedo, ubicada en el Pacfico tropical de Mxico. Se discute su relacin con C. caudatum L y con C. affine D. Don.
41968361|Short's goldenrod (Solidago shortii Torr. & A. Gray) is an endemic species with a highly restricted distribution, the Kentucky populations occurring in and around the vicinity of Blue Licks in the northeastern portion of the state. The general occurrence of the species was first mapped in 1987, with several similar maps being published from 1989-2000. Due to changes in local land use practices the status of the populations has rapidly changed rendering these maps obsolete. A census of all populations was conducted and the precise topographic location and physical boundaries of each extant population was mapped using field reconnaissance techniques and GIS mapping technology. Between 1989 and 2003 four of the original populations were extirpated, eight declined in number of stems present, and one increased in both number of stems and area coverage. La "Espiga de oro de Short" (Solidago shortii Torr. & A. Gray) es una especie con poblaciones altamente restringidas en y a los alrededores de Blue Licks, al norteste de Kentucky. La distribucin general de las poblaciones de esta especie fue cartografiada por primera vez en 1987 y varios mapas han sido publicados entre 1989-2000. Debido a cambios locales en el uso de tierra para cultivo, la distribucin original de las poblaciones de la especie se han modificado en gran medida, y en consecuencia los mapas existentes estn obsoletos. Un censo de todas las poblaciones, observaciones de campo, y tcnicas del Sistema de Informacin Geogrfica (SIG) han permitido la ubicacin topogrfica precisa y la delimitacin fsica de cada poblacin. De 1989 a 2003 cuatro de las poblaciones originales han desaparecido, ocho disminuyeron en nmero de tallos y una poblacin aument en nmero de tallos y en rea de cobertura.
41968367|Geocarpon minimum, a federally threatened species, is documented for the flora of Texas for the first time. Approximately 200 plants were found in an extensive saline prairie near the floodplain of the Neches River in Anderson County, Texas. Included is a general description of the habitat, known distribution of the species, and associated flora in Texas. Geocarpon minimum, una especie de la lista federal de plantas amenazadas de extincin se documenta para la flora de Texas por primera vez. Se encontraron aproximadamente 200 plantas en una llanura salada cerca de la llanura de inundacin del Neches River (o Ro Neches) en el condado de Anderson, Texas. Se incluye una descripcin general del habitat, la distribucin conocida de la especie, y la flora asociada en Texas.
41968349|The transfer of Chaptalia hintonii to the genus Gerbera was rejected by Nesom (this issue), who retains the species in Chaptalia sect. Chaptalia. Chaptalia and Gerbera belong to the Gerbera-complex, a group of scapose genera whose circumscriptions are still in flux and whose largest genera still lack complete revisions. Important morphological characters of the corollas, staminodes, and cypsela hairs are discussed, and a key to genera of the Gerbera-complex is provided. The short, filiform corollas of the inner ray florets and the lack of staminodes are characters that allow the circumscription of Chaptalia. Certain species must be excluded from this genus and the sections within it must be redefined. Staminodes and inner ray florets with bilabiate corollas that are longer than the style are two characters that confirm the transfer of Chaptalia hintonii into the genus Gerbera. La transferencia de Chaptalia hintonii al gnero Gerbera fue rechazada por Nesom (este volumen), quien retiene esta especie en Chaptalia sect. Chaptalia. Chaptalia y Gerbera pertenecen al complejo Gerbera, un grupo de gneros de hbito herbceo escaposo, cuya circumscripcin no est definida y cuyos gneros ms numerosos an carecen de revisiones taxonmicas. Se discuten los caracteres morfolgicos ms importantes de corola, estaminodios y pelos de la cipsela, y se provee una clave de los gneros del complejo Gerbera. Las corolas cortas y filiformes de las flores ms internas del radio y la ausencia de estaminodios son caracteres que permiten la circumscripcin de Chaptalia. Ciertas especies deben ser excluidas de Chaptalia, y las secciones de este gnero deben ser redefinidas. La presencia de estaminodios y de flores internas del radio con corola bilabiada ms larga que el estilo constituyen dos caracteres que confirman la transferencia de Chaptalia hintonii al gnero Gerbera.
41968310|A new native subspecies of Phragmites australis subsp. americanus Saltonstall, P.M. Peterson & Soreng is described. The new subspecies can be separated from the introduced and Gulf Coast North American lineages of P. australis by having caducous leaf sheaths, ligules 1.0-1.7 mm long, lower glumes 3.0-6.5 mm long, upper glumes 5.5-11.0 mm long, lemmas 8.0-13.5 mm long, and by possessing chloroplast DNA haplotypes of A-H, S, Z, AA. The new subspecies is clearly distinguished in a PCA analysis and when bivariate plots of the morphological features are compared. Additional work is needed to morphologically distinguish the introduced from Gulf Coast lineages. Phragmites berlandieri is lectotypified. A key and distribution maps to the three lineages are included. Se describe una nueva subespecie nativa Phragmites australis subsp. americanus Saltonstall, P.M. Peterson & Soreng. La nueva subespecie puede separarse de los linajes introducidos en la Gulf Coast de Norte Amrica de P. australis por tener vainas caducas, lgulas de 1.0-1.7 mm, glumas inferiores de 3.0-6.5 mm, glumas superiores de 5.5-11.0 mm long, lemas de 8.0-13.5 mm, y por tener haplotipos del DNA plastidial A-H, S, Z, AA. La nueva subespecie queda claramente diferenciada en un anlisis de PCA y cuando se comparan grficos bivariantes de las caractersticas morfolgicas. Se necesita trabajo adicional para diferenciar morfolgicamente los linajes introducidos de la Gulf Coast. Se lectotipif ica Phragmites berlandieri. Se incluyen una clave y mapas de distribucin de los tres linajes.
41968358|The flora of 18 xeric limestone prairies in the Interior Low Plateaus physiographic province in Kentucky was surveyed and a checklist of vascular plants prepared for each site. Nine of the 18 sites are in the Knobstone Escarpment and Knobs, four in the Mammoth Cave Plateau, two in the Pennyroyal Plain and three in the Outer Blue Grass. Life form, photosynthetic pathway, geographic affinity, conservation status and presence were determined for each taxon. Community coefficients were calculated from site floristic lists, and the physiography, geology and soils associated with each site were documented. The flora of xeric limestone prairies in Kentucky was compared to that of limestone cedar glades of the southeastern United States and of deep-soil barrens of the southwestern Pennyroyal Plain in Kentucky and Tennessee. Three hundred and thirty-five taxa were identified in this plant community type, of which 20 are nonnative and 24 state-listed. Families with the highest number of taxa were Asteraceae (70), Poaceae (32) and Fabaceae (29); genera with the highest number of taxa were Symphyotrichum (15), Panicum sensu lato (= Panicum + Dichanthelium) (10), Carex (7), Solidago (7) and Hypericum (6). Intraneous C 3 hemicryptophytes make up the majority of the flora. Community coefficients indicate high similarity among all sites except those in the eastern outer Blue Grass, which belong to a second association or community type. Endemic species, a higher percentage of therophytes (i.e. annuals, especially winter annuals) and a higher number of taxa with western and northwestern geographic affinities distinguish the limestone cedar glade flora from those of xeric limestone prairies and deep-soil barrens. La flora de 18 praderas calcreas xricas en la provincia fisiogrfica Interior Low Plateaus en Kentucky fue estudiada y se prepar un catlogo de plantas vasculares en cada lugar. Nueve de los 18 puntos estn en el Knobstone Escarpment y Knobs, cuatro en el Mammoth Cave Plateau, dos en la Pennyroyal Plain, y tries en el Outer Blue Grass. Se determin el tipo biolgico, ruta fotosinttica, afinidad geogrfica, estado de conservacin y presencia de cada taxon. Se calcularon los coeficientes de comunidad a partir de las listas florsticas del punto, y se document la fisiografa, geologa y suelos asociados con cada punto. La flora de las praderas calcreas xricas en Kentucky se compara con la de los claros calcreos de cedro del Sureste de los Estados Unidos y con la de los eriales de suelos profundos del Suroeste de la Pennyroyal Plain en Kentucky y Tennessee. Se identificaron trescientos treinta y cinco taxa en este tipo de comunidad vegetal, de los que 20 no son nativos y 24 estn listados en el estado. Las familias con el mayor nmero de taxa fueron Asteraceae (70), Poaceae (32) y Fabaceae (29); los gneros con el mayor nmero de taxa fueron Symphyotrichum (15), Panicum sensu lato (= Panicum + Dichanthelium) (10), Carex (7), Solidago (7) e Hypericum (6). Los hemicriptfitos C 3 caractersticos de la comunidad forman la mayor parte de la flora. Los coeficientes de comunidad indican alta similitud entre todos los puntos excepto los de Northeastern Blue Grass, que pertenecen a una segunda asociacin o tipo de comunidad. Las especies endmicas, un alto porcentaje de terfitos (ej. anuales, especialmente anuales de invierno) y un alto nmero de taxa con afinidades geogrficas occidentales y noroccidentales diferencian la flora de los claros calcreos de cedro de la de las praderas calcreas xricas y eriales de suelos profundos.
41968320|Within the treatment of Solidago, Torrey and Gray (1842), there are no textual indicators of the ranks intended for subdivision of the genus, and all of the Torrey and Gray names for subdivisions of Solidago are rankless. The new combination Solidago sect. Ptarmicoidei is made. En el tratamiento de Solidago, Torrey y Gray (1842), no hay indicadores textuales de los rangos que se hacen para la subdivisin del gnero, y todos los nombres de Torrey y Gray para las subdivisiones de Solidago no tienen rango. Se hace la nueva combinacin Solidago sect. Ptarmicoidei.
41968322|The following new name and combinations are proposed: Heterotheca subaxlaris subsp. latifolia, Solidago subsect. Multiradiatae, and Symphyotrichum concolor var. devestitum. Se proponen un nombre nuevo y varias combinaciones: Heterotheca subaxillaris subsp. latifolia, Solidago subsect. Multiradiatae, y Symphyotrichum concolor var. devestitum.
41968334|Symphyotrichum rhiannon Weakley & Govus, sp. nov, is described from the Buck Creek ultramafic barren (over serpentinized dunite and olivine) in the Blue Ridge province of southwestern North Carolina. It is similar to Symphyotrichum puniceum but different in its smaller stature, thinner rhizomes, subspatulate cauline leaves, narrower and fewer-headed capitulescence, phyllaries with shorter, rhombic-lanceolate apical green zones, and shorter ray corollas. Its geographic range is imbedded within that of typical S. puniceum but morphological intergrades have not been observed, despite the co-occurrence of the two taxa within several meters of one another at the type locality. The Buck Creek site is within the Nantahala National Forest; 42 hectares of the site are managed by the United States Forest Service as a Special Interest Area and registered as a heritage area with the North Carolina Natural Heritage Program. Symphyotrichum rhiannon Weakley & Govus, sp. nov, se describe del Buck Creek ultrabsico (sobre dunita y olivino serpentinizados) en la provincia Blue Ridge del Suroeste de Carolina del Norte. Es similar a Symphyotrichum puniceum pero diferente por su talla ms baja, rizomas ms finos, hojas caulinares subespatuladas, capitulescencia ms estrecha y con menos captulos, filaras con zonas verdes apicales rmbico-lanceoladas ms cortas, y radios de las corolas ms cortos. Su rango geogrfico est incluido en el de S. puniceum tpico pero no se ha observado intergradacin morfolgica, a pesar de la co-ocurrencia de los dos taxa a unos pocos metros en la localidad tipo. El Buck Creek est en el Nantahala National Forest; 42 hectreas estn gestionadas por el Servicio Forestal de los Estados Unidos como un rea de Especial Inters y registrado como un rea del Natural Heritage Program de Carolina del Norte.
41968301|This paper, the third in a series presenting cases of confusion of nomenclature and typification in the genus Usnea, discusses two names of pendent, apotheciate, angulose Usnea species from South America. The first, Usnea alata Motyka, was not correctly typified by Motyka (1937) at the time of description and is lectotypified here. The second, Usnea sulcata Motyka, has been misapplied due to a lectotypification that is in conflict with the protologue; the species is thus re-lectotypified here. A lectotype is also selected for the name U. angulata f. ferruginea Krempelhuber, which is considered a synonym of U. sulcata var. sulcata. Este artculo, el tercero de una serie que presenta casos de confusin en la nomenclatura y tipificacin en el gnero Usnea, discute dos nombres de especies de Usnea colgantes, con apotecios, angulosas de Sur Amrica. El primero, Usnea alata Motyka, no fue tipificado correctamente por Motyka (1937) en el momento de su descripcin y se lectotipifica aqu. El segundo, Usnea sulcata Motyka, ha sido mal aplicado debido a una lectotipificacin que est en conflicto con el protlogo; La especie es pues relectotipificada aqu. Tambin se selecciona un lectotipo para el nombre U. angulata f. ferruginea Krempelhuber, que es considerado un sinnimo de U. sulcata var. sulcata.
41968289|The genus Dirca consists of three disjunct species of shrubs. Dirca palustris is found in the eastern United States and adjacent Canada; D. occidentalis is limited to six counties near the San Francisco Bay in California; and the recently discovered D. mexicana is known from one isolated population in northeastern Mexico. The three species have been described and classified according to morphological characters, but the morphological evidence does not provide a clear assessment of the relationships among the species. Morphologically, D. mexicana most closely resembles D. occidentalis, but known biogeographical trends raise doubt regarding how the three species are interrelated. We used molecular techniques to examine and clarify phylogenetic relationships among the three species of Dirca. Evidence from Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) sequences and Inter-Simple Sequence Repeats (ISSR) polymorphisms confirms the species-level divergence of Dirca mexicana and reveals that, despite their morphological similarity, D. mexicana and D. occidentalis are the most divergent of the three species genetically, while D. mexicana and D. palustris are the most closely related. The molecular evidence also demonstrates that Dirca occidentalis was the first of the three species to diverge and has undergone the greatest degree of differentiation since divergence. El gnero Dirca consta de tres especies de arbustos separadas geogrficamente. Dirca palustris se encuentra en la parte Este de los Estados Unidos y la parte contigua de Canad; D. occidentalis se limita a seis condados alrededor de la baha de San Francisco en California, EE.UU.; y la recin descubierta D. mexicana se conoce solamente de una poblacin aislada en la parte noreste de Mxico. Las tres especies han sido descritas y clasificadas segn sus caractersticas morfolgicas, pero las pruebas morfolgicas han sido consideradas como no concluyentes para hacer una evaluacin clara de las relaciones entre las especies. Morfolgicamente, D. mexicana se parece ms a D. occidentalis, pero las tendencias biogeogrficas establecidas crean dudas sobre el grado de parentesco entre las dos especies. Hemos usado tcnicas moleculares para examinar y clarificar las relaciones filogenticas entre las tres especies de Dirca. Por las pruebas que encontramos en las secuencias del Espaciador Transcrito Interno (ETI) [Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS)] y polimorfismos de Repeticiones de Secuencias Intra-Simple (RSIS) [Inter-Simple Sequence Repeats (ISSR)], llegamos a las siguientes conclusiones: 1. Dirca mexicana merece ser catalogada como especie; 2. Dirca occidentalis fue la primera de las especies en evolucionar, y ha experimentado el mayor grado de diferenciacin desde su divergencia; y 3. Contrario a sus morfologas, D. mexicana tiene un grado de parentesco ms alto, en trminos genticos, con D. palustris que con D. occidentalis.
41968337|The genus Otostylis (Orchidaceae) is one of the lesser known genera in the Zygopetalum alliance, which has had a problematic taxonomic history. Otostylis consists of four species distributed in South America and Trinidad. The purpose of this paper is to provide a synopsis of the genus, with descriptions of the four species and keys for their identification. Otostylis paludosa is resurrected from previous synonomy under O. lepida and reported as a new record for the genus in Peru, occurring as a dominant herb in bog wetlands of the Department of Madre de Dios. El gnero Otostylis (Orchidaceae) es uno de los gneros poco conocidos en la alianza de Zygopetalum, que ha tenido una historia taxonmica problemtica. Otostylis consiste en cuatro especies distribuidas en Amrica del sur y Trinidad. El objetivo este articulo es proveer de una sinopsis del gnero, con descripciones de las cuatro especies y claves para su identificacin. Otostylis paludosa dejo de ser sinnimo de O. lepida y esta reportado como un record nuevo para el Per, siendo una hierba dominante en los pantanos del Departamento de Madre de Dios.
41968315|A brief review of Agoseris apargioides is presented. The species is redefined to exclude A. hirsuta, a grassland species found along the Coast Ranges of California. Agoseris apargioides occurs on coastal dunes along the Pacific coast from central California to Washington. Three varieties are recognized: var. apargioides, var. eastwoodiae, and var. martima (E. Sheld.) G.I. Baird, comb, et stat. nov. Se presenta una breve revisin de Agoseris apargioides. La especie se redefine para excluir A. hirsuta, una especie que se encentra en los pastos a lo largo de las cordilleras costeras de California. Agoseris apargioides aparece en las dunas costeras a lo largo de la costa del Pacifico desde el centro de California hasta Washington. Se reconocen tres variedades: var. apargioides, var. eastwoodiae, y var. martima (E. Sheld.) G.I. Baird, comb, et stat. nov.
41968370|This article reports the results of a vascular plant inventory of the Washita Battlefield National Historic Site in western Oklahoma. Two hundred and seventy-two species of vascular plants were collected from 201 genera and 62 families. The most specious families were the Poaceae (53), Asteraceae (48), Fabaceae (22) and Euphorbiaceae (22). One hundred and seventy-five species were perennials, ninety-five annuals, and 2 biennials. Twenty-eight woody plant species were present. Twenty-one species exotic to North America were collected representing 7.7% of the flora. Five species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were found. This study reports 205 species previously not documented in Roger Mills County. Este artculo presenta los resultados de un inventario de flora vascular del Washita Battlefield National Historie Site en el Oeste de Oklahoma. Se colectaron doscientas setenta y dos especies de plantas vasculares pertenecientes a 201 gneros y 62 familias. Las familias con ms especies fueron Poaceae (53), Asteraceae (48), Fabaceae (22) y Euphorbiaceae (22). Ciento setenta y cinco especies eran perennes, noventa y cinco anuales, y 2 bianuales. Estaban presentes veintiocho especies leosas. Se colectaron veintiuna especies exticas para Norte Amrica que representan el 7.7% de la flora. Se encontraron cinco especies seguidas por el Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory. Este estudio cita 205 especies no documentadas previamente en el condado de Roger Mills.
41968326|Mertensia virginica (L.) Pers. ex Link is the correct name for the Virginia-bluebell. It should not be replaced by M. pulmonarioides Roth. Mertensia virginica (L.) Pers. ex Link es el nombre correcto para la especie usualmente as conocida. No debe reemplazarse por M. pulmonarioides Roth.
41968319|The following new combinations in the Caryophyllaceae are proposed: Arenaria lanuginosa var. saxosa, Eremogoneferrisiae, Minuartia nuttallii vars. fragilis. gracilis, and gregaria, and Paronychia chartacea var. minima. Se proponen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas en Caryophyllaceae: Arenaria lanuginosa var. saxosa, Eremogone fer risiae, Minuartia nuttallii vars. fragi lis, gracilis, y gregaria, y Paronychia chartacea var. minima.
41968346|Five new combinations in Symphyotrichum tenuifolium and S. subulatum, of subgenus Astropolium (Nutt.) Semple are presented. A selection of synonyms are listed for each taxon. Geographical ranges of each variety is presented and the characteristics and distributions of intermediate populations are discussed. Symphyotrichum subgenus Astropolium (Nutt.) Semple ha sido tpicamente circunscrita usando los nombres de Aster subg. Oxytripolium (DC.) Torr. & A. Gray o S. sect. Oxytripolium (DC) G.L. Nesom (Jones 1980; Semple & Brouillet 1980; Sundberg 1986; Nesom 1994). Todas las interpretaciones recientes han incluido un grupo central de taxa norteamericanos y se han incluido otros taxa principalmente en base a una morfologa compartida o nmero cromosomtico base.
41968328|Gnaphalium saxcola is treated at specific rank as Pseudognaphalium saxcola (Fassett) H.E. Ballard & Feller, comb. nov. It is likely an evolutionary derivative of Pseudognaphalium obtusifolium but is consistently different in a number of mophological characters. No intermediates between P. saxcola and any other taxon have been observed. Gnaphalium saxcola se trata a nivel especfico como Pseudognaphalium saxcola (Fassett) H.E. Ballard & Feller, comb. nov. Es aparentemente un derivado evolutivo de Pseudognaphalium obtusifolium pero es bastante diferente en un nmero de caracteres morfolgicos. No se han observado intermedios entre P. saxcola y cualquier otro taxon.
41968365|Eleocharis mutata (L.) Roem. & Schult, is reported new to the flora of North America north of Mxico based on recent collections from Brazoria Co., Texas, U.S.A. A key to separate E. mutata from other species of Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa in North America north of Mxico as well as a technical description and ecological notes are provided. Se cita Eleocharis mutata (L.) Roem. & Schult. Nueva para la flora de Norte Amrica al norte de Mxico en base a recientes colecciones de Brazoria Co., Texas, U.S.A. Se ofrece una clave para separar E. mutata de otras especies de Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa en Norte Amrica al norte de Mxico as como una descripcin tcnica y notas ecolgicas.
41968304|A taxonomic treatment is presented for Hymenoxys subg. Macdougalia, which includes a single species, Hymenoxys bigelovii. The treatment includes a discussion of the original circumscription of Hymenoxys bigelovii (as Actinella bigelovii), the later description of the genus Macdougalia to accommodate this taxon, and the eventual placement, based on chemical, cytological, and morphological evidence, of Macdougalia within Hymenoxys as a monotypic subgenus. The treatment also includes synonymies of Hymenoxys subg. Macdougalia and Hymenoxys bigelovii, lectotypification of Actinella bigelovii, and a description and range map for Hymenoxys bigelovii. Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico de Hymenoxys subg. Macdougalia, que incluye una sola especie, Hymenoxys bigelovii. El tratamiento incluye una discusin de la circunscripcin original de H. bigelovii (como Actinella bigelovii), la descripcin del gnero Macdougalia para acomodar este taxon, y la colocacin eventual, basada en pruebas qumicas, citolgicas, y morfolgicas, de Macdougalia en Hymenoxys como un subgnero monotpico. El tratamiento incluye tambin sinonimias de Hymenoxys subg. Macdougalia y Hymenoxys bigelovii, lectotipificacin de Actinella bigelovii, y una descripcin y mapa de distribucin de Hymenoxys bigelovii.
41968363|Tributaries flowing into Kisatchie Bayou in southwestern Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana are characterized by clear flowing water and white sand bottoms. In places, sandstone or siltstone creek beds emerge during normal water levels but quickly become inundated during periods of rain. These emergent creek beds provide a unique microhabitat that hosts a distinctive flora. A total of 70 species representing 30 families and 52 genera were discovered in this base-line vascular plant survey of these emergent creek beds. With few exceptions, the plant species here appear to be well-adapted for life in this challenging microhabitat. Los afluentes que discurren por Kisatchie Bayou en el sudoeste de Natchitoches Parish, Luisiana se caracterizan por el agua clara que fluye y los fondos de arena blanca. En algunos lugares, los bancos de arenisca o aluviones emergen con niveles de agua normales pero se inundan rpidamente durante los perodos de lluvia. Estos bancos inesperados proporcionan un microhbitat nico que alberga una flora distinta. Un total de 70 especies que representan a 30 familias y 52 gneros se descubrieron en un muestreo de la flora vascular de estos bancos inesperados, con pocas excepciones, estas especies parecen estar bien adaptadas para la vida en este microhbitat desafiante.
41968354|The Coker Arboretum at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill celebrated its centennial anniversary in the spring of 2003. The festivities began with a talk on botanist William C. Coker, which highlighted his humanistic traits. This paper briefly describes the events of the centennial celebration and provides the full text of the biographical presentation on Professor Coker. El Coker Arboretum en la Universidad de Carolina del Norte en Chapel Hill celebr su centenario en la primavera de 2003. Las festividades comenzaron con una charla sobre el botnico William C. Coker, que subray sus rasgos humanos. Este artculo describe brevemente los eventos de la celebracin del centenario y aporta el texto completo de la presentacin biogrfica del Profesor Coker.
41968368|Solarium viarum, Tropical Soda-Apple (Solanaceae), is an aggressive weed from South America. Since it is known from the southern U.S., including Louisiana, it has been watched for in Texas. A population has now been confirmed and vouchered from Jasper County, Texas. Other populations probably exist. Solarium viarum, manzana de soda tropical (Solanaceae), es una mala hierba agresiva de Sur Amrica. Desde que es conocida del Sur de Estados Unidos, incluyendo Louisiana, ha sido buscada en Texas. Se ha confirmado ahora una poblacin y se han tomado testigos del condado de Jasper, Texas.
41968340|Based on a survey of the literature and a representative sampling of herbarium material, it appears that the approximately 70 published binomials for Clematis in sub-Saharan Africa can be reduced to 10-13 distinct species or species complexes. A key to these species, along with a commentary on each, is provided as a preliminary guide for further floristic and taxonomic studies. Basado en una revisin de la literatura y una prueba representativa del material herbario, parece que los aproximadamente 70 binmenes publicados para las clemtides del frica sub-Sahariana pueden ser reducidos a 10-13 complejos de especies, o especies distintas. Se proporciona una clave para estas especies, junto con un comentario para cada una, como una gua preliminar para estudios adicionales florsticos y taxonmicos.
41968294|A taxonomic treatment of Sporoholus R. Br. for northeastern Mxico (Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas), is given. Seventeen species and one subspecies of Sporoholus art recognized in the study area. Sporoholus airoides subsp. regis is endemic to Coahuila, and S. atrovirens and S. spiciformis art endemic to Mxico. Keys for determining the species, descriptions, distributions, specimens examined, illustrations, synonymies, and a brief discussion indicating relationships among all native and adventive species of Sporoholus in northeastern Mxico are provided. Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de Sporoholus R. Br. para el noreste de Mxico (Coahuila, Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas). Se reconocen diecisiete especies y una subespecie de Sporoholus para el rea de estudio. Sporoholus airoides subsp. regis es endmica para Coahuila, y S. atrovirens y S. spiciformis son endmicas para Mxico. Se incluyen claves para determinar las especies, descripciones, distribuciones, especmenes examinados, ilustraciones, sinonimias, y una discusin breve indicando las relaciones entre todas las especies nativas y adventicias de Sporoholus para el noreste de Mxico.
41968348|Chaptalia hintonii, of south-central Mexico, was recently transferred to the otherwise essentially Old World genus Gerbera on the basis of the occurrence of staminodes in the pistillate flowers. No clear position within Gerbera was determined for the species. In contrast, C. hintonii also has been placed among the eight species of sect. Chaptalia, based on its similarity in a set of features including scape morphology, head behavior, ray corolla morphology, cypselar vestiture, flower biology, and geography. Other species of South American and Mexican Chaptalia, including one other from sect. Chaptalia, also are known to produce staminodes, a feature interpreted here as plesiomorphic, either as vestigial occurrence or as the result of developmental intermediacy between bisexual disc florets and outer, pistillate ray florets. The hypothesis that C. hintonii belongs with Chaptalia is stronger than that for positioning C. hintonii in Gerbera. Chaptalia hintonii, del centro-sur de Mxico, fue transferida recientemente al gnero esencialmente del Viejo Mundo Gerbera en base a la presencia de estaminodios en las flores pistiladas. No se determin una posicin clara en Gerbera para la especie. Por contra, C. hintonii ha sido colocada entre las ocho especies de la sect. Chaptalia, en base a su similitud en un conjunto de caractersticas que incluyen la morfologa del escapo, comportamiento del captulo, morfologa de los radios de la corola, indumento de las cipselas, biologa floral, y geografa. Otras especies de Chaptalia de Sur Amrica y Mxico, incluida otra de la sect. Chaptalia, tambin se sabe que producen estaminodios, una caracterstica interpretada aqu como plesiomrfica, tanto como ocurrencia vestigial o como resultado de desarrollo intermedio entre flsculos bisexuales del disco y flores radiadas pistiladas. La hiptesis que C. hintonii pertenece a Chaptalia es ms fuerte que la que posiciona a C. hintonii en Gerbera.
41968371|This paper reports the occurrence of two species previously unknown to the flora of Oklahoma. Alternanthera paronichyoides St. Hil., which occurs in Texas, was discovered in Pushmataha County in southeastern Oklahoma. Rumex maritimus L., a species found in all states adjoining Oklahoma, was collected in Washita County in western Oklahoma. Este artculo cita la ocurrencia de dos especies previamente desconocidas de la flora de Oklahoma. Alternanthera paronichyoides St. Hil., que vive en Texas, fue descubierta en el condado de Pushmataha en el Sureste de Oklahoma. Rumex maritimus L., una especie que se encuentra en todos los estados adyacentes de Oklahoma, se colect en el condado de Washita en el Oeste de Oklahoma.
41968298|Three new species of the genus Eriocaulon L., two species viz., E. anshiense & E. kanarense from Karnataka and one species E. konkanense from Maharashtra are described and illustrated. A distribution map has been provided. A key to distinguish these three species from their allied species is also given. Tres especies nuevas del gnero Eriocaulon L. son aqu descritas e ilustradas, dos de ellas., E. anshiense y E. kanarense encontradas en Karnataka y la tercera E. kankanense en Maharashtra. Se proporciona un mapa de distribucin de las mismas. As mismo, se ofrece una clave de identificacin para distinguirlas, en la que se incluyen tambin especies prximas.
41968338|Platanthera chapmanii (Small) Luer emend. Folsom is a rare orchid endemic to the southern coastal plain of the southeastern United States. Since its original description by Small in 1902 as Blephariglottis chapmanii, Platanthera chapmanii has been recognized at various taxonomic levels. Folsom (1984) clarified this problem by once again recognizing it at the species level and also provided evidence for the hybrid origin of the species and a new contemporary hybrid, P.channellii. Because Folsom's work was not widely available, much misunderstanding still persists as to the correct identity and rank of Platanthera chapmanii. Several species and hybrids are involved in this complex and all have contributed to the confusion. Those misunderstandings and relationships are clarified here. Platanthera chapmanii (Small) Luer emend. Folsom es una orqudea rara endmica de la llanura costera del Sur de los Estados Unidos. Desde su descripcin original por Small en 1902 como Blephariglottis chapmanii, Platanthera chapmanii ha sido reconocida en varios niveles taxonmicos. Folsom (1984) clarific este problema reconocindola una vez ms a nivel especfico y tambin aport pruebas del origen hbrido de la especie y un nuevo hbrido contemporneo, P._channellii. Debido a que el trabajo de Folsom no estuvo ampliamente disponible, todava persiste mucho malentendido para la correcta identidad y rango de Platanthera chapmanii. Varias especies e hbridos estn implicados en este complejo y todos han contribuido a la confusin. Se clarifican estos errores y relaciones.
41968353|In 1806 Peter Custis, botanist on the Red River Expedition, collected 26 plants mainly in the prairies in what is today Caddo and Bossier parishes, Louisiana. These were sent to Benjamin Smith Barton in Philadelphia. Two of the specimens are still in the Barton Herbarium. They are very unusual for the region today. We have looked for the other 24 specimens but without success. Those 24 specimens would certainly aid in understanding the ecology of the Red River area in 1806. En 1806 Peter Custis, botnico en la expedicin del Red River, colect 26 plantas principalmente el lo que hoy son los municipios de Caddo y Bossier, Louisiana. Fueron enviadas a Benjamin Smith Barton en Filadelfia. Dos de los especmenes estn an en el Barton Herbarium. Estas son muy raras en la regin actualmente. Hemos buscado los otros 24 especmenes pero no hemos tenido xito. Estos 24 especmenes ayudaran ciertamente a comprender la ecologa del rea del Red River en 1806.
41968307|Erigeron maniopotamicus G.L. Nesom & T. W Nelson, sp. nov., a member of the E. eatonii alliance, apparently is endemic to east-central Humboldt County and immediately adjacent Trinity County, California. It is sympatric with E. robustiorbut it perhaps is more closely related to E. eatonii or E. lassenianus. Erigeron maniopotamicus G.L. Nesom & T.W. Nelson, sp. nov., un miembro del grupo E. eatonii, aparentemente es endmico del Este-centro del condado de Humboldt y el inmediatamente adyacente condado de Trinity, California. Es simptrico con E. robustior pero quizs est ms cercanamente relacionado con E. eatonii o E. lassenianus.
41968296|Lobelia L. sect. Homochilus A. DC. comprises six species, two of which are divided into pairs of geographic subspecies. All are robust polycarpic (iteroparous) perennial herbs or shrubs with relatively large more-or-less racemose flowers on ebracteolate or minutely bibracteolate pedicels; hemispheric or depressed hemispheric hypanthia; bilabiate or subbilabiate (unilabiate in one species) red, orange, yellow, pink, or purple-hued corollas with a straight cylindrical or apically tapering tube equaling or longer than the monomorphic lobes; ventral anthers with tufts of white or yellow trichomes at apex; and oblong or ellipsoid seeds with a faintly striate or minutely reticulate testa (Murata Type D); the three taxa that have been studied cytologically are diploid with n = 7. Lobelia aguana, L. ghiesbreghtii, L. guererrensis, and L. laxiflora have pedicels longer than the red, orange, or yellow typically bicolored flowers, and are distributed primarily in Mexico and/or Central America; L. decurrens and L. heteroclita, in contrast, have pedicels shorter than the monochromatic pink or purple-hued flowers, and are confined to the Andes of South America. Lobelia L. sect. Homochilus A. DC comprende seis especies, dos de las cuales estn divididas en pares de subespecies geogrficas. Todas son hierbas perennes robustas policrpicas o arbustos con flores relativamente grandes ms o menos racemosas sobre pedicelos ebracteolados o diminutamente bibracteolados; hipantos hemisfricos o hemisfrico deprimidos; bilabiados o subbilabiados (unilabiados en una especie) corolas rojas, anaranjadas, amarillas, rosas, o tonos prpura con un tubo cilindrico o estrechado apicalmente tan largo o ms que los lbulos monomrficos; anteras ventrales con mechones apicales de tricomas blancos o amarillos; y semillas oblongas o elipsoides con una testa dbilmente estriada o diminutamente reticulada (Murata Tipo D); los tres taxa que han sido estudiados citolgicamente son diploides con n = 7. Lobelia aguana, L. ghiesbreghtii, L. guererrensis, y L. laxiflora tienen pedicelos ms largos que las flores tpicamente bicolores rojas, anaranjadas, o amarillas, y estn distribuidas primariamente en Mxico y/o Amrica Central; L. decurrens y L. heteroclita, por contra, tiene pedicelos ms cortos que las flores monocromticas rosa o tonos prpura, y estn confinadas a los Andes de Sur Amrica.
41968344|Phylogenetic analysis of nrDNA (ETS and ITS) sequence data for 50 species of Astereae (Asteraceae) belonging to the Eurybia-Machaerantherinae clade show that Tonestus kingii and T. aberrans belong to this group. The genus Herrickia is reinstated and expanded to include H. kingii as well as members of Eurybia section Herrickia sensu Nesom (1994). A new genus, Triniteurybia, is established for T. aberrans, which is sister to the Machaerantherinae. El anlisis filogentico de secuencia de bases de nrDNA (ETS y ITS) de 50 especies de Astereae (Asteraceae) pertenecientes al ciado Eurybia-Machaerantherinae muestra que Tonestus kingii y T. aberrans pertenecen a este grupo. El gnero Herrickia se reinstaura y expande para incluir a H. kingii as como a miembros de Eurybia seccin Herrickia sensu Nesom (1994). Se establece un nuevo gnero, Triniteurybia, para T. aberrans, que es "sister group" de Machaerantherinae.
41968345|The following new combinations are proposed: Eutrochium dubium, Eutrochium fistulosum, Eutrochium maculatum, Eutrochium maculatum var. bruneri, Eutrochium maculatum var. foliosum, Eutrochium purpureum, Eutrochium purpureum var. holzingeri, and Eutrochium steelei. Se proponen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Eutrochium dubium, Eutrochium fistulosum, Eutrochium maculatum, Eutrochium maculatum var. bruneri, Eutrochium maculatum var. foliosum, Eutrochium purpureum, Eutrochium purpureum var. holzingeri, y Eutrochium steelei.
41968378|A recent collection of mosses from the Department of Madre de Dios in the lowlands of southeastern Peru contains 58 different species. Fifty-four taxa are new to the district and four species are reported new to Peru. Previous collections from the district are listed which brings the total species known from the area to 74. This is the first major study of mosses from Madre de Dios, Peru, and it provides a foundation for continued work and production of a field guide for the region. Una coleccin reciente de musgos del Departamento de Madre de Dios en la zona baja del Sureste de Per contiene 58 especies diferentes. Cincuenta y cuatro taxa son nuevos para el distrito y se citan cuatro especies nuevas para Per. Se listan las colecciones previas del distrito que elevan el total de especies conocidas del rea a 74. Este es el primer estudio amplio de musgos de Madre de Dios, Per, y aporta un inicio para la continuacin del trabajo y la produccin de una gua de campo para la regin.
41968342|As part of a search for DNA regions suitable for phylogenetic analysis in the genus Clematis (Ranunculaceae), the nuclear-encoded Actin I intron was employed in a preliminary sampling of a small number of species selected to represent the major subdivisions of the genus. This DNA region was found to be more informative and to provide a more robust phylogenetic tree than chloroplast DNA regions. Trees generated were consistent with phylogenetic hypotheses based on morphology and with published molecular analyses. Moreover, three species of the section Crispae (subgenus Viorna) native to Florida, considered closely related on morphological grounds, formed a well-supported clade, and were distinguishable from one another. This suggests that this DNA region might be a useful tool for distinguishing groups of closely-related species, individual species, and possibly hybrids. Como parte de una bsqueda de regiones de DNA apropiadas para anlisis filogenticos en el gnero Clematis (Ranunculaceae), se emple el intrn Actin I nuclear en un muestreo preliminar de un pequeo nmero de especies seleccionadas para representar las grandes subdivisiones del gnero. Esta regin de DNA se encontr que era ms informativa y daba un rbol filogentico ms consistente que las regiones de DNA plastidial. Los rboles generados eran consistentes con la hiptesis filogentica basada en la morfologa y con los anlisis moleculares publicados. Adems, tres especies de la seccin Crispae (subgnero Viorna) nativas de Florida, consideradas fuertemente emparentadas en aspectos morfolgicos, formaron un ciado muy coherente, y eran distinguibles una de otra. Esto sugiere que esta regin del DNA puede ser un instrumento til para diferenciar grupos de especies muy emparentadas, especies individuales, y posiblemente hbridos.
41968316|Gamochaeta argyrinea Nesom, sp. nov., is documented from 19 states, primarily in the southeastern U.S.A., and from Puerto Rico. It is a common and abundant species of ruderal habitats and has usually been identified within a broad concept of Gamochaeta purpurea, which has a similar but broader geographic range. Gamochaeta argyrinea apparently is most closely similar to G. ustulata, another species commonly identified as G. purpurea but native to the Pacific coast region of the U.S.A. and adjacent Canada. Gamochaeta chionesthes Nesom, sp. nov, is described from localities in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina, and North Carolinathese plants also have been identified previously primarily as G. purpurea. A key and distribution maps are provided for the six species of Gamochaeta in the U.S.A. with strongly bicolored leaves: G. argyrinea, G. ustulata, G. chionesthes, G. purpurea, G. simplicicaulis, and G. coarctata. The name Gamochaeta americana has been misapplied to G. coarctata, but G. americana sensu stricto has not been documented for the U.S.A.; it occurs in the Antilles, Central America, Mexico, and South America and is reported to occur elsewhere as an adventive. In order to further clarify its identity, a technical description and commentary are provided for G. americana. Se documenta Gamochaeta argyrinea Nesom, sp. nov., de 19 estados, principalmente del Sureste de USA, y de Puerto Rico. Es una especie comn y abundante en habitats ruderales y ha sido identificada usualmente dentreo del concepto amplio de Gamochaeta purpurea, que tiene un rango geogrfico similar pero ms amplio. Gamochaeta argyrinea es aparentemente ms parecida a G. ustulata, otra especie identificada comnmente como G. purpurea pero nativa de la regin costera del Pacifico de U.S.A. y Canad adyacente. Gamochaeta chionesthes Nesom, sp. nov, se describe de localidades de Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, Carolina del Sur, y Carolina del Norteestas plantas tambin han sido identificadas previamente como G. purpurea. Se ofrece una clave y mapas de distribucin de las seis especies de Gamochaeta de U.S.A. con hojas bicolores: G. argyrinea, G. ustulata, G. chionesthes, G. purpurea, G. simplicicaulis, y G. coarctata. El nombre Gamochaeta americana ha sido mal aplicado a G. coarctata, pero G. americana sensu stricto no se ha documentado para U.S.A.; est en las Antillas, Amrica Central, Mxico, y Amrica del Sur y se cita de otros lugares como adventicia. Se ofrece una descripcin tcnica y comentarios sobre G. americana para clarificar su identidad.
41968313|After analyzing protologues and types, Baccharis subsculpta Hochr, a supposedly Peruvian endemic, is considered a synonym of the more widespread B. pulchella Sch. Bip. ex Griseb. A lectotype is selected for the name of the new synonym. Despus del anlisis de los tipos y protlogos, Baccharis subsculpta Hochr., una especie peruana supuestamente endmica, es considerada un sinnimo de B. pulchella Sch. Bip. ex Griseb. de ms amplia distribucin. Se selecciona un lectotipo para el nombre del nuevo sinnimo.
41968330|Pseudognaphalium canescens, Pseudognaphalium microcephalum Pseudognaphalium beneolens, and Pseudognaphalium thermale (E.E. Nelson) Nesom, comb, nov., are treated as separate species. A recent treatment of the California flora combined these taxa as subspecies within a single species (P. canescens) but earlier f loristicians have viewed them as distinct species. The current study also concludes that they are distinct and appropriately treated at specific rank. A nomenclatural and ecological summary and a distribution map are provided for each species and the four are morphologically distinguished in a key. A lectotype is designated for Gnaphalium wrightii. Pseudognaphalium canescens, Pseudognaphalium microcephalum, Pseudognaphalium beneolens, y Pseudognaphalium thermale (E.E. Nelson) Nesom, comb, nov, se tratan como especies independientes. Un reciente tratamiento de la flora de California combinaba estos taxa como subespecies dentro de una nica especie (P. canescens) pero los floristas previos las han visto como especies distintas. El presente estudio tambin concluye que son distintas y que lo apropiado es tratarlas a nivel especfico. Se ofrece un resumen nomenclatural y ecolgico, as como un mapa de distribucin de cada especie, y se distinguen morfolgicamente las cuatro en una clave. Se designa un lectotipo para Gnaphalium wrightii.
41968343|The following new combinations are proposed. Cerastium velutinum Raf. var. villosissimum (Pennell) J.K. Morton, Silene drummondii Hook, subsp. striata (Rydb.) J.K. Morton, Silene laciniata Cav. subsp. californica (Durand) J.K. Morton, Silene ostenfeldii (A.E. Porsild) J.K. Morton and Stellaria cuspidata Willd. ex Schlecht, subsp. prostrata (Baldw. ex Ell.) J.K. Morton. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones. Cerastium velutinum Raf. var. villosissimum (Pennell) J.K. Morton, Silene drummondii Hook, subsp. striata (Rydb.) J.K. Morton, Silene laciniata Cav. subsp. californica (Durand) J.K. Morton, Silene ostenfeldii (A.E. Porsild) J.K. Morton y Stellaria cuspidata Willd. ex Schlecht, subsp. prostrata (Baldw. ex Ell.) J.K. Morton.
41968355|The widespread Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. et Maxim.) Maxim, is threatened because of overharvesting of its root bark for medicinal uses. The geographically restricted E. brachypus becomes endangered due to habitat loss in the Loess Plateau of China. To facilitate the development of conservation strategies, genetic diversity of both species was measured at 26 isozyme loci (12 enzymes). Eleutherococcus brachypus had a low proportion of polymorphic loci (Ps= 19.2%; Pp= 13.1%) and low genetic diversity (Hes= 0.063; Hep= 0.031). The genetic variability of the widespread E. senticosus was higher (Ps= 26.9%; Pp= 20.76%; Hes= 0.094; Hep= 0.059) than that of the restricted E. brachypus. Population differentiation of E. brachypus (Gst= 0.531) was greater than that of E. senticosus (Gst= 0.383). Cluster analysis showed that populations of E. senticosus in Northeast or North China are genetically closer within each region than between the two regions. Populations of E. senticosus in Northeast China have a higher level of genetic diversity, and these populations need to be conserved with greater priority. Populations of E. brachypus in the Loess Plateau have been highly fragmented, and all populations of the species should be protected to maximize its genetic diversity.  (Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. et Maxim.) Maxim.)    5197  122619. 2 13. 1% ; 0. 063,  0.03126. 9%,  20. 76%0. 094,0.059 (Gst=0. 531)  (Gst=0.383)   , 
41968290|The new combinations Gentianopsis detonsa subsp. nesophila and G. virgata subsp. macounii are published, bringing infraspecific classification into accord with the currently accepted names for the respective species. Las nuevas combinaciones Gentianopsis detonsa subsp. nesophila y G. virgata subsp. macounii, son publicadas trayendo la clasificacin infraspecific de acuerdo con los nombres actualmente aceptados para las respectivas especies.
41968375|Documentation is given for 73 taxa of Asteraceae collected in 1957-1960 from wool mill sites in Berkeley County and Florence County, South Carolina. Twenty-eight (28) of these taxa are first reports for the flora of South Carolina; seventeen (17) others represent the first documentation for earlier reports for the state. Six (6) are first reports for North America: Chevreulia sarmentosa, Gamochaeta argentina, and Panphalea heterophylla (native to South America), and Peripleura arida, Stuartina hamata, and Vittadinia sulcata (native to Australia). Calotis cuneifolia (native to Australia) is reported for North America for the second time. Fifty-nine (59) of the 73 taxa are not native to South Carolina; of these, 29 are native to continents other than North America, while 30 are native to North America but from regions outside of the state. Se ofrece documentacin de 73 taxa de Asteraceae colectados en el intervalo 1957-1960 en los condados de Berkeley y Florence County, Carolina del Sur. Veintiocho (28) de estos taxa son primeras citas para la flora de Carolina del Sur; otros diez y siete (17) representan los primeros testigos para citas previas en el estado. Seis (6) son primeras citas para Norte Amrica: Chevreulia sarmentosa, Gamochaeta argentina, and Panphalea heterophylla (nativa de Sur Amrica), y Peripleura arida, Stuartina hamata, y Vittadinia sulcata (nativa de Australia). Calotis cuneifolia (nativa de Australia) se cita para Norte Amrica por segunda vez. Cincuenta y nueve (59) de los 73 taxa no son nativos de Carolina del Sur; de estos, 29 son nativos de otros continentes diferentes de Norte Amrica, mientras que 30 son nativos de Norte Amrica pero de regiones fuera del estado.
41968318|Ptilimnium ahlesii Weakley & Nesom, sp. nov., is described from localities in eight counties of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia in tidal freshwater marshes within 20 miles of the Atlantic coast. The species has been previously identified as P. capillaceum but differs from the latter in its conspicuously large ovaries and fruits, which at maturity are 2.7-4.2 mm long and 1.8-2.2 mm wide (vs 1.4-2.5 mm long and 0.8-1.2 mm wide in P. capillaceum), in its less-divided leaves, and in its inflorescences with fewer umbellets per umbel and fewer flowers per umbellet. The new species also flowers and fruits earlier than P. capillaceum (May-early June, late May-July, vs. mid June-early August, July-September, respectively). Ptilimnium ahlesii is rare and restricted to freshwater or slightly brackish marshes, while P. capillaceum has a wider geographic range and ecological tolerance, but the two species grow in close proximity in their area of sympatry. Se describe Ptilimnium ahlesii Weakley & Nesom, sp. nov, de varias localidades en ocho condados de Carolina del norte, Carolina del Sur y Georgia en bordes de charcas de agua dulce en una banda de 20 millas en la costa atlntica. La especie ha sido previamente identificada como P. capillaceum pero difiere de sta por los ovarios y frutos claramente ms grandes, que en la madurez tienen 2.7-4.2 mm de longitud y 1.8-2.2 mm de anchura (contra 1.4-2.5 mm de longitud y 0.8-1.2 mm de anchura en P. capillaceum), por sus hojas menos divididas, y por sus inflorescencias con menos umblulas por umbela y menos flores por umblula. La nueva especie tambin florece antes que P. capillaceum (principios de mayo-junio, finales de mayo-julio, vs. mediados de junio-principios de agosto, julioseptiembre, respectivamente). Ptilimnium ahlesii es rara y restringida a charcas de agua dulce o ligeramente salobres, mientras que  capillaceum tiene un rango geogrfico y tolerancia ecolgica ms amplia, pero las dos especies crecen muy prximas en su rea de simpatra.
41968360|Despite the abundance of Juniperus ashei Buchholz in Texas, mature, intact stands are relatively rare. This study compares structural patterns and growth dynamics among three mature stands on the Edwards Plateau and documents relationships between structural changes and temporal development of these forests. Each stand has varied physiognomic characteristics and age-related structure. By identifying and comparing these properties, this study provides information relevant to conservation and management decisions relating to J. ashei. A pesar de la abundancia de Juniperus ashei Buchholz en Texas, las agrupaciones maduras e intactas son relativamente raras. Este estudio compara los modelos estructurales y la dinmica de crecimiento entre tres agrupaciones maduras en el altiplano Edwards y se documentan las relaciones entre los cambios estructurales y el desarrollo temporal de estos bosques. Cada agrupacin tiene diversas caractersticas fisonmicas y una estructura relacionada con su edad. Al identificar y comparar estas propiedades, este estudio provee informacin pertinente para la conservacin y decisiones de supervisin relacionadas con J. ashei.
41968306|Erigeronglacialis (Nutt.) A. Nels. (= E. callianthemus Greene) is recognized as a species separate from E. peregrinus (Banks ex Pursh) Greene. It has most recently been treated as E. peregrinus subsp. callianthemus. Intermediates between E. glacialis and E. peregrinus do occur but the two species are mostly distinct even where in close contact in Washington and British Columbia; intermediates are uncommon or absent as E. glacialis at the western edge of its range is contiguous or perhaps intermittently sympatric with E. peregrinus northward into Alaska. Erigeron glacialis var. hirsutus (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, nov., is proposed in order to complete the alternate taxonomy. If Cronquist's recognition of two subspecies within E. peregrinus is to be followed, the name E. peregrinus subsp. callianthemus (1943) is incorrect, the precedent for a name at that rank set by E. salsuginosus subsp. angustifolius (1906). Erigeron glacialis (Nutt.) A. Nels. (= E. callianthemus Greene) se reconoce como una especie diferente de E. peregrinus (Banks ex Pursh) Greene. Ha sido tratada recientemente como E. peregrinus subsp. callianthemus. Se encuentran intermedios entre E. glacialis y E. peregrinus pero las dos especies son muy distintas incluso cuando estn en contacto en Washington y en Columbia Britnica; los intermedios son raros o ausentes ya que E. glacialis en el lmite Oeste de su rea vive contiguo o quizs intermitentemente simptrico con E. peregrinus hacia el Norte hasta Alaska. Se propone Erigeron glacialis var. hirsutus (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, nov, para completar la taxonoma alternativa. Si se sigue el reconocimiento de Cronquist de dos subespecies en E. peregrinus, el nombre E. peregrinus subsp. callianthemus (1943) es incorrecto, el precedente de un nombre en ese rango est establecido por E. salsuginosus subsp. angustifolius (1906).
41968359|Fort Matanzas National Monument, administered by the National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, comprises 127 ha (313 acres) that includes portions of two barrier islands in St. Johns County, Florida: northern Rattlesnake Island, where the historic Fort Matanzas is located, and southern Anastasia Island. A floristic survey was conducted to procide Park Service personnel with a vouchered checklist of vascular plant species, supplemented with salient information such as relative abundance, locality data, and community type. Four intensive collecting trips conducted in 2003-2004 yielded 237 species of vascular plants in 189 genera of 73 families. The four largest families are Poaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Amaranthaceae, and Euphorbiaceae. A map, descriptions, and photographs of the various plant communities are also provided. El Monumento Nacional Fuerte Matanzas, administrado por el Servicio de Parques Nacionales del Departamento del Interior, tiene una extensin de 127 ha e incluye dos islas de barrera localizadas en el condado de St. Johns, Florida: al Norte la Isla Rattlesnake donde se encuentra el Fuerte Matansas, y Nacionales, utilizando una lista de especies testigo, que presenta informacin sobre la descripcin, abundancia relativa, localidad y el tipo de comunidad florstica de las especies de plantas vasculares de la zona. Se realizaron cuatro viajes de colecta intensiva entre 2003 y 2004, de los cuales se obtuvieron un total de 237 especies de plantas vasculares, pertenecientes a 189 gneros y 75 familias, Las cinco familias ms representadas son Poaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Amaranthaceae y Euphorbiaceae. Se presentan mapas, descripciones y fotografas de varias de las comunidades de plantas muestreadas.
41968333|Liatrisgraminifolia Willd. is the name generally used for the grass-leaved gayfeather of the south-eastern United States. Gray (1884), Gaiser (1946), and Wilbur (1962) observed that the name Liatris pilosa (Aiton) Willd. apparently applies to this species and has priority; Fernald and Griscom (1938) dissented, but the present study concurs that L. pilosa should replace L. graminifolia as the correct name. A lectotype from BM is designated for Liatris (Serratula) pilosa. This specimen probably was collected in New Jersey or Delaware and apparently represents a particularly hairy populational variant of the species that occurs in the area but that intergrades there with plants more characteristic of the species in the broader Atlantic coast region. Two taxa that have been identified as varieties of L. graminifolia are here treated at specific rank: Liatris elegantula (Greene) K. Schum. occurs on the Gulf coastal plain in Mississippi (rare), Alabama, Florida, and Georgia; Liatris virgata Nutt. (= Liatris regimontis, Lacinaria smallii) occupies an intermediate geographic position, ranging in South Carolina and Georgia northward through western North Carolina into Virginia. These three taxa differ consistently in involucral morphology and the range of L. virgata is geographically juxtaposed between L. pilosa and L. elegantula. Intermediates have not been observed in areas of sympatry at the range margins. Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky is a fourth member of this group, possibly most closely related to L. virgata. A taxonomic summary is provided, including nomenclature, distribution maps, ecological summaries, and a key. Liatris graminifolia Willd. es el nombre que se usa generalmente para la planta del Sureste de los Estados Unidos. Gray (1884), Gaiser (1946), y Wilbur (1962) observaron que el nombre Liatris pilosa (Aiton) Willd. aparentemente se aplica a esta especie y tiene prioridad; Fernald and Griscom (1938) disintieron, pero en el presente estudio se concluye que L. pilosa debe remplazar a L. graminifolia como nombre correcto. Se designa un lectotipo de BM para Liatris (Serratula) pilosa. Este espcimen probablemente fue colectado en Nueva Jersey o Delaware y aparentemente representa una variante poblacional particularmente pelosa de la especie que se encuentra en el rea pero que se intergrada con plantas ms caractersticas de la especie en la regin Atlntica costera ms amplia. Dos taxa que han sido identificados como variedades de L. graminifolia se tratan aqu con rango especfico: Liatris elegantula (Greene) K. Schum. vive en la llanura costera del Golfo en Mississippi (rara), Alabama, Florida, y Georgia; Liatris virgata Nutt. (= Liatris regimontis, Lacinaria smallii) ocupa una posicin geogrfica intermedia, yendo desde Carolina del Sur y Georgia por el Oeste de Carolina del Norte hasta Virginia. Estos tres taxa difieren consistentemente en la morfologa involucral y el rango de L. virgata est yuxtapuesto geogrficamente entre L. pilosa y L. elegantula. No se han observado intermedios en reas de simpatra en los extremos de rea. Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky es un cuarto miembro de este grupo, posiblemente ms relacionado con L. virgata. Se ofrece un resumen taxonmico que incluye nomenclatura, mapas de distribucin, resmenes ecolgicos, y una clave.
41968521|The following 66 chromosome numbers and vouchers for 24 species of Poa L. are reported from Canada, Mexico, and the U.S.A.: P. abbreviata subsp. pattersonii, 2n = 42, 2n = 42, 2n = 42; P. alpina, 2n = 28+II, 2n = 32+I (2), 2n = 40+I, 2n = 42, 2n = 56; P. arctica subsp. aperta, 2n = 98+I; subsp. arctica, 2n = 56; subsp. rctica (longipila form), 2n = 56-59, 2n = 80, 2n = 88; P. atropurpurea, 2n = 28; P. bigelovii, 2n = 28+I; P. cusichii subsp. pallida, 2n = 56+II; P. fendleriana subsp. albescens, 2n = 28+II, 2n = 56; subsp. fend leriana, 2n = 56 (4), 2n = 59, 2n = 58-60, 2n = 58-64; subsp. longiligula, 2n = 56,2n ca. 56; P. glauca subsp. glauca, 2n = 56, 2n = 56-58; subsp. rupicola, 2n = 48, 2n = 48-50, 2n = 54-56, 2n ca. 100; P. interior, 2n = 42; P. laxa subsp. banffiana, 2n = 84; P. leptocoma 2n = 42 (2); P. lettermanii, 2n = 14; P. napensis, 2n = 42; P. nervosa, 2n = 28; P. occidental, 2n = 14 (2), 2n = 28; P. paucispicula, 2n = 42; P. piperi, 2n = 28; P. pratensis subsp. alpigena, 2n = 56+III; P. reflexa, 2n = 28 (4); P. secunda subsp. juncifolia, 2n = 63; subsp. secunda, 2n = 84-88+II; P. sierrae, 2n ca. 58; P. strictiramea, 2n = 28-29,2n = 29+II; P. supina c. v. SUPERNOVA, 2n = 14; P. tracyi, 2n = 28 (5), 2n = 28+I; P. unilateralis subsp. pachyphohs, 2n = 42; and P. unilateralis subsp. unilateralis, 2n = 84. Se citan 66 nmeros cromosomticos y testigos de 24 especies de Poa L. de Canad, Mxico, y E.E.U.U.: P. abbreviata subsp. pattersonii, 2n = 42; P. alpina, 2n = 28+II, 2n = 32+I (2), 2n = 40+I, 2n = 42, 2n = 56; P. arctica subsp. aperta, 2n = 98+I; subsp. arctica, 2n = 56; subsp. arctica (forma longipila), 2n = 56-59, 2n = 80, 2n = 88; P. atropurpurea, 2n -28; P. bigelovii, 2n = 28+I; P. cusickii subsp. pallida, 2n = 56+II; P. fendleriana subsp. albescens, 2n = 28+II, 2n = 56; subsp. fendleriana, 2n = 56 (4), 2n = 59, 2n = 58-60, 2n = 58-64; subsp. longiligula, 2n =56, 2n ca. 56; P. glauca subsp. glauca, 2n = 56, 2n = 56-58; subsp. rupicola, 2n = 48, 2n = 48-50, 2n = 54-56, 2n ca. 100; P. interior, 2n = 42; P. laxa subsp. banffiana, 2n = 84; P. leptocoma 2n = 42 (2); P. lettermanii, 2n = 14; P. napensis, 2n = 42; P. nervosa, 2n = 28; P. occidentalis, 2n = 14 (2); P paucispicula, 2n = 42; P. piperi, 2n = 28; P. pratensis subsp. alpigena, 2n = 56+ III; P. reflexa, 2n = 28 (4); P. secunda subsp. juncifolia, 2n = 63; subsp. secunda, 2n = 84-88+II; P. sierrae, 2n ca. 58; P. strictiramea, 2n = 28-29, 2n = 29+II; P. supina c.v. SUPERNOVA, 2n = 14; P. tracyi, 2n = 28 (5), 2n = 28+I; P. unilateralis subsp. pachypholis, 2n = 42; y P. unilateralis subsp. unilateralis, 2n = 84.
41968517|The current (2000) International Code of Botanical Nomenclature is open to divergent interpretation regarding the use of ranks. Article 4.1 outlines secondary ranks to be used between the principal ranks of family and species and below species. Article 4.2 states that ranks prefixed by "sub-" (termed here as "tertiary" rank, immediately subsidiary in sequence and relative order to principal or secondary ranks) are used to increase the number of ranks to a "greater number" than formed in 4.1. Some taxonomists, in contrast, apparently interpret these Articles such that tertiary ranks may be used without reference to secondary ranks (e.g., subgenus in a genus without sections or series; subspecies in species without varieties or forms). Alternate formulations are offered for Articles 4 and 5 that may more clearly express the intent of the Code: Formulation 1 if the intent is to mandate that tertiary ranks between family and species, and below species, be used only in conjunction with secondary ranks; Formulation 2 if the intent is that tertiary ranks may be used without reference to secondary ranks. El actual Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica (2000) est abierto a interpretaciones diversas respecto al uso de los rangos. El Artculo 4.1 esboza los rangos secundarios para usar entre los rangos principales de familia y especie, y especie e inferiores. El Artculo 4.2 establece que los rangos con el prefijo "sub-" (llamados aqu rango "terciario", inmediatamente siguientes en secuencia y orden relativo a los rangos principales o secundarios) se usan para incrementar el nmero de rangos a un "numero ms grande" que los formados en 4.1. Algunos taxnomos, por el contrario, interpretan aparentemente estos Artculos de modo que los rangos terciarios pueden usarse sin referencia a los rangos secundarios (ej. subgnero en un gnero sin secciones o series; subespecies en especies sin variedades o formas). Se ofrecen formulaciones alternativas para los Artculos 4 y 5 que pueden expresar ms claramente la intencin del Cdigo: Formulacin 1 si la intencin es de exigir que los rangos terciarios entre familia y especie, y por debajo de especie, se usen slo en conjuncin con rangos secundarios; Formulacin 2 si la intencin es que los rangos terciarios puedan usarse sin referencia a los rangos secundarios.
41968508|In the absence of possible holotype material, a lectotype is designated for Stachysfloridana Shuttlew. ex Benth. in DC. (1848) from material not clearly cited by Bentham but probably in his possession at time of publication. Aufgrund des Fehlens von Originalmaterial wird fr Stachysfloridana Shuttlew. ex Benth. in DC (1848) ein Lektotyp aus Belegen ausgewhlt, die Bentham zwar nicht zitiert hat, die aber wahrscheinlich zur Zeit des Publikation in seinem Besitz waren.
41968531|A survey of the vascular flora of Giles County, Tennessee was conducted between July 1998 and September 2004. A total of 1208 species and infraspecific taxa, representing 138 families and 553 genera, were documented from 30 qualitatively defined habitats, resulting in 912 county records. Several rare taxa were discovered, including two federally threatened species: Apios priceana and Helianthus eggertii. Other noteworthy rare species found were Cimicifuga rubifolia, Perideridia americana, Stellariafontinalis, and Xyris laxifolia var. iridifolia. Arenaria lanuginosa, a Tennessee endangered species thought extirpated from the state, was rediscovered after not having been collected since 1948. In addition, three state records, Achyranthes japonica, Euonymus kiautschovicus, and Eupato rium  pinnatifidum, were found. Other noteworthy collections include Baccharis halimifolia and Amaranthus powellii, each representing second reports from Tennessee. Se realiz un estudio de la flora vascular de Giles County, Tennessee entre Julio de 1998 y Septiembre de 2004. Se documentaron un total de 1208 especies y taxa infraspecificos, que representan 138 familias y 553 gneros, procedentes de 30 habitats definidos cualitativamente, que aportaron 912 citas para el condado. Se descubrieron varios taxa raros, incluyendo dos especies amenazadas federalmente: Apiospriceana y Helianthus eggertii. Otras especies notables raras encontradas fueron Cimicifuga rubifolia, Perideridia americana, Stellaria fontinalis, y Xyris laxifolia var. iridifolia. Arenaria lanuginosa, una especie amenazada de Tennessee que se crea eliminada del estado, se redescubri despus de no haber sido colectada desde 1948. Adems, se encontraron tres citas para el estado Achyranthes japnica, Euonymus kiautschovicus, y Eupatorium _ pinnatifidum. Otras colecciones notables incluyen Baccharis halimifolia y Amaranthus powellii, ambas representan segundas citas para Tennessee.
41968532|A floristic inventory in Montgomery County, Arkansas, documented 1,110 vascular plant taxa. Fiftynine taxa (5% of county total) in Montgomery County are considered to be of conservation concern and are tracked by the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission. One hundred and thirty-four taxa (12% of county total) were introduced, 21 (2% of county total) of which are considered invasive. The families with the most taxa represented in the flora are Asteraceae (144), Poaceae (120), Cyperaceae (82), Fabaceae (75), and Rosaceae (38). Elatine triandra Schkuhr represents a species never before collected in Arkansas. A single federally endangered species, Ptilimnium nodosum (Rose) Mathias, was noted. Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle, a federally listed noxious weed was collected. Montgomery County has one of the highest proportions of sensitive species in Arkansas, but has fewer than 20% of the State's known alien species, probably due to its high diversity of rare habitats and a relatively intact landscape. With 1,110 taxa, Montgomery County is the sixth best-collected county in Arkansas. However, since most Arkansas counties have fewer than 800 documented taxa, there is a clear need for increased floristic work if the species that grow in Arkansas are to be known. Se llev a cabo un inventario floristico en el condado de Montgomery, Arkansas, que proporcion una lista de 1.110 taxa de plantas vasculares. Cincuenta y nueve taxa (5% del total) del condado de Montgomery son considerados raros y estn siendo monitoreados por la Comisin Herencia Natural de Arkansas (Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission). Ciento treinta y cuatro taxa (12% del total del condado) son introducidos y 21 (2% del total del condado) son considerados especies invasoras. Las familias con un mayor nmero de taxa representados en la flora son Asteraceae (144), Poaceae (120), Cyperaceae (82), Fabaceae (75), y Rosaceae (38). Elatine triandra Schkuhr es una especie que fue colectada por primera vez en Arkansas. Fue encontrada una sola especie federal en peligro, Ptilimnium nodosum (Rose) Mathias. Se colect Hydrilla verticillata (L. f.) Royle, una especie nociva federal mencionada. El condado de Montgomery tiene una de las ms elevadas proporciones de especies sensibles de Arkansas, pero tiene menos del 20% de las especies introducidas en el estado, probablemente debido al gran nmero de habitats raros y un paisaje relativamente intacto. Con 1.110 taxa, el condado de Montgomery es el sexto condado muestreado de Arkansas. Sin embargo, puesto que la mayora de los condados de Arkansas tienen menos de 800 taxa documentados, hay una necesidad de ms estudios florsticos con el fin de conocer las especies que crecen en Arkansas.
41968496|The new combination Staurochilus leytensis (Ames) E.A. Christenson (Orchidaceae) is made. Se hace la nueva combinacin Staurochilus leytensis (Ames) E.A. Christenson (Orchidaceae).
41968541|Hydrocotyle sibthorpioides (Apiaceae) is reported as new to the Texas flora. Introduced species in the East Texas flora, as well as noxious plants and invasive exotics (including four particularly problematic species (Cuscuta japonica, Orobanche ramosa, Solanum viarum, and Triadica sebifera) are discussed. Hydrocotyle sibthorpioides (Apiaceae) se cita como nueva para la flora de Texas. Se discuten especies introducidas en la flora del Este de Texas, as como plantas nocivas y exticas invasoras (incluyendo cuatro especies particularmente problemticas (Cuscuta japonica, Orobanche ramosa, Solanum viarum, y Triadica sebifera).
41968507|The original descriptions and prologues, type specimens, and available material of Aristida hitchcockiana Henrard and A. appressa Vasey were compared. Based on morphology, distribution, and habitat, there seems to be no reason to recognize A. hitchcockiana as a valid species, and it is synonymized within A. appressa. Se compararon las descripciones y protlogos originales, ejemplares tipo, y dems material disponible de Aristida hitchcockina Henrard y A. appressa Vasey. Basndose en la morfologa, la distribucin geogrfica, y el habitat, parece no haber indicios suficientes para reconocer como especie valida a A. hitchcockiana. Por lo tanto, se la sinonimiza a A. appressa.
41968483|Calyptranthes glandulosa and Calyptranthes ishoaquinicca, two new species from Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Se describen y se ilustran dos especies nuevas de Myrtaceae del Ecuador, Calyptranthes glandulosa y Calyptranthes ishoaquinicca.
41968510|The pappus traits of 84 taxa of Canadanthus, Ampelaster, Psilactis, and Symphyotrichum (subtribe Symphyotrichinae) and 14 other species of asters were examined. Most species of Symphyotrichinae had a pappus consisting of three whorls; 1) a secondary inner whorl of a few bristles 40-85% the length of the inner primary whorl, 2) a primary outer whorl of many bristles with tapering ends about 90-95% the length of the inner primary whorl, and 3) a primary inner whorl of many bristles with very weakly to strongly clvate ends. In addition, a few species of Symphyotrichum have a vestigial secondary outer whorl of a single short bristle only about 10-30% the length of the primary inner whorl. In some species of Symphyotrichum the secondary inner whorl was difficult to distinguish from the primary outer whorl or possibly was absent. In a small sample of species of Aster, Doellingeria, Eurybia, Eucephalus, Galatella, Herrickia, lonactis, Oclemena, and Oreostemma, the pappus was either triple or quadruple. The short secondary outer whorl was present in most species examined but was sometimes reduced to very few bristles or absent on some fruits. In some cases, the secondary inner whorl of mid length tapering bristles was present in some individuals in a species but not in others. The quadruple pappus with strongly clvate inner bristles appears to be plesiomorphic for the North American Clade of the tribe Astereae. In single species samples of Crinitaria, Linosyris, and Felicia the pappus differed from that of other species examined. Se examinaron las caractersticas de los vilanos de 84 taxa de Canadanthus, Ampelaster, Psilactis, y Symphyotrichum (subtribu Symphyotrichinae) y otras 14 especies de compuestas. La mayora de las especies de Symphyotrichinae tienen un vilano de tres verticilos; 1) un verticilo secundario interno de pocas sedas con el 40-85% de la longitud del verticilo interno primario, 2) un verticilo externo primario con muchas sedas de extremos estrechados de aproximadamente el 90-95% de la longitud del verticilo interno primario, y 3) un verticilo interno primario de muchas sedas con extremos desde dbilmente a fuertemente clavados. Adems, algunas especies de Symphyotrichum tienen un verticilo secundario externo vestigial de una sola seda aproximadamente del 10-30% de la longitud del verticilo interno primario. En algunas especies de Symphyotrichum el verticilo secundario interno fue difcil de diferenciar del primario externo o posiblemente estaba ausente. En una pequea muestra de especies de Aster, Doellingeria, Eurybia, Eucephalus, Galatella, Herrickia, lonactis, Oclemena, y Oreostemma, el vilano era triple o cudruple. El verticilo secundario externo corto estaba presente en la mayora de las especies examinadas pero estaba reducido algunas veces a unas pocas sedas o ausente en algunos frutos. En algunos casos, el verticilo interno secundario de sedas de tamao mediano estaba presente en algunos individuos de una especie pero no en otros. El vilano cudruple con las sedas interiores fuertemente clavadas parece ser plesiomrfico para el ciado Norte Americano de la tribu Astereae. En una sola muestra de especies de Crinitaria, Linosyris, y Felicia el vilano difera de las otras especies examinadas.
41968515|Within the genus Echinochloa (Gramineae) the epithet of the grass familiarly known as Jungle Rice has been spelled either "colono" or "colonum." Linnaeus, in his original recognition of the species as a member of the neuter genus Panicum, chose "colonum" as the epithet. This word, from the Latin "colonus" is a noun. As such, under the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature it must retain its original spelling whatever the gender of the genus to which it may be assigned. The grass is thus correctly known as Echinochloa colonum (L.) Link. Dentro del gnero Echinochloa (Gramineae), el epteto de la especie conocida comnmente como Arroz Salvaje ha sido escrito tanto "colono," como "colonum" Linnaeus, en su reconocimiento original de la especie como miembro del gnero neutro Panicum, escogi "colonum" como epteto. Esta palabra, del latn "colonus" es un sustantivo. En s, bajo el Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica, debe conservar su ortografa original, cualquiera que sea el gnero (masculino, femenino, o neutro) del gnero al que sea asignado. As pues, el nombre correcto de la especie es Echinochloa colonum (L.) Link.
41968495|A new species of black zapote from tropical Mexico is described, and photos of the holotype are provided. Diospyros torresii M.C. Provance & A.C. Sanders is based on collections from two localities in north and central Oaxaca. This species appears to belong to a group of closely related American Diospyros with fruits that are dark-colored and sweet at maturity. Se describe una nueva especie del Mxico tropical y se presentan fotos del holotipo. La descripcin de Diospyros torresii M.C. Provance & A.C. Sanders se basa en colecciones de dos localidades en el norte y centro de Oaxaca. Se cree que esta especie pertenece a un grupo cercanamente relacionado de Diospyros de Amrica que tienen frutos de color oscuro y que son dulces cuando maduran.
41968523|The National Cancer Institute's (NCI) record of plants that have shown significant inhibitory effect in experimental tumor systems (active plants), 1960-1974, was compared with species and genera in references on medicinal folklore, including poisonous plants, to determine whether their percentages of active plants were significantly greater than those screened at random (10.4%). The percent active species in medicinal and/or poisonous references in general were found to be 1.4 to 2.6 times greater, while the number and different kinds of medicinal uses appear related to geographical data of species that also indicate medicinal plants were screened more thoroughly because of their widespread occurrence. The best correlation is seen with poisonous plants, including medicinal plants that suggest a moderate to strong therapeutic effect; their percentages of active species were nearly three (29.3%, anthelmintics) to four times (45.7%, arrow and homicidal poisons) greater than plants screened at random. Selection of plants based strictly on use in folk medicine would probably benefit new (start-up) screening programs, whereas in the long-term, it appears more cost effective to systematically screen the broadest diversity of plants readily available since the common medicinal species would be collected irregardless. A systematic collection strategy could give emphasis to genera that have not been exhaustively studied, especially to species with medicinal uses that indicate toxicity or are considered poisonous. El registro de plantas del National Cancer Institute (NCI) 1960-1974, que han mostrado un efecto inhibidor significativo en sistemas tumorales experimentales (plantas activas), se compararon con gneros y especies que aparecen en referencias de medicina popular, incluyendo plantas venenosas, para determinar en que medida los porcentajes de plantas activas eran significativamente ms altas que las investigadas al azar (10.4%). El porcentaje de especies activas referenciadas como medicinales y/o venenosas en general se encontr que era de 1.4 a 2.6 veces mayor, mientras que el nmero y diferentes tipos de usos medicinales parecen relacionados con datos geogrficos de especies que tambin indican que las plantas medicinales fueron investigadas ms minuciosamente debido a su amplia distribucin. La mejor correlacin se aprecia con las plantas venenosas, incluyendo las plantas medicinales que parecen tener un efecto teraputico de moderado a fuerte; los porcentajes de especies activas fue de cerca de tres (29.3%, antihelmnticos) a cuatro veces (45.7%, venenos para flechas y homicidios) mayor que las plantas investigadas al azar. La seleccin de plantas basada estrictamente en el uso en medicina popular probablemente sera beneficiosa para los nuevos programas de investigacin, mientras que a largo trmino, parece tener un costo efectivo mayor la investigacin sistemtica de una diversidad de plantas fcilmente disponibles ya que las especies medicinales comunes pueden colectarse en cualquier parte. Una estrategia de colecta sistemtica pondra nfasis en gneros que no hayan sido estudiados exhaustivamente, y especialmente en especies con usos medicinales que indiquen toxicidad o que se consideren venenosas.
41968530|We document 137 species of pteridophytes new to the flora of Peru since the publication of the previous flora by Tryon and Stolze, in 1994. Some of these are recently described species (but no new species are described herein), while many are range extensions of known species from adjacent countries; a few are species that have been elevated in status from lesser rank, or species that have a new name, not mentioned by Tryon and Stolze. Most of these additions are the result of new collections, unknown at the time of the previous flora, and most are from montane rain forests and cloud forests, on the eastern slope of the Andes, from Dept. Amazonas to Dept. Cuzco. This area is known to be the richest for ferns, in Peru. These additions bring the known total of pteridophyte species for Peru to about 1200, making it one of the richest countries in the world for ferns and lycophytes. Se registra 137 especies de pteridofitas nuevas para la flora del Per desde la publicacin previa en 1994 del trabajo de Tryon y Stolze. Algunas son especies recientemente descritas, mientras que la mayora son registros de extensin de distribucin desde paises vecinos y unas pocas han sido elevadas en categora desde rangos menores o tienen un nombre nuevo no mencionado por Tryon y Stolze. La mayora de estas adiciones son el resultado de recolectas nuevas, desconocidas entonces para la flora previa. Estas adiciones incrementan a cerca de 1200 el total de especies conocidas para el Per, haciendo de ste uno de los paises ms ricos en el mundo en helchos y licofitas.
41968535|Populations of the expanding exotic Ranunculusficaria L. (Ranunculaceae) are reported escaped in North Carolina. Voucher specimens are cited and an updated key to Ranunculus L. in the Carolinas is presented. Poblaciones de la extica en expansin Ranunculusficaria L. (Ranunculaceae), se citan escapadas en Carolina del Norte. Se citan los especmenes y se presenta una clave actualizada de Ranunculus L. en las Carolinas.
41968538|The first Texas record of Nymphoides indica (L.) Kuntze (Menyanthaceae) is reported new for Texas. Se cita por primera vez para Texas Nymphoides indica (L.) Kuntze (Menyanthaceae).
41968534|Mikania buchtienii B.L. Rob. (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) is first reported as occurring in Argentina, where it has been collected in the Yungas region of the northwestern part of the country (Salta and Jujuy provinces). The species, which was known only from Bolivia, is described and illustrated and a key shows the differences between M. buchtienii and M. euryanthela, a closely related species. Mikania buchtienii B.L. Rob. (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) se cita por primera vez para Argentina, donde ha sido colectada en las Yungas de la regin noroccidental del pas (provincias de Salta y Jujuy). La especie, que vive en Bolivia, es descripta e ilustrada, y una clave muestra las diferencias entre M. buchtienii y M. euryanthela, una especie muy afn.
41968486|A revision of the neotropical genus Fevillea with keys, descriptions, and distribution is provided. Two subgenera are recognized: subgenus Fevillea with six species and subgenus Anisosperma with one species. Fevillea bahiensis G. Robinson & Wunderlin from Brazil is described as new and subgenus Anisosperma (Silva Manso) G. Robinson & Wunderlin is proposed. Se aporta una revisin del gnero neotropical Fevillea con claves, descripciones, y distribucin. Se reconocen dos subgneros: subgnero Fevillea con seis especies y subgnero Anisosperma con una especie. Se describe como nueva Fevillea bahiensis G. Robinson & Wunderlin de Brasil y se propone el subgnero Anisosperma (Silva Manso) G. Robinson & Wunderlin.
41968504|A grass spikelet with a cylindrical, sigmoidal, uncinate floret in Dominican amber is described as the new species Pharus primuncinatus Judz & Poinar (Poaceae: Pharoideae: Phareae). The fossil can be distinguished from all extant members of the genus by the small (9.9 mm long), curved female floret; relatively short glumes; and the uncinate portion of the floret extending downwards to the middle or slightly below the middle of the lemma. The closest extant relative may be the Mesoamerican P. mezii. This is the earliest record of a fossil grass that can be assigned to an extant genus; the earliest record of a member of the basal subfamily Pharoideae; and the only known fossil Pharus spikelet. En base a una espiguilla fsil con un flsculo cilindrico, sigmoide y uncinado se describe una nueva especie, Pharus primuncinatus Judz. & Poinar (Poaceae: Pharoideae: Phareae), del mbar de la Repblica Dominicana. Se diferencia de todas las especies del genero existentes por su espiguilla pistilada pequena (9.9 mm de largo); flsculo pistilado curvado; glumas relativamente cortas; y la porcin uncinada del lema extendida de la mitad hasta el pice. La especie existente ms relacionada es posiblemente P.mezii de Amrica Central. Este es el registro ms antiguo de una gramnea fsil que puede asignarse a un gnero existente; el registro ms antiguo del miembro de la subfamilia Pharoideae; y el nico fsil de una espiguilla de Pharus.
41968499|A new combination in Matelea is proposed: Matelea domingensis Se propone una nueva combinctin in Matelea: Matelea domingensis.
41968528|The Wild Orchids of North America, North of Mexico (Paul Martin Brown and Stan Folsom, University Press of Florida, 2003 ISBN 0-8130-2572-9) has served as an illustrated and annotated checklist of the orchids of that region. In the few years since research was completed for that work many new taxa have been described, other pertinent facts have been published, and six corrections of fact need to be added to the original manuscript. Those additions and corrections, including literature references and photographs, are presented here to enable the reader to update this volume to the close of 2005. The Wild Orchids of North America, North of Mexico (Paul Martin Brown y Stan Folsom, University Press of Florida, 2003 ISBN 0-8130-2572-9) ha servido como catlogo anotado e ilustrado de las orqudeas de esa regin. En los pocos aos desde que se finaliz la investigacin del trabajo se han descrito muchos taxa nuevos, se han publicado otros hechos importantes, y se han hecho seis correcciones que necesitan aadirse al manuscrito original. Estas adiciones y correcciones, que incluyen referencias bibliogrficas y fotografas, se presentan aqu para posibilitar al lector poner al da en 2005 este volumen.
41968512|Dahlia dissecta var. sublignosa was recognized in 1969 based on available herbarium specimens. Here we present molecular evidence to demonstrate that var. sublignosa is not the sister taxon to D. dissecta var. dissecta, nor is it conspecific with either of its two closest allies, D. linearis and D. foeniculifolia. Therefore, we elevate Dahlia dissecta var. sublignosa to the rank of species, as D. sublignosa (P.D. Srensen) D.E. Saar & P.D. Sorensen comb. & stat. nov. Dahlia dissecta var. sublignosa se reconoci en 1969 basndose en los especmenes de herbario disponibles. Presentamos aqu una prueba molecular para demostrar que var. sublignosa no es el taxon hermano de D. dissecta var. dissecta, ni es conspecfico con ninguno de sus dos semejantes ms prximos, D. linearis y D. foeniculifolia. Por ello, elevamos Dahlia dissecta var. sublignosa al rango de especie, as como D. sublignosa (P.D. Srensen) D.E. Saar & P.D. Sorensen comb. & stat. nov.
41968506|Comparison of collections of Liberna colombiana (Foster 1939) from Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru show that the Bolivian L boliviana (Foster 1946) cannot be upheld as a separate species. We provide an expanded description of L colombiana and establish its range across the Andean paramo as far south as Bolivia, noting the first collections for Ecuador and Peru. We also provide a key to the South American species of Libertia, which also occurs in New Guinea, New Zealand, and eastern Australia where there are some six species currently recognized, and possibly three more awaiting description, making a total for the genus of 13 species. Mediante comparaciones de ejemplares de Libertia boliviana (Foster 1946) y L colombiana (Foster 1939) de Colombia, Ecuador y Per se propone que L boliviana no puede ser considerada como una especie aparte. Presentamos una descripcin ampliada de L colombiana y determinamos su rango de distribucin en los pramos andinos hasta el sur de Bolivia, al igual que las primeras colecciones para Ecuador y Per. As mismo, incluimos una clave para las especies suramericanas de Libertia que tambin se distribuyen en Nueva Guinea, Nueva Zelanda y el este de Australia, en donde se reconocen cerca de seis especies y posiblemente tres adicionales que estn en proceso de descripcin para un total de 13 especies para el gnero.
41968497|Las especies del gnero Galactophora Woodson (Apocynaceae: Apocynoideae), son tratadas en una monografa. Seis especies son aceptadas, incluyendo una nueva especie, G. angustifolia y se proponen dos nuevos sinnimos. Se brindan claves, descripciones, ilustraciones y especmenes examinados. The species of the genus Galactophora Woodson (Apocynaceae: Apocynoideae) are treated in a monograph. Six species are accepted, including a new species, G. angustifolia, and two new synonyms are proposed. Keys, descriptions, illustrations and specimens examined are provided.
41968525|Ethnobotany deals with the study of the natural and traditional interrelationships between man and plants. Mangroves are one of the primary features of coastal areas and play a significant role in coastal development. Mangrove areas are economically exploited, especially for timber and fishery products. A comprehensive knowledge about other aspects, such as active substances obtained from mangroves, is less freely available. This paper reviews the utilization of the mangroves as source of medicinal products for the Pichavaram coastal people. A floristic survey was undertaken and 11 ethnomedicinal plant species belonging to 8 families were recorded from the Pichavaram mangroves. A list of plant species along with the plant part/s used and their mode of application reported to be efficacious for different ailments is provided. La Etnobotnica trata del estudio de las interrelaciones naturales y tradicionales entre el hombre y las plantas. Los manglares son una de las caractersticas primarias de las reas costeras y juegan un papel importante en el desarrollo costero. Las reas de manglar son explotadas econmicamente, especialmente para madera y productos pesqueros. Un conocimiento exhaustivo de otros aspectos, tales como principios activos que se obtienen de los manglares, est menos disponible. Este artculo revisa el uso de los manglares como fuente de productos medicinales por los habitantes costeros de Pichavaram. Se realiz un estudio f lorstico y se encontraron 11 especies vegetales etnomedicinales de 8 familias en los manglares de Pichavaram. Se aporta una lista de especies vegetales junto con la parte o partes usadas y su modo de uso para que sean eficaces en diferentes enfermedades.
41968526|Pinguicula vulgaris is a common species in Norway, and well known in folk tradition, not least for its reputed use to curdle milk. Most vernacular names recorded so far, e.g. the widespread tettegras or tettegress ("rennet grass" or "thickening grass") reflect this use. The fat leaves have also found some uses in folk medicine, e. g. to treat wounds and ringworms, and in folk veterinary medicine, mainly to treat sore teat. There are also a few records of P. vulgaris being used as an apotropaic, in magic, and in children's games. Pinguicula vulgaris er vanlig i Norge, og godt kjent i folketradisjonen, ikke minst for sin virkning som tette i melk. De f leste folkelige navn p arten gjenspeiler denne egenskapen, f.eks.det vidt utbredte tettegras eller tettegress. Bladene har ogs funnet en viss anvendelse i folkemedisinen, bl. a. til  behandle sr og ringorm, og i folkelig veterinaermedisin, saerlig som en kur for sre spener. I noen f tilfeller har P. vulgaris ogs tjent som vernerd, i magi og i barnelek.
41968484|A treatment of the neotropical genus Siolmatra is presented. Two species are recognized with descriptions, illustrations, distribution data, and a key to the species provided. Se presenta un tratamiento del gnero neotropical Siolmatra. Se reconocen dos especies con descripciones, ilustraciones, datos de distribucin, y se aporta una clave de identificacin de especies.
41968489|Astranthium integrifolium (Michx.) Nutt. has been treated as comprising two taxa (var./subsp.integrifolium and var.triflorum/subsp.ciliatum) or simply as a single species without formal infraspecific designation. The two taxa are completely allopatric and separated by features of vegetative, floral, and cypselar morphology. Consistent with taxonomic ranking of other Astranthium species pairs, these two taxa are treated here at specific rank: Astranthium integrifolium sensu stricto and Astranthium ciliatum (Raf.) Nesom, comb. nov. A neotype is selected for Bellis ciliata var. triflora Raf. (=A.ciliatum). Astranthium integrifolium (Michx.) Nutt. se ha tratado comprendiendo dos taxa (var./subsp.integrifolium y var.triflorum/subsp.ciliatum) o simplemente como una sola especie sin designacin formal infraespecfica. Los dos taxa son completamente aloptricos y se separan por la morfologa vegetativa, floral, y de la cipsela. De acuerdo con el rango taxonmico de otros pares de especies de Astranthium, estos dos taxa se tratan aqu con rango especfico: Astranthium integrifolium sensu stricto y Astranthium ciliatum (Raf.) Nesom, comb. nov. Se selecciona un neotipo para Bellis ciliata var. triflora Raf. (= A. ciliatum).
41968501|Palaeoanthella huangii gen. & sp. nov., is described from an Early Cretaceous staminate flower in Burmese amber. The genus is characterized by small, staminate flowers composed of a cup-shaped perianth of 8 fused lobes (tepals) arranged in one series with 8 equal subsessile, unappendaged stamens in a single whorl, more or less alternating with the tepals, and having 2 lobed, 4-locular anthers opening by longitudinal slits. Adjacent pollen considered to have originated from the anthers is inaperturate with finely ridged and grooved exines. The fossil shows possible affinities with the eumagnoliid angiosperm family Monimiaceae. Paleoanthella huangii gen. et sp. nov., est dcrit  partir d'une fleur du Crtac infrieur de l'ambre de Birmanie. Le genre est caractris par ses fleurs petites, stamines, composes d'un prianthe en forme de cupule, form de huit tpales fusionns en une srie simple et alternant plus ou moins avec huit tamines sans appendice. Les anthres possdent deux lobes et quatre locules s'ouvrant par des fentes longitudinales marginales. Le pollen trouv  ct des anthres est considr comme provenant de ceux-ci ; il est inaperturate, avec des exines finement carnes et rainures. Ce fossile montre des affinits possibles avec les Angiospermes Eumagnolides de la famille Monimiaceae.
41968540|Muscari comosum (L.) Mill. (Liliaceae) is reported as a non-cultivated persisting population in Parker County, Weatherford, Texas. This species, non-cultivated, is a new record for the state of Texas. Muscari comosum (L.) Mill. (Liliaceae) se cita como una poblacin persistente no cultivada en Parker County, Weatherford, Texas. Esta especie, no cultivada, es una nueva cita para el estado de Texas.
41968491|The combinations Calea mediterrnea (Veil.) Pruski (syn.: Calea platylepis) and Calea triantha (Veil.) Pruski, (syn.: Calea hispida) (Heliantheae) are proposed for two species lectotypified herein by Velloso illustrations. A lectotype of Meyeria hispida DC. is designated. A key to the species centering about Calea myrtifolia is given. Clibadium arriagadae Pruski (Heliantheae) from Ecuador is named as a new segregate of Clibadium pentaneuron. Clibadium arriagadae is the same taxon as represented by the invalid Clibadium zakii. Clibadium arriagadae differs from G pentaneuron by leaf blades palmately 3-or 5-veined from or near base (vs. subpalmately or plinerved from above blade base) and hirsute (vs. strigose) abaxially. A lectotype (BM-CLIFF folio page 405, Conyza 3) is designated for Conyza bifrons L. (= nula bifrons L, Inuleae), and this name, once misapplied to an American species of Pluchea, is excluded from the flora of the New World. The combination Conyza popayanensis (Hieron.) Pruski (Astereae), replacing the illegitimate Conyza uliginosa (Benth.) Cuatr., non. Pers., is proposed. The combination Llerasia macrocephala (Rusby) Pruski (Astereae) is validated for a Bolivian species originally described in tribe Mutisieae, and Llerasia lucidula is treated as a synonym of L. macrocephala. Philip Miller's Conyza baccharis is lectotypified and is an earlier name for Pluchea rosea. The combination Pluchea baccharis (Mill.) Pruski (Plucheeae) is made for this coastal plain species, which occurs from eastern North America southward into Nicaragua. Se proponen las combinaciones Calea mediterranea (Vell.) Pruski (syn.: Calea platylepis) y Calea triantha (Vell.) Pruski, (sin.: Calea hispida) (Heliantheae) para dos especies que se lectotipifican aqu mediante ilustraciones de Velloso. Se designa un lectotipo para Meyeria hispida DC Se ofrece una clave para las especies prximas a Calea myrtifolia. Clibadium arriagadae Pruski (Heliantheae) de Ecuador se nombra como un nuevo segregado de Clibadium pentaneuron. Clibadium arriagadae es el mismo taxon representado por el nombre invlido Clibadium zakii. Clibadium arriagadae difiere de G pentaneuron por los limbos de las hojas palmatinervias con 3  5 nervios desde de la base o cerca (vs. subpalmatinervias o triplinervias desde ms arriba de la base) e hirsutas (vs. estrigosas) abaxialmente. Se designa un lectotipo (BM-CLIFF folio pgina 405, Conyza 3) para Conyza bifrons L. (= nula bifrons L, Inuleae), y este nombre, por haberse aplicado a una especie americana de Pluchea, se excluye de la flora del Nuevo Mundo. Se propone la combinacin Conyza popayanensis (Hieron.) Pruski (Astereae), para reemplazar a la ilegtima Conyza uliginosa (Benth.) Cuatr., non. Pers. Se valida la combinacin Llerasia macrocephala (Rusby) Pruski (Astereae) para una especie de Bolivia descrita originalmente en la tribu Mutisieae, y Llerasia lucidula se trata como un sinnimo de L macrocephala. Conyza baccharis de Philip Miller se lectotipifica y es un nombre anterior para Pluchea rosea. Se hace la combinacin Pluchea baccharis (Mili.) Pruski (Plucheeae) para esta especie de la llanura costera, que aparece desde el Este de Norte Amrica hasta Nicaragua en el Sur.
41968494|Se describe e ilustra Guarea subsessilifolia, una nueva especie endmica del cerro Turrubares en el pacfico central de Costa Rica, adems, se comenta su relacin con otras especies del gnero. Guarea subsessilifolia, a new and endemic species from cerro Turrubares in the central pacific of Costa Rica, is described and illustrated and relationships with related taxa are discussed.
41968487|Herbarium study of Bromusgrandis, B. orcuttianus, and B. orcuttianus var. hallii from western North America has indicated that these taxa are morphologically and geographically distinct, and best treated as species. A new combination Bromus hallii (Hitchc.) Saarela & P.M. Peterson is made. Bromus hallii differs from B. orcuttianus by having densely pubescent blades (verses glabrous in B. orcuttianus), lower sheaths with dense short stiff hairs 1 mm long or less (vs. long soft hairs 2-4 mm long), and 1-2(-3) culm nodes (vs. 2-4). Bromus hallii differs from B. grandis by having blades that are 7.5-16.5 cm long [vs. (13-) 18-38 cm long in B. grandis], 1-2(-3) culm nodes (vs. 3-7), and lower glumes that are 1(-3)-nerved [vs. 3(1)-nerved]. We provide the first report of differences in the type of pubescence on the lower sheaths between B. orcuttianus and B. hallii. We confirm the diploid chromosome number of 2n = 14 for B. grandis. We include descriptions, synonymies, and representative specimens examined for B. grandis, B. hallii, and B. orcuttianus, a key to all sections of Bromus in California, and a key to Bromus sect. Bromopsis in California. El estudio de Bromus grandis, B. orcuttianus y B. orcuttianus var. hallii de Norteamrica occidental ha indicado que estos taxa son morfolgica y geogrficamente diferentes, y estn tratados mejor como especies distintas. Se hace una nueva combinacin Bromus hallii (Hitchc.) Saarela y P.M. Peterson. Bromus hallii se diferencia de B. orcuttianus por tener lminas densamente pubescentes (contra glabras en B. orcuttianus), vainas inferiores con los pelos rgidos cortos de 1 mm largo o menos (contra los pelos suaves largos de 2-4 mm), y 1  2(-3) nudos en el culmen (contra 2-4). Bromus hallii se diferencia de Bromus grandis por tener las lminas de 7.5-16.5 cm de largo (contra 18-38 cm en B. grandis), 1  2 nudos en el culmen (contra 3-6), y glumas inferiores 1(-3)-nervadas [contra 3(1)-nervadas]. Proporcionamos el primer informe de diferencias en el tipo de pubescencia en las vainas inferiores entre B. orcuttianus y B. hallii. Confirmamos el nmero diploide de cromosomas de 2n = 14 para B. grandis. Incluimos descripciones, sinonimias, y especmenes representativos examinados de B grandis, B. hallii y . orcuttianus, una clave de todas las secciones de Bromus en California, y una clave de Bromus sect. Bromopsis en California.
41968537|Cerastium pumilum (Caryophyllaceae) was recently reported for Oklahoma without documentation. This paper documents the occurrence of Cerastium pumilum W. Curtis in Oklahoma. The first collection from Oklahoma was made in 1981 from Hughes County but no additional collections were made until 2003. Since that time, C. pumilum has been documented in eight additional counties. Thus, G pumilum is currently known from a total of 11 Oklahoma counties. Cerastium pumilum (Caryophyllaceae) se cit recientemente de Oklahoma sin documentacin. Este artculo documenta la presencia de Cerastium pumilum W. Curtis en Oklahoma. La primera coleccin de Oklahoma se hizo en 1981 en Hughes County pero no se hicieron colecciones adicionales hasta 2003. Desde entonces, C. pumilum se ha documentado en otros ocho condados. As pues, G pumilum se conoce actualmente de un total de 11 condados de Oklahoma..
41968509|North American and Central American taxa of Symphyotrichum sect. Oxytripolium (S. subulatum sensu lato and S. tenuifolium sensu lato) have been treated at both specific and varietal rank. As interpreted here, morphological discontinuities and reproductive isolation indicate that specific rank is appropriate for the five annual taxa, including the South American native S. squamatum, which is recorded primarily as a waif in the U.S.A. A key is provided to the annual taxa under consideration and summaries of synonymy are given for each. State distribution records are documented for the following: S. subulatumArkansas, Nebraska; S. divaricatumNew Mexico; S. bahamenseGeorgia; S. expansumFlorida, Oklahoma; S. squamatumAlabama, California, Florida, Louisiana, Texas. Los taxa de Norte Amrica y Amrica Central de Symphyotrichum sect. Oxytripolium (S. subulatum sensu lato y S. tenuifolium sensu lato) se han tratado tanto con rango especfico como varietal. Tal como se interpreta aqu, las discontinuidades morfolgicas y aislamiento reproductor indican que el rango especfico es el apropiado para los cinco taxa anuales, incluyendo la nativa Sur Americana S. squamatum, que se cita principalmente como una planta abandonada en U. S. A. Se ofrece una clave para los taxa anuales en consideracin y se hacen resmenes de las sinonimias para cada uno de ellos. Se documenta la distribucin en estados de los siguientes: S. subulatumArkansas, Nebraska; S. divaricatumNuevo Mxico; S. bahamenseGeorgia; S. expansumFlorida, Oklahoma; S. squamatumAlabama, California, Florida, Texas.
41968403|A taxonomic treatment of Trisetum Pers. and Graphephorum Desv. in North America north of Mxico is given. Eight species of Trisetum are recognized. Two species are endemic to the United States: T. orthochaetum (Montana) and I projectum (California, Montana, and Nevada); Trisetum cernuum subsp. cernuum, T. cernuum subsp. canescens, T. montanum, T. sibiricum, T. spicatum var. spicatum, and T. spicatum var. pilosiglume are found in Canada and the United States; and T. spicatum var. spicatum and T. spicatum var. pilosiglume are found in Greenland. Two species, T. aureum and T. flavescens, are introduced. Trisetum floribundum Pilg. is chosen as a lectotype for Trisetum sect. Aulacoa Louis-Marie. The genus Graphephorum comprises only two species: G. melicoides ranging from Canada to the United States and G. wolfii endemic to the United States. En el presente articulo se presenta un tratamiento taxonmica para Trisetum Pers. y Graphephorum Desv. en Norteamrica norte de Mxico. Se reconocen ocho especies de Trisetum. Dos de estas especies son endmicas de los Estados Unidos: T. orthochaetum (Montana) y T. projectum (California, Montana y Nevada). Trisetum cernuum subsp. cernuum, T. cernuum subsp. canescens, T. montanum, T. sibiricum, T. spicatum var. spicatum y T. spicatum var. pilosiglume se encuentran en Canad y los Estados Unidos; y T. spicatum var. spicatum y T. spicatum var. pilosiglume se encuentran en Groenlandia. Dos especies, T. aureum y T. flavescens, han sido introducidas. Trisetum floribundum Pilg. se elige como lectotipo para Trisetum secc. Aulacoa Louis-Marie. El gnero Graphephorum comprende slo dos especies: G. melicoides, que se encuentra desde Canad hasta los Estados Unidos y G. wolfii, endmico de los Estados Unidos.
41968465|Dichanthium annulatum has become locally established in southern Arizona and is a new generic record for the state. This tenacious perennial grass is a potentially invasive species of concern and we offer specimen-vouchered documentation for its entrada into Arizona. There are three, simultaneous, and independent routes for its spread. Dichanthium annulatum se ha establecido localmente en el Sur de Arizona y es una cita de un nuevo gnero para el estado. Esta gramnea perenne y tenaz, es una especie potencialmente invasora y of recemos documentacin con especimenes testigo de su entrada en Arizona. Hay tres rutas simultneas e independientes para su dispersin.
41968446|Sixty-four chromosome counts are reported for 27 taxa, mostly of western Texas, and most of them are opuntioid cacti (51 counts) of the Trans-Pecos region. Meiotic configurations suggest that Jeff Davis and Presidio county populations of O. davisii are triploid. Among the Opuntia reports are 11 diploid and two tetraploid counts attributed to O. macrocentra, and seven counts documenting a tetraploid taxon here referred to O. mackensenii var. minor. Three meiotic and two pollen stainability observations indicate that at least some plants of O. schottii var. schottii are partially or completely sterile. Se publican sesenta y cuatro recuentos cromosomticos de 27 taxa, la mayora del Oeste de Texas, y la mayora de ellos son cactus opuntioides (51 recuentos) de la regin de Trans-Pecos. Las configuraciones meioticas sugieren que las poblaciones de los condados de Jeff Davis y Presidio de O. davisii son triploides. Entre los recuentos de Opuntia 11 son diploides y dos tetraploides atribuidos a O. macrocentra, y siete recuentos que documentan un taxon tetraploide los referimos aqu a O. mackensenii var. minor. Tres observaciones meioticas y dos tinciones de polen indican que al menos algunas plantas de O. schottii var. schottii son parcial o completamente estriles.
41968467|The rediscovery of Ponthieva brittoniae is reported. The two populations found in Everglades National Park, Miami-Dade County, Florida, represent the only plants currently known from the United States. Se cita el redescubrimiento de Ponthieva brittoniae. Las dos poblaciones encontradas en el Parque Nacional de los Everglades, en el condado de Miami-Dade, estado de Florida, representan actualmente las nicas plantas conocidas de los Estados Unidos.
41968391|Ipomoea seaania is described as a new species from the vicinity of Guaymas, Sonora. These plants are confined to the Sierra El Aguaje, although they perhaps grow in other nearby unexplored mountains. The relationships of this species to the other members of Ipomoea series Arborescentes are discussed, and all taxa in the group are listed and ranges given. Ipomoea seaania brings the total number of taxa in the series to 13 species, with I. arborescens having two varieties and I. pauciflora and I. wolcottiana each having two disjunct subspecies. Se describe Ipomoea seaania de las cercanas de Guaymas, Sonora, como una especie nueva. Estas plantas se encuentran restringidas a la Sierra El Aguaje, aunque quizs se encuentren en otras sierras cercanas sin explorar. Se discuten las relaciones de esta especie con otros miembros de Ipomoea serie Arborescentes; del mismo modo se listan todos los taxa del grupo y se proporcionan sus rangos de distribucin. Con el reconocimiento de Ipomoea seaania como nueva especie, se reconocen un total de 13 especies en el grupo, de las cuales Ipomoea arborescens presenta dos variedades e I. pauciflora e I. wolcottiana dos subespecies.
41968400|The Psidium grandifolium complex is revised with keys, descriptions, maps, and illustrations and is considered to consist of P. grandifolium, P. missionum, and P. australe, the last with three varieties. The complex is mainly confined to eastern interior South America, ranging from Venezuela to Argentina. Lectotypes for the following taxa are chosen: Psidium argenteum O. Berg, Psidium argenteum var. purpureum O. Berg, Psidium cinereum var. grandifolium O. Berg, Psidium cinereum var. intermedium O. Berg, Psidium grandijolium var. intermedium O. Berg, Psidium mucronatum Barb. Rodr. ex Chodat et Hassl., Psidium sericeum O. Berg, Psidium suffruticosum O. Berg, Psidium incanescens var. rotundifolium O. Berg. Two new combinations are made: Psidium australe var. argenteum (O. Berg) Landrum and Psidium australe var. suffruticosum (O. Berg) Landrum Se hace una revisin del complejo Psidium grandifolium con claves, descripciones, mapas, e ilustraciones. El complejo incluye P. grandifolium, P. missionum, y P. australe, la ltima con tres variedades. El complejo crece principalmente en el interior del este de Sud Amrica, desde Venezuela hasta Argentina. Se seleccionan lectotipos para los siguientes taxa: Psidium argenteum O. Berg, Psidium argenteum var. purpureum O. Berg, Psidium cinereum var. grandifolium O. Berg, Psidium cinereum var. intermedium O. Berg, Psidium grandifolium var. intermedium O. Berg, Psidium mucronatum Barb. Rodr. ex Chodat et Hassl., Psidium sericeum O. Berg, Psidium suffruticosum O. Berg, Psidium incanescens var. rotundifolium O. Berg. Se hacen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Psidium australe var. argenteum (O. Berg) Landrum y Psidium australe var. suffruticosum (O. Berg) Landrum.
41968443|Meiotic chromosome counts for 66 populations of the genus Glandularia (sensu Umber 1979) are reported, all from the state of Texas. These include counts for the following taxa: G. bipinnatifida var. bipinnatifida (n = 15 pairs); G. bipinnatifida var. brevispicata (n = 15 pairs); G. pumila (n = 10 pairs); G. quadrangulata (n = 10 pairs); G. racemosa (n = 10 pairs); G verecunda (n = 10 pairs); and G. wrightii (n = 10 pairs). The taxonomic import of these data is discussed. Se publican los recuentos cromosomticos en meiosis de 66 poblaciones del gnero Glandularia (sensu Umber 1979), todos del estado de Texas. Se incluyen recuentos de los siguientes taxa: G. bipinnatifida var. bipinnatifida (n = 15); G. bipinnatifida var. brevispicata (n = 15); G. pumila (n = 10); G. quadrangulata (n = 10); G. racemosa (n = 10); G verecunda (n = 10); y G. wrightii (n = 10). Se discute la importancia taxonmica de estos datos.
41968418|A new species of Matelea is described from Hispaniola, resulting from study of subtribe Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) in the West Indies. Se describe una especie nueva de Matelea de la Espaola como resultado del estudio de la subtribu Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiaoideae) en las Indias Occidentales.
41968461|Soil and ecological features of the orchid genus Hexalectris were examined to obtain a more accurate description of the factors influencing its distribution and to direct future conservation efforts. Data on canopy and ground cover, tree species diversity, and soil series were obtained for Hexalectris in Dallas County, and overlaid with historic data on Hexalectris in Texas. We determined that Hexalectris does associate with oak and juniper, but the amount of cover at Hexalectris sites did not exceed 60%. Ground cover, tree species diversity, and percent oak/juniper did not differ between sites with and without Hexalectris. The soil series associated with Hexalectris in this region were Eddy-Brackett entisols of 8-20% slope. Soil type was an accurate predictor of areas in which Hexalectris could be found. Hexalectris appear to be strongly dependent on soil series, a factor which can aid in predicting areas in which Hexalectris is likely to be found but has not yet been located, as well as in conservation of this less well-studied genus. Se examinaron las caractersticas ecolgicas y del suelo de la especie de orqudea Hexalectris para obtener una descripcin ms precisa de los factores que influyen su distribucin y para futuros esfuerzos de conservacin. Se obtuvieron datos de la canopia y el recubrimiento, diversidad de especies arbreas, y series de suelo de Hexalectris en el condado de Dallas, y sobrepuestos con datos histricos sobre Hexalectris en Texas. Determinamos que Hexalectris s se asocia con roble y enebro, pero la cantidad de los sitios de Hexalectris no excedieron el 60% y adems el rea cubierta, la diversidad de especies arbreas, y el porcentaje roble/enebro no cambi entre sitios observados con o sin Hexalectris. Las series del suelo asociadas a Hexalectris en esta regin eran suelo Eddy-Brackett con 8 al 20 por ciento de inclinacin. El tipo de suelo fue un indicador preciso para poder predecir el rea en que se encontrara Hexalectris. Hexalectris parece depender fuertemente en la clase de suelos, un factor que puede ayudar a predecir reas en las que pueda encontrarse Hexalectris pero todava no pueden ser descritas, al igual que la conservacin de este gnero mucho menos estudiado.
41968425|El estudio de los tipos de Mandevilla lasiocarpa y de los nombres asociados a este taxn como sinnimos, revela que todos son sinnimos de M. hirsuta y que el taxn para el que Woodson emple este nombre en su monografa necesita un nombre nuevo. Por lo tanto, se propone Mandevilla matogrossana, se describe e ilustra detalladamente, discutindose su relacin con M. hirsuta. Adicionalmente, se propone una nueva lectotipificacin para Echites hirsuta var. angustifolia Stadelm. y se cita por primera vez la presencia de M. hirsuta en Paraguay. The study of the types of Mandevilla lasiocarpa and related synonymy has revealed that all of them are synonyms of M. hirsuta and the concept of the species M. lasiocarpa used by Woodson in his monograph don't has a name. Therefore, a new name is proposed and this taxon is described and illustrated. The relations with M. hirsuta are discussed. Echites hirsuta var. angustifolia Stadelm. is lectotypified and M. hirsuta is reported for first time from Paraguay.
41968394|The 37 currently recognized species of Liatris are placed in formal positions within an infrageneric taxonomic system modified from one proposed by Gaiser in 1946. Five sections are recognized: (1) sect. Liatris (including ser. Liatris, ser. Punctatae, and ser. Elegantes), (2) sect. Vorago Nesom, sect, nov., (3) sect. Suprago (Gaertner) DC., (4) sect. Pilifilis Nesom, sect, nov., and (5) sect. Graminifolium Nesom, sect. nov. (including ser. Garberae, ser. Pauciflorae, ser. Virgatae, ser. Graminifoliae, and ser. Scariosae). Las 37 especies usualmente reconocidas de Liatris se colocan en posiciones formales en un sistema taxonmico infragenrico modificado a partir del propuesto por Gaiser en 1946. Se reconocen cinco secciones: (1) sect. Liatris (que incluye las ser. Liatris, ser. Punctatae, y ser. Elegantes), (2) sect. Vorago Nesom, sect, nov., (3) sect. Suprago (Gaertner) DC, (4) sect. Pilifilis Nesom, sect, nov., y (5) sect. Graminifolium Nesom, sect. nov. (including ser. Garberae, ser. Pauciflorae, ser. Virgatae, ser. Graminifoliae, y ser. Scariosae).
41968428|A taxonomic revision of Erithalis, genus of perennial trees and shrubs, is presented utilizing morphological data. Principal Component Analysis involving 14 vegetative and floral characters provided support for four morphologically distinct taxa (E. angustifolia, E. harrisii, E. odorifera, and E. quadrangularis) and a fifth poorly defined complex (E. diffusa, E. fruticosa, E. salmeoides and E. vacciniifolia). A few qualitative characters, as well as geographic distributions of the taxa, however, can distinguish the latter group. Erithalis insularis grouped within the fifth group, and is here placed in synonymy with E. fruticosa. Thus, in this study are recognized E. angustifolia, E. diffusa, E. fruticosa, E. harrisii, E. odorifera, E. quadrangularis, E. salmeoides, and E. vacciniifolia based on differences in inflorescence, flower, leaf, and growth habit characteristics. Phylogenetic relationships among the species, morphological description of their inflorescences and flowers, and the breeding system of E. fruticosa are presented. A key to the species, synonymies, typifications, descriptions, uses, and list of representative specimens is provided. Se presenta una revisin taxonmica de Erithalis, un gnero de rboles y arbustos de hoja perenne, utilizando anlisis morfolgicos. Anlisis de Componentes Principales basados en 14 caractersticas vegetativas y florales confirman cuatro taxones (E. angustifolia, E. harrisii, E. odorifera, y E. quadrangularis) y un quinto complejo (E. diffusa, E. fruticosa, E. salmeoides y E. vacciniifolia). Este ltimo grupo, sin embargo, puede distinguirse por varios caracteres cualitativos, adems de la distribucin geogrfica de estos taxones. Erithalis insularis se agrup con ste ltimo grupo, y se coloca aqu como sinnimo de E. fruticosa. Por lo tanto, en este estudio son reconocidos E. angustifolia, E. diffusa, E. fruticosa, E. harrisii, E. odorifera, E. quadrangularis, E. salmeoides, y E. vacciniifolia, basndonos en diferencias de la inflorescencia, flor, hoja, y hbito de crecimiento. Se presentan las relaciones de filogenia entre las especies, descripcin morfolgica de sus inflorescencias y flores, y el sistema reproductor de E. fruticosa. Se provee una clave para las especies, sinnimos, tipificacin, descripciones, usos y especmenes representativos.
41968470|A second population of the rare Agalinis navasotensis Dubrule & Canne-Hilliker (Navasota False Foxglove) has been confirmed from a Catahoula Barren in Tyler County, Texas. Previously, the only known locality was an Oakville formation sandstone outcrop in Grimes County, Texas, some 100 miles to the west. Se ha confirmado una segunda poblacin de la rara Agalinis navasotensis Dubrule & Canne-Hilliker (Navasota False Foxglove) de Catahoula Barren en el condado de Tyler, Texas. Previamente, la nica localidad conocida era un afloramiento de arenisca en Oakville en el condado de Grimes, Texas, unas 100 millas al Oeste.
41968397|Liatris helleri T.C. Porter (1891) previously has been regarded as a rare, narrowly distributed endemic of North Carolina. The present investigation, in the context of a study of the whole genus, presents a broadened concept of L. helleri, including plants in West Virginia, Virginia, and North Carolina previously identified as L. turgida Gaiser (1946) and many from the same region misidentified as L. graminifolia var. smallii. A lectotype (NY) is selected for L. helleri. The diagnostic feature of L helleri sensu stricto, a shortened pappus, has been the primary distinction between it and L. turgida, but pappus length varies among populations in the small region of L. helleri sensu stricto and a short pappus also occurs in some populations of L. turgida. If this broadened concept is followed, it may have the effect of lessening legal protections for L. helleri, but some of the North Carolina populations occur with other rare species in a rare natural community, and the species and habitat are a focus of continuing conservation concerns. Liatris helleri T.C. Porter (1891) ha sido vista previamente como un endemismo raro escasamente distribuido en Carolina del Norte. En la presente investigacin, en el contexto de un estudio de todo el gnero, se presenta un concepto ms amplio de L. helleri, incluyendo plantas del Oeste de Virginia, Virginia, y Carolina del Norte identificadas previamente como L. turgida Gaiser (1946) y muchas de la misma regin identificadas incorrectamente como L. graminifolia var. smallii. Se ha seleccionado un lectotipo (NY) para L. helleri. El carcter diagnstico de L. helleri sensu stricto, un vilano corto, ha sido la diferencia principal entre ste y L. turgida, pero la longitud el vilano vara entre poblaciones de la pequea regin de L helleri sensu stricto y un vilano corto se da tambin en algunas poblaciones de L. turgida. Si se sigue este concepto ampliado, puede tener como efecto la prdida de protecciones legales de L. helleri, pero algunas de las poblaciones de Carolina del Norte conviven con otras especies en una comunidad natural rara, y tanto las especies como el habitat tienen implicaciones permanentes en la conservacin.
41968402|A taxonomic treatment of Eragrostis Wolf for northeastern Mxico (Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas), is given. Twenty-six species and four varieties or subspecies of Eragrostis are recognized in the study area. Twenty of these species are native to the Flora region and six are introduced and adventive. Keys for determining the species, descriptions, distributions, specimens examined, illustrations, synonymies, and a brief discussion indicating relationships among all native and adventive species of Eragrostis in northeastern Mxico are provided. Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de Eragrostis Wolf para el noreste de Mxico (Coahuila, Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas). Un total de veintisis especies y cuatro variedades o subespecies de Eragrostis se reconocen en el rea del estudio. Veinte de estas especies son nativas de la flora de la regin y seis son introducidas y adventicias. Se incluyen claves para determinar las especies, descripciones, distribuciones, especimenes examinados, ilustraciones, sinonimias, y una discusin breve indicando las relaciones entre todas las especies nativas y adventicias de Eragrostis para el noreste de Mxico.
41968411|Sericocarpus is a genus of five species of white-rayed asters native to North America. Three species are found in eastern North America (S. asteroides, S. tortifolius, S. linifolius) and two are found in western North America (S. oregonensis, S. rigidus). Sericocarpus oregonensis has been divided into two subspecies based on pubescence and geography (subsp.californiens and subsp.oregonensis). Over 2300 herbarium specimens were examined to determine the distribution and morphological ranges of variation in traits of each species. Multivariate morphometric analyses of 111 specimens were undertaken to determine which of the 44 vegetative and 19 floral characteristics examined were diagnostic for the species and which species were most similar. The results of cluster and discriminant analyses indicated that all five species were distinct. The species were distinguished on the basis of stem, leaf and floral traits and to a lesser degree on geographic distribution and habitat data. In order to explore the validity of the division of S. oregonensis into two infraspecific taxa, stem and leaf pubescence traits were examined on 125 specimens of S. oregonensis. The results indicated that S. oregonensis can be divided into two subspecies based on pubescence and geography. The statistical results and morphometric measurements were used to construct comprehensive descriptions and an identification key to all taxa of Sericocarpus. The pappus was found to be triple or rarely quadruple in all species. Sericocarpus es un gnero norteamericano con cinco especies que tienen los radios blancos. Tres especies se encuentran en el Este (S. asteroides, S. tortifolius, S. linifolius) y dos en el Oeste (S. oregonensis, S. rigidus). Sericocarpus oregonensis ha sido dividido en dos subespecies basadas en la pubescencia y la geografa (subsp. californicus y subsp. oregonensis). Se han examinado ms de 2300 especimenes de herbario para determinar la distribucin y los rangos morfolgicos de variacin en caracteres de todas las especies. Se realiz un anlisis morfomtrico multivariante de 111 especimenes para determinar cuales de los 44 caracteres vegetativos y 19 florales examinados eran diagnsticos para las especies y que especies eran las ms semejantes. Los resultados de los anlisis discriminantes y de agrupamiento indican que las cinco especies son diferentes. Las especies se diferencian por caracteres de tallos, hojas y flores, y en menor medida por su distribucin geogrfica y datos del hbitat. Para comprobar la validez de la divisin de S. oregonensis en dos taxa infraspecficos, se examin la pubescencia de tallos y hojas en 125 especimenes de S. oregonensis. Los resultados indican que S. oregonensis puede dividirse en dos subespecies basadas en la pubescencia y la geografa. Los resultados estadsticos y las medidas morfomtricas se usaron para realizar descripciones detalladas y una clave de identificacin de todos los taxa de Sericocarpus. Se encontr que el vilano era triple o raramente cudruple en todas las especies.
41968463|Trillium texanum Buckley, a member of the Trillium pusillum Michx. complex, is rare over its range, occurring in scattered populations in baygalls, streamsides, and wooded seeps. We collected information on the habitat, phenology, population, and soils of Trillium texanum on the Angelina National Forest in southeast Texas. Trillium texanum Buckley, miembro del complejo Trillium pusillum Michx., es raro en todo su areal, apareciendo en poblaciones dispersas en arroyos e infiltraciones boscosas. Hemos colectado informacin sobre su habitat, fenologa, poblacin, y suelos de Trillium texanum en el Angelina National Forest en el Sureste de Texas.
41968429|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Arecaceae (Aiphanes stergiosii M. Nio, Dorr, & F.W. Stauffer), y se presenta una clave para distinguir entre la nueva especie con especies relacionadas. As mismo, se mencionan aspectos ecolgicos y geogrficos de su distribucin. A new species of palm (Aiphanes stergiosii M. Nio, Dorr, & F.W. Stauffer) is described and illustrated, and a key is given to distinguish this new species from related ones. In addition, information is provided on the ecology and geographical distribution of this new species.
41968432|Morphology and molecular phylogenetic data show that Eurybia pygmaea is not a member of Eurybia but belongs in Symphyotrichum, close to S. yukonense of subg. Virgulus section Grandiflori. Therefore, we transfer the species to that genus, as Symphyotrichum pygmaeum (Lindl.) Brouillet & S. Selliah. Los datos filogenticos morfolgicos y moleculares muestran que Eurybia pygmaea no es un miembro de Eurybia sino que pertenece a Symphyotrichum, prximo a S. yukonense del subg. Virgulus section Grandiflori. Por ello, transferimos la especie a ese gnero como Symphyotrichum pygmaeum (Lindl.) Brouillet & S. Selliah.
41968445|Twenty-seven meiotic chromosome counts are reported for 20 species in nine families of plants from western Texas, mostly the Trans-Pecos region. The counts for Packera texensis, Chamaesyce stictospora, Astragalus argillophilus, A. bigelovii, and A. marcidus are first reports. Se publican veintisiete recuentos cromosomticos en meiosis de 20 especies de nueve familias de plantas del Oeste de Texas, la mayora de la regin de Trans-Pecos. Los recuentos de Packera texensis, Chamaesyce strictospora, Astragalus argillophilus, A. bigelovii, y A. marcidus son los primeros realizados.
41968420|As a component of a larger study of the West Indian Matelea subgenus Ptycanthera, this study sought to critically examine patterns of morphological variation within the embedded M. bayatensiscorrellii-tigrina complex. Resolution of species-level circumscriptions are necessary before larger issues of subgeneric and generic circumscription can be adequately addressed. Morphological characters were analyzed using parsimony analysis, neighbor-joining, and ANOVA. Results show that Matelea hayatensis, M. correllii, and M. tigrina are very closely related morphologically. The three species appear to differ only in pubescence and relatively minor floral character states, some of which overlap. At present, none of the observed variation appears important enough to warrant the continued recognition of three distinct species. Este estudio es un componente de otro ms amplio de Matelea subgenus Ptycanthera delas Indias Occidentales, y est dedicado a examinar crticamente los patrones de variacin morfolgica en el complejo M. bayatensis-correllii-tigrina. Se necesita la resolucin de las circunscripciones a nivel especifico antes de abordar las circunscripciones de los gneros y subgneros adecuadamente. Los caracteres morfolgicos se analizaron usando anlisis de parsimonia, del vecino ms prximo, y ANOVA. Los resultados muestran que Matelea bayatensis, M. correllii, y M. tigrina estn muy relacionados morfolgicamente. Las tres especies parecen diferir slo en la pubescencia y estados de carcter florales relativamente menores, algunos de los cuales se solapan. Actualmente, ninguna de las variaciones observadas parece lo suficiente importante como para justificar el reconocimiento de tres especies diferentes.
41968408|Eugenia inversa, a new species from coastal rainforests of the Brazilian state of Esprito Santo, is described and illustrated. The new species is apparently related to the central Brazilian Eugenia mikanioides, from which it is distinguished by pilose leaves and flowers, shorter pedicels and triangular, acute calyx lobes. Eugenia inversa, urna nova espcie da floresta pluvial costeira do estado do Esprito Santo, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie  aparentemente prxima a Eugenia mikanioides, coletada no Brasil central, da qual se distingue pelas folhas e flores pilosas, pedicelos curtos e lobos do clice triangulares.
41968447|Chromosome numbers are reported for 44 collections of Silene and 74 collections of Stellaria (Caryophyllaceae) from continental North America. First published reports include those for Silene drummondii Hook, subsp. striata (Rydberg) J.K. Morton 2n = 72, S. hitchguirei Bocquet 2n = 24, S. uralensis (Rupr.) Bocquet subsp. ogilviensis (A.E. Porsild) D.F. Brunton 2n = 48, Stellaria fontinalis (Short & Peter) B.L. Robinson 2n = 26, S. nitens Nuttall 2n = 20 & 40 and S. parva Pederson 2n = 34. First published reports for material of North American origin include Silene dichotoma Ehrhart 2n = 24, S. dioica (L.) Clairville 2n = 24, S. flos-cuculi (L.) Clairville 2n = 24, Stellaria alsine Grimm 2n = 24, S. cuspidata Willd. ex Schltdl. subsp. prostrata J. K. Morton 2n = 26, S. neglecta Weihe 2n = 20 & 22 and S. palustris Retz. 2n = ca. 198. Se publican los nmeros cromosomticos de 44 colecciones de Silne y 74 colecciones de Stellaria (Caryophyllaceae) de Norte Amrica continental. Entre los primeros recuentos publicados se encuentran los de Silene drummondii Hook, subsp. striata (Rydberg) J.K. Morton 2n = 72, S. hitchguirei Bocquet 2n = 24, S. uralensis (Rupr.) Bocquet subsp. ogilviensis (A.E. Porsild) D.F. Brunton 2n = 48, Stellaria fontinalis (Short & Peter) B.L. Robinson 2n = 26, S. nitens Nuttall 2n = 20 & 40 y S. parva Pederson 2n = 34. Los primeros recuentos en material originario de Norte Amrica son Silene dichotoma Ehrhart 2n = 24, S. dioica (L.) Clairville 2n = 24, S. flos-cuculi (L.) Clairville 2n = 24, Stellaria alsine Grimm 2n = 24, S. cuspidata Willd. ex Schltdl. subsp. prostrata J.K. Morton 2n = 26, S. neglecta Weihe 2n = 20 & 22 y S. palustris Retz. 2n = ca. 198.
41968466|Twenty-four species or varieties of vascular plants, all native to or naturalized in the southeastern U.S.A., are reported as new or noteworthy for Kentucky. Fourteen of these are native and ten are nonnative. Fifteen of the taxa are reported as state records, and the accounts for the other nine taxa provide clarifications or updates on their status in the state. Taxa reported as state records are: Acanthopanax sieboldianus, Callicarpa dichotoma, Castanea sativa, Cladium mariscoides, Hydrocotyle ranunculoides, Ilex cornuta, Ipomoea quamoclit, Ipomoea turbinata, Lonicera  minutiflora, Lonicera xylosteum, Magnolia grandiflora, Quercus texana, Ribes americanum, Salix cinerea subsp. oleifolia, and Symphyotrichum divaricatum. Se citan veinticuatro especies o variedades de plantas vasculares, todas nativas o naturalizadas en el Sureste de U.S.A., como nuevas o notables para Kentucky. Catorce de ellas son nativas y diez son introducidas. Quince de los taxa son citados como nuevos para el estado, y de otros nueve se hacen aclaraciones o puestas al da de su estatus en el estado. Los taxa citados como nuevos para el estado son: Acanthopanax sieboldianus, Callicarpa dichotoma, Castanea sativa, Cladium mariscoides, Hydrocotyle ranunculoides, Ilex cornuta, Ipomoea quamoclit, Ipomoea turbinata, Lonicera  minutiflora, Lonicera xylosteum, Magnolia grandiflora, Quercus texana, Ribes americanum, Salix cinrea subsp. oleifolia, y Symphyotrichum divaricatum.
41968449|Herbaria with significant historical collections are critical to tracking floristic changes such as the introduction and spread of non-native plant species. To explore the importance of herbarium specimen data for understanding floristic changes in the central Great Plains, we utilized the Kansas State University Herbarium (KSC), known for its rich historical collections dating from the late 1800s. A list of all angiosperm plant taxa introduced to Kansas was obtained, and collection data (collector, number, year and county) were recorded for all in-state specimens (excluding cultivated material). A total of 6,565 specimens were recorded, comprising 314 species, 201 genera and 50 families, and dating from 1869. Of the recognized introduced species, 153 are represented by KSC collections made in Kansas prior to 1900, and 243 prior to 1940. All Kansas counties are well-represented by the early KSC material (1890s), bolstering our ability to infer floristic changes since that time. While 988 different collectors are represented, 14 collectors account for 52% of the specimens of introduced species. Peak collecting at KSC occurred in the 1890s and 1930s, and assessment of biases suggest that our data are a reasonably accurate representation of the presence and distribution of introduced species in Kansas at those times. Species not represented by pre-1900 KSC material were likely not established or even introduced in the state at the time; if a species was not documented prior to 1940 it was likely still not well established by then. This study demonstrates the utility of data housed at KSC, and by extension in other historical collections, for the study of regional floristic changes. Los herbarios con colecciones histricas significativas son crticos para rastrear los cambios florsticos tales como la introduccin y la extensin de las especies de plantas que no son nativas. Para explorar la importancia de datos de especmenes de herbario para entender los cambios florsticos en las llanuras centrales de Norteamrica, nosotros utilizamos el Herbario de Kansas State University (KSC), conocido por sus colecciones histricas ricas en datos desde el final de los 1800. Se obtuvo una lista de todas las angiospermas introducidas en Kansas, y los datos de la coleccin (el coleccionista, nmero, ao y condado) fueron registrados para todos los especmenes del estado (excluyendo el material cultivado). Se registr un total de 6565 especmenes, que se incluyen en 314 especies, 201 gneros y 50 familias, que datan desde 1869. De las especies introducidas que se reconocieron, 153 son representadas por colecciones de KSC hechas en Kansas antes de 1900, y 243 antes de 1940. Todos los condados de Kansas estn bien representados por el material inicial de KSC (1890s), reforzando nuestra habilidad de inferir los cambios florsticos desde ese tiempo. De los 988 colectores diferentes existentes, 14 de ellos son responsables del 52% de los especmenes de especies introducidas. Los puntos mximos de recoleccin en KSC ocurrieron en los 1890 y los 1930, y la evaluacin de los sesgos sugiere que nuestros datos son una representacin razonablemente precisa de la presencia y la distribucin de las especies introducidas en Kansas en esos tiempos. Las especies no representadas en el material de KSC antes de 1900 probablemente no estaban establecidas ni haban sido introducidas an en el estado en ese tiempo; si una especie no se document antes de 1940, es probable que todava no estuviese bien establecida. Este estudio demuestra la utilidad de los datos de KSC, y por extensin de otras colecciones histricas, para el estudio de cambios florsticos regionales.
41968416|A new combination in Matelea (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) for an endemic Jamaican vine is proposed. Se propone una combinacin nueva en Matelea (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) para una trepadora endmica de Jamaica.
41968436|Conoclinium betonicifolium (P. Miller) King & H. Robinson var. integrifolium (A. Gray) T.F. Patterson is an inland taxon that has mostly oblanceolate to ovate leaf blades. Conoclinium betonicifolium (P. Miller) King & H. Robinson var. integrifolium (A. Gray) T.F. Patterson es un taxon del interior que usualmente tiene limbos foliares de oblanceolados a ovados.
41968423|El estudio del tipo de Mandevilla leptophylla (A. DC.) K. Schum. ha revelado que el concepto de esa especie ha sido mal interpretado desde la ltima monografa del gnero. Por otro lado, el tipo de Echites gracilis Kunth, taxn incorrectamente tratado como un sinnimo de M. subsagittata (Ruiz & Pav.) Woodson, es coespecfico con el material referido hasta ahora como M. leptophylla. Por lo tanto, una nueva combinacin, M. gracilis (Kunth) J.F. Morales es establecida, comentndose las relaciones entre este taxn y el verdadero concepto de M. leptophylla, incluyendose descripciones, ilustraciones y especmenes examinados de ambos taxones. Mandevilla linearis N.E. Br. es a su vez lectotipificado y reducido a la sinonimia de M. gracilis. Adicionalmente, dos nuevas especies de Mandevilla subgnero Exothostemon, M. amazonica y M. colombiana, ambas relacionadas con M. gracilis, son descritas e ilustradas, discutiendose sus afinidades taxonmicas. A study of the type collection of Mandevilla leptophylla (A. DC.) K. Schum. has revealed that the concept of this species has been misinterpreted since the last monograph of the genus. However, Echites gracilis Kunth, erroneously placed in synonymy of M. subsagittata (Ruiz & Pav.) Woodson, is conspecific with the material traditionally treated as M. leptophylla. Therefore, the new combination M. gracilis (Kunth) J.F. Morales is here proposed and the relationship with M. leptophylla is discussed. Clarifying descriptions, illustrations and specimen citations are included for both taxa. Mandevilla linearis N.E. Br. is lectotypified and relegated to the synonymy of M. gracilis. Two new species of Mandevilla subgenus Exothostemon (M. amazonica and M. colombiana) are also described and illustrated; their taxonomic affinities with M. gracilis are discussed.
41968455|We studied the presettlement woody vegetation of the Red River floodplain and adjacent upland in Caddo Parish, Louisiana, by analyzing the 1830s Government Land Office surveyors' records. We looked for evidence of monospecific pine savanna/forest in the uplands as historical accounts relate and compared the woody vegetation of the floodplain with that of the upland. We found that the upland was a mixed hardwood-pine forest with some areas almost exclusively hardwood, that there were no areas that were monospecific pine forest, and that the upland and floodplain are floristically different. Oak was rare on the floodplain but occurred near prairies lying within the floodplain. Hemos estudiado la vegetacin leosa previa a la colonizacin de la llanura de inundacin del Red River y las tierras adyacentes en Caddo Parish, Louisiana, analizando los registros de los supervisores del Government Land Office en los aos1830. Hemos buscado pruebas de los bosque/sabana monoespecficos de pinos en las tierras altas tal como lo relatan las crnicas histricas y se compara la vegetacin leosa de la llanura de inundacin con la de las tierras altas. Hemos encontrado que en las tierras altas haba un bosque mixto de pino y rboles de madera dura con algunas reas que casi tienen exclusivamente rboles de madera dura, que all no haba reas en las que hubiese bosques monoespecficos de pinos, y que las tierras altas y las llanuras de inundacin son florsticamente diferentes. Los robles son raros en la llanura de inundacin pero se dan el las praderas prximas a estas llanuras.
41968472|Gibasis pellucida (Commelinaceae) is reported as a new naturalized weed in Texas. A description of the species and key to Texas genera of Commelinaceae are provided. Gibasis pellucida (Commelinaceae) se cita como una nueva mala hierba naturalizada en Texas. Se aporta una descripcin de la especie y una clave de los gneros de Commelinaceae de Texas.
41968390|Ipomoea arborescens (tree morning glory) has two varieties in the state of Sonora, Mexico. Author citation of I. arborescens var. glabrata (a nomenclatural synonym of I. arborescens var. arborescens) is corrected. The second taxon, I. arborescens var. pachylutea, was named by Howard Scott Gentry from the Ro Mayo region. These plants differ considerably from I. arborescens var. arborescens in having different bark morphology and corolla tube colors. En el estado de Sonora, Mxico, Ipomoea arborescens (palo santo) tiene nombres para dos variedades. Se corrige la citacin del autor de Ipomoea arborescens var. glabrata, sinnimo de Ipomoea arborescens var. arborescens. Howard Scott Gentry nombr I. arborescens var. pachylutea de la regin del Ro Mayo, la cual se distingue principalmente de la var. arborescens por su corteza amarillenta y corolas con tubos morados.
41968458|Although Greene County, located in the southwest corner of Pennsylvania, has been botanized since the early 1800s, a checklist of its vascular flora has not previously been compiled. A search of herbaria augmented by targeted fieldwork has resulted in a list of 890 taxa of native and naturalized plants comprising 438 genera and 118 families. The five largest families, by number of species, were Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Rosaceae, and Fabaceae. The six largest genera were Carex, Solidago, Galium, Rubus, Polygonum, and Viola. El Condado de Greene, se localiza en la esquina suroeste del estado de Pennsylvania. Este condado es considerado una de las reas ms diversas y de impacto en el estado, sin embargo hasta ahora no ha sido completada una lista de verificacin. Esta lista de verificacin contiene familias, gneros, y taxa especficos estn ordenados alfabticamente dentro de los grupos de plantas vasculares tales como Pteridfitas, Gimnospermas y Angiospermas. Esta lista incluye los nombres de especies nativas y naturalizadas conocidas que ocurren en el Condado de Greene. Un total de al menos 118 familias, 438 gneros, y 890 especies fueron encontradas. Las cinco familias ms grandes, por el nmero de especies, fueron Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Rosaceae, y Fabaceae. Los seis gneros ms grandes, por el nmero de especies, fueron Carex, Solidago, Galium, Rubus, Polygonum y Viola.
41968460|American Beech Woods Nature Preserve is located on Illinoian till in the Wabash Border Division of eastern Illinois. The plant life of this 8 ha site was examined during the 1999-2001 growing seasons. We documented a total of 207 vascular plant species in 148 genera of 71 families (10 pteridophytes, 1 gymnosperm, 49 monocots, and 147 dicots). We also sampled the vegetation using a stratified-random line-strip method. Tree density averaged 249 trees/ha with a basal area of 22.91 m/ha. Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (American beech) was the dominant tree species with 63 trees/ha, a basal area of 7.34 m/ha, and an importance value 26.1 (possible 100). Acer saccharum Marsh. (sugar maple) ranked second in importance value (IV = 15.7) with most individuals in the 10-19.9 cm diameter class. Quercus velutina Lam. (black oak) and Carya glabra (Mill.) Sweet (pignut hickory) were the only other overstory trees with an importance value greater than 10. In comparison with an earlier study in 1973, the site has experienced a decrease in both tree density (399 trees/ha vs. 249 trees/ha) and basal area (33.35 m/ha vs. 22.91 m/ha). La Reserva Natural de Haya Americana esta ubicada en terreno Illinois en la frontera del Ro Wabash en Illinois oriental. La flora del bosque que mide 8 hectreas fue examinada durante la temporada de crecimiento en los aos 1999-2001. Hemos identificado 207 especies de plantas vasculares que incluyen 148 gneros de 71 familias distintas: 10 pteridfitas, una gimnosperma, 49 monocotitedneas, y 147 dicotiledneas. Muestreamos la vegetacin usando el mtodo de lnea-franja aleatoria. La densidad promedia era 249 rboles por hectrea con una rea basai de 22.91 m2/ha. Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (haya) era la especie de rbol dominante. Haba 63 rboles por hectrea con una rea basai de 7.32 m/ha y un valor de importancia de 26.1 (posibilidad de 100). Acer saccharum (arce de azcar) tena una importancia secundaria con un valor de importancia de 15.7. La mayora de los individuos pertenecan a la clase de tamao entre 10-19.9 cm. Quercus velutina Lam. (roble negro) y Caryaglabra Mili, (nuez de cerdo) eran los nicos rboles que tenian un valor de importancia de ms de 10. En comparacin con el estudio de 1973 el bosque ha sufrido una perdida de densidad (399 rboles por ha v. 249 rboles por ha) y rea basal (33.35 m/ha v. 22.91 m/ha.)
41968476|A first report of a rare operculate discomycete, the devil's cigar, Chorioactisgeaster, from near McKinney, Collin County, Texas. Ha sido confirmada ahora una poblacin del devil's cigar, de Chorioactis geaster, un discomicete operculado raro, y se han tomado testigos en Collin County, Texas.
41968405|The Festuca californica Vasey complex is examined. Considerable morphological variation exists within and between populations which range from western Oregon to southern California. The characters of sheath pubescence, sclerenchyma distribution in the blades of vegetative shoots and ligule length are of use in distinguishing three taxa in the complex. Analysis of character variation and geographic distribution suggests that these taxa are best treated at the rank of subspecies; the new combinations Festuca californica subsp. hitchcockiana and F. californica subsp. parishii are provided. Se examina el complejo Festuca californica Vasey. Existe una variacin morfolgica considerable en y entre poblaciones que van desde el Oeste de Oregn hasta el Sur de California. Los caracteres pubescencia de la vaina, distribucin de esclernquima en las lminas de los tallos vegetativos y longitud de la lgula se usan para diferenciar los tres taxa del complejo. El anlisis de la variacin del carcter y distribucin geogrfica sugieren que estos taxa deben tratarse en el rango de subespecies; Se hacen las nuevas combinaciones Festuca californica subsp. hitchcockiana y F. californica subsp. parishii.
41968456|An annotated, vouchered checklist is provided of the vascular plant taxa of the 3150 hectare Turkey Creek Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, Tyler and Hardin counties, southeastern Texas. Six hundred ninety one (691) native taxa and 47 exotic taxa are documented for the unit. The communities of the Turkey Creek Unit are provided. Se aporta un listado comentado de los taxa de plantas vasculares junto con los testigos, de las 3150 hectreas de la unidad Turkey Creek, Big Thicket National Preserve, en los condados de Tyler y Hardin, Sureste de Texas. Se documentan seiscientos noventa y un (691) taxa nativos y 47 taxa exticos en esta unidad. Se aportan las comunidades de la unidad Turkey Creek.
41968401|Ptilagrostis luquensis P.M. Peterson, Soreng & Z.L. Wu from the People's Republic of China is described and illustrated. The new species was found in dense thatch, mollisol soils on nearly level grassy plains surrounded by low hills in Gansu Province. Ptilagrostis luquensis is morphologically similar to P. dichotoma but differs by having glabrous anthers (1-1.4 mm long), shorter spikelets (2.6-3.5 mm long), shorter glumes (2.6-3.5 mm long), shorter lemmas (2.2-2.7 mm long), shorter and narrower panicles (2-5.2  1-3 cm), and lower nodes with 1 or 2 sheathing lanceolate hyaline bracts (1-5 mm long) on the culm inserted immediately below the lowest branches. A key to the species of Ptilagrostis in China is provided.  Ptilagrostis luquensis P.M. Peterson, Soreng & Z.L. Wu Ptilagrostis luquensis  P. dichotoma  1-1.4  2.6-3.5  2.6-3.5   2.2-2.72-5.2 1-3 1 2 1-5
41968427|One new species of Ericameria is described and two new combinations are proposed. Using morphological and molecular evidence we describe Ericameria arizonica Roberts, Urbatsch, & Anderson, presently known only from the Grand Canyon, Arizona, and propose the elevation of E. discoidea var. linearis and E. discoidea var. winwardii to species rank as E. linearis (Rydb.) Roberts & Urbatsch and E. winwardii (Dorn & Delmatier) Roberts & Urbatsch, respectively. Se describe una nueva especie de Ericameria y se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones. Usando datos morfolgicos y moleculares, describimos Ericameria arizonica Roberts, Urbatsch, y Anderson, conocida solamente de El Gran Can, Arizona, y proponemos la elevacin de E. discoidea var. linearis y E. discoidea var. winwardii a nivel de especie como E. linearis y E. winwardii, respectivamente.
41968468|Quercus montana (Fagaceae) is a new species for Missouri, extending the western edge of the range for the species in North America. Quercus montana (Fagaceae) es una nueva especie para Missouri, que extiende el extremo occidental de su rea en Norte Amrica.
41968430|Three new species of Vaccinium (Ericaceae) are described from Costa Rica and Panama: Vaccinium almedae Wilbur & Luteyn, V. furfuraceum Wilbur & Luteyn, and V. luteynii Wilbur. Se describen tres nuevas especies de Vaccinium (Ericaceae) de Costa Rica y Panam: Vaccinium almedae Wilbur & Luteyn, V. furfuraceum Wilbur & Luteyn, y V. luteynii Wilbur.
41968389|Four new species of endemic blueberries from montane Ecuador, Ceratostema oyacachiensis, Ceratostema pendens, Ceratostema pubescens, and Disterigma bracteatum, are described, illustrated, and their relationships discussed. Se describen y se discuten cuatro especies nuevas endemicas de mortios de la sierra del Ecuador, Ceratostema oyacachiensis, Ceratostema pendens, Ceratostema pubescens, y Disterigma bracteatum, con sus ilustraciones y relaciones.
41968413|Ceropegia palustris Pursh and Lyonia maritima Elliott (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) are currently recognized as synonyms of Funastrum angustifolium (Pers.) Liede & Meve. The diminutive vine, one of the most readily recognizable taxa among a number of taxonomically difficult climbing milkweeds in the southeastern United States, occurs primarily in swamps, hammocks, and salt marshes. A neotype is proposed here for C. palustris, which will automatically also serve as the type of L. maritima, as Elliot was well-aware that the two were synonymous. Additional relevant historical specimens of interest housed at BM, CHARL, and PH are also discussed. Ceropegia palustris Pursh y Lyonia maritima Elliott (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) se reconocen usualmente como sinnimos de Funastrum angustifolium (Pers.) Liede & Meve. Esta pequea trepadora, que es uno de los taxa ms fcilmente reconocibles entre un grupo taxonmicamente difcil de trepadoras del Sureste de los Estados Unidos, aparece primariamente en pantanos y lagunas saladas. Se propone aqu un neotipo para C. palustris, que servir tambin automticamente como tipo de L. maritima, porque Elliot estaba muy convencido de que los dos eran sinnimos. Se discuten tambin especimenes adicionales de relevancia histrica que se encuentran en BM, CHARL, y PH.
41968431|Cuniculotinus is described as a new monotypic genus from California and Nevada to accommodate Chrysothamnus gramineus, resulting in the new combination Cuniculotinus gramineus. Sequencebased phylogenetic investigations clearly demonstrate its remoteness from Chrysothamnus and place it nearer Sericocarpus. Four additional species regarded as Chrysothamnus are likewise shown to be phyletically distinct and are accomodated in the proposed new genus Lorandersonia. Lorandersonia also includes one species previously recognized in Hesperodoria, H. salicina, and two species previously treated as Tonestus, T. microcephalus and T. peirsonii. New combinations in Lorandersonia are L. baileyi, L. linifolia, L. microcephala, L. peirsonii, L. pulchella, L. salicina, and L. spathulata. Chrysothamnus is further modified by the inclusion of Hesperodoria scopulorum and Vanclevea stylosa, necessitating the new specific combinations C. scopulorum and C. stylosus and the varietal combination C. scopulorum var. canonis. Se describe el gnero Cuniculotinus, como un gnero nuevo monotpico de California y Nevada para ubicar a Chrysothamnus gramineus H.M. Hall. Por lo tanto se realiza una nueva combinacin, C. gramineus. Investigaciones filogenticas basadas en secuenciacin de ADN demuestran claramente su lejana con Chrysothamnus y la ubica cerca de Sericocarpus. Del mismo modo, cuatro especies adicionales consideradas como Chrysothamnus muestran ser filogenticamente distintas, por lo cual se propone el gnero nuevo Lorandersonia. Este nuevo gnero tambin incluye especies reconocidas previamente en Hesperodoria, H. salicina, y dos especies tratadas generalmente como Tonestus, T. microcephalus (Cronquist) G.L. Nesom & D.R. Morgan y T. peirsonii (D.D. Keck) G.L. Nesom & D.R. Morgan. Las combinaciones nuevas en Lorandersonia son: L. baileyi, L. linifolia, L. microcephala, L. peirsonii, L. pulchella L. salicina, L. spathulata. Adems, se modifica Chrysothamnus con la inclusin de Hesperodoria scopulorum (M.E. Jones) Greene y Vanclevea stylosa (Eastwood) Greene lo cual hace necesarias las nuevas combinaciones especficas, C. scopulorum y C. stylosa, y la combinacin de variedad C. scopulorum var. canonis.
41968451|The Serra do Teimoso, in southern Bahia, Brazil, is a mountain reaching 850 m at the transition from tropical moist forest to tropical semideciduous forest. A floristic survey of a 200 ha reserve established on the mountain was carried out and a checklist of the vascular flora produced. The survey was conducted by random collecting efforts and the sampling of all specimens 5 cm diameter within a one hectare plot. The flora of the Serra do Teimoso Reserve (STR) comprised 727 species in 400 genera and 119 families. The angiosperms comprised 667 species in 363 genera and 100 families and the pteridophytes included 60 species in 37 genera and 19 families. Floristic relationships of the STR flora were discussed with regard to some florest types of eastern Brazil, especially those found at southern Bahia. La Serra do Teimoso, en el sur de Bahia, Brasil, es una montaa alcanzando 850 m en la transicin de los bosques tropicales hmedos hacia los bosques tropicales semideciduales. Un inventario floristico de una reserva forestal con ca. 200 ha establecida en la montaa fue hecho y un checklist producido. El levantamiento fue conducido por medio de esfuerzos de coleta aleatorios y el muestro de todos los espcimens 5 cm DAP dentro de urn plot de urna hectrea. La flora de plantas vasculares da la Reserva Serra do Teimoso (STR) inclui 727 especies en 400 gneros y 119 familias. Las angiospermas incluiron 667 especies en 363 gneros y 100 familias, y las pteridofitas incluiron 60 especies en 37 gneros y 19 familias. Relacciones floristicas de la flora de STR fueran discutidos con base en algunos tipos de bosques del este de Brasil, en especial aquellos localizados en el sur de Bahia.
41968385|Sabatia arkansana, a new species from shale and igneous glades in central Arkansas, is described. It differs from S. campestris in its narrower leaves and narrower, more deeply colored corolla lobes rounded at the apex. Se describe Sabatia arkansana, especie nueva de claros de esquistos y de rocas gneas en Arkansas central. Se diferencia de S. campestris por las hojas ms angostas y por los lbulos de la corola ms angostos, coloreados ms intensamente, y redondeados en el pice.
41968434|Two combinations are proposed: Artemisia arbuscula subsp. longiloba (Osterhout) Shultz and Artemisia globularia subsp. lutea (Hultn) Shultz. Artemisia globularia subsp. lutea is lectotypified. Se proponen dos combinaciones (Artemisia arbuscula subsp. longiloba y Artemisia globularia subsp. lutea) y se lectotipifica Artemisia globularia subsp. lutea.
41968469|Sporobolus heterolepis (Poaceae) is reported as a new addition to the flora of Tennessee. This species is a very rare component of limestone cedar glades and barrens in the central portion of the state. The Tennessee Natural Heritage Program is currently tracking it as a species of special concern. Se cita Sporobolus heterolepis (Poaceae) como una nueva adicin a la flora de Tennessee. Esta especie es un componente muy raro de los claros en los bosques de cedros sobre calizas y lugares ridos en la porcin central del estado. El Tennessee Natural Heritage Program est hacindole actualmente un seguimiento como especie de especial preocupacin.
41968386|A new species, Aulonemia nitida Judz., is described from the Pakaraima Mountains of Guyana, South America. It is a large-leaved species that differs from the Mesoamerican species A. laxa and A. patriae in its smooth, shining, non-striate, non-maculate foliage leaf sheaths. An illustration of the new species and a key to the species of Aulonemia from the Guayana Highlands are provided. Se describe una especie nueva, Aulonemia nitida Judz., de las montaas de Pakaraima, Guyana, Amrica del Sur. Es una especie con lminas foliares grandes y anchas parecida a las especies Mesoamericanas A. laxa y A. patriae, pero se distingue por sus vainas foliares lisas y lustrosas, sin estriaciones o manchitas. Se incluyen una ilustracin de la nueva especie y una clave de las especies de Aulonemia de las montaas de Guayana.
41968448|Se caracteriz la morfologa cualitativa y cuantitativa de tricomas foliares en S. acerifolium Dun., S. agrarium Sendtn., S. capsicoides All. y S. mammosum L. (seccin Acanthophora Dun.). Se seleccionaron 5-10 hojas frescas en mxima expansin foliar, procedentes de 3-5 individuos, que luego fueron preservadas en FAA 70%; tambin se utiliz a razn de 4-5 hojas rehidratas en lactofenol por cada espcimen de herbario. Se hicieron montajes microscpicos, utilizando la porcin media de la lmina foliar y del pecolo; adems se hicieron montajes de lmina foliar aclarada. La diversidad morfolgica de tricomas permiti separarlos en tres tipos bsicos: simples, estrellados y glandulares, con varios subtipos. Se describen 11 subtipos en S. agrarium y 7 en la restantes especies. A cada subtipo se le determin su ubicacin en las distintas partes de la hoja. Se presenta una clave basada en rasgos tricomticos y las ilustraciones de los tricomas descritos. La diversidad de los tricomas en las especies estudiadas, prueba ser un criterio taxonmico de alto valor para distincin de miembros del gnero Solanum. The qualitative and quantitative morphology of foliar trichomes in S. acerifolium Dun., S. agrarium Sendtn., S. capsicoides All. and S. mammosum L. (section Acanthophora Dun.) where characterized. Five to ten fresh, fully expanded leaves from 3-5 individuals, were preserved in FAA 70%. Herbarium specimens were also used (4-5 leaves from each specimen). Fragments of fresh material (middle portion of leaf and petiole) and herbarium material for microscope examination. The diversity of the morphological trichomes studied separate into three basic types: simple, glandular, and estellate, with several subtypes. Eleven subtypes are described in S. agrarium and seven in the other species. A key fixed on trichomatic features and the illustrations of the described trichomes is presented. The diversity of trichome types and morphology of trichomes are useful characters in identifying species of the genus Solanum.
41968452|Rattlesnake Falls is located in the dissected Western Highland Rim Escarpment of Maury County, Tennessee. The central feature of this site is the largest known waterfall on the escarpment which falls 18 m over two ledges into a large splash pool at the head of a narrow, wooded gorge. The waterfall is surrounded by a 62.5 ha tract of rugged, mostly forested land, in which a botanical survey was conducted from February 2000 to August 2001. Six hundred twenty-seven taxa representing 348 genera and 107 families were found; 81 taxa (13%) were introduced. Families with the largest numbers of species were Asteraceae, Poaceae, and Fabaceae. County records (294) increased the number of plant taxa of Maury County to 915. Rare taxa included the federally threatened species Helianthus eggertii and tentatively, Apios priceana. Species listed at the state level as threatened were Lilium michiganense and Juglans cinrea, and as special concern were Castanea dentata, Parnassia grandifolia, Phlox pilosa ssp. ozarkana, and Symphyotrichum oolentangiense. Compared to 13 other floristic studies in various physiographic regions of Tennessee, Rattlesnake Falls had the second highest numbers of native and rare taxa per ha but also the second highest number of nonnative taxa per ha. Las Rattlesnake Falls se localizan en el Western Highland Rim Escarpment del condado de Maury, Tennessee. La caracterstica principal de este lugar es la gran cascada que cae 18 m por dos repisas en un gran estanque de salpicadura en la cabecera de una garganta boscosa estrecha. La cascada est rodeada por una extensin de tierra accidentada de 62.5 ha en su mayora forestal, en la que se realiz un estudio botnico desde febrero de 2000 hasta agosto 2001. Se encontraron seiscientos veintisiete taxa de 348 gneros y 107 familias; 81 taxa (13%) eran introducidos. Las familias con mayor nmero de especies fueron Asteraceae, Poaceae, y Fabaceae. Las citas del condado (294) incrementaron el nmero de taxa vegetales del condado de Maury a 915. Los taxa raros incluidos en las especies federalmente amenazadas son Helianthus eggertii y tentativamente, Apios priceana. Las especies listadas a nivel estatal como amenazadas son Lilium michiganense y Juglans cinrea, y con especial preocupacin Castaneadentata, Parnassiagrandifolia, Phloxpilosassp. ozarkana, y Symphyotrichum oolentangiense. Comparado con otros 13 estudios florsticos en varias regiones fisiogrficas de Tennessee, las Rattlesnake Falls tienen el segundo mayor nmero de taxa nativos y raros por hectrea, pero slo el segundo nmero ms alto de taxa no nativos por hectrea.
41968453|We evaluate the 36 endemic vascular plants of the Interior Highlands of Arkansas, Illinois, Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. Most of the endemic flora of the region are herbaceous perennials, although nearly a quarter of the endemic plant taxa are annuals. An analysis of the community affiliations of the region's endemic flora reveals that most endemic taxa are associated with glade habitats maintained by edaphic conditions and fire. Riparian habitats and fire-maintained pine-oak woodlands are other habitat associations with significant endemic flora. The Ouachita Mountains region of the Interior Highlands contains a disproportionate representation of the endemic taxa relative to its area, although there is also a smaller cohort of endemics restricted to the Ozark portion of the Interior Highlands. Hemos evaluado las 36 plantas vasculares endmicas de las Interior Highlands de Arkansas, Illinois, Kansas, Missouri, y Oklahoma. La mayor parte de la flora endmica de la regin son herbceas perennes, aunque casi la cuarta parte de las plantas endmicas son taxa anuales. Un anlisis de las preferencias de las comunidades de la flora endmica de la regin revela que la mayora de los taxa endmicos estn asociados con habitats pantanosos que se mantienen por las condiciones edficas y el fuego. Los habitats riparios y bosques de pino-roble mantenidos por el fuego son los otros habitats con elementos de flora endmica significativos. La regin de las Montaas de Ouachita del Interior Highlands contiene una representacin desproporcionada de taxa endmicos de esta rea, aunque hay tambin una pequea cohorte de endemismos restringidos a la parte de Ozark de las Interior Highlands.
41968437|The following new combination in Packera is made: Packera musiniensis (S.L. Welsh) Trock. Se hace la siguiente nueva combinacin en Packera: Packera musiniensis (S.L. Welsh) Trock.
41968441|Nestotus is described as a new ditypic genus from the western United States and the Yukon Territory, Canada, to accommodate Stenotus macleanii (Brandegee) A. Heller and Stenotus stenophyllus (A. Gray) Greene, resulting in two new combinations N. macleanii and N. stenophyllus. Sequence-based phylogenetic investigations consistently demonstrate and robustly support the relatedness of these two taxa and their distinctiveness from the type species, S. acaulis (Nutt.) Nutt., and other taxa placed in Stenotus. Toiyabea is described as a monotypic genus from Nevada to accommodate Tonestus alpinus (L. C. Anderson & S. Goodrich) G.L. Nesom & D.R. Morgan, resulting in the new combination Toiyabea alpina. This species, Petradoria, plus S. acaulis and S. armerioides Nutt. constitute a well-supported polytomy sister to Solidago and related taxa in our molecular-based phylogeny. Se describe Nestotus como un gnero ditpico nuevo del oeste de los Estados Unidos y del territorio de Yukn en Canad para ubicar a Stenotus macleanii (Brandegee) A. Heller y a Stenotus stenophyllus (A.Gray) Greene con las consecuentes combinaciones nuevas N. macleanii y N. stenophyllus. La relacin entre estas dos especies y las diferencias entre ellas, y la especie tipo, S. acaulis (Nutt.) Nutt., y otras especies de Stenotus es demostrada consistentemente con un alto apoyo en las investigaciones basadas en secuencias de ADN. Adicionalmente se describe Toiyabea como un gnero monotpico de Nevada para ubicar a Tonestus alpinus (L.C. Anderson & S. Goodrich) G.L. Nesom & D.R. Morgan con la consecuente nueva combination Toiyabea alpina. Esta especie, Petradoria, junto con S. acaulis y S. armeroides Nutt. constituyen en nuestra filogenia molecular una politoma con alto apoyo, la cual es hermana de Solidago y los txones emparentados.
41967277|In order to validate names for various checklists and florulas now in press, new combinations for some species previously placed in Oedematopus, Havetia, and Pilosperma are made.The new names Clusia engleriana Pipoly, C. hylaeae Pipoly, and C. colombiana Pipoly are provided for Oedematopus congest iflorus, O. weberbaueri, and Havetia laurifolia respectively. Clusia polyandra, Clusia sect. Pilosperma, and Clusia sect. Havetia are new combinations based on Oedematopus polyandrus, and the genera Pilosperma, and Havetia respectively. Para validar los nombres de varios catlogos y flrulas ahora en prensa, algunas especies previamente ubicadas en los gneros Oedematopus, Havetia, y Pilosperma se transfieren al gnero Clusia. Se proponen los nombres nuevos Clusia engleriana Pipoly, C. hylaeae Pipoly, colombiana Pipoly para los binmenes Oedematopus congestiflorus, O. weberbaueri y Havetia laurifolia respectivamente. Clusia polyandra, Clusia sect. Pilosperma, y Clusia sect. Havetia son nuevas combinaciones, basadas en Oedematopus polyandrus, y los gneros Pilosperma y Havetia.
41967276|Eucrosia calendulina is described as new from northern Peru. The species is related to E. aurantiaca, an Ecuadorean endemic, but differs by its smaller stature, fewer flowers, nonsynchronized anthesis, orange perigone, and elevational range. Eucrosia calendulina se describe como nueva del norte de Per. Esta especie est relacionada con E. aurantiaca, endmica de Ecuador, de la cual se diferencia por su menor estatura, por tener menos flores, su antesis no sincronizada, el perigonio anaranjado, y su rango de distribucin altitudinal.
41967265|Spacial autocorrelation analysis of 12 quantitative characters among 30 populations of Hemerocallis hakuunensis was conducted to understand better their geographic variation patterns. There are two types of relationships between the mean values of the characters measured and their spatial autocorrelations: (1) significant heterogeneity of means with significant autocorrelation (mostly floral characters); and (2) significant heterogeneity of means with no significant autocorrelation (mostly vegetative characters). Perianth size shows significant north-south clinal variation and width of inner and outer perianth show a typical monotonie decline from significant positive autocorrelation at interpopulation distance of 67 to 107 km to significant negative autocorrelation at distances of 221 to 357 km. The results might result from the combinations of gene flow, genetic drift, and/or selective forces operated in populations of H. hakuunensis. Se realiz un anlisis de correlacin espacial de 12 caracteres cuantitativos en 30 poblaciones de Hemerocallis hakuunensis para comprender mejor sus patrones de variacin geogrfica. Hay dos tipos de relaciones entre los valores medios de los caracteres medidos y sus autocorrelaciones espaciales: (1) heterogeneidad significativa de las medias con autocorrelacin significativa (la mayora en caracteres florales); y (2) heterogeneidad significativa de las medias sin autocorrelacin significativa (la mayora en caracteres vegetativos). El tamao del perianto muestra una variacin clinal norte-sur significativa y la anchura del perianto interno y externo muestra una disminucin monotnica tpica desde una autocorrelacin positiva significativa en distancias interpoblacionales de 67 a 107 km hasta una autocorrelacin negativa significativa en distancias de 221 a 357 km. Los resultados podran derivarse de las combinaciones de flujo gentico, deriva gentica y/o fuerzas selectivas que operan en las poblaciones de H. hakuunensis.
41967273|The new species Psychotria cauligera, P. fusiformis, P. hypochlorina, and P. paeonia are described and illustrated. These are all shrubs or small trees found in wet forests in Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, and Peru. Se describen e ilustran las especies nuevas Psychotria cauligera, P. fusiformis, P. hypochlorina, y P. paeonia. Todas son arbustos o arbolitos que crecen en bosques hmedos en Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador y Per.
41967280|La Laguna de Babcora es una cuenca endorreica. Se localiza en la porcin noroeste del estado de Chihuahua enclavada en la Subprovincia Fisiogrfica Sierras y Llanuras Tarahumaras en la Provincia Fisiogrfica de la Sierra Madre Occidental. El clima es semifro subhmedo. La altitud es de 2150 m.s.n.m. en los valles y 2500-2700 m.s.n.m. en los picos, con suelos aluviales y litosoles respectivemente. Las rocas predominantes son gneas. Se presentan 2 tipos de vegetacin: Bosque de Pino-Encino y Pastizal Halfito. La flora est constituida por aproximadamente 69 familias, 247 gneros y 489 especies, incluyendo a los taxa infraespecficos. Las familias ms diveras son Asteraceae, Poaceae y Fabaceae. los gneros con mayor nmero de especies son Muhienbergia, Cyperus, Euphorbia, Dalea y Desmodium. La Laguna de Babcora es una cuenca endorreica. Se localiza en la porcin noroeste del estado de Chihuahua enclavada en la Subprovincia Fisiogrfica Sierras y Llanuras Tarahumaras en la Provincia Fisiogrfica de la Sierra Madre Occidental. El clima es semifro subhmedo. La altitud es de 2150 m.s.n.m. en los valles y 25002700 m.s.n.m. en los picos, con suelos aluviales y litosoles respectivamente. Las rocas predominantes son gneas. Se presentan 2 tipos de vegetacin: Bosque de Pino-Encino y Pastizal Halfito. La flora est constituida por aproximadamente 69 familias, 247 gneros y 489 especies, adems de los taxa infraespecficos. Las familias ms diversas son Asteraceae, Poaceae y Fabaceae. los gneros con mayor nmero de especies son Muhlenbergia, Cyperus, Euphorbia, Dalea y Desmodium.
41967271|An updated description of the genus Gentlea and its taxonomic synonyms is provided, along with a key and a nomenclatural summary for its nine species. Nine binomials are newly relegated to synonymy, and three taxa are excluded. Heberdenia Banks, once thought to occur in the Neotropics, is shown to be monotypic, and known only from the Canary Islands, necessitating the new combination Gentleapenduliflora (A. DC.) Ricketson & Pipoly. To facilitate identification of members of the genus Gentlea, a key to the genera of Mesoamerican Myrsinaceae is also provided. Se aporta un resumen nomenclatural para las nueve especies del gnero Gentlea. Se incluye una descripcin actualizada del gnero con una clave para separar las especies. Se comprob que el gnero Heberdenia es monotpico, y restringido a las Islas Canarias, resultando la nueva combinacin Gentlea penduliflora (A. DC.) Ricketson & Pipoly. Para facilitar la identificacin del gnero, se ofrece una clave para separar los gneros mesoamericanos de la familia Myrsinaceae. Tambin se ofrece una clave para todos los taxa del gnero Gentlea, se enumeran sinnimos tanto nomenclaturales como taxonmicos. Se relegan nueve binomios a la sinonimia, y se excluyen tres taxa del gnero.
41967274|Cucphuong National Park, situated about 120 km south from Hanoi, northern Vietnam, is the first National Park of Vietnam. It is occupies approximately 22,220 hectares. The flora is rich containing 1,924 species in 990 genera and 229 families. It is characterised by the following: Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Rubiaceae, Asteraceae, Lauraceae, Moraceae, Anacardiaceae, Combretaceae and Juglandaceae. The dominant genera of the flora are of Shorea, Terminalia, Dracontomelum, Cinnamomum, Hiretiera, Anamocarya, Tetrameles. The life forms of the flora are diverse and shown the following: SB = 60.44 Ph + 9.77 Ch + 11.57 H + 7.82 Cr. + 10.29 Th, in which Ph = 13.37 MM + 13.32 Mi + 10.08 Na + 11.42 Lp + 1137 Ep + 0.67 Pp + 0.33 Hp. El Parque Nacional de Cucphuong, situado unos 120 km al sur de Hanoi, Vietnam del Norte, es el primer Parque Nacional de Vietnam. Ocupa aproximadamente 22,220 hectreas. La flora es rica, ya que contiene 1,924 especies pertenecientes a 990 gneros y 229 familias. Se caracteriza por las siguientes: Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Rubiaceae, Asteraceae, Lauraceae, Moraceae, Anacardiaceae, Combretaceae y Juglandaceae. Los gneros dominantes de la flora son Shorea, Terminalia, Dracontomelum, Cinnamomum, Hiretiera, Anamocarya, Tetrameles. Las formas vitales de la flora son diversas y muestran lo siguiente: SB = 60.44 Ph + 9.77 Ch + 11.57 H + 7.82 Cr. + 10.29 Th, donde Ph = 13.37 MM + 1332 Mi + 10.08 Na + 11.42 Lp + 11.37 Ep + 0.67 Pp + 033 Hp.
41967281|Original reports of chromosome numbers should reflect actual observations. To facilitate comparisons among taxa, reports of chromosome numbers in floras and other taxonomic works should be uniform. Los recuentos originales de nmeros cromosmicos debern reflejar las observaciones verdaderas. Con el fin de facilitar las comparaciones entre taxa, las citas de los nmeros cromosmicos en floras y otros trabajos taxonmicos deberan ser uniformes.
41967279|Emanuel D. Rudolph (1927-1992), polar lichenologist and historian of botany, held academic positions at Wellesley College (1955-1961) and The Ohio State University (19611992). This paper outlines the history o Choice, a book review serial, and Emanuel Rudolph's role as a reviewer beginning the year that Choice was established (1964). Important factors influencing his decision to write book reviews were: a commitment to serve colleges, an avid interest in book collecting, and sharing a similar philosophy with science historian George Sarton, who stated that those qualified should review books "because it was their professional duty to do so" (Choice 26:1093. 1989). For 28 publications Rudolph wrote 195 book reviews. Of these 79 appeared in Choice in the disciplines of botany (58), polar science (9), history of science (6), and other biological sciences (5). His book reviews demonstrate analytical and descriptive writing skills as well as a breadth of knowledge in these subject areas. Through his book reviews Rudolph provided collection development and teaching enrichment assistance for college librarians and faculty. Emanuel D. Rudolph (1927-1992), liquenlogo polar e historiador de botnica, ocup cargos acadmicos en Wellesley College (1955-1961) y la Universidad Estatal de Ohio (1961-1992). Este artculo bosqueja la historia de Choice, una serie de revisiones de libros, y el papel de Emanuel Rudolph como revisor empezando en el ao en que se estableci Choice (1964). Fueron factores importantes que influenciaron su decisin de escribir revisiones de libros: el compromiso de servir a las universidades, su gran inters en la coleccin de libros, y compartir una filosofa similar con el historiador de la ciencia George Sarton, quien manifest que las personas cualificadas deberan revisar libros "porque era su deber profesional hacerlo" (Choice 26:1093. 1989)  Rudolph escribi 195 revisiones de libros para 28 publicaciones. De ellas 79 aparecieron en Choice en las disciplinas de botnica (58), ciencia polar (9), historia de la ciencia (6), y otras ciencias biolgicas (5). Sus revisiones de libros demuestran unas habilidades analticas y descriptivas as como un amplio conocimiento en los temas de estas reas. Mediante sus revisiones de libros Rudolph promovi el desarrollo de la coleccin y el apoyo enriquecedor a la docencia para sus compaeros bibliotecarios y la facultad.
41967269|Calculations of the stomata index have resulted in wide variances in indices both single and between plants. Modification of the formula is suggested, including a met! of more accurately estimating stomata and subsidiary cells, with accuracy capable of bej checked by the use of an identity involving adaxial and abaxial leaf surfaces. Los clculos del ndice estomtico dieron variaciones amplias, tanto en un indivic como entre diferentes plantas. Se sugiere la modificacin de la frmula, para incluir mtodo de clculo ms seguro de estimacin de estomas y clulas subsidiarias, con  precisin capaz de ser comprobada por el uso de una identidad que abarque las superfic del haz y el envs de las hojas.
41967264|A taxonomic treatment of the New World genera, Erioneuron and Dasyochloa^ is presented. Materials for morphological, electrophoretic and anatomical studies were collected from naturally occurring populations, and from herbarium specimens throughout the range of the species. A morphological analysis of specimens from 60 populations of Erioneuron and Dasyochloa is given. Phenetic and basic biostatistical techniques were used to delineate and define taxa. Based on these results four species were defined. An electrophoretic survey was conducted on seedlings representing 33 natural populations. Individuals were assayed for five enzyme systems: PGI, GOT, IDH, PGM, and MDH. The results show that variation at the molecular level is concordant with the morphological characters for the separation of taxa. Based on these studies and anatomical data three species of Erioneuron are recognized and a lectotype is designated for E. pilosum. This research supports the recognition of Dasyochloa (D. pulchella) as a monotypic North American genus. Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de los gneros del Nuevo Mundo Erioneuron y Dasyochloa. Los materiales para los estudios morfolgicos, electroforticos y anatmicos fueron tomados de poblaciones naturales y de ejemplares de herbario en todo el rango de distribucin de las especies de estos dos gneros. Fue realizado un anlisis morfolgico de muestras de 60 poblaciones. Fueron usadas tcnicas fenticas y bioestadsticas bsicas para delimitar y definir los taxa. Basados en los resultados fueron definidos cuatro grupos. Fue realizado un muestreo electrofortico en plntulas que representan 33 poblaciones naturales. En los individuos fueron analizados cinco sistemas enzimticos: PGI, GOT, IDH, PGM, y MDH. Los resultados muestran que la variacin al nivel molecular es concordante con los caracteres morfolgicos para la separacin de los taxa. Basados en estos estudios se reconocen tres especies de Erioneuron, se designa el lectotipo de E. pilosum. Esta investigacin apoya el reconocimiento de Dasyochloa (D. pulchella) como un gnero monotpico para Norteamrica.
41967268|Because the taxonomy of Stanhopea (Orchidaceae) has been established exclusively on analyses of the flower, field identification is complicated by the fugacious habit. As an aid to species confirmation, a system is offered that is ecologically friendly, economical, and statistically based. Clinical use of this system suggests it may also have value in determining the degree to which natural and man-made hybrids are related to each species-parent. Debido a que la taxonoma de Stanhopea (Orchidaceae) ha sido establecida exclusivamente en base al anlisis de la flor, la identificacin en el campo es complicada debido a su fugacidad. Como ayuda para la identificacin de esta especie, se ofrece un sistema que es respetuoso ecolgicamente, econmico, y con base estadstica. El uso clnico de este sistema sugiere que posiblemente tenga valor en la determinacin del grado en el que los hbridos naturales y los obtenidos por el hombre estn relacionados con cada parental.
41967267|Two new species of RhamnaceaeSageretia gongshanensis G.S. Fan and L.L. Deng from Gaoligongshan Mountain, Yunnan, China and Rhamnus daliensis G.S. Fan & L.L. Deng from Dali City, Yunnan, China are described and illustrated. Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas de RhamnaceaeSageretia gongshanensis G.S. Fan and L.L. Deng de la Montaa Gaoligongshan, Yunnan, China y Rhamnus daliensis G.S. Fan & L.L. Deng de Dali, Yunnan, China.
41967278|Asa Gray (18101888) authored 11 different editions of his textbooks of botany during the second half of the nineteenth century. His books were considered by his contemporaries as models, the best ones written from the views of current botanical knowledge and for covering the entire scope of the subject as known in his day. This paper describes Gray's textbooks by using information from Gray himself as taken from (1) the books' prefaces and his correspondence with botanical friends, and from (2) commentaries from other writers in published reviews of his textbooks. Based on their titles, contents, and purposes, Gray's textbooks may be placed into three categories: those that (1) discuss the basic elements or provide the essential elements, written for beginning students in schools, published in 1836, 1857, and 1887; (2) have the word "textbook" in the title, written for students at the collegiate and secondary levels, published in six rewritten editions, 1842, 1845, 1850, 1853, 1858, and 1879; and (3) have a morphological-physiological orientation written for use in elementary schools, published in 1858 and 1872. Gray's textbooks were original contributions that organized botany into a more useful science and fulfilled the educational needs of the time. They were in demand for use in schools and the public in general, but after Gray's death, no one continued preparing revisions, and thus both their use and usefulness ceased. Asa Gray (18101888) fue el autor de 11 ediciones diferentes de libros de texto de botnica durante la segunda mitad del siglo diecinueve. Fueron considerados por sus contemporneos como modelos de libros bien escritos desde los puntos de vista del conocimiento botnico de su tiempo y de cubrir el espectro completo de materias conocidas en la poca. Este artculo describe los libros de Gray mediante informaciones procedentes del mismo Gray tomadas de (1) los prlogos de los libros y de su correspondencia con amigos botnicos, y (2) de comentarios de otros autores en revisiones publicadas de sus libros. Basndonos en sus ttulos, contenidos e intencionalidad, los libros de Gray pueden agruparse en tres categoras: (1) los que discuten elementos bsicos u ofrecen estos elementos bsicos, escritos para estudiantes principiantes en las escuelas, publicados en 1836, 1857, y 1887; (2) los que llevan la palabra "textbook" (libro de texto) en el ttulo, escritos para estudiantes de segundo nivel y universitarios, publicados en seis ediciones revisadas, 1842, 1845, 1850, 1853, 1858, y 1879; y (3) los que tienen una orientacin morfolgica-fsiolgica escritos para ser usados en escuelas elementales, publicados en 1858 y 1872. Los libros de Gray fueron contribuciones originales que estructuraron la botnica en una ciencia ms til y satisficieron las necesidades educativas de la poca. Tuvieron demanda para ser usados en escuelas y por el pblico en general, pero despus de la muerte de Gray, nadie continu haciendo las revisiones, y por ello cesaron tanto su uso como utilidad.
41967253|A study of beech-magnolia forests and adjacent habitats in southern Rankin County, Mississippi, in 1995, resulted in the documentation of twelve species of angiosperms considered rare or imperiled in Mississippi. In addition, populations of several vascular plant species previously known only from localities considerably farther south, either in the southern Longleaf Pine Belt or Coastal Pine Meadows physiographic regions, were discovered during the course of field surveys. The rare or unusual species reported herein from the extreme northern edge of the Longleaf Pine Belt in central Mississippi are Aster adnatus, Hyperkum galioides, H. setosum, Hyptis alata, lllicium floridanum, Ludwigia linearis, Melanthium virginicum, Mikania cordifolia, Panax quinquefolium, Persea palustris, Platanthera cristata, Pluchea foetida, Polygala boykinii, Rhapidophyllum hystrix, Sabatia campanulata, Schisandra glabra, Stewartia malacodendron, Triphora trianthophora, and Verbesina walteri. Iris cristata is reported as occurring at the southern periphery of its range in Rankin County. The associated plant communities of these taxa are also discussed. Un estudio de los bosques de Fagus grandifolia-Magnolia grandiflora y hbitats adyacentes en el sur del Condado de Rankin, Mississippi, en 1995, dio como resultado la documentacin de doce especies de of angiospermas consideradas raras o en peligro en Mississippi. Adems, fueron descubiertas poblaciones de varias especies de plantas vasculares previamente conocidas slo en localidades mucho ms al sur, tanto en el sur de las regiones de Longleaf Pine Belt o de Coastal Pine Meadows, durante los muestreos de campo. Las especies raras o poco frecuentes que se citan aqu del extremo norte del Longleaf Pine Belt en Mississippi central son Aster adnatus, Hypericum galioides, H. setosum, Hyptis alata, lllicium floridanum, Ludwigia linearis, Melanthium virginicum, Mikania cordifolia, Panax quinquefolium, Persea palustris, Platanthera cristata, Pluchea fotida, Polygala boykinii, Rhapidophyllum hystrix, Sabatia campanulata, Schisandra glabra, Stewartia malacodendron, Triphora trianthophora, y Verbesina walteri. Iris cristata es citado en el extremo sur de su rea en el Condado de Rankin. Se discuten tambin las comunidades vegetales asociadas de estos taxa.
41967248|A nomenclatural summary is provided for the species of the genus Myrsine occurring in Mesoamerica. An updated description of the genus and its taxonomic synonyms is provided, along with a key to the species. Seven taxa are recognized, including the new combination Myrsine coriacea (Sw.) R. Br. ex Roem. et Schult, subsp. nigrescens (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly. All taxa are enumerated, nomenclatural and taxonomic synonyms provided, and two species, Myrsine juerguensenii and M. pellucidopunctata, are lectotypified. Sixteen binomials are newly relegated to synonymy. Se ofrece un resumen de las especies mesoamericanas pertenecientes al gnero Myrsine. Se incluye una descripcin actualizada del gnero y sus sinnimos taxonmicos, junto con una clave para identificar las especies. Se reconocen siete taxa, incluyendo la nueva combinacin Myrsine coricea (Sw.) R. Br. ex Roem. et Schult, subsp. nigrescens (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly. Se enumeran los taxa, se ofrecen sinnimos tanto nomenclaturales como taxonmicos, y se lectotipifican dos especies, Myrsine juerguensenii and M. pellucidopunctata. Se relegan diecisis binmenes como nuevos sinnimos taxonmicos.
41967247|The identity o Berbers replicata var. dispar and B. griffithiana var. pallida is supported on the basis of pollen morphology. Phylogenetically B. replicata was found to be a primitive, and B. griffithiana an advanced taxa. La identidad de Berberis replicata var. dispar y B. griffithiana var. pallida se mantiene en base a la morfologa polnica. Filogenticamente B. replicata es un taxon primitivo, y B. griffithiana uno derivado.
41967242|Passiflora cerasina, sp. nov., is newly described and placed in Passiflora subgenus Passiflora. This species has been found in northeastern French Guiana on Montagne de Kaw, and in Surinam on Mt. Brownsberg. Passiflora cerasina belongs in the P. laurifolia group, more precisely among the few species that have the first row of corona filaments shorter than the second row. Passiflora cerasina, esp. nouv., est dcrite et place dans Passiflora sous-genre Passiflora. Cette espce a t trouve dans le nord-est de la Guyane franaise sur la Montagne de Kaw, et au Surinam sur le Mont Brownsberg. Passiflora cerasina appartient au groupe de P. laurifolia, o elle est proche des espces dont la courone a les filaments du rang externe plus courts que ceux du second rang.
41967254|Chromosome numbers from 18 populations, which represent 14 species (1 represented by 2 varieties) from 11 genera, 4 tribes, of Compositae, confirm reports for the plants. Los nmeros cromosmicos de 18 poblaciones, que representan 14 especies (1 con 2 variedades) de 11 gneros, 4 tribus, de Compositae, confirman lo registros para estas plantas.
41967252|The wetlands in the Baja California peninsula can be thought of as biological islands because they are surrounded by an arid environment. Also, because of the small area and regular exposure of the wetlands to catastrophic floods, endemic species are rare. The oasis of San Jos del Cabo is close to the ocean, but the water has relatively low levels of salinity. This oasis is the remnant of a small river that existed at the beginning of this century but which dried up from anthropogenic causes and increasing aridity in the region. Since this oasis is in one of the major tourist developments in Mexico, the aquifer will be affected in the future because of unregulated use to satisfy needs of tourism and of the increasing population. The objective of our study is to document the floristic composition of the wetland to serve as future reference. Our checklist contains 109 taxa of vascular plants. Of these, 78 (71%) are herbs (annuals and perennials). Only 4 (3%) of the taxa are uniformly distributed in the 30 hectares of this study (16 hectares of which are water). Los humedales de Baja California Sur pueden considerarse islas biolgicas debido a que con sus relativamente elevados niveles de humedad se encuentran rodeados de territorios ridos; sin embargo, debido a la baja superficie que presentan y la exposicin a inundaciones catastrficas, su composicin florstica es pobre en endemismos. El oasis de San Jos del Cabo se encuentra prximo al mar, pero la intrusin de agua salobre es baja. Este oasis es el ltimo vestigio de un ro existente todava a principios de este siglo, que se sec debido a causas antropgenas e incremento de la aridez en esta regin. Debido a que ste se encuentra dentro de uno zona de los grandes desarrollo turstico de Mxico, el acufero que lo abastece ser afectado en los aos prximos debido a la sobreextraccin de agua para satisfacer las demandas del turismo y de la poblacin en expansin. El objetivo del presente estudio es documentar la composicin florstica actual en este oasis de modo que sirva como referencia para el futuro. El listado anexo comprende 109 taxa de plantas vasculares, de stas el 78 (71%) son herbceas (anuales y perennes), pero slo el 4 (3%) estn uniformemente distribuidos en las 30 hectreas consideradas en este estudio (16 de ellas son de agua).
41967243|The case is presented for the recognition of two genera of spurred lobelioids, Heterotoma and Calcaratolobelia, both presumably derived from the genus Lobelia. Formerly both genera were included in the genus Heterotoma Zucc. by most authors. Ayers (1990) concluded, however, that the spurred, blue-or pink-flowered lobelioids ought instead to be included within Lobelia section Hemipogon Benth. & Hook. A key and descriptions distinguishing the two spurred genera derived from the genus Lobelia, i.e. Heterotoma Zucc, and Calearatolobelia Wilbur gen. nov., are provided together with the needed combinations with the synonymy of the twelve species and one variety that form the genus Calcaratolobelia'.C. aurita (Brandegee) Wilbur, C. cordifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Wilbur, C. flexuosa (C. Presl) Wilbur, C. flexuosa var. intermedia (Hemsley) Wilbur, C. gibbosa (S. Watson) Wilbur, C. goldmanii (Fern.) Wilbur, C. knoblochii (Ayers) Wilbur, C. macrocentron (Benth.) Wilbur, C. mcvaughii (Ayers) Wilbur, C. margarita (F. Wimmer) Wilbur, C. pringlei (B. L. Robinson) Wilbur, C. tenella (Turcz.) Wilbur, and C. villaregalis (Ayers) Wilbur. The synonymy of each taxa forming the genus Heterotoma is also provided. Se pretenden reconocer dos gneros lobeioides con flores espolonadas, Heterotoma y Calcaratolobelia, ambos probablemente derivados del gnero Lobelia. Anteriormente la mayora de los autores incluan ambos gneros en Heterotoma Zucc. Ayers (1990) concluy, sin embargo, que las lobeioides, de flores espolonadas azules o rosadas deberan incluirse en Lobelia seccin Hemipogon Benth. & Hook. Se ofrecen una clave y descripciones para distinguir los dos gneros de flores espolonadas derivados del gnero Lobelia: Heterotoma Zucc, y Calcaratolobelia Wilbur gen. nov., junto con las combinaciones necesarias con las sinonimias de las doce especies y una variedad que forman el gnero Calcaratolobelia'. C. aurita (Brandegee) Wilbur, C. cordifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Wilbur, C. flexuosa (C. Presl) Wilbur, C. flexuosa var. intermedia (Hemsley) Wilbur, C. gibbosa (S. Watson) Wilbur, C. goldmanii (Fern.) Wilbur, C. knoblochii (Ayers) Wilbur, C. macrocentron (Benth.) Wilbur, C. mcvaughii (Ayers) Wilbur, C. margarita (F. Wimmer) Wilbur, C. pringlei (B. L. Robinson) Wilbur, C. tenella (Turcz.) Wilbur, y C. villaregalis (Ayers) Wilbur. Tambin se ofrece la sinonimia de los taxa que forman el gnero Heterotoma.
41967246|A new species of Crataegus, C. nananixonii, is described from Texas and illustrated. The new taxon is a small plant endemic to sand hills near Nacogdoches. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Crataegus, C. nananixonii, procedente de Texas. El nuevo taxon es una pequea planta endmica de las colinas arenosas cerca de Nacogdoches.
41967250|A nomenclatural summary is provided for the species of the genus Stylogyne occurring in Mesoamerica. An updated description of the genus, along with a key to the species is provided. A key to distinguish Ardisia, and Geissanthus from Stylogyne is also provided. Five taxa are recognized, including the new combination Stylogyne turbacensis subsp. laevis (Oersted) Ricketson & Pipoly. All taxa are enumerated, nomenclatural and taxonomic synonyms provided, and six binomials are newly relegated to synonymy. Se ofrece un resumen de las especies mesoamericanas pertenecientes al gnero Stylogyne. Se incluye una descripcin actualizada del gnero, acompaada de una clave para identificar las especies. Se ofrece tambin una clave para distinguir Ardisia y Geissanthus de Stylogyne. Se reconocen cinco taxa, incluyendo la nueva combinacin Stylogyne turbacensis subsp. laevis (Oersted) Ricketson & Pipoly. Se enumeran los taxa, se ofrecen sinnimos tanto nomenclaturales como taxonmicos, y se relegan seis binmenes como nuevos sinnimos taxonmicos.
41967240|The grass genus Zizania (Poaceae: Oryzeae) is defined to include four species, three of temperate North America and one of eastern Asia. Keys, descriptions, distributions, and synonymies are provided for the North American entities: Z. aquatica, Z. palustris and Z. texana. We discuss recent literature and the possible origin of Z. palustris var. interior. El gnero de gramneas Zizania (Poaceae: Oryzeae) se define como un gnero con cuatro especies: tres de la parte templada de Norteamrica y una de Asia oriental. Se incluyen claves, descripciones, distribuciones y sinonomias para las entidades norteamericanas: Z. aquatica, Z. palustris y Z. texana. Examinamos la bibliografa reciente y el origen posible de Z. palustris var. interior.
41967244|Bumelia anomala is transferred to the genus Sideroxylon, where the species must be given a new name because the former specific epithet is preoccupied in the latter genus. Additional (new) morphological data are added to the species description, and the species salient features and rarity are evaluated. Bumelia anomala se transfiere al gnero Sideroxylon, donde la especie debe recibir un nombre nuevo porque el epteto especfico est ocupado en este gnero. Se aaden nuevos datos morfolgicos a la descripcin de la especie, y se evalan las caractersticas ms sobresalientes y raras.
41967085|The compelling case for recognizing three genera of North American Myricaceae (Comptonia, Morella, and Myrica) is presented. Keys and descriptions are provided for the recognized supraspecific taxa. The nomenclatural basis of each of these genera, subgenera, and series is outlined and discussed if at all controversial. Morella Lour., the largest genus, is here treated as comprising two subgenera of which subg. Cerothamnus (Tidestr.) Wilbur is found in the Americas and Africa and subg. Morella is restricted to eastern and southeastern Asia. There are at least four species o Morella in the United States and Canada and perhaps as many as six: M. cerfera (L.) Small, M. caroliniensis (Mill.) Small, M. inodora (W Bartram) Small, and M. californica (Cham. & Schltdl.) Wilbur. Those about which there is some question do not have binomials in the genus Morella but are known as Myrica pensylvanica Mirbel (= Cerothamnuspensylvanicus (Mirbel) Moldenke) and Myricapusilla Raf. (= Cerothamnus pusilla (Raf.) Small). Myrica L. is represented by the circumboreal M. gale L. and the Californian M. hartweqii S. Watson. Comptonia L'Hr. ex Aitn with its only species, peregrina (L.) J.M. Coulter, is restricted largely to the northeastern United States and adjacent Canada. New combinations and/or rankings are provided for the following taxa: Morella subg. Cerothamnus (Tidestr.) Wilbur and series Fay a (Webb & Berthel.) Wilbur, Morella californica (Cham. & Schltdl.) Wilbur, and for the Azorean M. faya (Aiton) Wilbur. Se presenta un estudio convincente para reconocer tres gneros de Myricaceae de Norte Amrica (Comptonia, Morella, y Myrica). Se ofrecen claves y descripciones de los taxa supraspecficos reconocidos. Se bosqueja y discute la base nomenclatural de todos los gneros, subgneros y series, aunque sea controvertida. Morella Lour., el gnero ms amplio, se trata aqu dividido en dos subgneros de los cuales Cerothamnus (Tidestr.) Wilbur se encuentra tanto en Amrica del Norte como del Sur y en Africa, y Morella que est restringido al este y sureste de Asia. Hay al menos cuatro especies de Morella en los Estados Unidos y Canad, que quizs puedan llegar a seis: M. cerfera (L.) Small, M. caroliniensis (Mill.) Small, M. inodora (W. Bartam) Small, y M. californica (Cham. & Schltdl.) Wilbur. Las especies sobre las que hay dudas, no tienen ningn binomen en el gnero Morella, pero se conocen como Myrica pensylvanica Mirbel (= Cerothamnus pensylvanicus (Mirbel) Moldenke) y Myrica pusilla Raf. (= Cerothamnus pusilla (Raf.) Small). Myrica L. est representado por M. gale L., circumboreal, y M. hartwegii S. Watson, de California. Comptonia L'Hr. ex Aiton con su nica especie C. peregrina (L.) J. M. Coulter est restringida al noreste de los Estados Unidos y zonas adyacentes de Canad. Se dan nuevas combinaciones y/o rangos para los siguientes taxa: Morella subgen. Certhamnus (Tidestr.) Wilbur y serie Faya (Webb & Berthel.) Wilbur, Morella californica (Cham. & Schltdl.) Wilbur y para M. faya (Aiton) Wilbur, de las Isla Azores.
41967084|We report a statistical analysis of leaf form for a sample of 481 collected from five yaupon trees at Ponchatoula, Louisiana. Considerable variation exists within these "sun" leaves. Across the 5 trees, surface area varies 24-fold (22.1-533 mm), leaf specific mass 22-fold (7.67-167.83 gm), leaf length 5-fold (6-31 mm), leaf width 4.5-fold (4-18 mm), and crenations 4.7-fold (733 per leaf). Leaf complexity (LC) varies from 1 to 6 Fourier frequencies, and the leaf dissection index (DI) varies from a nearly circular 1.036 to a high of 1.349. Trees in this population are statistically significantly different from each other in average leaf size, leaf mass, leaf specific mass, and in number of crenations per leaf. In logistic regression, the probability that a leaf will develop more crenations, increases with leaf size. As leaf size changes, shape remains relatively constant within this population; amount of leaf dissection does not correlate with other morphological variables. Leaf surface area is strongly related to nodal position on the shoot, middle nodes generally produce the largest leaves. Se realiza un anlisis estadstico de la forma de la hoja sobre una muestra de 481 hojas colectadas en cinco rboles en Ponchatoula, Louisiana. Existe una variacin considerable entre esta hojas de "sol." En cinco rboles, el rea de la superficie vara en 24 veces (de 22.1-533 mm), la masa especfica de la hoja en 22 veces (de 7.67-167.83 gm), la longitud foliar en cinco veces (de 6-31 mm), la anchura de la hoja en 4.5 veces (de 4-18 mm), y las crenaciones en 4.7 veces (de 7-33 por hoja). La complejidad de la hoja (LC) vara de 1 a 6 frecuencias de Fourier, y el ndice de diseccin foliar (DI) vara desde casi circular 1.036 hasta 1.349. Los rboles de esta poblacin muestran diferencias significativas estadsticamente en el tamao foliar medio, masa foliar, la masa foliar especfica, y en el nmero de crenaciones por hoja. En regresin logstica, la probabilidad de que una hoja desarrolle ms crenaciones aumenta con el tama de la hoja. Cuando vara el tamao de la hoja, su forma permanece relativamente constante en esta poblacin; la diseccin de la hoja no se correlaciona con otras variable morfolgicas. El rea de la superficie foliar est fuertemente relacionada con la posicin nodal en la rama, los nudos medios producen generalmente las hojas ms grandes.
41967087|La Sierra de la Paila, ubicada en el sureste del estado mexicano de Coahuila, es parte de la continuacin interrumpida de la Sierra Madre Oriental hacia en norte del estado. El clima es seco. Se eleva desde los 1200 m hasta los 2350 m. Las rocas que la forman son fundamentalmente calizas y los suelos litosoles. No presenta escurrimentos permanentes de agua. La vegetacin es clasificada en cuatro tipos: El Matorral Desrtico Chihuahuense, Matorral Submontano, Bosque de Encino-pino y Zacatal. La flora esta compuesta por aproximadamente 87 familias con 387 gneros, 703 especies, con 712 taxa incluyendo a los taxa infraespecficos. Las familias ms diversas son Asteraceae, Poaceae y Fabaceae, los gneros Muhlenbergia, Dalea, Notholaena y Polygala presentan el mayor nmero de especies. Es la localidad tipo de 21 especies y 9 de ellas son endmicas. The Sierra de la Paila located in the southern portion of the mexican state of Coahuila, is an element of the discontinuous part of the Sierra Madre Oriental. The sierra ranges from the 1200 m to 2350 m in elevation, and the climate is dry. Limestones are the principal substrate and lithosoles the principal soils. There are no permanent water flows on the sierra. The vegetation is divided in four types: Chihuahuan Desert Scrub, Submontane Scrub, Oakpine Woodland and Grassland. The flora comprises approximately 87 families with 387 genera, 703 species, 712 taxa with the inclusion of the infraspecific taxa. The most diverse families are Asteraceae, Poaceae and Fabaceae. The genera Muhlenbergia, Dalea, Notholaena and Polygala are the higher in number of species. It is the type locality of 21 species and about 9 of them are endemic.
41967072|Aconitum columbianum Nutt. is a large and morphologically variable complex of populations extending from southern Canada to northern Mexico, and from California to New York. Bulbiferous populations have a restricted distribution, occurring in the Cascade Range from northern to southern Oregon, in the Klamath Mountains of northern California, and with a small, disjunct group in the California Sierra Nevada south of Lake Tahoe. These bulbiferous aconites are probably the most distinctive group within the A. columbianum complex, and they are treated herein as a subspecies. Aconitum columbianum Nutt. es un complejo grande y variable morfolgicamente de poblaciones que se extienden desde el sur de Canad hasta el norte de Mxico, y desde California hasta Nueva York. Las poblaciones bulbferas tienen una distribucin restringida, encontrndose en la Cordillera de la Cascada desde el norte al sur de Oregon, en las Montaas Klamath del norte de California, y un pequeo grupo disyunto en al sur del Lago Tahoe en la Sierra Nevada de California. Estos acnitos bulbferos son probablemente el grupo ms distintivo dentro del complejo A. columbinum, y aqu son tratados como una subespecie.
41967071|Dugaldia Cass. and Plummera A. Gray are herein recognized as subgenera of Hymenoxys Cass. Morphologic, cytologie, and chemical data are all consistent with this treatment. The appropriate new combinations and a new name are presented. Se reconocen Dugaldia Cass. y Plummera A. Gray como subgeneros de Hymenoxys Cass. Los datos morfolicos, citolgicos y qumicos son consistentes con este tratamiento. Se presentan combinacions nuevas y un nombre nuevo.
41967083|The Sida rhombifolia complex in India is revised. Sida rhomboidea and S. scabrida are reinstated as distinct species; S. retusa, also reinstated as a distinct species, is treated under the older name S. alnifolia. An artificial key for identification, amended synonymy, descriptions, and illustrations are provided. Se revisa el complejo Sida rombifolia en la India. S. rhomboidea y S. scabrida son restablecidas como especies diferentes; S. retusa, tambin restablecida como especie diferente, se trata bajo el nombre ms antiguo de S. alnifolia. Se ofrecen una clave artifical para la identificacin, sinonimias corregidas, descripciones e ilustraciones.
41967076|Principal components analysis shows that the type of Hemerocallis micrantha Nakai is included in the continuous range of morphological variation of populations of H. hakuunensis Nakai (southern, central, and northwestern Korea). Hemerocallis hakuunensis has priority and is the correct name for this taxon. Also, the result shows that H. middendorffii (central and northeastern Korea) is distinct from H. hakuunensis by having a capitate-type inflorescence, large inflorescence bracts, short perianth tube and a different flowering period. Synonymy, descriptions, and distribution pattern of H. hakuunensis are included. El anlisis de componentes principales muestra que el tipo de Hemerocallis micrantha Nakai est incluido en el rango continuo de variacin morfolgica de las poblaciones de H. hakuunenis Nakai (sur, central y noroeste de Korea). Hemerocallis hakuunensis tiene prioridad y es el nombre correcto para este taxon. Los resultados muestran tambin que H. middendorffii (centro y noreste de Korea) se diferencia de H. hakuunensis por tener inflorescencias de tipo capitado, brcteas de la inflorescencia grandes, tubo del perianto corto y un periodo de floracin diferente. Se incluyen sinonimias, descripciones y patrones de distribucin de H. hakuuensis.
41967092|Field and herbaria explorations have yielded the following as new to Mississippi, U.S.A.: Carex bicknellii var. opaca, fissa war. fissa, Cyperus drummondii, C. elegans, entrerianus, C. eragrostis, C. louisianensis, and Kyllinga brevifolioides. Two of these, C. entrerianus and K. brevifolioides, have the potential to become threats as pernicious agricultural and lawn weeds, respectively, in the southeastern United States. Additional range extensions are presented for C. aggregates, difformis, C. flavicomus, C. lancastrensis, C. ovatus, and C. pilosus in Mississippi. Locality and habitat data are presented for all species reported. Exploraciones de campo y de herbario han dado los siguientes taxa como nuevos para Mississippi, U.S.A.: Carex bicknellii var. opaca, C. fissa var. fissa, Cyperus drummondii, elegans, C. entrerianus, C. eragrostis, C. louisianensis y Kyllinga brevifolioides. Dos de stos, entrerianus y K. brevifoioides, tienen potencial para llegar a ser una amenaza como malas hierbas para la agricultura y los cspedes, respectivamente, en el sudeste de los Estados unidos. Se presentan ampliaciones de rea para aggregates, difformis, flavicomus, lancastrensis, ovatus, y C. pilosus en Mississippi. Se presentan datos de localidad y hbitar de todas las especies citadas.
41967074|The identity of two taxa of Berberis, replicata var. dispar and B. griffithiana var. pallida is discussed. Se discute la identidad de dos taxa del gnero Berbers, B. replicata var. dispar y B. griffithiana var. pallida.
41967078|A new species of Poaceae, Saccharum stewartii Rajeshwari, R.R. Rao & Garg from Jammu & Kashmir, northwest Himalaya, India, is described and illustrated. Palynology of the new species is analyzed and compared with its closely allied S. griffithii Munro ex Boiss. Se describe e inconografa una especie nueva de Poaceae, Saccharum stewartii Rajeshwari, R. R. Rao & Garg, de Jammu y Cachemira, noroeste del Himalaya, India. Se analiza y compara la palinologia de esta especie con la de su pariente cercana S. griffithii Munro ex Boiss.
41967079|A disjunct population of Croton alabamensis E. A. Smith ex Chapman, a Category 2 Candidate species being considered for addition to the List of Endangered and Threatened Plants, was discovered over 1000 km from any previously known population. This paper describes the extent and status of this disjunct population. The Croton population is situated along canyon bottoms and appears healthy and self-sustaining. Croton occurrence exhibits no association with overstory gaps, disturbance, or particular fluvial geomorphic features. The species appears to be restricted to canyon bottoms characterized only by mesic conditions provided by the presence of overstory cover and deep soils. Differences between the ecology of this newly discovered population and those of the heretofore considered endemic Alabama populations are discussed. Una poblacin aloptrica de Crotn alabamensis E. A. Smith ex Chapman, Categora 2 de Especie Candidata, que est siendo considerada para ser agregada a la Lista de Plantas en Peligro de Extincin, fue descubierta a una distancia de 1000 km de la poblacin previamente conocida. En este trabajo se describe la extensin y estado de la poblacin aloptrica. La poblacin de Crotn esta situada a lo largo del fondo de un can aparentando poder sobrevivir y crecer en buenas condiciones. La ocurrencia de Crotn no parece tener asociacin con espacios desnudos, perturbaciones o caractersticas fluviales geomrficas particulares. La especie parece estar restringida al fondo del caon caracterizado solamente por condiciones mesomrficas debidas a la presencia de cobertura y suelos profundos. Las diferencias entre las caractersticas de esta poblacin recientemente descubierta y las de poblacin heteroftica en Alabama, antes considerada endmica, son discutidas.
41967081|Recent collections from Ecuador have uncovered the presence of a species, Eriochloa weberbaueri Mez, for which little comparative taxonomic information is available. Previously reported only from Peru, this species is characterized by features unique within the genus. A complete morphological description is presented and based on studies of all available specimens. Relationships with other species are discussed and based on the presence of shared taxonomically important characters. Diagnostic features of E. weberbaueri include a muticous and smooth upper floret, perennial habit, paired spikelets, spikelets 3.1-3.9 mm long, and the absence of a first glume. Recolecciones recientes en Ecuador han descubierto la presencia de una especie, Eriochloa weberbaueri Mez, de la que hay disponible muy poca informacin taxonmica comparativa. Citada previamente slo de Per, esta expecie presenta unas caractersticas nicas dentro del gnero. Se presenta una descripcin morfolgica completa en base a estudios de todos los especmenes disponibles. Se discuten las relaciones con otras especies en base a la presencia de caracteres compartidos taxonmicamente importantes. Los caracteres diagnsticos de E. weberbaueri incluyen una flor superior mtica y lisa, hbito perenne, espiguillas pareadas, espiguillas 3.13-9 mm de largas y la ausencia de la primera gluma.
41967090|Carex lutea (section Ceratocystis) is described from the outer coastal plain of southern North Carolina. It is the only species of this section to occur south of New Jersey along the Atlantic Coast, and appears to be a localized endemic of wet savannas underlain by limestone deposits. From all other species of this section, C. lutea is distinguished by its pale scales, tall ((40) 65-110(125) cm), slender culms, and elongate inflorescences (4.5)5.4-25(41) cm long with usually only one or two widely separated pistillate spikes below the  long peduncled ((0.3)1-6(10.2) mm) staminate spike. Carex lutea se distinque de todas las dems especies de esta seccin por sus escamas plidas, altura ((40-) 65-110 (-125) cm), tallos delgados, inflorescencias alargadas de (4.5-) 5.4-25(-41) cm que usualmente llevan debajo de las espigas estaminadas  largamente pedunculadas ((0.3-)1-6(-10.2) mm) una o dos espigas pistiladas ampliamente separadas.
41967095|A somatic chromosome count of the recently described Jaimehintonia gypsophila B.L. Turner (Amaryllidaceae) is presented, along with a photograph showing its karyotype. It has a diploid count of 2n=20 and is comprised of three pairs of large submetacentric chromosomes, three pairs of medium metacentric chromosomes and four pairs of small chromosomes, three of these metacentric and one acrocentric. Se presenta un recuento cromosmico somtico de la recientemente descrita Jaimehintonia gypsophila B.L. Turner (Amaryllidaceae) junto con una fotografa que muestra su cariotipo. Presenta un recuento diploide de 2n=20 formado por tres pares de cromosomas grandes submetacntricos, tres pares de cromosomas de tamao medio metacntricos y cuatro pares de cromosomas pequeos, tres de los cuales son metacntricos y uno acrocntrico.
41967094|Five species of Anemone with tuberous rootstocks occur in Texas: Anemone caroliniana Walter, A. berlandieri Pritzel, A. tuberosa Rydberg, A. edwardsiana Tharp, and a new species, A. okennonii Keener & Dutton, endemic mainly to the Edwards Plateau in west-central Texas. Existen en Texas cinco especies de Anemone con rizomas tuberosos: Anemone berlandieri Pritzel, A. caroliniana Walter, A. edwardsiana Tharp, A. tuberosa Rydberg, y una nueva especie A. okennonii Keener & Dutton endmica principalmente de la Meseta Edwards en el centro-oeste de Texas
41967091|Sporobolus potosiensis is a new rhizomatous species from San Luis Potos, Mxico that differs from its closest putative relative, S. airoides, by 1.) having conspicuous and slender rhizomes, 2.) lacking trichomes behind the ligule, and 3.) generally smaller in stature. A new combination is proposed at the subspecific rank: S. airoides subsp. rgis. A key to the rhizomatous species of Mexican Sporobolus, as well as S. nealleyi and S. airoides, is provided. Sporolobus potosiensis es una nueva especie rizomatosa de San Luis Potos, Mxico, que difiere de su pariente putativo ms prximo S. airoides por 1.) tener rizomas conspicuos y ms delgados, 2.) ausencia de tricomas detrs de la lgula, y 3.) tamao ms pequeo generalmente. Se propone una nueva combinacin de rango subespecfico: S. airoides subsp. regs. Se ofrece una clave para las especies rizomatosas mexicanas de Sorolobus, as como para S. nealleyi y S. airoides.
41967093|This paper describes two new conifers found in boreal China, namely, Larix gmelini (Rupr.) Rupr. genhensis S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair and Pinus sylvestris L. var. manguiensis S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair. Also, it presents two new combinations, Polemonium hingganicum (P.H. Huang & S.Y. Li) S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair and Penthorum sedoides L. subsp. chinense (Pursh) S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair. En este artculo se describen dos conferas nuevas que se encuentran en el norte de China, Larix gmelini (Rupr.) Rupr. subsp./var.genhensis S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair y Pinus sylvestris L. var. manguiensis S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair. Tambin se presentan dos combinaciones nuevas Polemonium hingganicum (P.H. Huang & S.Y. Li) S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair y Penthorum sedoides L. subsp. chnense (Pursh) S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair.
41967088|The University of Georgia Herbarium contains 162 vascular plant specimens that have been designated as types, and for which some form of documentation has been found. These types are catalogued here with label data (locality, date, collector), the kind of type, and a citation of the original publication. El Herbario de la Universidad de Georgia contiene 162 especmenes de plantas vasculares que han sido designados como tipos y de los cuales se ha encontrado alguna documentacin. Estos tipos estn catalogados aqu con datos de etiqueta (localidad, fecha, colector), especificacin concreta del tipo, y una cita de la publicacin original.
41967123|Field explorations have yielded Carex godfreyi new to Alabama and C. communis and C. scoparia new to Mississippi, U.S.A. Additional range extensions are presented for C. bicknellii var. opaca and C. oklahomensis in Mississippi. Locality and habitat data are presented for all species reported. Las exploraciones de campo han dado como resultado Carex godfreyi nuevo para Alabama, y C. communis y C. scoparia nuevos para Mississippi, U.S.A. Se presentan extensiones de areal para C. bicknellii var. opaca y C. oklahomenis en Mississippi. Se indican la localidad y el hbitat de todas las especies citadas.
41967116|New taxa of paleotropical Myrsinaceae are described from the Philippines and New Guinea in the genera Ardisia, Fittingia, and Tapeinosperma. Ardisia anceps var. borneensis is shown to be a species of Theaceae, probably Adinandra, which is not a myrsinaceous plant. The subgeneric position of Ardisia mystica is established. Ardisia brassii Stone (non Sleumer) is renamed A. brassiella. Se describen nuevos taxa de Myrsinaceae paleotropicales, que pertenecen a los gneros Ardisia, Fitingia, y Tapeinosperma, procedentes de las Filipinas y Nueva Guinea. Se descubre que Ardisia anceps var. borneensis es en realidad, una especie de la familia Theaceae, posiblemente un miembro del gnero Ardinandra. Se ubica Ardisia mystica en el subgnero Pimelandra. Ardisia brassi Stone (non Sleumer) se renombra como A. brassiella.
41967114|Millerocaulis Erasmus ex Tidwell was established as a new genus for Miller's "Osmundacaulis herbstii group." Australosmunda Hill, Forsyth & Green was proposed subsequently for osmundaceous stems anatomically similar to Millerocaulis, but without leaf gaps. However, a few species of Millerocaulis, including its type, M. dunlopii, lack or have occasional leaf gaps. Therefore, Australosmunda is placed in the synonymy of Millerocaulis. Millerocaulis is emended to include those osmundaceous species without or having only an occasional leaf gap. Under the new arrangement, Millerocaulis includes four species M. dunlopii, M. indica, M. indentata, and M. chubutensis. A new genus, Ashicaulis, is proposed for species formerly in Millerocaulis having numerous leaf gaps. It contains 22 species, all of which are recognized nomenclaturally by new combinations. Millerocaulis Erasmus ex Tidwell se estableci como un nuevo gnero para el grupo de Miller "Osmundacaulis herbstii". Se propuso por ello Australosmunda Hill, Forsyth & Green para los tallos osmunceos anatmicamente similares a Millerocaulis, pero sin lagunas foliares. Sin embargo, unas pocas especies de Millerocaulis, incluyendo su tipo, M. dunlopii, carecen de o tienen ocasionalmente lagunas foliares. Por ello, Australosmunda se pasa a la sinonimia de Millerocaulis. Se enmienda Millerocaulis para incluir aquellas especies osmundceas que no tienen laguna foliar o que la tienen slo ocasionalmente. En la clasificacion nueva, Millerocaulis incluye cuatro especies M. dunlopii, M. indica, M. indentata, y M. chubutensis. Se propone un gnero nuevo, Ashicaulis, para las especies con numerosas lagunas foliares que se incluan anteriormente en Millerocaulis. Contiene 22 especies que se reconocen nomenclaturalmente con nuevas combinaciones.
41967110|Miconia skeaniana, which occurs in moist montane forests, cloud forests, and thickets from ca 7501974 m in the Sierra Maestra, is described and illustrated. It is compared with the closely related M. alternifolia, of the mountains of northern "Oriente," a species with which it has been consistently confused. Se describe e ilustra Miconia skeniana que vive en los bosques montanos humedos, bosques de nubes y matorrales entre los 750 y 1974 m en Sierra Maestra. Se compara con la cercanamente emparentada M. alternifolia de las montaas del norte de "Oriente," una especie con la que ha sido confundida frecuentemente.
41967122|Carex perdentata, is described from Palo Pinto County, Texas. A key to the species of section Phaestoglochin occurring in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas is included. Carex, section Phaestoglochin is here with lecto-typified with C. muricata. The South American section Bracteosae, often considered synonymous with section Phaestoglochin, is considered distinct. Se describe Carexperdentata, seccin Phaestoglochin del condado de Palo Alto, Texas. Se incluye una clave para las especies de la seccin Phaestoglochin que viven en Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma y Texas. Se lectotipifica la seccin Phaestoglochin del gnero Carex con C. muricata. La seccin sudamericana Bracteosae, considerada a menudo como sinnima de la seccin Phaestoglochin se considera distinta.
41967117|Recent studies of Mexican and Central American Symphoricarpos have revealed the existence of a new species, described and illustrated below, from the Cuchumatanes Highlands of Guatemala. In addition, keys and distribution maps for the species of Symphoricarpos from Mexico and Guatemala are provided. Recientes estudios de los Symphoricarpos mexicanos y centroamericanos han revelado la existencia de una nueva especie, que se describe e ilustra a continuacin, procedente de los Cuchumatanes de Guatemala. Adems, se ofrecen claves y mapas de distribucin de las especies de Symphoricarpos de Mxico y Guatemala.
41967125|The first collections of Hygrophila polysperma, a species with the potential to become a noxious aquatic weed, are reported from the Comal and San Marcos rivers of central Texas, and a description and illustrations of the species are provided. Se citan las primeras recolecciones de Hygrophila polysperma, una especie que tiene el potencial de convertirse en una mala hierba acutica, de los ros Comal y San Marcos de Tejas central, y se ofrecen una descripcin e ilustraciones de la especie.
41967113|Populations of Phacelia patuliflora, a species of the southeastern United States and closely adjacent Mexico, were investigated in Texas. The species was formerly treated as having two varieties, P. patulifora var. patuliflora and P. patuliflora var. teucriifolia. The present investigation suggests that an additional regional variety from south Texas be recognized for which the name P. patuliflora var. austrotexana J.A. Mover, var. nov. is proposed. A key to the varieties of this complex along with a map showing their distribution is included. Se investigaron en Texas poblaciones Phacelia patuliflora, una especie del sureste de los Estados Unidos y partes adyacentes de Mexico. Se reconocian anteriormente dos variedades, P. patulifora var. patuliflora y P. patuliflora var. teucriifolia. La presente investigacin sugiere que puede ser reconocida una variedad regional adicional del sur de Texas, para la que se propone el nombre P. patuliflora var. austrotexana J.A. Moyer, var. nov. Se incluye una clave para las variedades de este complejo junto con un mapa que muestra su distribucin.
41967120|Species of the East Asian genus Lycoris are easily hybridized; diverse morphological features occur frequently among them in nature and in cultivation. This has caused much difficulty in identifications. Based on taxonomic and karyological investigations and crossing tests, 20 species are recognized of which four are regarded as hybrids: Lycoris haywardii, L. albiflora, L. houdyshelii, and L. rosea. Lycoris aurea var. angustitepala is proposed as new. Keys, descriptions, synonymies, typifications, and karyotypes are included. Las especies del este asitico del gnero Lycoris se hibridan fcilmente y diversas caractersticas morfolgicas se dan frecuentemente tanto en la naturaleza como en cultivo. Esto ha causado mucha dificultad en las identificaciones taxonmicas. En base a investigaciones taxnomicas y cariolgicas, as como pruebas de cruzamiento, se han reconocido veinte especies de las que cuatro son consideradas como hbridos. Lycoris haywardii, L. albiflora, L. houyshelii y L. rosea. Por otro lado, L. aurea var. angustitepala se propone aqui como nueva. Se incluyen claves, descripciones, sinonimias, tipificaciones y cariotipos.
41967112|Cytology of the Saccharum L. (including Erianthus Michx.) species native to North America has not been well characterized. Our objectives were to determine chromosome numbers of 60 clones representative of the eight native species and varieties and attempt crosses with elite sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrids). Counts are reported for the first time for S. brevibarbe var. brevibarbe (2n = 60), S. coarctatum (2n = 60), and S. giganteum (2n = 30, 60, and 90). The latter represents the first report of a polyploid series within S. giganteum and the first count of 2n = 90 for the Erianthus group. Counts also were made for S. alopecuroideum (2n = 30), S. baldwinii (2n = 30), and S. brevibarbe var. contortum (2n = 60). Five putative crosses were made between sugarcane hybrids and native Saccharum, yielding 4 to 448 seeds per cross. La citologa de las especies de Saccharum L. (incluyendo Erianthus Michx.) nativas de Norte Amrica no ha sido bien caracterizada. Nuestros objetivos fueron determinar el nmero cromosmico de 60 clones representativos de ocho especies y variedades nativas e intentar cruces con caa de azcar de lite (hbridos de Saccharum spp.). Se ofrecen por primera vez recuentos de S. brevibarbe var. brevibarbe (2n = 60), y S. coarctatum (2n = 60), y S. giganteum (2n = 30,60, y 90). Este ltimo representa la primera cita de una serie poliploide en S. giganteum y el primer recuento de 2n = 90 para el grupo Erianthus. Se hicieron tambin recuentos de S. alopecuroideum (2n = 30), S. baldwinii (2n = 30), y S. brevibarbe var. contortum (2n = 60). Se hicieron cinco cruces putativos entre hbridos de caa de azcar y Saccharum silvestres, produciendo de 4a448 semillas por cruce.
41967118|A species pool refers to the total species in a defined region at a given time. The species pool in eastern Asia is the product of a long history with low speciation rates, while the species pool in northwestern North America is largely due to recent rapid speciation. Data fail to support the theoretical dominancy of ecological determinism in the development of regional species diversity. A species pool is the product of evolution, immigration, and extinction and thus postulates extant species richness to be an historical artifact rather than an ecologically determinate reality. La gran riqueza de especies en el este de Asia es el efecto de una historia larga con unas tasas de extincin y especiacion bajas, mientras que la gran riqueza en el noroeste de Norte America es debida a especiacin reciente rpida. Los datos no explican la dominancia terica del determinismo ecologico en favor de la historia geofsica regional especfica como base para explicar la diversidad regional de especies. Se propone un "pool" de especies como resultado de la evolucin, inmigracin y extincin, y por ello se postula que la riqueza en especies vivientes es un artefacto histrico en vez de una realidad ecolgicamente determinada.
41967121|Studies of Myrsinaceae in Colombian Amazonia have revealed two new species in the genus Cybianthus subgenus Cybianthus: C. barbosae Pipoly and C. ruforamulus Pipoly. They are described and illustrated herein, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Al estudiar las Myrsinaceae de la amazona colombiana, se descubrieron dos especies nuevas, pertenecientes al genero Cybianthus subgnero Cybianthus. Se describen Cybianthus barbosae Pipoly y C. ruforamulus Pipoly, as mismo se ilustran y se discute su parentesco.
41967124|Ardisia capuronii Pipoly is described and illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Placement of Ardisia capuronii in subgenus Akosmos Mez is justified. A key to the species of Ardisia Sw. in Madagascar is presented. Ardisia capuronii es una nueva especie de Madagascar. La especie se describe, se ilustra y se discute su parentesco. Se justifica la ubicacin de la especie dentro del subgnero Akosomos. Se presenta una clave para identificar las especies del gnero Ardisia procedentes del Madagascar.
41966340|A new diploid species from Texas is described, Galium correllii (Rubiaceae), with figures showing some morphological details.
41966568|The plant known as Habranthus texanus (Herb.) Steud. is considered synonymous with H. tubispathus (L'Her.) Traub. Its distribution includes warm temperate South America and southeast Texas and northwest Louisiana. It is proposed that this species is native to South America and was introduced into the United States in the late seventeenth or early eighteenth centuries possibly by Spanish missionaries.
41967933|Eleven taxa associated with the Dichotoma group of Dichanthelium are recognized, including eight species and three varieties. A summary of recent taxonomic treatment of the group is provided, along with a key to the species and varieties, plus synonymy, typification, discussion, distribution, and ecology. Six new combinations are made: Dichanthelium annulum (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum (L.) Gould var. nitidum (Lam.) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum var. ramulosum (Torr.) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum var. roanokense (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, D. lucidum (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, and D. sphagnicola (Nash) R.J. LeBlond. Se reconocen once taxa asociados con el grupo Dichotoma de Dichanthelium, que incluyen ocho especies y tres variedades. Se of rece un resumen del reciente tratamiento taxonmico del grupo, junto con una clave para las especies y variedades, junto con sinonimias, tipificacin, discusin, distribucin y ecologa. Se hacen seis combinaciones nuevas: Dichanthelium annulum (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum (L.) Gould var. nitidum (Lam.) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum var. ramulosum (Torr.) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum var. roanokense (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, D. lucidum (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, y D. sphagnicola (Nash) R.J. LeBlond.
41967976|Fourteen species of vascular plants are reported new to the state of Kentucky, U.S.A. Five of these are European weeds: Anthoxanthum aristatum, Aphanes microcarpa, Erysimum hieraciifolium, Lathyrus tuberosus, and Vicia tetrasperma. The other nine are native species known from adjacent states and were, thus, not entirely unexpected: Acalypha deamii, Carex austrocaroliniana, Centunculus minimus, Elymus wiegandii, Equisetum  ferrissii, Leucothoe fontanesiana, Lupinus perennis, Polygonum cilinode, and Silene nivea. Se presentan 14 especies de plantas vasculares que fueron descubiertas como nuevas para el estado de Kentucky, EE.UU. Cinco de stas son malezas de Europa: Anthoxanthum aristatum, Aphanes microcarpa, Erysimum hieraciifolium, Lathyrus tuberosus, y Vicia tetrasperma. Las otras nueve son especies nativas ya conocidas de los estados de alrededor y, por eso, no fueron totalmente inesperadas: Acalypha deamii, Carex austrocaroliniana, Centunculus minimus, Elymus wiegandii, Equisetum  ferrissii, Leucothoe fontanesiana, Lupinus perennis, Polygonum cilinode, y Silene nivea.
41967947|The present study is a review of the Amaranthus hybridus complex based on new morphological and anatomical characters. Two new combinations are proposedA. hybridus subsp. quitensis and A. powellii subsp. bouchonii. Based on characters such as phyllotaxy leaf traces and other morphological characters the division of the genus into subgenera is also discussed. El presente estudio es una revisin del complejo Amaranthus hybridus basado en caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos. Se proponen dos nuevas combinacionesA. hybridus subsp. quitensis y A. powellii subsp. bouchonii. Tambin se analiza la divisin del gnero en subgneros en base a la filotaxis, los rastros foliares y otros caracteres morfolgicos.
41967950|An annotated list and county-by-county distribution maps are presented for the 32 species of ferns and fern allies native to Nebraska, based upon field and herbarium studies and critical evaluation of the literature. Native to the state are Isotes melanopoda, Selaginella rupestris, five species of Equisetum, and 25 species in 18 genera of ferns. Three native species are here verified for the first time, based upon recent collections: Matteuccia struthiopteris var. pensylvanica, Ophioglossum engelmannii, and Pellaeaglabella ssp. glabella. Isotes melanopoda was rediscovered in 2000, the first record since 1941. Rejected are published reports of Lycopodium annotinum, Selaginella densa, Equisetum litorale, E. palustre, E. pratense, E. variegatum, Asplenium trichomanes, Azolla caroliniana, Botrychium dissectum, B. matricariifolium, B. multifidum, B. neglectum, Cryptogramma acrostichoides, Ophioglossum vulgatum, Osmunda cinnamomea, O. claytoniana, O. regalis, and Woodsia scopulina. Some erroneous reports have been published repeatedly for more than a century, but others are recent. Se presentan un lista anotada y mapas de distribucin por condados, de las 32 especies de helechos y otras pteridfitas nativas del estado de Nebraska (EE.UU), basados en estudios de campo, examen de herbarios, y evaluacin crtica de la literatura. Como nativas para este estado se cuentan Isotes melanopoda, Selaginella rupestris, cinco especies de Equisetum, y 25 especies de helchos distribuidas en 18 gneros. Se citan tres especies como nativas por primera vez, basndose en recolecciones recientes: Matteuccia struthiopteris var pensylvanica, Ophioglossum engelmannii, y Pellaea glabella. Isotes melanopoda fue redescubierta en el ao 2000, siendo el primer registro de esta especie desde 1941. Se rechazan como errneas las citas publicadas de la presencia de Lycopodium annotinum, Selaginalla densa, Equisetum  litorale, E. palustre, E. pratense, E. variegatum, Asplenium trichomanes, Azolla caroliniana, Botrychium dissectum, B. matricariifolium, B. multifidum, B. neglectum, Cryptogramma acrostichoides, Ophioglossum vulgatum, Osmunda cinnamomea, O. claytoniana, O. regalis, y Woodsia scopulina. Algunas de estas citas errneas han sido publicadas en repetidas ocasiones desde hace ms de un siglo, mientras que otras son recientes.
41967955|The oak hybrids Quercus  leana Nutt. (Q. imbricaria  Q. velutina) and Q.  runcinata (A. DC.) Engelm. (Q. imbricaria  Q. rubra) are occasionally encountered as scattered individuals throughout Illinois. Populations consisting of many individuals of these two hybrid taxa are not known in Illinois, and only rarely have suspected backcross individuals been found. A Principal Components Analysis (PCA) involving the parent taxa and the supposed hybrids indicates that little introgression occurs, each taxon appearing as a distinct cluster on the PCA graph. A study involving hybrid specimens encountered in the herbaria of the state indicates that Q.  leana is the most common taxon, being found in 31 counties, Q.  runcinata being known from only 11 counties. Los robles hbridos Quercus  leana Nutt. (Q. imbricaria  Q. velutina) y Q.  runcinata (A. DC.) Engelm. (Q. imbricaria Q. rubra) se encuentran ocasionalmente como individuos esparcidos por todo Illinois. Se conocen en Illinois poblaciones que se componen de muchos individuos de estos dos taxa hbridos, y slo raramente se han encontrado individuos que se sospeche que son retrocruzamientos. Un Anlisis de Componentes Principales (PCA) de los taxa parentales y los supuestos hbridos indica que ocurre poca introgresin, ya que cada taxon aparece como un cluster diferente en el grfico del PCA. Un estudio de los especmenes hbridos encontrados en los herbarios del estado indica que Q.  leana es el taxon mas frecuente, encontrndose en 31 condados, mientras que Q.  runcinata se conoce slo de 11 condados.
41967937|Five nomenclatural combinations complete the transfer of Mexican and Central American species from Gnaphaliothamnus to Chionolaena: Chionolaena costaricensis, Chionolaena cryptocephala, Chionolaena durangensis, Chionolaena macdonaldii, and Chionolaena salicifolia. In this view, Chionolaena is a genus spread across northeastern and northern South America, Central America, and south-central to southwestern Mexico. Cinco combinaciones nomenclaturales completan la transferencia de especies mexicanas y Centroamericanas de Gnaphaliothamnus a Chionolaena: Chionolaena costaricensis, Chionolaena cryptocephala, Chionolaena durangensis, Chionolaena macdonaldii, y Chionolaena salicifolia. Desde este punto de vista, Chionolaena es un gnero distribuido por el noreste y norte de Sur Amrica, Amrica Central, y del sur-centro al suroeste de Mxico.
41967939|The Carex jamesii complex is composed of three species: C. jamesii, C. juniperorum, and C. timida. Despite the morphological similarity of C. jamesii and C. tmida, these two taxaare not closely linked in a cluster analysis using genetic identity values. Rather, C. timida is grouped with G juniperorum. The close genetic similarity between these two species confirms the findings of a previous phylogenetic study that showed that G juniperorum and G tmida are sister species. Carex tmida populations from the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas are genetically unique and blur the distinctiveness between the latter species and C. juniperorum. Such a finding could be a sampling artifact. Alternatively, the plants found in the Ouachita Mountains may be closest to the ancestor that gave rise to G juniperorum and G tmida. A comparison of genetic, phylogenetic, and phenetic relationships provides insights into the delineation of infraspecific taxa and justification for the recognition of G tmida at the species level. El complejo Carex jamesii est compuesto por tres especies: C. jamesii, C. juniperorum, y C. timida. A pesar de la semejanza morfolgica de C. jamesii y C. timida, estos dos taxa no estn fuertemente unidos en un anlisis cluster usando valores de identidad gentica. En su lugar, C. timida est agrupado con C. juniperorum. La fuerte similitud gentica de estas dos especies confirma los hallazgos de un estudio filogentico previo que mostr que C. juniperorum y C. timida son especies hermanas. Las poblaciones de Carex timida de la montaas Ouachita de Arkansas son genticamente singulares y enturbia la distincin entre la ltima especie y C. juniperorum. Tal hallazgo puede ser un artefacto de muestreo. Alternativamente, las plantas que se encuentran en las montaas Ouachita pueden ser ms cercanas al ancestro que dio lugar a C. juniperorum y C. timida. Una comparacin de las relaciones genticas, filogenticas, y fenticas proporcionan una mejor comprensin de la delincacin de los taxa infraespecficos y la justificacin para el reconocimiento de C. timida a nivel especfico.
41967926|Laennecia turnerorum sp. nov, from Brewster County, Texas, is similar to other species of Laennecia sect. Sophiifolium (L. coulteri, L. sophiifolia, and L. mapimiana) in its annual duration, hirsute-pilose vestiture, acuminate phyllary apices, elaminate ray florets, and small, strigose cypselae with a uniseriate, caducous pappus. It differs from those three species in its stems, leaves, and phyllaries sparsely (vs. densely) glandular, basal leaves persistent at flowering (vs. senescent and usually absent by flowering), reduced vestiture of the phyllaries, and non-accrescent pappus (vs. accrescent). Plants of L. turnerorum are spring ephemerals and grow with plants of L. coulteri. Laennecia turnerorum sp. nov., del condado de Brewster, Texas, es similar a otras especies de Laennecia sect. Sophiifolium (L. coulteri, L. sophiifolia, y L. mapimiana) en su duracin anual, indumento hirsuto piloso, pices de los filarios acuminados, flsculos no laminados, y cipselas pequeas, estrigosas con un vilano caduco uniseriado. Difiere de las otras tres especies en sus tallos, hojas, y filarios esparsamente (vs. densamente) glandulares, hojas basales persistentes en la floracin (vs. senescentes y usualmente ausentes en la floracin), indumento de los filarios reducido, y vilano no acrescente (vs. acrescente). Las plantas de L. turnerorum son efmeras primaverales y crecen con plantas de L. coulteri.
41967948|Amaranthus blitum L. and its infraspecific variability in the United States are analyzed using classical morphological and some new Scanning Electron Microscope characters. Two new combinations within A. blitum are proposed, A. blitum subsp. oleraceus and A. blitum subsp. emarginatus var. pseudogracilis. For the first time, Agraecizans L. is confirmed as occurring in North America. Some nomenclatural issues involving A. blitum L. and A. graecizans L. are also discussed. Se analiza Amaranthus blitum L y su variabilidad intraespecfica en los Estados Unidos, utilizando los caracteres clsicos y algunos nuevos observados con el Microscopio Electrnico de Barrido. Se proponen dos combinaciones nuevas para Amaranthus blitum, A. blitum subsp. oleraceus y A blitum subsp. emarginatus var. pseudogracilis. Por primera vez se confirma la presencia de Amaranthus graecizans en Norte Amrica. Se analizan tambin algunos problemas de nomenclatura de Amaranthus blitum y Amaranthus graecizans.
41967938|Analyses of morphologic, geographic, and cologie data indicate three species comprise the Carex jamesii complex: C. jamesii, C. juniperorum, and C. timida, sp. nov. Carexjamesii has shoot bases lacking red-purple, relatively tall culms, relatively long staminate portions of spikes, and relatively long perigynium beaks. It is common and widespread in mesic deciduous forests in much of the eastern U.S.A. and in southwestern Ontario. Carex juniperorum has red-purple shoot bases, short culms, short staminate portions of spikes, and short perigynium beaks. It is rare and has a disjunct distribution in mesic deciduous and deciduous-juniper forests and forest edges in the eastern U.S.A. and southeastern Ontario. Carex timida has red-purple shoot bases, tall culms, short staminate portions of spikes, and short perigynium beaks. It is rare and has a disjunct distribution in mesic deciduous forests of the eastern U.S.A. Phylogenetic analysis of morphologic data indicates the complex is monophyletic and C. juniperorum is the sister species of G timida. The correct name and authorship of the section to which the C. jamesii complex belongs is determined to be Carex section Phyllostachyae Tuck, ex Kk. Synonymies, typif ications, descriptions, and citations of representative specimens are provided for each species, along with an identification key. Los anlisis de datos morfolgicos, geogrficos, y ecolgicos indican que el complejo Carex jamesii comprende tres especies: C. jamesii, C. juniperorum, y C. timida, sp. nov. Carex jamesii tiene las bases de los renuevos que no son rojo-prpura, clmenes relativamente altos, parte estaminada de las espigas relativamente largas, y picos del utrculo relativamente largos. Es comn y est distribuido en los bosques deciduos mesfilos en gran parte del este de U.S.A. y en el suroeste de Ontario. Carex juniperorum tiene las bases de los renuevos rojo-prpura, clmenes cortos, parte estaminada de las espigas corta, y picos del utrculo cortos. Es raro y tiene una distribucin disyunta en los bosques deciduos mesfilos y enebrales, y bordes de bosques en el este de U.S.A. y sureste de Ontario. Carex timida tiene las bases de los renuevos rojo-prpura, clmenes altos, parte estaminada de las espigas corta, y picos del utrculo cortos. Es raro y tiene una distribucin disyunta en los bosques deciduos mesfilos del este de U.S.A. El anlisis filogentico de datos morfolgicos indica que el complejo es monofiltico y que C. juniperorum es la especie hermana de G timida. El nombre correcto y autora de la seccin a la que pertenece el complejo G jamesii se determina que es Carex seccin Phyllostachyae Tuck, ex Kk. Se ofrecen sinonimias, tipificaciones, descripciones, y citaciones de especmenes representativos de cada especie, junto con una clave de identificacin.
41967949|Carex cumberlandensis is described as new from mesic forests in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. Previously, specimens of C. cumberlandensis had been confused with C. digitalis and C. abscondita. Carex cumberlandensis has vegetative shoots much taller than the culms, very narrow staminate spikes, short staminate scales, and obtuse staminate scales, all of which distinguish it from C. digitalis. Unlike C. abscondita, C. cumberlandensis has the lower spikes on long and drooping or nodding peduncles, distichously imbricate perigynia, the bract blade of the distalmost lateral spike (12-)17-51 times as long as wide, and always densely caespitose habit. The chromosome number of C. cumberlandensis is 2n = 23 II. Se describe como nuevo Carex cumberlandensis de los bosques mesfilos de Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Carolina del Norte, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Carolina del Sur, Tennessee, Virginia, y West Virginia. Previamente, se haban confundido especmenes de C. cumberlandensis con C. digitalis y C. abscondita. Carex cumberlandensis tiene renuevos vegetativos mucho ms altos que los clmenes, espigas estaminadas muy estrechas, escamas estaminadas cortas y obtusas, todo lo cual lo distingue de C. digitalis. Al contrario que C. abscondita, C. cumberlandensis tiene las espigas inferiores nutantes o colgantes en largos pednculos, utrculos imbricados dsticamente, la lmina de la brctea de la espiga lateral ms distal (12-)17-51 veces ms larga que ancha, y siempre un hbito densamente cespitoso. El nmero cromosmico de C. cumberlandensis es 2n = 23 II.
41967957|A survey of the vascular flora of Madison County, Texas, was conducted from May 1996 to April 2000. The flora consists of 985 species in 488 genera and 136 families. The largest families in the flora are the Asteraceae (127 species), Poaceae (123 spp.), Fabaceae (76 spp.), Cyperaceae (63 spp.), and Euphorbiaceae (32 spp.). The species are compiled in an annotated list that includes for each species the common name, collection citations, and a designation as to whether that species is considered native or introduced. Habitat types where each species occurs are included in the list. Unusual habitats, introduced species, and rare and endemic taxa are discussed. Una investigacin de la flora vascular de Madison County, Texas, fue realizada desde mayo de 1996 a abril de 2000. La flora est formada por 985 especies pertenecientes a 488 gneros y 136 familias. Las familias mayores son las Asteraceae (127 especies), Poaceae (123 esp.), Fabaceae (76 esp.), Cyperaceae (63 esp.), y Euphorbiaceae (32 esp.). Las especies se han compilado en una lista comentada que incluye para cada especie el nombre vernculo, citas de las recolecciones, y una designacin de si se considera nativa o introducida. Se incluyen en la lista los tipos de los habitats en que vive cada especie. Estn comentados los habitats inusuales, especies introducidas, as como txones raros y endmicos.
41967932|Three allopatric varieties are recognized within Chrysogonum virginianum: the northern var. virginianum, with non-stoloniferous plants and mostly leafy aerial stems; the southern (Gulf coastal plain) var. australe, with flagellate stolons and only leafless aerial stems; and the geographically intermediate var. brevistolon, var. nov., with stolons of intermediate length and mostly leafy aerial stems. These three taxa are separated by other minor and overlapping differences. Intermediates apparently occur, but uncommonly, between var. virginianum and var. brevistolon. Variety australe is more strongly separated in geographic range and more distinct in morphology. Se reconocen tres variedades aloptricas en Chrysogonum virginianum: la nortea var. virginianum, con ejemplares no estoloniferos y la mayora de los tallos areos con hojas; la surea (llanura costera del Golfo) var. australe, con estolones flagelados y nicamente tallos areos sin hojas; y la intermedia geogrficamente var. brevistolon, var. nov., con estolones de longitud intermedia y con la mayora de los tallos areos con hojas. Estos tres taxa se separan por otras diferencias menores que se solapan. Se encuentran intermedios aparentemente, pero raramente, entre var. virginianum y var. brevistolon. La variedad australe se separa ms en el rango geogrfico y tiene una morfologa ms distinta.
41967954|The study of species-area relationships in protected natural areas (PNAs) is an effective tool for designing nature reserves and managing biological diversity. Ten North Central Texas PNAs were studied to understand how plant species richness is related to PNA size. The species-area model was applied to total plant species, native plant species, selected native speciose plant families and invasive plant species. Results indicate that area is a significant predictor of species richness (r = 0.60) for both total species and native species in North Central Texas PNAs. Habitat diversity as measured by topographic relief and topographic abruptness is also shown to be a significant predictor of plant species richness in North Central Texas PNAs. Introduced species richness could not be predicted from area alone but was explained by perimeter and perimeter/area ratio and one proxy measure of habitat diversity. The estimates of z values range from 0.15 to 0.30, while c ranges from 0.60 to 1.42 for species-area relationships, both of which fall within the range of values estimated by previous research. Such estimates allowed us to evaluate effective management schemes for North Central Texas PNAs plant diversity. The results of this research permit us to examine the invasion of exotic flora in Texas PNAs and to predict how such invasions will reduce native species richness if conservation management practices are not implemented. El estudio de las relaciones entre el rea y el nmero de especies en reas naturales protegidas es una herramienta efectiva para el diseo de reservas y el manejo de la diversidad biolgica. Diez reas naturales protegidas del norte del estado de Tejas fueron estudiadas para entender como la riqueza de especies vegetales est relacionada con el tamao del rea. El modelo especies-rea fue aplicado al nmero total de especies vegetales, las especies nativas, ciertas familias de plantas con muchas especies, y especies exticas invasoras. Los resultados indican que el rea es un predictor significativo de la riqueza de especies (r  0.60) para el nmero total de especies y el nmero de especies nativas dentro de estas reas naturales protegidas. La diversidad del habitat que se midi por medio del total de relieve topogrfico y lo accidentado de la topografa tambin es un predictor significativo de la riqueza vegetal en estas reas. El nmero de especies exticas no se pudo predecir por el rea nicamente, sino que se pudo por medio del permetro del rea y la proporcin permetro por rea, y uno de los dos estimadores topogrficos de diversidad de habitat. Las estimaciones del valor de z del modelo de MacArthur y Wilson son de 0.15 a 0.30, mientras que la c vara desde 0.60 a 1.42 para las relaciones de especies-rea. Tales estimaciones nos permiten evaluar los esquemas de manejo de la diversidad vegetal de las reas naturales protegidas del norte de Texas. Los resultados de esta investigacin nos permiten examinar las razones por las cuales las especies exticas invasoras han colonizado las reas naturales protegidas y predecir como tales invasiones reducirn la riqueza de especies nativas si no se implementan pautas de manejo para su conservacin.
41967951|Cryptocoryne beckettii Thw. ex R. Trim, is an exotic aquatic plant recently found in the San Marcos River, Texas. The species is currently expanding rapidly within the lower portions of the upper San Marcos River. The distribution and areal extent of the species was quantified on three occasions between April 1998 and August 2000. During this 28-month period, the number of individual colonies increased from 11 to 63, and the total areal coverage increased from 171 to 646 m. The average rate of areal expansion during this period was 80% per year. Most colonies of C. beckettii were found to be small (<5 m), although in August 2000 three colonies were greater than 50 m in size. All colonies were found at water depths between 30 and 120 cm and appeared to favor more rapidly flowing water. This preference for shallow, rapidly flowing areas of the river makes C. beckettii a potentially serious threat to Zizania texana Hitchc., an endangered plant endemic to the San Marcos River, that occupies a similar river zone. All known colonies of C. beckettii are currently downstream from the remaining stands of Z. texana. Cryptocoryne beckettii Thw. ex R. Trim, es una planta acutica extica encontrada recientemente en el ro San Marcos, Texas. La especie est actualmente expandindose rpidamente por las partes bajas de la cuenca alta del San Marcos. La distribucin y rea de extensin de la especie fue cuantificada en tres ocasiones entre abril de 1998 y agosto de 2000. Durante este periodo de 28 meses, en nmero de colonias individuales se increment de 11 a 63, y el rea total de recubrimiento se increment de 171 a 646 m. La tasa media de expansin del rea durante este periodo fue del 80% por ao. La mayora de las colonias de C. beckettii son pequeas (<5 m), aunque en agosto de 2000 tres colonias eran mayores de 50 m. Todas las colonias se encontraron en profundidades de agua entre 30 y 120 cm y parecan favorecer un flujo de agua ms rpido. Esta preferencia por las reas del ro poco profundas y con flujo rpido hace de C. beckettii una amenaza potencial seria para Zizania texana Hitchc., una planta endmica amenazada del ro San Marcos, que ocupa una zona fluvial similar. Todas las colonias conocidas de C. beckettii estn actualmente aguas abajo de las posiciones restantes de Z. texana.
41967935|The genus Hesperoyucca (Agavaceae), consisting of three species, is recognized as distinct from Yucca based on distinct morphological, phenological and pollinator characteristics, biogeographic considerations and recent DNA analyses. Hesperoyucca whipplei is recognized and new combinations for two species are made: H. newberryi and H. peninsularis. A key that distinguishes Yucca from Hesperoyucca and the three species of Hesperoyucca is included. Se reconoce a Hesperoyucca (Agavaceae) como gnero distinto de Yucca en base a caracteres morfolgicos, fenolgicos y del polinizador, a consideraciones biogeogrficas y anlisis recientes de ADN. Hesperoyucca consta de tres especies. Se reconoce Hesperoyucca whipplei y se proponen dos combinaciones nuevas para las otras dos especies, H. newberryi y H. peninsularis. Se presenta una clave para distinguir Yucca de Hesperoyucca y para identificar las tres especies de Hesperoyucca.
41967959|Se efectu un estudio del origen de la flora arvense y ruderal presente en el estado de Quertaro, Mxico. Una de las principales causas de la distribucin es la ubicacin geogrfica del estado, paso obligado hacia las regiones norte y sur del pas. Otro factor implicado fueron las actividades agropecuarias practicadas por los grupos nativos (chichimecas y otomes), modificadas posteriormente por la inmigracin europea, con la introduccin de cultivos y de diversas especies de maleza. Se registraron 347 especies, 211 gneros y 47 familias de las regiones agrcolas del estado; destacan por el nmero de taxa las familias Compositae (81 spp.), Gramineae (61 spp.), Euphorbiaceae (22 spp.), Leguminosae (17 spp.), Solanaceae (16 spp.), Malvaceae (12 spp.), Cruciferae (12 spp.) y Convolvulaceae (10 spp.) de las que el 66% fueron recolectadas en terrenos de cultivo y el 14% en la vegetacin ruderal. Se listan 125 especies consideradas nativas, la mayora de las cuales pertenecen a las familias: Compositae, Gramineae, Solanaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Caryophylllaceae y Cucurbitaceae; adems de las 57 de origen norteamericano, hay 57 de Amrica tropical, 29 europeas, 23 sudamericanas, 20 euroasiticas, 16 asiticas, 8 caribeas, 8 africanas, 2 de la regin de Oceana y 2 de Centroamrica. The origin of weeds and ruderal species from Queretaro, Mexico was studied. One of the principal causes for the distribution of weeds of diverse origin is the location of the state, through which much north-south travel was focused. Another factor was the agricultural practices of native people (chichimecas y otomes), later modified by European immigrants, with the introduction of new crops and diverse weedy associates. We recorded 347 species, 211 genera, and 47 families. The families with largest number of taxa are Compositae (81 spp), Gramineae (61 spp.), Euphorbiaceae (22 spp.), Leguminosae (17 spp.), Solanaceae (16 spp.), Malvaceae (12 spp.), Cruciferae (12 spp.) and Convolvulaceae (10 spp.) of which 66% were collected in field crops and 14% in ruderal vegetation. There are 125 species considered native, most of them belong to the families: Compositae, Gramineae, Solanaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Caryophyllaceae and Cucurbitaceae. In addition to 57 from North America, there were 57 from Tropical America, 29 from Europe, 23 from South America, 23 from European-Asiatic, 16 from Asia, 8 from Caribbean, 8 from Africa, 2 from Oceania, and 2 from Central America.
41967928|Two species of Impatiens viz., I. sholayarensis and I. violacea are described from Kerala, India. Se describen dos especies de Impatiens viz., I. sholayarensis e I. violacea de Kerala, India.
41967930|A new species of Poaceae, Tripogon ravianus Sunil & Pradeep from the Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu, India is described and illustrated Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Poaceae, Tripogon ravianus Sunil & Pradeep de los Western Ghats de Tamil Nadu, India.
41967943|Generic relationships among Houstonia, Oldenlandia, and Hedyotis are discussed. Seed and other morphological characters, chromosome numbers, and limited DNA data support the division of Hedyotis into smaller genera. The taxonomy and nomenclature of Houstonia acerosa and H. palmeri are revised to accommodate two recently described varieties, H. acerosa var. tamaulipana and H. palmeri var. muzquizana. Se analizan las relaciones genricas entre Houstonia, Oldenlandia y Hedyotis. Datos de la semilla, otros caracteres morfolgicos, nmero de cromosomas, y datos limitados del ADN apoyan la divisin de Hedyotis en gneros ms pequeos. Se revis la taxonoma y la nomenclatura de Houstonia acerosa y H. palmeri para acomodar dos variedades recientemente descritas, H. acerosa var. tamaulipana y H. palmeri var. muzquizana.
41967969|Houstonia longifolia Gaertn. (Rubiaceae) is reported as new to Texas. Houstonia longifolia Gaertn. (Rubiaceae) se cita como nueva de Texas.
41967941|Seven former Hedyotis (Rubiaceae) species native to Baja California, Mexico, are revised and placed in a new genus, Stenotis, on the basis of seed and other morphological characters, chromosome number, and recent DNA evidence. Keys, descriptions, distributions, and synonyms are provided. Two of the species are annual herbs (Stenotis arenaria, S. asperuloides), and five are perennial woody herbs or shrublets (S. australis, S. brevipes, S. gracilenta, S. mucronata, and S. peninsularis). Two varieties are recognized in S. asperuloides. Se revisan siete especies de Hedyotis (Rubiaceae) originarias de Baja California, Mxico, y se colocan en un nuevo gnero, Stenotis. La ubicacin en este gnero se basa en caracteres de la semilla y en otros caracteres morfolgicos, en el nmero de cromosomas, y en evidencias recientes derivadas del ADN. Se presentan claves taxonmicas, descripciones, distribuciones y sinnimos. Dos de estas especies son hierbas anuales (Stenotis arenaria y S. asperuloides), y cinco son plantas perennes de tallo leoso o pequeos arbustos (S. australis, S. brevipes, S. gracilenta, S. mucronata, y S. peninsularis). Se reconocen dos variedades dentro de la especie S. asperuloides.
41967961|Over the past decades, there has been a steady effort to contribute to our knowledge of herbaceous and woody vines (lianas)a habit previously largely neglected in both botanical and ecological studies. This study sought to evaluate to what extent progress has been made in our f loristic understanding of lianas and vines in a state hosting the highest number of herbarium specimens per square mile in the southeastern United StatesNorth Carolina. To analyze the state of our floristic understanding, baseline and updated county species lists of lianas and vines were developed based on literature review and herbarium survey. To compare liana and vine species richness by ecophysiological province, an index of species similarity was calculated. The Piedmont and Coastal Plain host the largest absolute number of vine taxa in North Carolina, as well as the largest mean richness per county The higher Piedmont mean richness may be due in part to geographic position and overlapping distributions from adjacent provinces. However, reasons for the particularly high species richness of individual counties and the significant variation in county to county species richness remain unclear. Macro-climate, as well as diversity in topography and associated microclimate may be factors. However, the three most species rich counties also happen to host the three largest herbaria in the state, suggesting the potential influence of historically larger collecting programs. Other non-biological factors potentially involved include distance to site and accessibility. En las dcadas pasadas, ha habido un esfuerzo constante para contribuir a nuestro conocimiento de las lianas herbceas y leosasun hbito previamente muy descuidado tanto en los estudios botnicos como ecolgicos. Este estudio pretendi evaluar en que medida se ha progresado en nuestro conocimiento florstico de las lianas en un estado que alberga el mayor nmero de especmenes de herbario por milla cuadrada del sureste de Estados UnidosCarolina del Norte. Para analizar el estado de nuestro conocimiento florstico, se desarrollaron listados de especies por condado, bsicos y puestos al da, de lianas basados en revisiones bibliogrficas y de herbarios. Para comparar la riqueza de especies de lianas por provincia ecof isiolgica, se calcul un ndice de similitud de especies. El pie de monte y la llanura costera tienen el mayor nmero absoluto de lianas de Carolina del Norte, as como la mayor riqueza media por condado. La alta riqueza media del pie de monte puede deberse en parte a la posicin geogrfica y a las distribuciones solapadas de las provincias adyacentes. Sin embargo, las razones para la riqueza en especies particularmente alta de condados individuales y la variacin significativa de condado a condado no quedan claras. El macroclima, as como la diversidad en topografa y el microclima asociado pueden ser factores. Sin embargo, los tres condados ms ricos en especies tienen tambin los tres herbarios mayores del estado, lo que sugiere la influencia potencial de los programas de colecta histricamente ms amplios. Otros factores no biolgicos potencialmente implicados incluyen la distancia al lugar y la accesibilidad.
41967966|Although previously reported from scattered localities, studies of the habitats and distribution in the United States of the South American native Scutellaria racemosa Pers. are lacking. To analyze trends in the spread of S. racemosa throughout the southeast we studied 82 specimens from 16 herbaria. Collections taken from roadsides, lawns or golf courses, and nurseries or horticultural plantings accounted for about 76% of specimens examined. Establishment is facilitated by vegetative reproduction via rhizomes and a capacity to produce flowers and fruits throughout the year. Patterns of distribution are likely a result of human activity such as transport of contaminated nursery stock or sod, as well as seed spread on right-of-way mowing equipment. Aunque citada de varias localidades, no hay estudios de los habitats y la distribucin en los Estados Unidos de la especie suramericana Scutellaria racemosa Pers. Para analizar tendencias en el movimiento de S. racemosa en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos, estudiamos 82 especmenes de 16 herbarios. Recolecciones de bordes de carreteras, cspedes o campos de golf, y viveros o plantaciones horticulturales, justifican el 76% de los especmenes examinados. El establecimiento est facilitado por la reproduccin vegetativa por rizomas y la capacidad para producir flores y frutos durante todo el ao. La distribucin es probablemente el resultado de actividades humanas, incluyendo el transporte de plantas de vivero o suelo contaminado, as como semillas diseminadas por cortacspedes.
41967945|Recent taxonomic advances are supportive of recognition of various climbing milkweed genera previously submerged in Cynanchum L. Although caution regarding resurrection of unispecific Ampelamus Raf. has been suggested, recent acceptance has been implicit through a listing of the genus in a synopsis of the subtribes and genera of the tribe Asclepiadeae. As the name is currently in "standardized" use among weed scientist and has additionally appeared in recent drafts, a note regarding the correct nomenclature is warranted. This paper addresses the typification and synonymy of the entity variously known as Gonolobus laevis Michx., Cynanchum laeve (Michx.) Pers., Vincetoxicum gonocarpus Walt. var. laevis (Michx.) Britton, Enslenia albida Nutt., and Ampelamus albidus (Nutt.) Britton. Los avances taxonmicos recientes apoyan el reconocimiento de varios gneros de algodoncillos trepadores incluidos previamente en Cynanchum L. Aunque se ha pedido precaucin con respecto a la resurreccin del gnero monotpico Ampelamus Raf., ha sido implcita la aceptacin reciente mediante un listado del gnero en una sinopsis de las subtribus y gneros de la tribu Asclepiadeae. Como el nombre est actualmente en uso "estandarizado" entre especialistas en malas hierbas y adems ha aparecido en recientes borradores, est justificada una nota que trate de la nomenclatura correcta. Este artculo trata de la tipificacin y sinonimia de la entidad conocida como Gonolobus laevis Michx., Cynanchum laeve (Michx.) Pers., Vincetoxicum gonocarpus Walt. var. laevis (Michx.) Britton, Enslenia albida Nutt., y Ampelamus albidus (Nutt.) Britton.
41967963|The identity of Eragrostis ancashensis P.M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar, a Peruvian endemic, is discussed; the name is considered to be a synonym of Eragrostis pilgeri Fedde. Lectotypes are also designated for the names of some synonyms of E. pilgeri, whose holotypes at B were destroyed in 1943. Further remarks about the identity of two paratypes of E. ancashensis (Ferreyra 14577 and 14594) are included. Se discute la identidad de Eragrostis ancashensis P.M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar, una especie endmica de Per. El nombre se considera sinnimo de Eragrostispilgeri Fedde. Se designan tambin lectotipos para los nombres de algunos sinnimos de E. pilgeri, cuyos holotipos depositados en B fueron destruidos en 1943. Se hace un comentario adicional sobre la identidad de dos paratipos de E. ancashensis (Ferreyra 14577 y 14594).
41967970|State and national distribution records are reported for species of Pseudognaphalium. New for the U.S.A. are P. jaliscense (Arizona, California, Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas) and P. attenuatum (Hawaii). Pseudognaphalium arizonicum is first reported for Texas, and the nearly cosmopolitan weed P. luteoalbum is reported for Texas and New Mexico. An early collection for P. stramineum in New York, apparently as a waif in Manhattan, is cited. A brief characterization is provided for each species, specimens are cited, and a lectotype is chosen for P. jaliscense. A record of the occurrence of P. helleri in Indiana is incorrect, based on a collection of P. macounii. Se citan los registros de distribucin estatal y nacional de las especies de Pseudognaphalium. Son nuevas para U.S.A.P. jaliscense (Arizona, California, Colorado, Nuevo Mxico, y Texas) y P. attenuatum (Hawaii). Pseudognaphalium arizonicum es citado por primera vez para Texas, y la mala hierba casi cosmopolita P. luteoalbum se cita para Texas y Nuevo Mxico. Se cita una coleccin previa de P. stramineum en Nueva York, aparentemente como abandonada en Manhattan. Se ofrece una breve caracterizacin de cada especie, se citan especmenes, y se escoge un lectotipo para P. jaliscense. Una cita de la presencia de P. helleri en Indiana es incorrecta, y est basada en una colecta de P. macounii.
41967965|A non-native species of Scleria, S. lacustris is reported from six counties and three major hydrologie regions in Florida. Biogeography and habitat in Florida are addressed. A description, key features and illustration are presented. Se presenta aqu la presencia de una especie extica del gnero Scleria, S. lacustris, de seis condados y de tres regiones hidrolgicas de Florida. Se hacen anotaciones sobre su biogeografa y habitat en Florida. Se presenta una descripcin con caractersticas clave junto con una ilustracin.
41967971|Arthraxon hispidus, native to the Old World and adventive in Hawaii, North America, Central America, and the Caribbean, is reported for the first time from South America. The records are from the Andes of Venezuela. Information also is provided on the earliest dates that this species is documented to have appeared in different countries in the New World. Arthraxon hispidus, nativa del viejo mundo y adventicia en Hawaii, Norte Amrica, Centro Amrica y el Caribe, se cita por primera vez en Sur Amrica. Los registros son de los Andes de Venezuela. Adems se suministra informacin adicional documentada sobre las fechas ms remotas de aparicin de esta especie en diferentes pases del nuevo mundo.
41967924|Liatris aestivalis, sp. nov., is recognized from Texas and Oklahoma as a species separate from L. mucronata DC. and L. punctata Hook., although it has been synonymized with both of the latter as L. angustifolia (Bush) Gaiser. The type of L. angustifolia is a plant best identified as L. mucronata, perhaps showing some influence of hybridization with L. aestivalis. Latris aestivalis produces subglobose corms and has mostly been identified as L. mucronata but differs from it in foliar and capitular features as well as phenology. The new species is known from 16 counties primarily along a north-south band from central counties of Texas into south-central Oklahoma; it is sympatric with L. mucronata and the two sometimes grow in close association, but they are completely separated to barely overlapping in flowering period. Putative intermediates are identified from several counties in the region of their distributional overlap. Liatris glandulosa, sp. nov, has been collected from five localities in Dallas County but is known to be extant at only a single site there; it also has been collected in three other Texas counties southward. It is similar to L. aestivalis in its subglobose corms and narrowly triangular, weakly graduate phyllaries but differs from all species of the genus in its vestiture of stipitate-glandular hairs. Liatrisglandulosa also is early-flowering, nearly completely separated in phenology from L. mucronata, which grows in close sympatry at the Dallas County site. A description, illustration, distribution map, and key contrast with L. mucronata are provided here for each of the new species. Liatris aestivalis, sp. nov, se reconoce de Texas y Oklahoma como una especie separada de L. mucronata DC. y L. punctata Hook., aunque ha sido sinonimizada con estas dos ltimas como L. angustifolia (Bush) Gaiser. El tipo de L. angustifolia es una planta que debe identificarse como L. mucronata, quizs muestre algo de influencia de hibridacin con L. aestivalis. Liatris aestivalis produce bulbos subglobosos y ha sido identificada la mayora de las veces como L. mucronata pero difiere de ella por las caractersticas foliares y del captulo as como en la fenologa. La nueva especie se conoce de 16 condados situados a lo largo de una banda norte-sur desde los condados centrales de Texas hasta el sur-centro de Oklahoma; es simptrica con L. mucronata y ambas viven a menudo en ntima asociacin, pero estn completamente separadas o slo ligeramente solapadas en el periodo de floracin. Se han identificado intermedios putativos en varios condados de la regin donde su distribucin se solapa. Liatris glandulosa, sp. nov, ha sido colectada de cinco localidades en el condado de Dallas pero se sabe que slo permanece all en una nica localidad; tambin ha sido colectada en otros tres condados de Texas hacia el sur. Es similar a L. aestivalis por sus bulbos subglobosos, filarios dbilmente atenuados y estrechamente triangulares pero difiere de todas las especies del gnero por su indumento de pelos estipitado-glandulares. Liatris glandulosa tambin florece antes, casi completamente separada en su fenologa de L. mucronata, que crece en fuerte simpatra en la localidad del condado de Dallas. Se ofrecen aqu una descripcin, una ilustracin, mapa de distribucin, y una clave que contrasta L. mucronata con las nuevas especies.
41967944|Digitaria pubiflora is raised to specific rank. Digitaria pubiflora se eleva al rango especfico.
41967931|Ipomoea sororia, a new species in Ipomoea section Leptocallis is described from the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico. This species, apparently endemic to a small region of low deciduous forest in the NW of the peninsula, is similar to the more widespread species I. ternifolia and I. costellata. The new species differs from those in having cordate sepal bases and three rows of largely reflexed excresences on the outer sepals. Se describe Ipomoea sororia, una nueva especie de Ipomoea seccin Leptocallis para la Pennsula de Yucatn, Mxico. Esta especie, aparentemente endmica de una pequea regin de selva baja decidua, en la zona NW de la pennsula, es similar a las especies de ms amplia distribucin, I. ternifolia e I. costellata de la costa pacfica. La nueva especie se diferencia por presentar los spalos con las bases cordadas y tres hileras de crestas reflejas en los spalos exteriores.
41967952|Founded in 1896 by Fredrick M. Irish, the vascular plant herbarium at Arizona State University (ASU) acts as a repository for plants particularly from the desert Southwest and Mexico. It now contains over 230,000 specimens, of which 735 have been designated as types including paratypes. Here we present a list that documents 384 major vascular plant type specimens and includes verified holotypes, lectotypes, syntypes and neotypes and their duplicates. Regionally the majority of the specimens are from the United States (186) and Mexico (178), while 13 from South America and 7 from the Old World. Taxonomically, the majority of type specimens belong to the Asteraceae (84), followed by Polygonaceae (56), Cactaceae (34), Scrophulariaceae (27), Fabaceae (16), the Agavaceae (13), and Acanthaceae (10). Historically prominent are 60 isotype specimens collected by C.G. Pringle, a prominent early plant collector in Mexico from 1885 to 1909. Numerous type collections were also made by James R. Reveal, Noel H. Holmgren, Howard S. Gentry and George B. Hinton. For each basionym typified by an ASU specimen, which is accompanied by a copy of the original publication, we here list collector(s) and collection number, locality information (restricted to country and state or equivalent demographic unit), and date of collection. Fundado en 1896 por Frederick M. Irish, el herbario de plantas vasculares de la Universidad del Estado de Arizona (ASU) acta como un repositorio de plantas, principalmente del desierto del Suroeste y Mxico. Actualmente el herbario cuenta con 230.000 ejemplares, de los cuales 735 corresponden a ejemplares tipo incluyendo tambin paratipos. Se presenta una lista que documenta 384 de los ms importantes ejemplares tipo de plantas vasculares, incluyendo holotipos, lectotipos, sintipos, y neotipos, y sus duplicados. Regionalmente, la mayora de los ejemplares son de los Estados Unidos (186) y de Mxico (178); mientras que 13 son de Amrica del Sur y 7 de Viejo Mundo. Taxonmicamente, la mayora de los ejemplares tipo pertenecen a las familias Asteraceae (84), seguida de Polygonaceae (56), Cactaceae (34), Scrophulariaceae (27), Fabaceae (16), Agavaceae (13), y Acanthaceae (10). Histricamente, los ms importantes son 60 isotipos colectados por C.G. Pringle, prominente colector en Mxico entre 1885 y 1909. Se cuenta adems con ejemplares tipo de los colectores James R. Reveal, Noel H. Holmgren, Howard S. Gentry y George B. Hinton. Cada basinimo tipificado por un ejemplar en ASU, incluye una copia de la publicacin original. Se listan adems, el colector(es), y nmero de colecta, informacin de la localidad (restringida al pas y estado o unidad demogrfica equivalente) y a la fecha de la colecta.
41967882|A revision of the western North American members of Salvia L. section Heterosphace Benth. is presented. Three species are here recognized: S. roemeriana Scheele, S. henryi A. Gray, and S. summa A. Nels. Salvia davidsonii Greenm. is treated as a synonym under S. henryi. We present a discussion of subgeneric relationships and morphological variation of the group, as well as keys to the species, distribution maps, illustrations, and a complete account of typification and synonymy for each species. Se revisan taxonmicamente los representantes norteamericanos occidentales de Salvia L. seccin Heterosphace Benth. Aqu se reconocen tres especies: S. roemeriana Scheele, S. henryi Gray y S. summa A. Nels. Se trata Salvia davidsonii Greenm. como un sinnimo de S. henryi. Presentamos una discusin de las relaciones subgenricas y variacin morfolgica del grupo, claves para las especies, mapas de la distribucin, ilustraciones y un informe completo de la tipificacin y sinonimia de cada especie.
41967884|Five North American species formerly in the genus Hedyotis (Hedyotideae; Rubiaceae) are revised and placed in the newly recognized genus Stenaria, a name used by Rafinesque for a subgenus in the genus Houstonia. Keys, descriptions, distributions, and synonymies are provided. The principal species is Stenaria nigricans, a wide-ranging polymorphic species native to eastern, central, and southwestern United States and northern and central Mexico. The remaining species are S. butterwickiae, known only from Brewster Co., Texas; S. mullerae of Coahuila, Mexico, and Brewster Co., Texas; S. rupicola of southwestern Texas and northern Coahuila, Mexico; and S. umbratilis, rare and disjunct in northern Mexico south to Veracruz. Varieties are recognized within S. mullerae, S. nigricans, and S. umbratilis. Se revisan cinco especies de Norte Amrica anteriormente incluidas en el gnero Hedyotis (Hedyotideae; Rubiaceae) y se incluyen en el gnero nuevo y reconocido Stenaria, un nombre usado por Rafinesque para un subgnero dentro del gnero Houstonia. Se presentan claves, descripciones, distribucin, y sinnimos. La especie principal es Stenaria nigricans, una especie polimorfa de amplia distribucin, y nativa de las zonas orientales, centrales, y sudoeste de los Estados Unidos as como de la parte norte y central de Mxico. Las otras especies son S. butterwickiae, conocida nicamente de Brewster Co., Texas; S. mullerae de Coahuila, Mxico y de Brewster Co., Texas; S. rupicola del sudoeste de Texas y norte de Coahuila, Mxico; y S. umbratilis, especie rara y disyunta de la parte norte de Mxico al sur de Veracruz. Se reconocen variedades de S. mullerae, S. nigricans, y S. umbratilis.
41967898|Three additions to the Missouri flora are reported: Fatoua villosa (Moraceae), Oenanthe javanica (Apiaceae), and Ottelia alismoides (Hydrocharitaceae). Each of these represents a nonindigenous genus new to the state. The number of introduced taxa of vascular plants in Missouri continues to increase more rapidly than that of native taxa, and the non-native component of the state's floristic diversity has risen from ca. 22.8 percent to 27.7 percent during the past 35 years. Se citan tres nuevas especies para la flora de Missouri: Fatoua villosa (Moraceae), Oenanthe javanica (Apiaceae), y Ottelia alismoides (Hydrocharitaceae). Cada una de stas representa un gnero nuevo no autctono para el estado. El nmero de taxones introducidos contina incrementndose ms rpidamente que el de los taxones nativos, y el componente no nativo de la diversidad florstica del estado ha aumentado del 22.8 por ciento al 27.7 por ciento en los ltimos 35 aos.
41967905|Dipsacus fullonum L. (Dipsacaceae) and Verbesina walteri Shinners (Asteraceae) are reported as new to Texas. Se citan Dipsacus fullonum L. (Dipsacaceae) y Verbesina walteri Shinners (Asteraceae) nuevas para Texas.
41967896|A survey to document the vascular plants of Amite County, Mississippi, was conducted from 1997 to 2000. Occupying 732 square miles, the county lies along an edaphic and physiographic transition zone from loess in the west to sandy loam and gravel in the east. Species composition changes with the gradient, and the county serves as a westernmost limit to several southeastern plants (e.g., Gelsemium rankinii Small, llliciumfloridanum J. Ellis). Amite County also harbors a residual element of north-south Pleistocene migrations in the loess hills (e.g., Adiantum pedatum L., Pachysandra procumbens Michx., Cynoglossum virginianum L.). A total of 923 species were recorded, with new records for the state (Solidago auriculata Shuttlew. ex S.F.Blake, Clinopodium gracile (Benth.) Kuntze, Alstroemeria psittacina Lehm., Ipomoea indica (Burm.f.) Merr., Photinia serratifolia (Desf.) Kalkman) and a confirmation of recently published records of Physalis carpenteri Riddell and Dryopteris ludoviciana (Kunze) Small in Mississippi. Un arpentage pour documenter les plantes vasculaires du Comt d'Amite, Mississippi, a t conduit de 1997  2000. Occupant 1874 kilomtres carrs, le comt s'tend le long d'une zone de transition daphique et physiographique du loess  l'ouest au terreau sablonneux et au gravier  l'est. La composition d'espces se modifie selon le gradient du terrain, et le comt sert de limite occidentale  plusieurs plantes du sud-est (e.g., Gelsemium rankinii Small, llliciumfloridanum J. Ellis). Le Comt d'Amite contient aussi un lment rsiduel des migrations pleistocenes nord-sud parmi les collines de loess (e.g., Adiantum pedatum L., Pachysandra procumbens Michx., Cynoglossum virginianum L.). Un total de 923 espces est enregistr, avec de nouvelles documentations pour l'tat (Solidago auriculata Shuttlew. ex S.F.Blake, Clinopodium gracile (Benth.) Kuntze, Alstroemeria psittacina Lehm., Ipomoea indica (Burm.f.) Merr., Photinia serratijolia (Desf.) Kalkman) et la confirmation des documentations rcemment publies de Physalis carpenteri Riddell et Dryopteris ludoviciana (Kunze) Small en Mississippi.
41967880|Nardophyllum deserticola (Cabrera) Nesom and Nardophyllum patagonicum (Cabrera) Nesom are two endemic species from Argentinean Patagonia that were originally described under the monotypic genera Aylacophora and Paleaepappus in 1953 and 1969, respectively. In 1993, Nesom included Aylacophora and Paleaepappus within the genus Nardophyllum, arguing that the discontinuities between the paleaceous pappus of Aylacophora and Paleaepappus and the pappus bristles of Nardophyllum do not justify considering them as distinct genera. Careful observation of the herbarium material revealed that: 1) the pappus of N. deserticola and N. patagonicum consists of ca. 10 linear-elliptic paleae, while in remaining Nardophyllum species, the pappus is composed of ca. 30 bristles, and 2) the receptacular paleae of Nardophyllum deserticola and Nardophyllum patagonicum are wide and enclose the florets, while in Nardophyllum species, the paleae, if present, are narrow and do not enclose the florets. These observed discontinuities between N. deserticola and N. patagonicum with respect to the rest of Nardophyllum do support the consideration of both species as to two distinct monotypic genera, Aylacophora and Paleaepappus, respectively. Nardophyllum deserticola (Cabrera) Nesom y Nardophyllum patagonicum (Cabrera) Nesom son dos especies endmicas de la Patagonia argentina que fueron originalmente descritas bajo los gneros monotpicos Aylacophora y Paleaepappus en 1953 y 1969, respectivamente. Posteriormente en 1993, Nesom incluy Aylacophora y Paleaepappus dentro del gnero Nardophyllum argumentando que las discontinuidades entre el papo palceo de Aylacophora y Paleaepappus y el papo piloso de Nardophyllum no justifican considerar a stos como gneros independientes. La observacin detallada del material de herbario revel que: 1) el papo de N. deserticola y N. patagonicum consiste en ca. de 10 pleas linear-elpticas, mientras que en el resto de las especies de Nardophyllum, el papo est compuesto por ca. 30 cerdas y 2) las pleas del receptculo de Nardophyllum deserticola y Nardophyllum patagonicum son anchas y abrazan las flores, mientras que en el resto de las especies de Nardophyllum, las pleas, si estn presentes, son ms angostas y no abrazan las flores. Las discontinuidades observadas entre N. deserticola y N. patagonicum con el resto de Nardophyllum apoyan la consideracin de ambas especies como dos gneros monotpicos independientes, Aylacophora y Paleaepappus, respectivamente.
41967885|Pseudognaphalium (Gnaphalium) obtusifolium sensu stricto is variable over its geographic range in the glandularity of stems and upper leaf surfaces, but the variation is difficult to characterize geographically. Variety praecox, described from localities on the Atlantic and Gulf coastal plains on the basis of early-season flowering and an elongate capitulescence, can only be arbitrarily separated from the species and does not deserve formal recognition. Variety micradenium, which has been treated at varietal rank within both Gnaphalium obtusifolium and the closely related Gnaphalium helleri, is distinct in morphology from both and apparently reproductively isolated. It is given equivalent taxonomic rank as Pseudognaphalium micradenium (Weatherby) Nesom, comb. et stat. nov. Pseudognaphalium (Gnaphalium) obtusifolium sensu stricto es variable a lo largo de su distribucin geogrfica en la glandulosidad de sus tallos y haces foliares, pero la variacin es difcil de caracterizar geogrficamente. La variedad praecox, descrita de localidades del Atlntico y llanuras costeras del Golfo en base a su floracin temprana y una capitulescencia alargada, slo puede ser separada de la especie arbitrariamente y no tiene reconocimiento formal. La variedad micradenium, que ha sido tratada a nivel varietal tanto en Gnaphalium obtusifolium como en Gnaphalium helleri, es distinta morfolgicamente de ambas y al parecer aislada reproductivamente. Se le da el rango taxonmico equivalente como Pseudognaphalium micradenium (Weatherby) Nesom, comb. et stat. nov.
41967873|Muhlenhergia includes 151 species of mostly New World origin; 133 species are indigenous to North America [although many of these range to Central America (33) and South America (14)]; 38 species occur in Central America (a single species is endemic); 25 species occur in South America (10 are endemic); and only six endemic species are known to occur in southern Asia. No modern subgeneric classification within the genus exists and species relationships are not clear. An anatomical survey of the leaf blade as viewed in transverse section has provided a unique set of 16 characters to test previous hypothesized relationships. A cladistic analysis utilizing these 16 characters was performed on all but three species of Muhlenhergia. Based on this analysis Muhlenhergia appears to be divisible into three major anatomical groups corresponding to two subgenera (M. subg. Muhlenhergia, and Trichochloa) and two sections (M. sect. Epicampes and Podosemum) in M. subg. Trichochloa. Even though the presence of sclerosed phloem is an important apomorphy in the evolution of species in Muhlenhergia subg. Trichochloa, it appears to have evolved twice since it occurs in four other species. Our study suggests that in Muhlenhergia subg. Muhlenhergia the C photosynthesis, PCK subtype was a single evolutionary event since these species occur as a clade or an uninterrupted grade in our phylogenetic analysis. Muhlenhergia incluye 151 especies originarias principalmente del Nuevo Mundo; 133 especies son nativas de Norteamrica [aunque muchas de ellas llegan a distribuirse hasta Centro y Sudamrica (33 y 14 respectivamente)]; 38 especies habitan en Centroamrica (sola una especie es endmica); 25 especies se encuentran en Sudamrica (10 son endmicas); y solamente seis especies endmicas se distribuyen por el sur de Asia. No existe una clasificacin subgenrica moderna del gnero y las relaciones entre las especies no son claras. Un reconocimiento anatmico de las hojas en seccin transversal ha proporcionado un conjunto nico de 16 caracteres para probar las relaciones hipotticas previas. Se llev a cabo un anlisis cladstico utilizando estos 16 caracteres de todas (excepto tres) las especies de Muhlenhergia. En base a este anlisis Muhlenhergia parece ser divisible en tres grandes grupos anatmicos correspondientes a dos subgneros (M. subg. Muhlenhergia y Trichochloa) y dos secciones (M. sec. Epicampes y Podosemum) en M. subg. Trichochloa. An cuando la presencia de floema esclerosado es una apomorfa importante en la evolucin de las especies de Muhlenhergia subgnero Trichochloa, parece que ha evolucionado dos veces ya que se presenta en cuatro especies. Nuestro estudio sugiere que dentro de Muhlenhergia el subtipo de fotosntesis C PCK en las especies del subgnero Muhlenhergia fue un evento evolutivo sencillo, ya que estas especies aparecen como un ciado o un grado ininterrumpido en nuestro anlisis filogentico.
41967890|The history of publication of Florence H. Wool ward's monograph on the genus Masdevallia is discussed. Publication dates are given for all parts of the work. Se discute la historia de la publicacin de la monografia de Florence H. Woolward del gnero Masdevallia. Se dan fechas de publicacin de todas las partes del trabajo.
41967909|Phyllostachys bambusoides, native of China, is reported from the floodplain of Thompson Creek, West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. A key to Louisiana Phyllostachys and a description of the genus and species are included. Phyllostachys bambusoides, nativo de China, se cita del Ilano inundado de Thompson Creek, West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. Se incluye una clave para los Phyllostachys de Louisiana y una descripcin de P. bambusoides.
41967874|Pseudognaphalium austrotexanum Nesom, sp. nov, is described from collections in eleven counties of southern and southeastern Texas and from one locality in Nuevo Len, Mexico. The new species is similar to Pseudognaphalium viscosum, which occurs in southwestern Texas and widely in Mexico and Central America; P. austrotexanum differs in its eglandular stems, non-decurrent leaves, smaller, fewer-flowered heads and keeled, apically rounded, apiculate phyllaries. Se describe Pseudognaphalium austrotexanum Nesom, sp. nov, a partir de recolecciones en once condados del sur y sureste de Texas y de una localidad en Nuevo Len, Mxico. La nueva especie es similar a Pseudognaphalium viscosum, del suroeste de Texas y muy comn en Mxico y Amrica Central; P. austrotexanum se diferencia por sus tallos eglandulares, hojas no decurrentes, captulos ms pequenos y con menosflores, y filarios aquillados, apiculados y apicalmente redondeados.
41967881|A revision of Mirabilis, section Oxybaphoides, Nyctaginaceae, in western North America is presented. Mirabilis oligantha (Standl.) J.F. Macbride, M. oxybaphoides (A. Gray) A. Gray, and M. tenuiloba S. Wats remain as traditionally classified. Mirabilis bigelovii A. Gray, M. californica A. Gray ex Torr, M. laevis (Benth.) Curran, and M. retrorsa Heller are combined as a single species, M. laevis, and recognized as varieties, i.e., M. laevis var. villosa (Kellogg) Spellenb. (comb. nov.), M. laevis var. crassifolia (Choisy) Spellenb. (comb. nov.), M. laevis var. laevis, and M. laevis var. retrorsa (Heller) Jepson, respectively. Distribution maps are presented for each species, those for the varieties within the M. laevis complex also indicating geographic distribution of characters. The inspection of these maps was of importance in making taxonomic decisions. Lists of important collections are provided. Chromosome numbers are reported for the first time for M. laevis var. villosa (2n = 30n), M. laevis var. retrorsa (2n = 31-33n) and M. oxybaphoides (2n = 30n). Se presenta una revisin de Mirabilis, seccin Oxybaphoides, Nyctaginaceae, en el oeste de Norte Amrica. Mirabilis oligantha (Standl.) J.F. Macbride, M. oxybaphoides (A. Gray) A. Gray, y M. tenuiloba S. Wats permanecen tal como se clasificaban tradicionalmente. Mirabilis bigelovii A. Gray, M. californica A. Gray ex Torr, M. laevis (Benth.) Curran, y M. retrorsa Heller se combinan como una nica especie, M. laevis, y reconocidas como variedades, i.e., M. laevis var. villosa (Kellogg) Spellenb. (comb, nov.), M. laevis var. crassifolia (Choisy) Spellenb. (comb. nov.), M. laevis var. laevis, y M. laevis var. retrorsa (Heller) Jepson, respectivamente. Se presentan mapas de distribucin de todas las especies, y de las variedades en el complejo M. laevis indicando tambin la distribucin geogrfica de los caracteres. El estudio de estos mapas fue muy importante para tomar las decisiones taxonmicas. Se of recen listas de colecciones importantes. Se citan por primera vez nmeros cromosomticos de M. laevis var. villosa (2n = 30n), M. laevis var. retrorsa (2n = 31-33n) y M. oxybaphoides (2n = 30n).
41967876|Keysseria is divided between Indonesia (9 species in New Guinea, Celebes, and Borneo) and the Hawaiian islands (3 species). The Hawaiian species are formally segregated here as Keysseria sect. Sandmcactis Nesom, sect, nov, on the basis of their bisexual and fertile disc florets (vs. functionally staminate in Indonesia) and other morphological differences in ray and disc corollas. Keysseria pickeringii A. Gray, endemic to Vanua Levu Island, Fiji, is excluded from Keysseria and formally recognized as Pytinicarpa pickeringii (A. Gray) Nesom, comb. nov. A nomenclatural update and summary are provided for Pytinicarpa, whose other two species are New Caledonian. The genera of Lageniferinae, including Keysseria and Pytinicarpa, are divided into seven "core genera" and five "peripheral genera"; a key to the core genera is provided. Keysseria est dividido entre Indonesia (9 especies en Nueva Guinea, Celebes, y Borneo) y las islas Hawai (3 especies), las especies Hawaianas se segregan formalmente aqu como Keysseria sect. Sandwicactis Nesom, sect, nov, en base a sus flsculos bisexuales y fertiles (vs. funcionalmente estaminadas en Indonesia) y otras diferencias morfolgicas en las corolas centrales y perifricas. Keysseria pickeringii A. Gray, endmica de la isla Vanua Levu, Fiji, se excluye de Keysseriay se reconoce formalmente como Pytinicarpa pickeringii (A. Gray) Nesom, comb. nov. Se ofrece una puesta al da y resumen nomenclatural para Pytinicarpa, cuyas otras dos especies son de Nueva Caledonia. Los de Lageniferinae, que incluyen Keysseria y Pytinicarpa, se dividen en siete "centrales" y cinco "gneros perifricos"; se ofrece una clave para los gneros centrales.
41967879|During preparation of the account of Pennisetum Rich, for the Manual of Grasses for North America, it was determined that three taxa formerly treated under Cenchrus L. required new combinations in Pennisetum: P. setigerutn (Vahl) Wipff, comb, nov., P. pennisetiforme (Hochst. & Steud. ex Steud.) Wipff; comb, nov., and P. somalensis (Clayton) Wipff, comb. nov. Durante la preparacin del informe de Pennisetum Rich, para el Manualof Grasses for North America, se vio que taxa tratados previamente como Cenchrus L. necesitaban nuevas combinaciones en Pennisetum: P. setigerum (Vahl) Wipff, comb, nov, P. pennisetiforme (Hochst. & Steud. ex Steud.) Wipff; comb, nov, y P. somalensis (Clayton) Wipff, comb. nov.
41967872|In recent years, Papuasian surveys patterned on rapid-assessment formats have become increasingly popular for developing f loristic estimates of site value. Although some of the results have been widely disseminated, there have been few attempts at overall synthesis despite the obvious need for such review. A commentary on botanical exploration and documentation during the past decade is provided, with particular focus on connections between current conditions and the fulfillment of goals implicit in comprehensive bioinventory. Long nau tasol, ibin igat luksave na wok painim aut ibin kamap planti moa long ol bus na diwai bilong Papuasia. Maski ibin igat sampela save bilong wok painim aut istap na ibin kamap long planti hap nabaut, ibin igat wok traim tasol i kamap long dispela wok bilong painim haumas bus na diwai istap long Papuasia. Dispela em i ripot o toksave long ol wok painim aut wei ikamap long ten pela yia igo pinis na luksave long wok ibai kamap bihain taim long wei bilong painim aut ol diwai na bus.    .  10 
41967889|Plants from a single population on the Keweenaw Peninsula in Houghton County, Michigan, have been reported as hybrids between Doellingeria (Aster) umbellata and Odemena (Aster) nemoralis, but the few features of putative intermediacy between these two species are equivocal. In contrast, morphological features of their roots, leaves, capitulescence, florets, and cypselae are consistent with those of Odemenain the interpretation here, morphological evidence for the genomic contribution of Doellingeria is very limited, and the Keweenaw plants more likely arose from within Odemena. They are suggested to represent either an atypical form of O. blakei (a recurring and persistent hybrid between O. nemoralis and O. (Aster) acuminata) or a relict population differentiated earlier in the evolutionary history of the genus and appropriately recognized as a separate species. Current evidence is insufficient to convincingly support a single hypothesis of origin. Plantas de una sola poblacin en la Pennsula de Keweenaw en el Condado de Houghton, Michigan, se han citado co hbridos entre Doellingeria (Aster) umbellata y Odemena (Aster) nemoralis, pero las pocas caractersticas presumiblemente intermedias entre estas dos especies son equvocas. En contraste, las caractersticas morfolgicas de sus races, hojas, capitulescencia, flsculos y cipselas coinciden con los de Odemenaen la interpretacin que hacemos aqu, las evidencias morfolgicas de una contribucin de Doellingeria es muy limitada, y las plantas de Keweenaw probablemente surgieron de Odemena. Se sugiere que representan ya sea una forma atpica de O. blakei (un hbrido recurrente y persistente entre O. nemoralis y O. (Aster) acuminata) o una poblacin relicta diferenciada tempranamente en la historia evolutiva del gnero y reconocida apropiadamente como una especie independiente. Las evidencias actuales son insuficientes para apoyar una hiptesis nica de su origen.
41967912|Lespedeza cuneata (Dum.Cours.) G. Don, a native species from eastern Asia and introduced in the U.S.A., is reported for first time to Mexico. Recent botanical field collections between Cuauhtmoc and La Junta, in Chihuahua, Mexico have extended its distribution about 800 km southwestern from its previously known range, in eastern Texas. Lespedeza cuneata (Dum.Cours) G. Don, una especie nativa del este de Asia e introducida en los E.U.A se cita por primera vez para Mxico. Colecciones recientes de material botnico entre Cuauhtmoc y La Junta, en el estado norteo de Chihuahua, Mxico, permiten extender su rango de distribucin cerca de 800 km al sur de su rango de distribucin conocido, en el este de Texas.
41967877|A new species, Saccoglossum takeuchii, is described from the Hans Meyer Range in southern New Ireland, Papua New Guinea. The novelty is most closely related to S. lanceolatum L.O. Williams, but differs from the latter species in the size and shape of the petals, the lesser number of cilia-like stelids, the prominent dentation around the clinandrium, and by the differently shaped leaves. Nupela kain orchid Saccoglossum takeuchii, ol bin kisim long Hans Meyer Range insait long Nu Ailan, Papua New Guinea, em ol bin deskraibim. Em I wankain long Saccoglossum lanceolatum L.O. Williams. Dispela em minim olsem long sais na saip long petals, na namba long stelids na dentations bilong clinandrium, na saip long lip.
41967753|The Mexican species Erigeron byei Sundberg & Nesom is excluded from Erigeron and subtribe Conyzinae and treated as the monotypic genus Batopilasia Nesom & Noyes, gen. nov., and species Batopilasia byei (Sundberg & Nesom) Nesom & Noyes, comb. nov.Batopilasia byei at least superficially resembles the phyletically isolated North American genera Boltonia and Chloracantha in morphology. DNA studies indicate that Batopilasia and Boltonia are closely related and suggest that Boltonia is closely related to Chloracantha. The new genus apparently is restricted to the area of the Barranca del Cobre in southwestern Chihuahua, Mexico. A technical description, illustration, and distribution map are provided. La especie mexicana Erigeron byei Sundberg & Nesom se excluye de Erigeron y de la subtribu Conyzinae y se trata como gnero monotipico Batopilasia Nesom & Noyes, gen. nov., y especie Batopilasia byei (Sundberg & Nesom) Nesom & Noyes, comb. nov. Batopilasia byei se parece al menos superficialmente en su morfologa a los gneros norteamericanos filticamente aislados Boltonia y Chloracantha. Los estudios de DNA indican que Batopilasia y Boltonia estn muy relacionados y sugieren que Boltonia est muy relacionada con Chloracantha. El nuevo gnero aparentemente est restringido al rea de Barranca del Cobre en el suroeste de Chihuahua, Mxico. Se ofrecen una descripcin tcnica, una ilustracin y un mapa de distribucin.
41967771|It is suggested that four terms provide an adequate general description of the major categories of non-native plants in our flora: cultivated, persisting, waif, and naturalized. Comparative definitions are given for seven related terms that describe the non-native origin and floristic integration of vascular plant species in North America: adventive, alien, escaped, established, exotic, introduced, and non-native. Se sugiere que cuatro trminos dan una descripcin general adecuada de las grandes categoras de las plantas no nativas de nuestra flora: cultivada, persistente, abandonada, y naturalizada. Se dan definiciones comparativas de siete trminos relacionados que describen el origen no nativo y la integracin florstica de plantas vasculares en Norteamrica: adventicia, extraa, escapada, establecida, extica, introducida, no-nativa.
41967749|Botanical survey results are presented from the Josephstaal Forest Management Agreement Area, a venue currently under planning evaluation for several development contingencies. Four new species are formally described: Aglaia saxonii (Meliaceae), Barringtonia josephstaalensis (Barringtoniaceae), Calycosia mamosei (Rubiaceae), and Psychotria mayana (Rubiaceae). A substantial number of distributional records and discoveries of rare taxa are reported. Compilations of Maian plant names and uses are also included. The findings suggest that Josephstaal habitats are refugia for restricted endemics which have been eliminated from other parts of their historical range. Judicious planning is necessary when evaluating the land-use options for this area. Populations of several susceptible taxa may constitute the only existing colonies.  4   Aglaia saxonii (), Barringtonia josephstaalensis ()Calycosia mamosei ( )Psychotria mayana ()   
41967756|Trepadonia oppositifolia (Asteraceae: Vernonieae) is described from Peru and a key is presented for the two species of the genus. Se describe Trepadonia oppositifolia (Asteraceae: Vernonieae) de Per y se presenta una clave para las dos especies del gnero.
41967751|Eragrostis ancashensis P.M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar, sp. nov., is described and illustrated. The new species occurs on steep rocky slopes in three distinct locations in Departamento Ancash: near the southern end of the Cordillera Blanca, approximately 20 km E of Raquia, near Huaylas, and near Bambas,just north of the Cordillera. The new species seems most closely allied with Eragrostis magna Hitchc. but differs by its shorter culms (26-84 cm long); shorter and narrower leaf blades [(6-) 10-22(-26) cm long  1-2.5(-3.0) mm wide]; shorter panicles [10-20(-38) cm long]; shorter branches (1.5-11 cm long) that are widely spreading; ovate spikelets (3-6.1 mm long  2-4.5 mm wide) with a long ciliate (the hairs up to 1.5 mm long) and flattened rachilla; veins of the glumes, lemmas, and paleas usually with minute, whitish, raised glands; broadly ovate lemmas 2-3.2 mm long; and anthers 1.2-2.0 mm long. Eragrostis ancashensis P.M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar, sp. nov., es descrita e ilustrada. Esta nueva especie habita en pendientes de suelos rocosos, en tres localidades distintas del departamento de Ancash: cerca del extremo sur de Cordillera Blanca, aproximadamente a 20 km E de Raquia; cerca a Huaylas y cerca a Bambas, al norte de la Cordillera Blanca. Esta nueva especie est fuertemente relacionada con Eragrostis magna Hitchc., pero difiere de ella por sus culmos ms cortos (26-84 cm de largo); sus lminas foliares ms cortas y menos anchas [(6-) 10-22(-26) cm de largo 3 1-2.5(-3.0) mm de ancho]; panculas ms cortas [10-20(-38) cm de largo]; ramas de la pancula ms cortas (1.5-11 cm de largo) y extendidas; espiguillas ovadas (3-6.1 mm de largo 3 2-4.5 mm de ancho), raquila aplanada y ciliada (pelos hasta 1.5 mm de largo); nervios del las glumas, lemas y pleas usualamente con glandulas diminutas y blanquecinas; lemas anchamente ovadas 2-3.2 mm de largo;y anteras 1.2-2.0 mm de largo.
41967777|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida:Ajuga reptans. Aster laevis var. concinnus, Cyperus retrofractus, Linum macrocarpum, and Rhynchospora thornei. Several additions to the flora of north Florida are also documented, and some species that were thought to be restricted in Florida to the western panhandle are noted for extreme northeastern Florida. Los siguientes taxa parecen ser las primeras citas para el estado de Florida: Ajuga reptans, Aster laevis var. concinnus, Cyperus retrofractus, Linum macrocarpum, y Rhynchospora thornei. Se documentan tambin varias adiciones a la flora del norte de Florida, y algunas especies que se pensaba que estaban restringidas en Florida a la franja occidental se han encontrado en el extremo nordeste de Florida.
41967759|Vitis blancoi Munson as treated by Munson included two, unrelated taxa with separate distributions. Plants from southern Mexico are treated as V. blancoi Munson emend. Comeaux, and are assigned to series Occidentales Munson. The northern group of plants from northern Mexico and extreme southern Texas belong to series Cinerascentes Planchon, and are here designated as V. cinerea (Engelm. in Gray) Engelm. ex Millardet var. tomentosa (Planchon) Comeaux. Revised descriptions and specimen citations are provided. Vitis blancoi Munson tal como fue tratada por Munson incluye dos taxa no relacionados con distribuciones diferentes. Las plantas del sur de Mxico son tratadas como V. blancoi Munson emend. Comeaux, y se asignan a la serie Occidentales Munson. El grupo norteo, de plantas del norte de Mxico y extremo sur deTexas, pertenece a la serie Cinerascentes Planchn, y se designa aqu como V. cinerea (Engelm. in Gray) Engelm. ex Millardet var. tomentosa (Planchn) Comeaux. Se ofrecen descripciones y citas revisadas de especmenes.
41967766|Eight species in four genera of Aroideae (Araceae) are introduced, cultivated, and variously established in the southeastern United States. Keys, illustrations, descriptions, distribution and ranges, habitat preference, flowering and fruiting periods, and variation in both vegetative and sexual reproductive characteristics are provided for the genera, species, and varieties. Additional information on the cultivation of all species and the weedy attributes of Colocasia and Xanthosoma are discussed. Ocho especies de cuatro gneros de Aroideae (Araceae) estn introducidas, cultivadas, y establecidas en el sureste de los Estados Unidos. Se ofrecen claves, ilustraciones, descripciones, distribucin y reas, hbitat preferente, periodos de floracin y fructificacin, y variacin en las caractersticas vegetativas y reproductoras para los gneros, especies, y variedades. Se discute informacin adicional sobre el cultivo de todas las especies y las caractersticas como malas hierbas de Colocasia y Xanthosoma.
41967758|Rhynchospora zacualtipanensis M. Strong and Eleocharis moorei M. Strong & S. Gonzlez, from eastern Mexico, are described and illustrated. Their relationships to closely allied and morphologically similar species are discussed. Se describen e ilustran Rhynchospora zacualtipanensis M. Strong y Eleocharis moorei M. Strong & S. Gonzlez, del oriente de Mxico, y se discuten sus relaciones con especies cercanas y morfolgicamente similares.
41967754|A new combination in Archibaccharis (Asteraceae: Astereae) is made based on an earlier name by F.W. Klatt published in 1884. Se hace una nueva combinacin en Archibaccharis (Asteraceae: Astereae) basada en un nombre anterior de F.W. Klatt publicado en 1884.
41967776|A survey was conducted to determine the nodulating ability of 44 legume species from theTahoe Basin. All were found to nodulate under natural soil conditions. Nodulation is reported for the first time in nine species in five genera of Papilionoideae. These species are distributed in tribes Galegeae, Genisteae, Thermopsideae, Trifolieae and Vicieae. Nodule color, shape and frequency are also described. The results support using the morphology of nodular structures to classify legumes. The soils of the Tahoe Basin are generally nutrient poor. However, legumes survive and grow well there. Healthy plants with lush green foliage growing in nutrient-limited environments, suggest that they were nurtured by nitrogen-fixing nodules. Exploitation of legume-Rhizobium symbiosis may help to improve nutrient poor soils and may provide refuge and quality browse for wildlife in the Tahoe Basin. Los condicionantes geolgicos y bioclimticos han permitido la existencia en el rea de Tahoe de un entorno nico. Nuestra investigacin se centr en la determinacin de la capacidad de nodulacin de algunas especies de leguminosas en el rea del lagoTahoe donde predominan los suelos pobres en nutrientes. Todas las especies estudiadas resultaron nodulantes en condiciones edficas naturales. En nueve de ellas, pertenecientes a cinco gneros de Papilionoideae e incluidas en las tribus Galegeae, Genisteae, Thermopsideae, Trifolieae y Vicieae, se describe por primera vez el proceso de nodulacin indicndose la coloracin, forma y frecuencia de las formaciones nodulares. Los resultados apoyan la estrecha relacin existente entre los diferentes grupos taxonmicos y la morfologa estructural de los nodulos. El desarrollo de poblaciones sanas con follaje exuberante colonizando estaciones con suelos pobres en nutrientes puede ser utilizado como bioindicador del proceso nodular de fijacin del nitrgeno. La utilizacin de la simbiosis legumlnosa-Rhizobium quizs ayude a mejorar la pobreza en nutrientes de los suelos del rea de Tahoe as como, en general, a proveer de mejores habitats para el incremento y la supervivencia de la vida silvestre en la cuenca del lago Tahoe.
41967767|The geographic distribution of the genus Ariocarpus in the State of Tamaulipas, Mexico was determined based on literature, herbarium vouchers, botanical gardens and several field trips in 1991 and 1992 Three species and two subspecies were detected: Ariocarpus agavoides, A. kotschoubeyanus, A. retusus subsp. retusus and A retusus subsp. trigonus. Ariocarpus agavoides is extremely restricted geographically, occupying an area less than 2 km; the main factor responsible for its distribution is soil type, which has clay texture, low organic matter content and a slightly alkaline pH. Ariocarpus retusus subsp. trigonus has the largest distribution (all the arid and semiarid portions of the state) probably because of its tolerance to different ecological factors, such as vegetation, soil types, and its ability to survive even if nurse plants were removed. Se determin la distribucin geogrfica del gnero Ariocarpus en el estado de Tamaulipas, Mxico con base en revisiones bibliogrficas, consultas de herbarios, jardines botnicos, as como en recorridos de campo realizados en 1991 y 1992. Se encontraron tres especies y dos subespecies: Ariocarpus agavoides, A. kotschoubeyanus, A. retusus subsp. retusus y A. retusus subsp. trigonus. Ariocarpus agavoides se encuentra extremadamente restringida geogrficamente, ocupando un rea no mayor a 2 km; el factor responsable de su distribucin es el tipo de suelo, el cual se caracteriza por su textura arcillosa, bajo contenido de materia orgnica, as como un pH ligeramente alcalino. Ariocarpus retusus subsp. trigonus presenta el mayor rango de distribucin (ocupando las regiones ridas y semiridas del estado) debido a su tolerancia a diferentes factores ecolgicos tales como vegetacin, tipo de suelo, y a su sobrevivencia cuando las plantas nodrizas son removidas.
41967761|Bolbitis thommankuthiana, a new species of fern from Kerala, India, is described. Se describe Bolbitis thommankuthiana, una nueva especie de helecho de Kerala, India.
41967764|Based on morphological analysis, Rhynchospora leptocarpa, long synonymized under R. capitellata, is reinstated as a distinct species. Although clearly related to the latter, R. leptocarpa differs in a number of mensural and qualitative characters. Furthermore, its distribution is confined to the southern coastal plain and it inhabits a narrow range of plant communities, very unlike those of R. capitellata. Based on the relative ease of finding R. leptocarpa in suitable habitat, it is believed not to be rare, but merely overlooked. En base a anlisis morfolgicos Rhynchospora leptocarpa, que fue sinonimizada a R. capitellata, se vuelve a considerar como una especie diferente. Aunque claramente relacionada con esta ltima, R. leptocarpa difiere en cierto nmero de caracteres cuantitativos y cualitativos. Adems, su distribucin est confinada al sur de la llanura costera y vive en un nmero restringido de comunidades vegetales, muy diferentes de las de R. capitellata. Debido a lo fcil que es encontrar R. leptocarpa en los habitats adecuados, se cree que no es rara, sino que simplemente ha sido ignorada.
41967752|Qualitative and quantitative data are given for Achatocarpus nigricans Triana, A. praecox Griseb., and Phaulothamnus spinescens A. Gray. The minute vessel pits, lack of successive cambia, and lack of betalains or anthocyanins are distinctive features of the family that justify its removal from Phytolaccaceae. The phyletic nature of these features is unclear; libriform fibers are commonly regarded as specialized. The absence of borders on perforation plates accords with the placement of this family in suborder Phytolaccineae, however. Quantitative features of vessels accord with the concept that Phaulothamnus has the wood of a desert shrub, whereas wood of Achatocarpus is like that of a shrub from a chaparral-like habitat. Se ofrecen datos cualitativos y cuantitativos sobre los leos de Achatocarpus nigricans Triana, A praecox Griseb., y Phaulothamnus spinescens A. Gray. Punteaduras diminutas de vasos, deficiencia de pigmentos, y deficiencia de cambios sucesivos caracterizan a la familia, y separan Achatocarpaceae de Phytolaccaceae. El estado filtico de estas peculiaridades es incierto; las fibras libriformes se interpretan como estado avanzado. Los datos cuantitativos de los vasos indican una ecologa desertcola para Phaulothamnus, y una ecologa de tipo chaparral seco para Achatocarpus.
41967755|The classification of Lobelia L. sect. Tupa (G. Don) Benth. was revised following extensive field studies and examination of over 2500 specimens in 43 herbaria. Four species are recognized; all are hexaploids with racemose unilabiate flowers, endemic to central Chile. Two are branched solidstemmed shrubs (rarely small trees) with faintly striate oblong or ellipsoid seeds, found in the dwarfand xerophytic-shrub and sclerophyllous vegetation zones of the xeric north: L.polyphylla Hook. & Arn.with small wine-purple flowers, and L. excelsa Bonpl. with larger flowers that change color from yellow and orange in bud to red at anthesis. The other two are large herbaceous or suffruticose unbranched hollow-stemmed perennials with minutely foveolate-reticulate broadly ellipsoid seeds, found in the deciduous forest and evergreen temperate rain forest regions of the mesic south:red-flowered L. tupa L. and pink-flowered L. bridgesii Hook. & Arn. The species of each pair are at least partly sympatric, and their reproductive isolation (as evidenced by a near total lack of plants with intermediate morphology) may be related to differences in pollination syndrome: entomophily in L. bridgesii and L. polyphylla, ornithophily in L. tupa and L. excelsa. La clasificacin de Lobelia L. sect. Tupa (G. Don) Benth. se revis como continuacin a estudios de campo extensivos y el examen de ms de 2500 especmenes de 43 herbarios. Se reconocen cuatro especies, todas ellas hexaploides con flores unilabiadas racemosas, endmicas de Chile central. Dos son arbustos ramosos de tallos slidos (raramente pequeos rboles) con semillas oblongas o elipsoides dbilmente estriadas, que se encuentran en las zonas de vegetacin de arbustos enanos xerofticos y la zona esclerfila del norte xrico: L. polyphylla Hook. & Arn. con flores pequeas de color prpura-vino, y L. excelsa Bonpl. con flores ms grandes que cambian de color desde el amarillo y naranja en el botn, hasta rojo en la antesis. Las otras dos son perennes herbceas grandes o sufruticosas no ramosas de tallo hueco, con semillas anchamente elipsoides diminutamente foveolado-reticuladas, que se encuentran en las regiones de la pluvisilva caducifolia y la templada perennifolia del sur msico: L. tupa L. de flores rojas y L. bridgesii Hook. & Arn. de flores rosas. Las especies de cada par son al menos parcialmente simptricas, y su aislamiento reproductivo (como se evidencia por la falta casi total de plantas con morfologa intermedia) puede estar relacionado con diferencias en el sndrome de polinizacin:entomofilia en L. bridgesii y L. polyphylla, y ornitofilia en L. tupa y L. excelsa.
41968939|Observations are reported on anthesis, stamen and style movement, and insect visitation in five taxa of Boerhavia, one a pantropical perennial (B. coccinea Mill.), and five that are North American annuals (B. intermedia M.E. Jones, B. spicata Choisy, B. torreyana S.Wats., and B. wrightii A. Gray). Observations were made in natural situations in Las Cruces, New Mexico. Individual flowers are open for only a portion of one day. Insect visitors were Hymenoptera, Diptera, and Coleoptera. All species received insect visitation; the larger-flowered species had more visitors. Autogamy is believed to be the usual method of reproduction, either through insect pollination or self-pollination of the flower as stamens contact the stigma as the flowers close. There is no evidence of wind pollination even in crowded populations. Chromosome numbers are fairly high, especially for annuals. New chromosome number reports are made for B. coccinea (n = 26), B. diffusa L (n = 27), B. intermedia (n = 26, ca. 27), B. linearifolia (n = ca. 26), B. mathisiana F.B. Jones (n = ca. 26), B. spicata (n = 26), and B. wrightii (n = 27). It is suggested that high chromosome number, prevalent autogamy, but occasional outcrossing or hybridization, produce a population structure of locally uniform populations that differ slightly to greatly from other populations, a pattern that can lead to difficulty in classification. Se informa de las observaciones del movimiento de los estambres y el estilo durante la antesis, as como de la visita de insectos en cinco taxa de Boerhavia, uno pantropical perenne (B. coccnea Mili.), y cinco anuales norteamericanos (B. intermedia M.E. Jones, B. spicata Choisy, B. torreyana S. Wats., and B. wrightii A. Gray). Las observaciones se hicieron en situaciones naturales en Las Cruces, New Mexico. Las flores individuales se abren slo una parte de un da. Los insectos visitantes fueron Hymenoptera, Dptera, y Coleoptera. Todas las especies recibieron visitas de insectos; las especies de flores grandes tuvieron ms visitantes. Se cree que la autogamia es el mtodo normal de reproduccin, tanto por entomogamia como por autopolinizacin de la flor mediante contacto de los estambres con el estigma cuando la flor se cierra. No hay evidencia de anemogamia ni siquiera en poblaciones densas. Los nmeros cromosmicos son bastante altos, especialmente en las anuales. Se citan nuevos nmeros cromosomticos para B. coccinea (n = 26), B. diffusa L.(n = 27), B. intermedia (n = 26, ca. 27), B. linearifolia (n = ca. 26), B. mathisiana F.B. Jones (n = ca. 26), B. spicata (n = 26), y B. wrightii (n = 27). Se sugiere que el alto nmero cromosomtico, la autogamia predominante, con reproduccin cruzada ocasional o hibridacin, producen una estruchura poblacional de poblaciones localmente uniformes que difieren de ligeramente a mucho de otras poblaciones, un patrn que puede llevar a dificultades en la clasificacin.
41968933|Ardisia rarescens,native to the border area of SE Chiapas, Mexico and SW Guatemala, was studied in preparation for a treatment of Myrsinaceae for the Flora Mesoamericana project. Its dextrorsely imbricate petals, extremely short free apical portions of the filaments, anthers whose wide longitudinal slit from each theca meet apically to form a subcontinuous opening at anthesis, short and broadly conical flower buds, and relatively numerous ovules on the rather thick placenta, precluded its placement in any known neotropical subgenus of Ardisia. Curiously, the aforementioned features comprise the diagnostic character states unique to the Indo-Malesian Ardisia subgenera Acrardisia and Stylardisia. Because subgenus Stylardisia is defined by its protogynous flowers (the style piercing the bud apex long before the bud opens), Ardisia rarescens can be excluded from that group and therefore placed in subgenus Acrardisia Mez. We suggest that Ardisia rarescens is a member of Ardisia subgenus Acrardisia and that this represents another species whose distribution may be attributable to the logical extension of the Boreotropics Hypothesis, previously explained in our work on the discovery of the genus Hymenandra in Mesoamerica. Ardisia rarescens is described, newly illustrated, its distributions, phylogenetic relationships, ecology and conservation status, are discussed. Ardisia rarescens fue estudiada para el tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Myrsinaceae para la Flora Mesoamericana. Sus ptalos dextrorsamente imbricados, porciones apicales libres de los filamentos que son muy cortas, anteras con dehiscencia comprendida por hendiduras longitudinales anchas y continuas en el pice, botones corto-y anchamente cnicos en perfl, y vulos relativamente numerosos y insertados en una placenta gruesa, se combinaron para indicar que no fue posible ubicar sta especie dentro de un subgnero previamente conocido en el neotrpico. Sin embargo, los caracteres susodichos comprenden los que se define el gnero Ardisia subgneros Aerarsia , y Stylardisia, ambos provenientes de la regin Indo-Malesia. Debido al hecho de que se define el subgnero Stylardisia por sus flores protginas, y que Ardisia rarescens no tiene esa cualidad, ubicamos la especie dentro del subgnero Acrardisia. Surgerimos que Ardisia rarescens es otro elemento, tanto como el gnero Hymenandra previamente reportado, cuya distribucin se atribuya a la extensin lgica de la Hiptesis Boreotropical. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute su distribucin, parentezco, ecologa y estatus en cuanto a la conservacin se refiere.
41968924|A new variety, Pittocaulon hintonii var. cerrograndensis (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) is described, and four new combinations are proposed: Pittocaulon velatum var. tzimolensis, Telanthophora cobanensis var. molinae, Telanthophora grandifolia var. serraquitchensis, and Telanthophora sublaciniatus. Se describe una variedad nueva, Pittocaulon hintonii var. cerrograndensis, y se propon cuatro combinacines nuevas, Pittocaulon velatum var. tzimolensis. Telanthophora cobanensis var. molinae, Telanthophora grandifolia var. serraquitchensis, y Telanthophora sublaciniatus.
41968946|The Kallawaya herbalists of Bolivia follow a healing tradition over a millennium old. Twenty-eight plants of the indigenous pharmacopoeia have been documented in both 16th and 17th century historical literature and contemporary ethnobotanical research. This continuity has bio-cultural implications representing not only useful medicinal plants but also traditional cultural knowledge. These plants and their antiquity of use represent the cultural heritage of the Kallawaya and should be considered along with the biodiversity priorities of local conservation programs. The rapid loss of biological diversity and local knowledge is putting modern ethnobotany at the risk of becoming decadent, before becoming a discipline. Analysis of indigenous pharmacopoeias can be an effective means of determining bio-cultural importance and establishing ethnobotanical conservation priorities. The following case study discusses a selected group of plants that have ethnomedical importance and also various economic uses. The utilization of these plants over time represents their bio-cultural importance and priority for conservation and sustainability efforts. Los herboristas Kallawaya de Bolivia siguen una tradicin de curacin de ms de un milenio. Se han documentado veintiocho plantas de la farmacopea indgena en la literatura histrica de los siglos XVI y XVII y de la investigacin etnobotnica contempornea. Esta continuidad tiene implicaciones bio-culturales que representan no slo plantas medicinales tiles sino tambin conocimiento cultural tradicional. Estas plantas y su antigedad de uso representan la herencia cultural de los Kallawaya y debe ser considerada en los programas de conservacin junto con las prioridades de biodiversidad. La prdida rpida de diversidad biolgica y conocimiento local est poniendo a la etnobotnica moderna en el riesgo de hacerse decadente antes de llegar a ser una disciplina. El anlisis de las farmaconpeas indgenas puede ser un mtodo efectivo de determinar la importancia bio-cultural y establecer las prioridades de conservacin etnobotnicas. El siguiente caso de estudio discute un grupo selecto de plantas que tienen importancia ethnomdica junto con usos econmicos variados. La utilizacin de estas plantas a lo largo del tiempo representa su importancia bio-cultural y los esfuerzos para la conservacin y uso sostenido.
41968929|The term "variety" has historical precedence over "subspecies" and is either prescribed or recommended by the ICBN as the rank to be first used in the description of infraspecific taxa. The rank "subspecies" is then used to cluster related varieties. Accordingly, to replace earlier combinations at subspecific rank, the following new combinations in Styrax platanifolius are proposed: var. mollis (P.W. Fritsch) B.L. Turner, comb. et stat. nov.; var.texanus (Cory) B.L Turner, comb. et stat. nov.; and var. youngiae (Cory) B.L.Turner,comb.et stat. nov. No subspecies are recognized here in S. platanifolius. El trmino" variedad" precede histricamente al de"subespecie"y es ordenado o recomendado por el ICBN como el primer rango a ser usado en la descripcin de taxa infraespecficos. El rango "subespecie"se usa despus para agrupar variedades relacionadas. De acuerdo con sto, se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones para reemplazar combinaciones previas en el rango subespecfico en Styrax platanifolius:var.mollis (P.W.Fritsch) B.L.Turner,comb.et stat. nov.;var.texanus (Cory) B.L.Turner, comb. et stat. nov.; y var. youngiae (Cory) B.L.Turner, comb. et stat. nov. No se reconocen subespecies aqu en S. platanifolius.
41968943|Cyperus hyalinus Vahl is reported from Dade County, Florida, U.S.A. This paleotropical species has not been previously reported from the Western Hemisphere. Its taxonomy and pest potential are discussed. A dichotomous key to the subgenera of Cyperus in the United States, technical description, and photographs are provided, and collection data and voucher specimens are cited. Se cita Cyperus hyalinus Vahl del condado de Dade, Florida, U.S.A. Esta expecie paleotripical no ha sido citada previamente del hemisferio occidental. Se discute su taxonoma y su potencial como mala hierba. Se ofrece una clave dicotmica de los subgneros de Cyperus en los Estados Unidos, descripcin tcnica, y fotografas, y se citan los datos de la recoleccin y los pliegos testigo.
41968930|Recent molecular evidence indicates that most genera of North American Astereae comprise a monophyletic assemblage. Within this North American clade are three distinctive generic groups previously hypothesized to be most closely related to subtribes of the Southern Hemispherethe Monoptilon group, the Pentachaeta group, and the Townsendia group. Additionally, morphological and molecular evidence indicates that the genera Boltonia, Chloracantha, and Batopilasia are closely related among themselves and constitute a coherent group. These four North American groups are recognized here with formal names at subtribal rank:Chaetopappinae subtr.nov.(Chaetopappa, Monoptilon), Pentachaetinae subtr.nov.(Pentachaeta, Rigiopappus, Tracyina), Astranthiinae subtr. nov. (Astranthium, Dichaetophora, Geissolepis, Townsendia), and Boltoniinae (Batopilasia, Boltonia, Chloracantha). Homochrominae is placed synonymy under subtribe Bellieae. Recientes evidencias moleculares muestran que la mayora de los gneros norteamericanos de Astereae comprenden un conjunto monofiltico. Dentro de este clado norteamericano hay tres grupos genricos sobre los que se hipotetiz previamente que fuesen los ms relacionados con las subtribus de hemisferio surel grupo Monoptilon, el grupo Pentachaeta,y el grupo Townsendia. Adicionalmente, la evidencia morfolgica y molecular indican que los gneros Boltonia, Chloracantha, y Batopilasia estn muy relacionados entre ellos y constituyen un grupo coherente. Estos cuatro grupos norteamericano se reconocen aqu con nombres formales en el rango: Chaetopappinae subtr. nov. (Chaetopappa, Monoptilon), Pentachaetinae subtr.nov. (Pentachaeta, Rigiopappus, Tracyina), Astranthiinae subtr.nov.(Astranthium, Dichaetophora, Geissolepis, Townsendia), y Boltoniinae (Batopilasia, Boltonia, Chloracantha). Se lectotipifica Homochrominae, colocndola en la sinominia de la subtribu Bellieae.
41968925|The floristic checklist for the Crater Mt. Wildlife Management Area (CMWMA) is updated. Canarium acutifolium war. pioriverensis (Burseraceae) is newly described. Canarium acutifolium var. pioriverensis ( 
41968941|Field studies show Cyperus louisianensis is locally common and weedy in eastern Louisiana and southern Mississippi and extend its range into Alabama and Georgia. Morphometric and herbarium studies show C. sanguinolentus and C. louisianensis are taxonomically indistinguishable, and C. louisianensis is treated as a synonym of C. sanguinolentus . The widespread weed, C. sanguinolentus, formerly thought to be restricted to the Eastern Hemisphere, is reported new to North America, and data on its frequency, distribution, and ecology in the southeastern United States are presented. Los estudios de campo muestran que Cyperus louisianensis es localmente comn y una mala hierba en el este de Louisiana y el sur de Mississippi y que se extiende hasta Alabama y Georgia. Estudios morfomtricos y de herbario muestran que C. sanguinolentus y C. louisianensis son taxonmicamente indistinguibles, y C. louisianensis se trata como un sinnimo de C. sanguinolentus. La mala hierba extendida, C. sanguinolentus, que previamente se crey restringida al hemisferio este, se cita aqu como nueva para Norte Amrica, y se presentan datos de su frecuencia, distribucin y ecologa en el sureste de los Estados.
41968927|Cypripedium crossii Morren was first mentioned in La Belgique Horticole for 1865 and described in the same journal for 1883. Its priority over Cypripedium callosum Rchb.f. 1886 is discussed and established. The taxon and two of its known varieties are transferred to the genus Paphiopedilum Pfitzer. Cypripedium crossii Morren se mencion por primera vez en La Belgique Horticole en 1865 y se describi en la misma revista en 1883. Se discute y establece su prioridad sobre Cypripedium callosum Rchb.f.1886. Este taxon y dos de sus variedades conocidas se transfieren al gnero Paphiopedilum Pfitzer.
41968938|We describe the structure of eight natural stands of otate (Otatea acuminata (Munro) Cald.& Sod. subsp. aztecorum Guzmn, Anaya & Santana) that are subject to traditional extraction. These populations are compared based on density, diameter and height using growth stage categories, site characteristics and history of management/The point quarter method was used to sample populations to obtain estimates of stem densities. Analysis of variance was conducted on stem categories and density to compare stands; all comparisons showed significant differences between stands. Results suggest that the population structure of otate is being modified by harvest intensity, which appears to be a function of accessibility of the stands by basket makers and their history of use. Results are described in relation to harvesting otate for craft production. Se describe la estructura de ocho rodales naturales de otate (Otatea acuminata (Munro) Cald.& Sod. subsp. aztecorum Guzmn, Anaya y Santana) que estn sujetos a extraccin tradicional. Se comparan estas poblaciones de acuerdo a categoras de tallos, caractersticas del sitio e historial de manejo. Se utiliz el mtodo punto cuadrante para estimar la densidad de tallos. Se hizo un anlisis de varianza de la densidad y categoras de tallos para comparar los rodales entre s; todas las comparaciones mostraron diferencias significativas en una o varias de las caractersticas evaluadas. Los resultados indican que la estructura de las poblaciones de otate est siendo modificada por la intensidad del aprovechamiento, el cual est determinado principalmente por la cercana y accesibilidad de los rodales a los artesanos. Los resultados se discuten en relacin al aprovechamiento para fines artesanales.
41968935|Senecio quaylei, a new species from Texas, U.S.A., is described. Se describe Senecio quaylei, una especie nueva de Texas, U.S.A.
41968931|Preparation of our treatment of the family Myrsinaceae for the florula of the "Rio Cenepa" region resulted in the discovery of a heretofore undescribed species in the genus Stylogyne. Stylogyne aguarunana Pipoly & Ricketson is described, illustrated, mapped and its phylogenetic relations are discussed. Estudios para preparar un tratamiento taxonmico de la Myrsinaceae para la flrula de la regin "Ro Cenepa" resultaron en el descubrimiento de una nueva especie perteneciente al gnero Stylogyne.Stylogyne aguarunana Pipoly & Ricketson se describe, se ilustre, se mapea y se discute su parentezco.
41968937|Solidago villosicarpa, sp. nov., is described from the outer coastal plain of southeastern North Carolina, where collections have been made from four counties. Although it apparently is extant in only two of these four counties, its habitat and evident adaptation to disturbance suggest that the new species may be more frequent along the Carolina coast than is currently known. Solidago villosicarpa is placed as a member of sect, and subsect. Solidago and is distinctive in its combination of pubescent stems, glabrous to glabrate leaves, thyrsoid inflorescence, large heads with bright lemon-yellow rays, densely villous achenes, and late flowering. Se describeSolidago villosicarpa, sp. nov., de la llanura costera externa del sudeste de Carolina del Norte, donde se han hecho colecciones en cuatro condados. Aunque aparentemente existe en slo dos de estos cuatro condados, su habitat y evidente adaptacin a las perturbaciones sugieren que la nueva especie puede ser ms frecuente a lo largo de la costa de Carolina de lo que se conoce actualmente. Solidago villosicarpa se coloca como un miembro de la sect. y subsect. Solidago y es distintiva su combinacin de tallos pubescentes, hojas glabras o glabrescentes, inflorescencia tirsoide, captulos grandes con lgulas amarillo limn, aquenios densamente villosos y floracin tarda.
41968944|Our study of the legumes from the central part of the state of Chihuahua records 42 genera and 117 species. The number of genera/number of species for each of the three leguminous subfamilies are: Lotoideae 27/77; Mimosoideae 8/28; Caesalpiniodeae 7/12. Oak-pine forest had the highest number of species. Genera with the highest number of species are: Dalea (19), Acacia (11), Phaseolus (7), Desmodium (6), and both, Senna and Mimosa (5). Dalea, Desmodium and Phaseolus are most common on oak-pine forest communities, while Acacia, Senna, and Mimosa are most common on shrublands and grasslands. Nuestro estudio de leguminosas en la porcin central del estado de Chihuahua registr 42 gneros y 117 especies. El nmero de gneros/nmero de especies para cada una de las tres subfamilias es: Lotoideae 27/77; Mimosoideae 8/28; Caesalpinioideae 7/12. Los gneros con mayor nmero de especies son Dalea (19), Acacia (11 ), Phaseolus (7), Desmodium (6) y Senna y Mimosa con (5). Dalea, Desmodium y Phaseolus son mas comunes en los bosques de encino-pino, mientras que Acacia, Mimosa y Senna son mas comunes en matorrales y pastizales.
41968945|Located in southwestern Louisiana, Calcasieu Parish is composed of five major vegetation regions. These regions are defined by their respective vascular plant composition and physiography. A field survey of the vascular flora of the approximately 2,844 square kilometers that make up the Parish was conducted from August 1995 to October 2000. Additionally, specimens housed in various Louisiana herbaria were examined to complete the survey. Names of the 1,147 specific and subspecific entries representing 147 families found during this survey have been compiled in an annotated catalogue that includes collector name and collection number for one representative specimen and a designation as to whether each species is considered native or introduced. Vegetation regions where each species occurs are included in the catalogue. An additional 134 taxa reportedly collected in Calcasieu Parish that were not discovered during our field research nor located during our visits to other herbaria are also listed. Euphorbia texana is reported new for Louisiana. Localizado en el suroeste de Louisiana, la parroquia de Calcasieu est compuesta por cinco regiones de vegetacin principales. Estas regiones se definen por su composicin florstica y su fisiografa. Una prospeccin de campo de la flora vascular de los aproximadamente 2,844 kilmetros cuadrados que componen la parroquia fue realizada desde agosto de 1995 a octubre de 2000. Adicionalmente, especmenes albergados en varios herbarios de Louisiana fueron examinados para completar el estudio. Los nombres de las 1,147 entradas especificas y subespecficas que representan las 147 familias encontradas durante esta prospeccin se han compilado en catlogo comentado que incluye nombre del colector y nmero de la recoleccin de un espcimen respresentativo y una designacin de cada especie sobre si se considera nativa o introducida. Se incluyen en el catlogo las regiones de vegetacin en que vive cada especie. Se listan tambin 134 taxa adicionales citados como colectados en la parroquia de Calcasieu que no se encontraron durante la investigacin de campo ni en las visitas o otros herbarios. Euphorbia texana se cita como nueva para Louisiana.
41967190|Potamogeton perfoliatus L. is listed as a sensitive plant in the Louisiana Coastal Zone. Four erratic records from Lake Pontchartrain constitute the southwestern extent of its range in North America. To obtain a better understanding of its current status, aquatic habitats near New Orleans were surveyed. It was found in eastern Lake Pontchartrain at three new localities (Point Platte, Big Point, and Irish Bayou) and at two previously reported localities. The Point Platte bed is large (1.8 ha) and in a remote area. The erratic historic distribution of P. perfoliatus in Lake Pontchartrain may be due to the establishment of small, scattered, temporary beds in more accessible areas by dispersal from the large Point Platte population. Its restricted Louisiana distribution appears to be due to the suitable sediment and water quality conditions occurring in eastern Lake Pontchartrain. Potamogeton perfoliatus L. se incluye entre las plantas amenazadas de la zona litoral de Louisiana. Cuatro citas errticas a orillas del lago Pontchartrain constituyen la parte suroeste de su rea norteamericana. Con objeto de obtener una mejor comprensin de su estado actual se observaron ciertos habitats acuticos cercanos a New Orleans. La especie fue hallada en tres nuevas localidades al este del lago Pontchartrain: Pointe Platte, Big Pointe, e Irish Bayou, as como en otras dos localidades previamente citadas. El lecho correspondiente a Point Platte es extenso (18 m) y se encuentra en una zona remota. La distribucin histricamente errtica de P. perfoliatus en el lago Pontchartrain puede ser debida al establecimiento de lechos pequeos, dispersos y temporales de zonas ms accesibles, debidos a dispersiones que tuvieron lugar a partir de la poblacin de Pointe Platte. Su distribucin restringida en Louisiana parece deberse a las condiciones de sedimento apropiado y calidad del agua que se dan en la zona oriental del lago Pontchartrain.
41967180|The two species of Cyphomeris (Nyctaginaceae) occur in arid regions of central southern North America. Historically, C. gypsophiloides (Mart. & Gal.) Standl., the more widespread, consisted of two subspecies. The other, C. crassifolia (Standl.) Standl., is restricted to the eastern margin of the range of the genus. A survey of herbarium specimens reveals considerable variation particularly in fruit characteristics, leaf shape, and foliar pubescence and some intergradation in these features among populations. We used 114 specimens and 29 population samples to examine relationships of 14 vegetative and 10 fruit characters. Cluster analysis, principal components analysis, discriminant analysis, and multivariate analysis of variance indicate the presence of two morphological groups that correspond roughly to the species-level taxa of previous authors, groups that can be separated by morphology, geography, and ecology. These two species are maintained. The sole infraspecific taxon, C. gypsophiloides var. stewartii I. M. Johnst., is noted to be an extreme and geographically restricted form intergradient with nearby populations and is not recognized taxonomically. La variacin geogrfica de macromorfologia de Cyphomeris, un gnero pequeo de Nyctaginaceae de zonas ridas de la parte sur-centro de Norte Amrica, fue examinada mediante el uso de mtodos estadsticos multivariantes. Autores anteriores reconocieron dos especias, una [C. gypsophiloides (Mart. & Gal.) Standl.] con dos subespecias, y la otra [C. crassifolia Standl.] restringida a la parte este del rea del gnero. Usamos 114 muestras y ejemplares de 29 poblaciones para revisar las afinidades de 14 caracteres vegetativos y 10 caracteres de los frutos. Los datos fueron analizados por anlisis de agrupacin, anlisis de componentes principales, anlisis discriminante, y anlisis de multiariante. Los resultados indican la presencia de dos grupos morfolgicos que se corresponden aproximadamente con los taxa delnivel de especie de los autores anteriores; que pueden ser separadas por su morfologa, geografa, y ecologa. Unicamente no se reconoce el taxon infraespecifico, C. gypsophiloides var stewartii I. M. Johnston, pero es considerado como una forma extrema, intermedia con poblaciones ms o menos aisladas en las montaas prximas.
41967179|The genus Clusia section Criuva is revised for species within the Guayana Floristic Province. Eleven species are recognized, of which five, Clusia grammadenioides Pipoly, C. multilineata Pipoly, C. asymmetrica Pipoly, C. maguireana Pipoly, and C. guayanae Pipoly are described as new, illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Amplified descriptions are provided for the section and each hitherto known species, along with keys to the species within the section, and citation of representative specimens. Clusia reducta is reduced to synonymy under Clusia opaca and Clusia hexacarpa subsp. ptaritepuiana is reduced to synonymy under C. hexacarpa. Se presenta una revisin taxonmica del gnero Clusia seccin Criuva para las especies procedentes de la Provincia florstica Guayanesa. Se reconocen once especies, dentro de las cuales hay cinco, Clusia grammadenioides Pipoly, C. multilineata Pipoly, C. asymmetrica Pipoly, C. maguireana Pipoly, y C. guayanae Pipoly que se describen como nuevas, se ilustran y se discute su parentesco. Se ofrecen descripciones ampliadas para la seccin y especies previamente conocidas; tambin se presentan claves para identificar las especies dentro de la seccin, y un listado de especmenes representativos. Se reduce Clusia reducta a la sinonmia bajo C. opaca y C. hexacarpa subsp. ptaritepuiana bajo C. hexacarpa.
41967178|The genus Mirabilis includes the formerly recognized genera Allionia in part, Hesperonia, Oxybaphus and Quamodidion. It is comprised of about 60 species of tropical and temperate herbs distributed primarily in the Americas. Currently the genus is arranged in six sections, generally along the boundaries of the former genera. This study considers the section Mirabilis. Based on comparative morphology, including extensive field studies and observations in the greenhouse, scanning electron microsopy studies of pollen and fruit (anthocarp) characters, two species, M. donahooiana, M. polonii and one variety M. sangunea var. breviflora are described as new. In addition, one new combination is proposed, M. gracilis. El gnero Mirabilis incluye los gneros anteriormente reconocidos Allionia en parte y Hesperonia, Oxybaphus y Quamodidion. Est compuesto por aproximadamente 60 especies de plantas tropicales y clima templado, istribuido principalmente en las Americas. Actualmente el gnero est organizado en seis secciones generalmente dentro de los lmites del anterior gnero. Este estudio considera la seccin Mirabilis. Est basado en morfologa comarativs, incluyendo estudios extensivos de campo, observaciones en invernadero, caracteristicas del polen y fruto (antocarpo) estudiadas con microscopa electrnica, se describen dos nuevas especies M. donabooiana, M. polonii y una variedad M. sanguinea var. breviflora. Adems se propone una nueva combinacin: M. gracilis.
41967182|The species of Packera (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) have been treated in the past as the "Aureoid" group within the genus Senecio. Fifteen species and three varieties of Packera are recognized in Mexico; a key, an account of the nomenclature, and statements of ranges and habitats are presented. Three new combinations are proposed: Packera scalaris var. parnasiana (Greenm.) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera scalaris var. carmenensis (C.C. Freeman) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; and Packera zimapanica (Hemsley) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkley, comb. nov. Las especies de Packera (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) han sido tratadas en el pasado como grupo "Aureoide" dentro del gnero Senecio. En Mxico se reconocen quince especies y tres variedades de Packera. Se presentan una clave, un informe nomenclatural y otro relativo a las reas y los habitats. Se proponen tres combinaciones nuevas: Packera scalaris var. parrasina (Greenm.) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkely, comb, nov., Packera scalaris var. carmenensis (C.C. Freeman) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkely, comb, nov., and Packera zimapanica (Hemsley) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkeley, comb. nov.
41967186|New varieties of 10 species of Clitoria (Leguminosae - Phaseoleae - Clitoriinae) are described with commentary. Characteristics of segregation from other varieties within the species are presented. Newly described varieties include: C. arborea var. pseudoamazonica (Western Brazil), C. epetiolata var. angustissima (Brazil: Paran), C. guianensis var. macrocleistogama (Brazil: Minas Gerais), C. leptostachya var. fruticosa (Brazil: Para), C. maana var. pubescentia (United States: Florida), C. polystachya var. congesta (Mxico: Mxico), C. polystachya var. pringlei (Mxico: Morelos), and C. pozuzoensis var. schunket (Per: Loreto). New combinations include: C. falcata var. aurantiaca (Southern Brazil), C. falcata var. latifolia (Brazil: Para), C. heterophylla var. pedunculata Madagascar, Mauritius), C. guianensis var. chapadensis (Brazil: Mato Grosso), and C. stipularis var. latifolia (Brazil: Cear, Maranho). Se describen variedades nuevas de diez especes de Clitoria (Leguminosae -Phaseoleae - Clitoriinae). Se presentan las caractersticas de segregacin de otras variedades dentro de las especes. Estas variedades nuevamente descritas incluyen las siguientes: C. arborea var. pseudoamazonica (Brasil oeste), C. epetiolata var. angustissima (Brasil: Paran), C. guianensis var. macrocleistogama (Brasil: Mineas Gerais), C. leptostachya var. fruticosa (Brasil: Par), C. mariana var. pubescentia (Estados Unidos: Florida), C. polystachya var. congesta (Mxico: Mxico), C. polystachya var. pringlei (Mxico: Morelos), and C. pozuzoensis var. schunkei (Per: Loreto). Se incluyen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: C. falcata var. aurantiaca (Brasil del sur), C. falcata var. latifolia (Brasil: Para), C. heterophylla var. pedunculata (Madagascar, Mauritius), C. guianensis var. chapadensis (Brasil: Mato Grosso), y C. stipularis var. latifolia (Brasil: Cear, Marano).
41967188|In preparation of the treatment of Clusia section Anandrogyne for Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, Flora of the Guianas, and Flora of Central French Guiana, the section is lectotypified and its description is emended. A key to the species, along with updated descriptions with citation of types and representative specimens examined, are also provided for each species, concomitant with discussions of distribution, ecology and conservation status. Discussions of postulated phylogenetic relationships are presented for each taxon. Clusia fabiolae is described and illustrated. Clusia scariosa is relegated to synonymy under Clusia pachyphy Ha. Clusia duartei is placed in the section for the first time, based on new data from flowering material, and C. savannarum is newly recorded for Venezuela. Clusia sessilis is a homonym and a nomen novum, Clusia wurdackiana, is provided for it. Al preparar un tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Clusia secc. Anandrogyne para las floras de la Guayana Venezolana, de las Guayanas, y de la Guayana Francesa Central, se lectotipifica la seccin y se amplia su descripcin. Adems, se ofrece una clave para distinguir las especies, junto con descripciones actualizadas, tipos y especmenes citados. Se discute el parentesco, la distribucin geogrfica, ecologa y estatus en cuanto a conservacin para cada especie. Finalmente, se discute lo que sabe de la filogenia de dichas especies. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute el parentesco de Clusia fabiolae. Se relega C. scariosa a la sinonmia bajo C. pachyphylla. Se ubica Clusia duartei en la seccin por la primera vez, en base a nuevo material en flor, y se cita C. savannarum como nuevo para Venezuela. Clusia sessilis es un homnimo y por lo tanto, se ofrece para ella un nombre nuevo, Clusia wurdackiana.
41967192|The chromosome number of the Californian cornelian cherry, Cornus sessilis Torr., is determined to be 2n= 20, differing from the number (2n= 18) reported for other cornelian cherries. This is the first report of a chromosome number for C. sessilis. The finding of 2n= 20 in C. sessilis along with evidence from morphology and molecular data helps clarify the evolutionary trend of chromosome numbers in Cornus and suggests an early divergence between the species and its close relatives, C. mas - C. officinalis - C. chinensis. El determina el nmero cromosmico del cornejo de California Cornus sessilis Torr. Como 2n= 20, que difiere del nmero (2n= 18) citado de otros cornejos. Este es el primer recuento cromosmico de C. sessilis. El hallazgo de 2n= 20 en C. sessilis junto con la evidencia de datos morfolgicos y moleculares ayuda a clarifica las tendencias evolutivas de los nmeros cromosmicos en Cornus y sugiere una divergencia temprana entre esta especie y sus parientes ms prximos, C. mas - C. officinalis - C. chinensis.
41967187|The tuberculate-fruited Ichthyothere pastazensis from Ecuador and the pinnately veined I. macdanielli from Peru are described as new. Se describen como nuevas especies Ichthyothere pastazaensis, con frutos tuberculados, de Ecuador y I. macdanielii, de hojas pinnatinervias, de Per.
41967184|References by Lindheimer (1845a and b, 1879) and Engelmann (Gray 1850) to Texas central coast palm trees, and a description of the distribution and uses of Sabal mexicana Mart, by Sargent (1905, 1922), add to the evidence that a wild population of the species discovered in Jackson and Victoria counties in 1989 is indigenous. Referencias de Lindheimer (1845a y b, 1879) y Engelmann (en Gray 1850) a palmeras en la litoral central de Texas, y una descripcin de la distribucin y los usos de Sabal mexicana Mart, hecha por Sargent (1905, 1922), contribuyen a la evidenciar que una poblacin natural de la especie descubierta en los condados de Jackson y Victoria en 1989 es autctona.
41967147|Examination of the taxonomic relationships of the rare parasitic vine Cuscuta attenuata Waterf. to other species of the genus reveals that it should be positioned in subsect. Indecorae Yunck. rather than Lepidanche Engelm. as previously placed. Analyses of morphological variation, via univariate analysis, UPGMA clustering, principal component analysis, and discriminant analysis, indicate that it is distinct from C. compacta Juss. and C. cuspidata Engelm. but morphologically similar to C. indecora Choisy, especially var. longisepala Yunck. Results obtained in a program of interspecific hybridizations reveal that C. attenuata is reproductively isolated from the other taxa. These data suggest that C. attenuata merits continued recognition as a distinct species. El examen de las relaciones taxonmicas de la rara parsita Cuscuta attenuata con otras especies del gnero revela que debe ser colocada en la subsect. Indecorae en vez de la subsect. Lepidanche como se haba hecho previamente. Los anlisis de la variacin morfolgica, mediante anlisis univariante, agrupamiento UPGMA, anlisis de componentes principales y anlisis discriminante, indican que es distinta de C. compacta Juss. y de C. cuspidata Engelm., aunque morfolgicamente semejante a C. indecora Choisy, especialmente a la var. longisepala Yunck. Los resultados obtenidos en un programa de hibridaciones interespecficas revela que C. attenuata est aislada reproductivamente de los otros taxa. Estos datos sugieren que C. attenuata debe continuar reconocindose como una especie distinta.
41967146|A historical perspective and discussion of the generic relationships is presented for Paspalidium and Setaria. It is concluded that species of Paspalidium are best treated as Setaria. A list of accepted taxa previously placed in Paspalidium is given. Nineteen new combinations (Setaria albovillosa, S. aversa, S. basiclada, S. dmentit, S. constricta, S. criniformis, S. gausa, S. globoidea, S. spartela, S. grandispiculata, S. inaequalis, S. jubiflora, S. paludivaga, S. rara, S. reflexa, S. retiglumis, S. scabrifolia, S. tabulata, S. uda) and one new name (Setaria brigalow) are proposed. Se presenta una perspectiva histrica y una discusin de las relaciones genricas de Paspalidium y Setaria. Se concluye que las especies de Paspalidium estn mejor tratadas en Setaria. Se ofrece una lista de los taxa aceptados colocados previamente en Paspalidium. Se proponen diez y nueve combinaciones nuevas (Setaria albovillosa, S. aversa, S. basiclada, S. clementii, S. constricta, C. criniformis, S. gausa, S. globoidea, S. spartela, S. grandispiculata, S. inaequalis, S. jubiflora, S. paludivaga, S. rara, S. reflexa, S. retiglumis, S. scabrifolia, S. tabulata, S. uda) y un nombre nuevo (Setaria brigalow).
41967138|Se describe y se ilustra Pteropepon oleiferum y se discute su parentesco. Es una especie nica dentro del gnero y de la familia debido al hecho de que tiene solamente un estambre con una antera bilocular insertada en un filamento cnico, y que es dioica. Sin embargo, est mejor colocada en Pteropepon que en cualquier otro gnero conocido hasta la fecha. Esta especie es la tercera especie nueva descrita de la regin de Ro Claro (Antioquia) en los ltimos tres aos, como resultado de las investigaciones de los autores. La zona donde crece tiene suelos calcreos con un alto porcentaje de la flora aparentemente endmica, presentando tambin muchos elementos disyuntos y otros aspectos biogeogrficos interesantes. Pteropepon oleiferum is described, illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships discussed. It is a unique species within the genus and family, based on its one stamen and one bilocular anther on a conic filament, concomitant with its dioecious habit. Nevertheless, we feel that the new entity is best placed in Pteropepon than in any other cucurbitaceous genus known, because of its laterally compressed, fibrous and winged fruit, and staminate flowers in panicles. As a result of the authors' collaborative research, this is the third new species to be described from the Ro Claro area of Antioquia since 1991. The area is calcareous, apparently with a large percentage of the flora endemic, disjunct, or otherwise biogeographically interesting.
41967157|A subtribal classification system for 38 genera of Eragrostideae that occur in the New World is presented. Seven recognized subtribes include: Eleusininae, Eragrostidinae, Monanthochloinae, Muhlenbergiinae, Munroinae, Sporobolinae, and Uniolinae. A comparative discussion outlining the recent classification history is included. Diagnostic fully comparative descriptions are given for each subtribe and a new subtribe, Munroinae, is validated. Se presenta un sistema de clasificacin tribal de 38 gneros de Eragrostideae que viven en el Nuevo Mundo. Las siete subtribus reconocidas son: Eleusininae, Eragrostidinae, Monanthochloinae, Muhlenbergiinae, Munroinae, Sporobolinae, y Uniolinae. Se incluye una discusin comparativa que esboza la historia de la clasificacin reciente. Se ofrece una descripcin diagnstica comparativa completa de cada subtribu y se valida una nueva subtribu, Munroinae.
41967152|Sageretia yunlongensis G.S. Fan & L.L. Deng sp. nov. from Yunlong Xian, Yunnan, China and Rhamnus hemsleyanus Schneid, var paucinervatus G.S. Fan & L.L. Deng var. nov. from Wuyi Shan Mountain, Fujian, China, are described and illustrated. Se describen e ilustran Sageretia yunlongensis G. S. Fan et L. L. Deng del condado de Yunlong en Yunnan (China) y Rhamnus hemsleyanus Schneid, var. paucinervatus G.S. Fan et L.L. Deng var. nova de la montaa Wuyi Shan en Fujian (China).
41967142|Leaf blades of Erioneuron and Dasyochloa species were analyzed for anatomical details. Analysis of transverse sections and epidermis show that both genera can be clearly delimited. Differences between E. avenaceum and E. grandiflorum were not found, supporting the interpretation that these are conspecific. Differences between E. avenaceum, E. pilosum, and E. nealleyi were found, suggesting that these be maintained as distinct entities. Differences between Dasyochloa and Erioneuron support the recognition of Dasyochloa as a monotypic North American genus. Fueron analizadas lminas de las especies de Erioneuron y Dasyochloa, para un estudio anatmico detallado. El anlisis de la lmina en seccin transversal y de la epidermis, muestra que los dos gneros pueden ser claramente definidos. No se encontraron diferencias entre E. avenaceum y E. grandiflorum, lo que apoya la interpretacin de que no son especies distintas. Se encontraron algunas diferencias entre E. avenaceum, E. pilosum y E. nealleyi, que sugieren que stas se pueden mantener como especies distintas. Las diferencias entre Dasyochloa y Erioneuron, apoyan el reconocimiento de Dasyochloa como un gnero monotpico para Norteamrica.
41967140|Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Tachigali, T. vasquezii, procedente de la cuenca amaznica colombiana y peruana. Se ilustra la especie y se discuten sus relaciones filogenticas. Adems, otras especies anteriormente clasificadas en el gnero Sclerolobium, que se encuentran en varias flrulas amaznicas actualmente en proceso de redaccin, o con las que tienen parentesco, se transfieren al gnero Tachigali, resultando las nuevas combinaciones Tachigali rugosa (Martius) Zarucchi & Pipoly, T. micropetala (Ducke) Zarucchi & Pipoly, Tachigali bracteosa (Harms) Zarucchi & Pipoly. Tachigali micropetala y T. bracteosa son nuevas citas para Per. A new species of Tachigali, T. vasquezii, is described from the Amazon Basin of Peru and Colombia. The new species is illustrated and its phylogenetic relations are discussed. In addition, other species previously classified in the genus Sclerolobium now being treated in amazonian florulas in final preparation, or closely related to them, are transferred to Tachigali, resulting in the new combinations: Tachigali rugosa (Martius) Zarucchi and Pipoly, T. micropetala (Ducke) Zarucchi and Pipoly, and T. bracteosa (Harms) Zarucchi and Pipoly. The occurrence of T. micropetala, and T. bracteosa are new reports for Peru.
41967144|Quercus basaseachkenis C. H. Muller, collected by LeSueur in 1936 and named by Muller in 1938, was not recollected until 1985. Since that time this white oak (sect. Quercus) has been discovered at several sites in the Sierra Madre Occidental in Chihuahua and extreme northern Durango, Mexico. For the first time fruiting material is described. Quercus basaseachicensis occurs with two other white oaks, the low, shrubby, rhizomatous Q. depressipes Trel. and the robust shrub or tree Q. rugosa Ne, and is intermediate between them. Evidence based on habitat, habit, leaf morphology (including pubescence) is presented to indicate the hybrid nature of Q. basaseachicensis. The name Q. X basaseachicensis C. H. Muller, pro sp., is proposed. Quercus basaseachicensis C. H. Muller, que fue colectado por LeSueur en el ao 1936 y descrito por Muller en 1938, no ha sido vuelto a recolectado hasta 1985. Desde entonces este roble blanco (secc. Quercus) ha sido encontrado en algunos lugares en la Sierra Madre Occidental de Chihuahua y en el norte extremo de Durango, Mxico. Se describen por el primer vez plantas con flores y frutos. Quercus basaseachicensis convive con dos otros robles blancos muy diferentes, uno el pequeo, arbusto, rizomatoso Q. depressipes Trel., el otro el arbreo o arbusto grande, Q. rugosa Ne, siendo intermedio entre los dos. Se presentan evidencias basadas en el habitat, hbito, morfologa y indumento de las hojas para indicar la naturaleza hbrida de Q. basaseachicensis. Se propone el nombre Q. Xbasaseachicensis C. H. Muller, pro sp.
41967150|The genus Haplophyton has typically been regarded as monotypic by various authors. A close examination of herbarium specimens coupled with field observations in Chiapas, Mexico, has uncovered new evidence that strengthens the recognition of two distinct species, H. cimicidum and H. crooksii. Further evidence suggests that Haplophyton should be removed from the subtribe Alstoniinae and placed back into its own subtribe, the Haplophytinae. Distribution maps and a key to the species are provided. El gnero Haplophyton ha sido tratado como monotpico por varios autores. Un cuidadoso examen de especmenes de herbario junto con observaciones de campo en Chiapas, Mxico, ha puesto de manifiesto nuevas evidencias que refuerzan el reconocimiento de dos especies distintas: H. cimicidum y H. crooksii. Otras evidencias suplementarias sugieren que Haplophyton debera ser sacado de la subtribu Alstoniinae para volverlo a colocar en su propia subtribu Haplophytinae. Se ofrecen mapas de distribucin y una clave de especies.
41967158|Marsilea minuta L. (Marsileaceae), discovered in a streetside ditch in Escambia County, Florida, is here reported as newly introduced for Florida and North America. A probable explanation of its introduction via waterfowl and its potential as a weed are considered. Se cita Marsilea minuta L. (Marsileaceae), descubierta en una cuneta del borde de la carretera en el Condado de Escambia, Florida, como reciente nefito para Florida y Norte Amrica. Se discute una explicacin probable de su introduccin mediante las corrientes de agua y su potencial como mala hierba.
41967160|Saccharum L. consists of about 40 species concentrated in the tropics and subtropics of the world. Five species and one variety are recognized in this revision of the native North American taxa. Recognized taxa include S. alopecuroideum (L.) Nutt., S. baldwinii Spreng., S. brevibarbe (Michx.) Pers. var. brevibarbe, S. brevibarbe (Michx.) Pers. var. contortum (Nutt.) R. Webster, S. coarctatum (Fern.) R. Webster, S. giganteum (Walt.) Pers. A review of the relevant taxonomic history of the taxa is presented. A comprehensive set of morphological, geographical, and nomenclatural data was collected. A discussion is given on the range and distribution of the 234 characters applied in the taxonomic analysis. The DELTA computer system was used for the analysis and production of a key to the species and comparative species descriptions. Given for each taxon is a representative set of specimen citations and a discussion of diagnostic characters and biological relationships among the recognized species. Saccharum L. est formado por cerca de 40 especies concentradas en las zonas tropicales y subtropicales del mundo. En esta revisin de los taxa nativos de Norteamrica se reconocen cinco especies y una variedad. Los taxa reconocidos son: S. alopecuroideum (L.) Nutt., S. baldwinii Spreng., S. brevibarbe (Michx.) Pers. var. contortum (Nutt.) R. Webster, S. coarctatum (Fern.) R. Webster y S. giganteum (Walt.) Pers. Se presenta una revisin de la historia taxonmica de los taxa. Se coleci un conjunto extenso de datos morfolgicos, geogrficos y nomenclaturales. Se hace una disucsin del rango y distribucin de los 234 caracteres utilizados en el anlisis taxonmico. Se emple el sistema DELTA para el anlisis, la elaboracin de la clave de especies y para las descripciones comparativas de las especies. De cada taxon se da un conjunto representativo de citas y se hace una discusin de los caracteres diagnsticos y de las relaciones biolgicas entre las especies que se reconocen.
41967148|A newly discovered population of Dirca from the Sierra Madre Oriental of Tamaulipas, Mexico, is described and illustrated here as D. mexicana sp. nov. It expands the genus to three species and it is first of the genus known to occur in Mexico. The new species is similar to D. palustris of the eastern United States in its long calyx tube with abruptly flaring limb, but its greatest overall similarity is with the rare and restricted D. occidentalis of the San Francisco Bay region in west-central California. Dirca mexicana resembles the latter in its bud scales with whitish pubescence, sessile flowers and fruits, distinctly lobed calyces, and persistent pubescence on the young twigs and abaxial leaf surfaces. The new species differs from D. occidentalis in its flowers with a longer, narrower tube, shorter limb and lobes, and shorter style and filaments; the two population systems are separated by more than 2500 kilometers. Dirca mexicana is separated from the closest population of D. palustris by more than 1100 kilometers. Una poblacin de Dirca recientemente descubierta en la Sierra Madre Oriental de Tamaulipas, Mxico, se describe e iconografa aqu como D. mexicana sp. nov. Con ello se eleva a tres el nmero de especies en el gnero, siendo sta la primera que se conoce en Mxico. La nueva especie se parece a D. palustris, del este de los Estados Unidos, por su largo tuba del cliz con limbo abruptamente acampanado, pero su mayor parecido general es con la rara y restringida D. occidentalis de la regin de la Baha de San Francisco en la regin centro-oeste de California. Dirca mexicana se parece a esta ltima en las escamas de las yemas con pubescencia blanquecina, flores y frutos ssiles, clices netamente lobulados y la pubescencia persistente en las ramas jvenes y en el envs de las hojas. La nueva especie difiere de D. occidentalis por sus flores con un tubo ms largo y ms estrecho, con limbo y lbulos ms cortos, y estilo y filamentos ms cortos. Los dos sistemas de poblaciones estn separados por ms de 2500 kilmetros. Dirca mexicana est alejada ms de 1100 kilmetros de la poblacin de D. palustris ms prxima.
41967161|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Anredera baselloides, Chimaphila macult a, Scirpus subterminalis, Silene caroliniana, and Zigadenus leimanthoides. Some additions to the Florida panhandle are documented also, and several significant range extensions, particularly for rare or endangered taxa within our area, are given. Las plantas siguientes parecen ser primeras citas para el estado de Florida: Anredera baselloides, Chimaphila maculata, Scirpus subterminalis, Silne caroliniana y Zygadenus leimanthoides. Se documentan tambin algunas adiciones para el extremo de Florida y se dan varias extensiones de rea significativas, particularmente para plantas raras o en peligro dentro de este rea.
41967155|The genus Clusia sections Criuvopsis and Brachystemon are revised, in preparation for a treatment of the Clusiaceae for Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana and Flora de Colombia. Amplified descriptions, keys to the species and lectotypifications are provided for each section. In Clusia section Criuvopsis, 3 species are recognized, of which one, Clusia araracuarae, is described as new, illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships discussed. Amplified descriptions, illustrations and discussions of phylogenetic relationships are provided for Clusia amaznica and C. martiana. Clusia oedematopoidea is reduced to synonymy under C. amaznica, and C. uleana under C. martiana. In Clusia section Brachystemon, 3 taxa are recognized, of which one, Clusia aymardii, is described as new, illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Amplified descriptions and discussions of phylogenetic relationships are provided for Clusia spathulaefolia and C. penduliflora. Como resultado de investigaciones para preparar un tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Clusia para Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana y Flora de Colombia, se presenta una revisin de las secciones Criuvopsis y Brachystemon. Se presentan descripciones actualizadas para las dos secciones, claves para separar sus especies, y se lectotipifiquen.. Se reconoce tres especies en la seccin Criuvopsis, entre las cuales, C. araracuare, se describe como especie nueva, se ilustra, y se discute su parentesco. Se provee descripciones ampliadas, ilustraciones y comentarios sobre relaciones filogenticas para Clusia amazonica, y C. martiana. Se relega C. oedematopoidea a sinonimia bajo C. amaznica y, a C. uleana bajo C. martiana. In seccin Brachystemon, se reconoce tres especies, entre las cuales, C. aymardii se describe como especie nueva, se ilustra, y se discute su parentesco. Tambin, se provee descripciones ampliadas, y comentarios sobre relaciones filogenticas para C. spathulaefolia y C. penduliflora.
41967153|A 150-year chronology of interaction between Lonicera maackii and people reveals the diverse roles of arboreta, botanical gardens, and government agencies in plant introduction and eventual naturalization. The species' biology, horticultural value, and conservation use are described. Una cronologa de 150 aos de interaccin entre Lonicera maackii y la gente revela los roles diversos que han tenido los arboreta, jardines botnicos, y agencias del gobierno en la introduccin y eventual naturalizacin de esta planta. Se describe la biologa de esta especie, su valor en horticultura, y su uso para conservacin.
41967136|A new species, Zigadenus mogollonensis, is described and illustrated. Its large flowers are campanulate, cernuous, and have a distinct purplish tinge. It is endemic, but quite locally common, to the Mogollon Mountains of southwestern New Mexico. A discussion on related species characteristics and variation within the section Anticlea of the genus Zigadenus is also presented. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Zigadenus mogollonensis. Sus flores grandes son campanuladas, colgantes y tienen un tinte prpura manifiesto. Es endmica, aunque muy comn localmente, de las montaas Mogolln del Suroeste de Nuevo Mxico. Se ofrece tambin una discusin de las caractersticas y variacin en las especies emparentadas dentro de la seccin Anticlea del gnero Zigadenus.
41966508|The pollen morphology of Dalea section Theodora in the southwestern United States and Mexico has been studied. Four of the five species in section Theodora have a unique pollen type commonly referred to as "dogbone" with Dalea mollis possessing the typical prolate pollen type of the genus. A radial development of the pollen shape is evident from the prolate pollen type in the center of the geographic range of the section Theodora to the "dogbone" pollen type radiating outward to the north, east, and southeast. The pollen grains of D. mollissima represent the intermediate form between the prolate and the "dogbone" type.
41966503|A taxonomic revision of POLYGALA series DECURRENTES is presented, based upon evidence from morphology, chromosome numbers, habitat, and distribution. Seven species, one with two varieties, are recognized. All are native to the southeastern United States. Each species is illustrated with line drawings showing habitat and floral morphology; distribution maps indicate sites of known populations. Selected specimens are cited, representative of the 2,463 examined. POLYGALA BALDUINII var. carteri (Small) Smith & Ward is proposed as a new combination, and POLYGALA smallii Smith & Ward is proposed in place of the illegitimate P. arenicola Small.
23909123|As an outgrowth of the discovery of Petrorhagia prolifera (L.) P. Ball & Heyw. in Michigan, a review is presented of North American material of Petrorhagia (Ser. in DC.) Link, a genus revised by Ball and Heywood (1964). Four species, all introduced from Europe, are ascribed to North America based on field study and an extensive herbarium survey that included European material. The history of introduction (where known), distribution, and current status of each species is presented. Petal vein color is described as an additional character that can be used in distinguishing the three species of the P. prolifera complex. A partial synonymy emphasizing names used in major floristic manuals and additional synonyms not listed by Ball and Heywood (1964) is presented to establish a transition to previous treatments.
23909125|Historically the taxonomic interpretation of three species of PortulacaP. pilosa L., P. mundula I.M. Johnst., P. parvula Gray has been unsettled. The basis for each interpretation has been reevaluated using material representing collections from both the Southeast and the Southwest United States. Morphological characters traditionally used in descriptions and keys, along with an examination of the seed surfaces by scanning electron microscopy, have provided evidence that P. mundula is conspecific with P. pilosa. The interpretation of P. parvula is still uncertain due to lack of study material. Theoretical patterns of the migration of Portulaca are presented.
23909121|Forestiera godfreyi (Oleaceae) is formally described and illustrated. The new species has previously been confused with F. acuminata and F. pubescens; comparions amongst the three are given.
23909315|Sida hermaphrodita (L.) Rusby (Malvaceae) is a perennial herb of riverine habitats in the northeastern and midwestern United States that presently is under consideration for listing as a federally endangered or threatened species. Although the species is rare in most sections of its range, it is locally common in a limited area along the Kanawha and Ohio rivers in West Virginia and Ohio. In contrast to previous reports, evidence is presented that Sida hermaphrodita is indigenous to the Great Lakes drainage. Its distribution and abundance is not limited either by soil type or by low seed viability or germination potential. Gametophytic and sporophytic chromosome numbers are 14 and 28, respectively. Although Sida hermaphrodita is not immediately in danger of extinction, its habitat continues to be severely altered by man, and no populations of this species presently are protected from destruction.
23909317|Fifty-one taxa new to the vascular flora of central Florida, 30 of which are exotics, and 65 nomenclatural or taxonomic changes are reported.
23909310|Leucophyllum and Eremogeton were placed in Leucophylleae series Pseudosolaneae by Bentham and in Verbasceae by Wettstein at the base of Scrophulariaceae. The two genera have been considered somewhat anomalous in Scrophulariaceae because of their woody habits and other features. Recent comparisons have shown similarities with woody Myoporaceae but the woody habit of Leucophyllum appears to be derived: this and comparisons of ovary structure show relationships are clearly with Scrophulariaceae. Data from comparative anatomy and morphology of leaves, stems, flowers, and trichomes, from chromosome number, and from phytgeography suggest recognition of 12 species of Leucophyllum including Faxonanthus as a monotypic subgenus. The species range from Puebla north through arid portions of Mexico into southern Texas. Leucophyllum langmaniae and L. ultramonticola are described as new. Eremogeton, retained as a monotypic genus related to Leucophyllum, is endemic to Central America.
23909316|Six vascular plant taxa are reported as new to the Arkansas flora (Cirsium muticum, Liparis loeselii, Pedicularis lanceolata, Rhynchospora capillacea, Solidago patula var. strictula, Solidago riddellii) and two noteworthy collections (Buchnera floridana, Scleria verticillata) are presented with brief ecological notes.
23909313|Of the six species of Cactaceae described as dioecious, only Opuntia stenopetala Engelm., O. grandis Pfeiffer and O. glaucescens Salm-Dyck are dioecious. Mammillaria dioica K. Brandegee and M. neopalmeri Craig are gynodioecious or possibly trioecious, differing from one population to another. Selenicereus innesii Kimnach is gynodioecious or probably hermaphroditic with sterile, abortive flowers that appear pistillate. Inadequate data and careless word usages have obscured the true sexual condition of the latter three species.
23909312|A taxonomic treatment and illustrations are provided for the three taxa of Leavenworthia and two of Lesquerella in Kentucky, and the distribution of each taxon in Kentucky is shown on a dot distribution map. The ecology and rarity status of each taxon at the state and federal level are discussed. Leavenworthia exigua var. laciniata and Lesquerella globosa currently are under review by the Fish and Wildlife Service for listing as endangered and threatened, respectively.
41961075|Jones, in a study of the fasciculate group of Vernonia, designated the single collection C. Wright 242 as the lectotype for both V. jamesii Torrey & Gray and V. tenuifolia Small. Vernonia jamesii Torrey & Gray is based on the type of V. altissima Nutt.  marginata Torrey and as such is typified by the specimen, Dr. E. P. James "On the Arkansa?," [sic] cited by Torrey. Although Small cited no specimens in his description of V. tenuifolia in 1898, he did annotate the collection Wright 242 (NY), which can serve as the lectotype for that name.
41961073|A synopsis is presented of the seven species of Lobelia section Tylomium (K. Presl) Benth. & Hook, known to occur in Mexico and Central America. A previously undescribed species, Lobelia zelayensis, is described from recent collections made in northeastern Nicaragua. Two species, whose generic placement has been problematic, are herein transferred to Lobelia: L. calochlamys (J. D. Smith) comb. nov. (= Pratia calochlamys (J. D. Smith) F. Wimmer) and L. guatemalensis (B. L. Robinson) comb. nov. (= Pratia guatemalensis (B. L. Robinson) F. Wimmer).
41961070|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the lemma micromorphology of 30 genera and 57 species in the tribe Eragrostideae. Results show four silica deposition patterns: 1) cork cell associated with silica cell; 2) cork cell solitary; 3) cork cell with papillae; 4) cork cell not observed. The presence or absence of epidermal papillae, prickle hairs, micro-and macro-hairs is reported. An electron beam x-ray microanalysis indicated a high silica concentration in all structures examined including the cork cells. The distribution of cork cells and silica bodies has taxonomic significance and two subtribes within the tribe are proposed. Se examin la micromorfologia de la lema de 30 gneros y 57 especies de la tribu Eragrostideae mediante microscopa electrnica de barrido. Los resultados muestran cuatro patrones de deposicin de silice: 1) clula suberfera asociada con clula silicfera; 2) clula suberfera solitaria; 3) clula suberfera con papila; 4) no se observ clula suberfera. Se reporta la presencia o ausencia de papilas epidrmicas, aguijones, micropelos y macropelos. El microanlisis con haz electrnico de Rayos X indic una alta concentracin de silice en todas las estructuras examinadas, incluyendo las clulas suberferas. La distribucin de clulas suberferas y cuerpos de slice tiene significado taxonmico y se proponen dos dentro de la tribu.
41961079|Variational patterns and discontinuities were studied in Cinna (Poaceae). Nearly 4000 herbarium specimens of the genus were examined; four species were recognized on the basis of features of the spikelets. Cinna arundinacea inhabits moist forests in eastern North America; C. latifolia occupies similar sites in circumboreal regions; C. poaeformis occurs in mountainous areas from Mexico to Venezuela and Bolivia; and C. bolanderi is a central montane Californian endemic previously considered conspecific with C. latifolia. Keys, descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps are provided for all species.
41961072|Cheilanthes hintoniorum sp. nov. is described from Nuevo Leon, Mexico, where it is endemic and restricted to habitats of gypsum. Among other species of northern Mexico, it apparently is most similar to the more widespread C. hirsuta. Se describe una nueva especie endmica de helcho, Cheilanthes hintoniorum, de Nuevo Len, Mxico, restringida a los habitats de sustrato gipsio. Dentro de las especies encontradas en el norte del pas, la nueva especie se parece mas a C. hirsuta, un taxn de mbito geografico amplio.
41961068|Calocbortus balsensis, a new species from the Sierra Madre del Sur in Guerrero and Oaxaca, Mxico, is described and illustrated. Its relationships are discussed. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Calochortus balsensis, proveniente de la Sierra Madre del Sur en los estados de Guerrero y Oaxaca, Mxico. Se discuten sus relaciones con otras especies.
41961081|Data obtained from morphological characters and chromosome number indicate that seven species of Sisyrinchium should be recognized for Arkansas: S. albidum Raf., S. angustifolium Mill., S. atlantkum Bickn., S. campestre Bickn., S. langloisii Greene [S. pruinosum Bickn.], S. rosulatum Bickn. [S. exile Bickn.], and S. sagittiferum Bickn. These seven taxa are different from the eight previously recognized by Smith in that S. sagittiferum Bickn. was not listed and S. langloisii Greene and S. pruinosum Bickn., plus S. rosulatum Bickn. and S. exile Bickn., were listed as four distinct species. Distribution maps were produced using herbarium voucher specimens.
41961077|Euphorbia johnstonii, a newly recognized species from northern Tamaulipas, is described and illustrated. It most closely resembles E. acuta, from which it is distinct in its less upright habit, shorter, wider leaves, shorter, appressed vestiture, and geographical distribution. Euphorbia johnstonii is a member of Boissier's subsection Acutae, a group of Euphorbia which are morphologically intermediate between Euphorbia subgenus Agaloma and Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce. Three species considered here to belong to subsect. Acutae are mapped and compared. Se describe e ilustra Euphorbia johnstonii una especie nueva del norte deTamaulipas. Esta especie es semejante a E. acuta, de la cual se distingue por su hbito menos erecto, menor tamao, hojas ms anchas y cortas, indumento adpreso y distribucin geogrfica diferente. Euphorbia johnstonii es miembro de la subseccin Acutae de Boissier, un grupo de Euphorbia morfolgicamente intermedio entre Euphorbia subgnero Agaloma y Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce. Se mapean ycomparan las tres especies consideradas dentro la subseccin Acutae.
41966913|The authors provide a list of 32 additions, significant collections, and reinstatements for the vascular flora of Arkansas, with annotations and citation of voucher specimens.
41966905|Paronychia chartacea ssp. minima (Caryophyllaceae) from the Florida panhandle is formally described. The new subspecies is polygamodioecious and exhibits sexual dimorphism. It is distinguished from P. chartacea ssp. chartacea of peninsular Florida, and a map of their ranges is given.
41966915|Carex baltzellii was discovered for the first time in Mississippi from Marion County. The southwestern range limit of C. picta was extended by its discovery in Marion and Pearl River counties, Mississippi. Carex impressinervia was relocated in Forrest and Marion counties, Mississippi. Habitat information was acquired for each species.
41966909|Two new species, Vitis bloodworthiana and V. jaegeriana, are described and compared to the two most similar species in series Occidentales. Vitis bloodworthiana was found only at high elevations (1820  2360 m) in the Sierra Madre Occidental in the states of Sinaloa and Durango, and V. jaegeriana occurred in similar, high elevations in the Sierra Madre Oriental of San Luis Potosi. Dos especies nuevas, Vitis bloodworthiana y V. jaegeriana, son descritas y comparadas con las dos especies ms similares en la serie Occidentales. Se encontr a Vitis bloodworthiana solamente en altitudes mayores (1820  2359 m) en la Sierra Madre Occidental de los estados de Sinaloa y Durango; asimismo Vitis jaegeriana, ocurri en altitudes mayores, pero en la Sierra Madre Oriental del estado de San Luis, Potos.
41966903|Based on the result of a biosystematic study that employed phenetic analyses of morphological and enzyme electrophoretic data, and fieldwork, six Korean species can be recognized: Hosta yingeri S. B. Jones (Tae-huk-san, So-huk-san, Hong islands); H. capitata (Koidz.) Nakai (southern Korea); H. clausa Nakai (central and northern Korea); H. minor (Baker) Nakai (south and middle-eastern Korea, including Wan and Ko-jae islands); H. taquetii (Lvl. in Fedde) M. Chung & J. Kim comb. nov. (= H. venusta F. Maekawa) (Che-ju Island); and H. jonesii M. Chung (southern islands). Keys, typications, synonomies, descriptions, and distributions are included.
41966916|Chromosome numbers for 13 species of the pantropical or subtropical genus Hybanthus Jacq. (Violaceae) are known, including 9 species from Australia, 4 from North and South America and one from Afroasia. Diploid counts of 2n = 8, 12, 16, 24, 32 and 48 have been published for the various species. The genus appears to have a base chromosome number of x = 4 since polyploidy on such a base will account for all of the numbers reported to date. Dysploids among the various ploidy levels have not been found. In the present paper 5 meiotic counts are presented for four populations of the previously unreported Hybanthus verticillatus (n = 8 and 16 pairs), and one new meiotic count is given for H. attenuatus (n = 12 pairs).
41966896|Eastern North American Vitis, north of Mexico, as circumscribed here consists of two subgenera: Vitis and Muscadinia (Planchon) Rehder. Subgenus Muscadinia consists of a single species with two varieties. Subgenus Vitis is further divided into five series. Series Aestivales and Cinerescentes both consist of a single species, the former with three varieties and the latter with four varieties. Series Cordifoliae, Labruscae and Ripariae each contain three species. Three taxa previously recognized as species are regarded as hybrids: V.  champinii, V.  doaniana, V.  novae-angliae. Keys, descriptions, synonomies and typifications are included.
41966902|The secretions of glandular trichomes of two South American species of Sida are highly toxic to ants and cockroaches. In natural habitat, these secretions most likely provide resistance to herbivory by insect or other small arthropods.
41966891|Recent explorations of the alpine-subalpine floras of northeastern Mexico have revealed several new species o Sedum. The most widespread of these, here described as S. chrysicaulum, approaches most closely S. parvum ssp. nanifolium, but is easily distinguished from the latter by persistent, pale yellow-green, dorsally sulcate leaves, petals 5.0  7.5 mm long, and a preference for habitats above timberline. Exploraciones recientes de las floras alpinas en el nordeste de Mxico han dado luz a varias especies nuevas de Sedum. La especie mas ampliamente distribuida, S. chrysicaulum, aqu descrita, asemeja a S. parvum ssp. nanifolium, con la cual se distingue por hojas persistentes, verde-amarillentas plidas, sulcadas en la superficie adaxial, ptalos 5.0  7.5 mm de largo, y por prefencia de habitats arriba de los lmites arboreos.
41966904|Guidelines for structure, spelling, use, and application of common names for vascular plants are presented.
41966900|Conradina etonia, a new species of shrubby mint endemic to northern peninsular Florida is diagnosed, described, and figured. Differences between it and its closest morphological relative, C. grandiflora Small, are detailed. Attention is given to the fact that C. etonia is a narrow endemic, that it is on land being developed presently for residential use, and that it therefore should receive a high conservation priority.
41966898|The introduction and spread of Sclerochloa dura (Poaceae) in the United States are traced. Included is a detailed description of the species.
41966907|Specimens examined in 14 herbaria indicate that there are 30 native and naturalized species of Convolvulaceae in the state of Arizona. Types and select specimens are cited. Notes are given on county distributions, habitats, altitudes, and flowering dates. Comments are made on taxonomic problems, abundance and natural history of selected taxa. A lectotype for Ipomoea heterophylla Ortega is selected. Una revisin de las muestras de 14 herbarios indica que existen 30 especies nativas y naturalizadas para el estado de Arizona. Se citan los tipos y los ejemplares estudiados. Se nota la distribucion por los condades, el habitato, la distribucion altitudinal, y las fechas de floracion. Se commenta sobre los problemas taxonmicos, la historia natural, y la abundancia de los taxa. Se selecciona un lectotipo para Ipomoea heterophylla Ortega.
41966893|A single plant found west of Zacatepec, Puebla, Mexico, is recognized as a hybrid between members of two x = 6 genera of Astereae based on intermediacy of characters and reduced fertility. The plant is regarded as Xanthocephalum humile (Kunth) Benth.  Isocoma (Haplopappus) veneta (Kunth) E. Greene. The existence of this and two other natural hybrids of similar origin supports the hypothesis that the genera of Astereae having x = 6 are more closely related to one another than any is to genera having other base chromosome numbers, but should not be interpreted as evidence for uniting the genera. Una planta encontrada al oeste de Zacatepec, Puebla, Mxico ha sido reconocida como un hbrido entre dos x = 6 gneros de Astereae basado en fertilidad reducida y caracteres intermedios. La planta es considerada Xanthocephalum humile (Kunth) Benth.  Isocoma (Haplopappus) veneta (Kunth) E. Greene. La existencia de ste y otros dos hbridos de origen natural sostiene la hipotesis de que los gneros de Astereae que tienen x = 6 estn ms cercanamente relacionados unos a otros que cualquiera de stos con otros gneros con diferentes nmeros cromosomicos base, no obstante sto no debe ser interpretado como evidencia para unir los gneros.
41966895|Five distinct morphological groups were identified in a cultivated guayule stand at the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station Guayule Research Site near Fort Stockton, Texas. These groups were delineated according to growth habit, and leaf and inflorescence morphology. Mean rubber content was higher in Groups II, III, and V, which possessed more typical Parthenium argentatum morphological characters than in Groups I and IV. The latter groups are apparently products of the natural hybridization between guayule and mariola. Selection for superior rubber-yielding shrubs should be concentrated in Groups II, III, and V. Cinco diferentes grupos morflogicos fueron identificados en un puesto de guayule cultivado en la Estacion del Estudio de Guayule de la Estacio Experimental de Agricultura de Texas. Estos grupos fueron delineados de acuerdo con lo alto y el dimetro del palio, caractersticas de la hoja, y la morfologa del pedunclo. El alto contenido de hule ocurri en los Grupos II, III, y V los cuales poseen el tpico Parthenium argentatum de caractres morfologicos. Los Grupos I y IV, productos de la hybridacin natural entre el guayule y la mariola, producieron menos hule. La seleccin de arbustos que produscan hule superior deber concentrarse en Grupos II, III, y V.
41966901|The rediscovery of the rare Fryxellia pygmaea (Correll) Bates in central Coahuila is reported, and its ecology and taxonomic affinities are discussed. The plant has a chromosome count of 2n = 16. Se reporta el redescubrimiento de una poblacin de la infrecuente Fryxellia pygmaea (Correll) Bates de la parte central de Coahuila, y se discute su ecologa y sus afinidades taxonmicas. El nmero cromosmico de la planta es 2n = 16.
41966899|Seeds of 58 species of Clematis and Clematopsis were obtained from a variety of sources, germinated, and their seedling and juvenile morphology observed. Two very distinctive patterns emerged, each consisting of a cluster of characters. In Type I seedlings, the eophylls are alternate and toothed. Hypocotyls are elongate (except in Clematopsis), elevating the cotyledons and apical bud above ground, and buds are lacking in the axils of the cotyledons. Such seedlings are similar to those found in related genera such as Anemone, and are found in Clematis in the infrageneric taxa Clematis, Lasiantha, Connatae, Tubulosae, Atragene, Meclatis, Cheiropsis, Bebaeanthera, Naraveliopsis, Papuasicae, and in the genus Clematopsis. In Type II seedlings, leaves are paired from the beginning, but the first 1  3 pairs are usually reduced to cataphylls. Leaves are generally entire, often becoming lobed or divided, but not toothed. Hypocotyls are short, keeping the cotyledon bases and the epicotyl at first subterranean. Buds are typically present in the axils of the cotyledons. Such seedlings are found in the infrageneric taxa Crispae, Viticella, Patentes, Rectae, and Angustifoliae. These differences in seedling morphology and some correlated characters suggest a fundamental split in the genus and a basis for a revised infrageneric classification. Semillas de 58 especie de Clematis y Clematopsis fueren obtenido de orgenes diversos, se germin, y sus morfoliga juvenil se observi. Dos modelos distintos se manifestaron, cada uno consite en un grupo de varios caracteres. En las plantas de semilleros del Tipo Uno los eofilos son alternos y dentados. Los hipocotilos son alargados (con exclusin de Clematopsis), y elevan los cotiledones y la yema cimera sobre la tierra. Yemas son ausente de las axilas do los cotiledones. Plantas de seimlleros de este tipo son semejante a aquellas hallado en gneros relatados como Anemone. Se encuentran en las taxa infragenricas Clematis, Lasiantha, Connatae, Tubulosae, Atragene, Meclatis, Cheiropsis, Bebaeantehra, Naraveliopsis, Papuasicae, de Clematis y en el gnero Clematopsis. En plantas de semilleros del Tipo II, todas hojas son opuestas, per las parea 1  3 son usualmente reduciendo a catfilos. Las hojas son usualmente enteras, frecuentemente lobados pero no dentados. Hipocotilos son corto, y las bases de los cotiledones y la yema cimera se quedan subterrneo. Yemas se encuentran en las axilas de los cotiledones. Plantas de semilleros de este tipo se hallan en las taxa infragerricas Crispae, Viticella, Patentes, Rectae, y Angustifoliae. Estas differencias morfolgicas de las plantas de semilleros y algunes caracteres correlativos sugeron una divisin fundamental in el gnero y un fundamento para revisar la clasificacin infragenrica.
41966910|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Anthemis arvensis, Artemisia vulgaris, Carex leavenworthii, Cerastium semidecandrum, Cicuta maculata, Cladium mariscoides, Curcuma zedoaria, Hedyotis purpurea, Paspalum minus, Ranunculus marginatus, and Silene virginica. Some additions to the Florida panhandle are documented here also, and several significant range extensions, particularly for rare or endangered taxa within our area, are given.
41966911|Field work in southeastern Missouri during 1989 and 1990 has resulted in a number of noteworthy Cyperus records. Cyperus grayioides and Cyperus retroflexus are reported new to Missouri. Also, additional records of Cyperus croceus and Cyperus  mesochorus and two previously unknown Cyperus hybrids are reported.
41966746|Ratibida coahuilensis B. Turner fron north central Mxico is described as new. It is related to R. latipalearis Fisher of western Chihuahua, but can be distinguished by a number of features, including leaf partition, shape and size of segments, vestiture and achenal characters. An illustration is provided.
41966749|Cimicifuga is frequently confused with Actaea, Aruncus, and Astilbe, when only vegetative structures are present. A chart is presented comparing and contrasting the subtle morphological features existing between these four genera, Thalictrum, Caulophylum, and Trautvetteria are also sometimes misidentified as Cimicifuga. Photographs of the leaf or most terminal leaflets from herbarium speciments of all seven genera accompany the discussion and illustrate their diagnostic vegetative differences. A simple key is offered as a tool for the possible field identification of vegetative specimens.
41966754|Eupatorium yashanalense sp. nov. from Chiapas, Mexico differs from E. conzatti and E. lozanoanum in its terete stems, ovate leaves, spirally inserted phyllaries and glabrous achenes; E. parviflorum var. monticola var. nov. from Blue Mountain Peak, Jamaica, differs from var. parviflorum in its smaller narrower leaves and its small condensed inflorescences.
41966752|Examination of the holotype of Carex boelckeiana suggests that this Patagonian species belongs in Carex sect. Junciformes rather than in sect. Inflatae, where it was originally placed. It is then more closely related (i.e., morphologically similar) to carices from southern South America than to C. breweri and C. engelmannii from western North America, as was previously suggested.
41966757|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Aristida tuberculosa, Bumelia thornei (an endangered species), Chaerophyllum procumbens, Centaurea maculosa, Desmodium nuttallii, Dodocatheon meadia, Phyla lanceolata, Polygonum bicorne, Rhus aromatica, and Sporobolus vaginiflorus . A few adventive and naturalized species are also listed that could be considered new to the state. Also, 28 additions to the flora of the Florida panhandle are documented here, and several significant range extensions within the area are given.
41966743|A key and summary of typification are provided for the six Mexican species of Omphalodes, including the new species O. richardsonii Nesom from the Gmez Faras region of Tamaulipas, Mxico. All are from Mxico and are the only taxa of Omphalodes native to North America. The locality of the new speices reinforces the observation that northeastern Mxico is a secondary center of diversity for this primarily Eurasian genus.
41966740|Senecio mahindae Nesom & Vorobik is described from the Sierra de San Carlos in Tamaulipas, Mxico. It is most closely related to S. platypus Greenman but differs from it most prominently in its strongly rhizomatous habit, shorter and nearly scapose stems, and lyrate leaves.
41966744|Glandularia brachyrhynchos is described from the Sierra de San Carlos in north central Tamaulipas, Mxico. It has a strongly inflated nutlet and other characters of G. tumidula (Perry) Umber that imply that the two are sister species. The new species differs most prominently from its close relative in having non-glandular stems and leaves, shorter, stiffer stem pubescence, and an extremely abbreviated calyx "beak."
41966756|Forty-one taxa new to the vascular flora of central Florida are reported, 19 of which are exotics and nine reported for the first time for the state. Twenty nomenclatural or taxonomic changes are also included.
41966747|Two new species belonging to the genus Verbesina sect. Platypteris, V. vallartana and V. lottiana, are described from Jalisco, Mxico. According to characters of the involucre, the former is presumably related to V. fraseri, the latter to V. crocata. Illustrations of the new taxa are provided.
41966758|The following 44 species of monocots are reported as new or otherwise noteworthy in south Alabama: Amphkarpum muhlenbergianum, Bothriochloa ischaemum var. songarica, Bulbostylis warei, Carex cherokeensis, C. elliottii, Catapodium rigidum, Chamaelirium luteum, Corallorhiza wisteriana, Cyperus oxylepis, Eleocharis robbinsii, Eragrostis amabilis, E. lugens, E. minor, Eustachys glauca, Fimbristylis schoenoides, F. vahlii, Halodule ivrightii, Heteranthera reniformis, Ipheion uniflorum, Juncus abortivus, Koeleria gerardii, Leptochloa fascicularis, L. panicoides, Lilium iridollae, Limnobium spongia, Limnodea arkansana, Luziola bahiensis, Manisuris tessellata, Nothoscordum inodorum, Panicum nudicaule, Parapholis incurva, Paspalum conjugatum, Peltandra saggitifolia, Phalaris angusta, Pleea tenuifolia, Potamogeton robbinsii, Sagittaria platyphylla, Scirpus cubensis, Setaria corrugata, S. faberii, Spartina spartineae, Tradescantia fluminensis, T. subaspera, and Triglochin striata.
41966751|Vaccinium margarettae Ashe is lectotypified and proposed as a hybrid pro species.
41966742|Villadia jimulcensis Nesom, sp. nov., appears to be a narrow endemic from the Sierra de Jimulco in southwestern Coahuila. It is similar to V. cucullata Rose of northeastern Mxico but differs from it in having a more open inflorescence with flowers in axillary clusters, smaller sepals and petals, and petals with a rounded, non-hooded, non-apiculate apex. Sedum tamaulipense Nesom, sp. nov., is known from the Sierra de San Carlos in north-central Tamaulipas. It is most similar to S. reptans R. Clausen but differs in its smaller leaves, smaller flowers, triangular petals without a subapical apiculus, and transparent carpels connate in their basal 1/2  3/5 and with "cellular" walls.
41966748|A revision of Verbesina section Platypteris is presented. Five species are recognized in the section: V. crocata, V. vallartana, V. lottiana, V. fraseri and V. ovatifolia. A distribution map and one figure are provided.
41966769|Plant names published in Engelmann's 1848 Letter to Emory are provisional and therefore not valid. These include O. californica, O. microcarpa, O. stanlyi, and O. violcea. Of these, only O. californica was never validated. The remainder were validated by Jackson in Index Kewensis in 1895. The first two names cannot be applied with certainty from the drawings and diagnoses. The last two are predated by O. emoryi Engelm. and O. macrocentra Engelm. respectively; in neither species do we recognize varieties. Other changes are O. aureispina (Brack & Heil) Pinkava & Parfitt, comb, et stat. nov. and O.  spinosibacca Anthony, pro sp., the latter a hybrid between putative parents, O. aureispina and O. phaeacantha Engelm.
41966775|After demonstrating that the binomial Gentiana alba Muhl. was not originally validly published, it is concluded that the correct name for this distinctive species is Gentiana flavida A. Gray.
41966780|A taxonomic study of generic concepts and evaluation of characters is presented for the Paniceae of Mesoamerica. An original set of data, consisting of 305 characters recorded for 37 genera, were collected and analyzed to produce English and Spanish bracketed keys to the recognized genera. An appropriate subset of characters was selected for inclusin in a Spanish synoptic key. These characters are also presented in a set of comparative English descriptions for the genera not occurring in North Amrica. Diagnostic characters essential for identification are highlighted within each description. Remarks on the morphology and relationships of each genus are also given. Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de evaluacin de caracteres y conceptos a nivel gnero para las Paniceae de Mesoamrica. Un conjunto particular de datos, consistente en 305 caracteres se registr para 37 gneros, stos fueron reunidos y analizados para producir claves dicotmicas en ingls y espaol para los gneros reconocidos. Un subconjunto adecuado de caracteres fue seleccionado para elaborar una clave sinptica en espaol. Estos caracteres estn tambin presentados en un grupo de descripciones comparativas en ingls para los gneros que no se distribuyen en Norteamrica. Caracteres diagnsticos escenciales para la identificaci"n estn resaltados en cada descripci"n. Observaciones sobre la morfologa y relaciones de cada gnero son tambin presentados.
41966782|Chromosome numbers are presented for 104 populations of tracheophytes representing 78 species in 21 families. First reports include Isoetes butleri Engelm., 2n = 22; Penstemon eatonii A. Gray subsp. undosus (M. E. Jones) Keck, n  8; P. linarioides A. Gray subsp. linarioides, n = 8; and P. wrightii Hook., n = 8.
41966773|Selected significant records from a study of the Caryophyllaceae for the Vascular Flora of the Southeastern United States are presented. Gypsophila oldhamiana Miq. is reported as new to the flora of North America.
41966770|A new species, Picea martinezii T. E. Patterson, is described from Nuevo Len, Mxico, It is a low elevation, large-cone spruce most similar to Picea chihuahuana Martnez.
41966778|Mississippi was surveyed for the presence of Carex exilis. The species was detected in the six southernmost counties. The floristic associates, habitat characteristics, and distribution are provided for C. exilis in Mississippi.
41966781|An annotated list of 70 noteworthy dicots of Mobile and Baldwin counties, Alabama is presented. Fifty-four taxa are thought to represent new county records and the following three species may represent first reports for the state: Crotalaria pallida, Indigofera hirsuta, and Mikania cordifolia.
41966779|A floristic study of Grenada County, Mississippi, in 1986 and 1987, documented 996 species of vascular plants. Of these, four taxa are new records for the state: Equisetum arvense L., Dryopteris X australis (Wherry) Small, Cyperus lancastriensis Porter, and Angelica atropurprea L. In addition, species that represent significant range extensions and species considered rare or threatened in Mississippi are reported from Grenada County.
41966774|A recent collection of Robinsonella glabrifolia extends the range of the species from southern Mxico to Guatemala, permits an amplification of the description to include flowers and fruits (previously unknown), and clarifies our understanding of inflorescence structure in the genus, and consequently of sectional subdivision of the genus. On the basis of this improved understanding, section Mirandella is reduced to synonymy with section Robinsonella. Section Grayella is retained as distinct.
41966771|The range of Calamovilfa curtissii (Gramineae) in the Florida panhandle has been rediscovered and expanded. Observations on habitat, soils, associated species, and flowering response to fire are reported.
41966776|Azalea rosea Loisel. is lectotypified from heterogeneous elements and restored as basionym of Rhododendron roseum (Loisel.) Render. A new combination for the glandular forma of R. periclymenoides (Michx.) Shinners is proposed.
41966772|The taxonomy of two gypsum endemics, Heterotoma pringlei and Lobelia margarita, is discussed and their relationship clarified. Heterotoma pringlei is transferred to Lobelia, "series Angustifolia" requiring a new name, for which L. gypsophila is proposed. A key, descriptions, distributions, and illustrations are provided for both species.
41966843|Varying chromosome counts of Cercis canadensis L. have been reported in the literature, i.e., n = 6 and n = 7. Squash preparations of pollen parent cells from native trees in southwestern Ohio confirm the count of n = 7. However, past segmental interchanges between nonhomologues are the assumed cause of occasional structural connections observed between two or more bivalents during meiosis. The viewing of such connected chromosomes, perhaps superficially appearing as a unit structure, might result in an erroneous count, such as n = 6.
41966849|Authors report discovery of a wild population of Sabal mexicana Mart, in the Central Coast (Coastal Bend) region of Texas, present evidence that the species is indigenous to that region, and discuss conservation prospects. Los autores relatan el descubrimiento de una poblacin salvaje de Sabal mexicana Mart, en el litoral central de Texas, presentan evidencia de que esta regin es parte de la distribucin nativa de la especie, y discuten las perspectivas de su conservacin.
41966851|Five species of Carex section Lupulinae occur in Texas; C. lupulina, C. lupuliformis, C. louisianica, C. intumescens and C. gigantea. Carex lupulina is the most common and widespread of the five. Carex lupuliformis, which is rare, grows mostly in calcareous sites in swampy woodlands. It has been recorded only in the northeast corner of the state in Bowie and Marion counties. Carex louisianica occurs infrequently in the eastern 1/3 of Texas growing in acidic soils of swampy woods or bottomland hardwood forests. Carex intumescens is widespread across the distributional range of section Lupulinae in Texas but is infrequent within its diminishing habitat of acidic bottomland hardwood forests. In Texas, C. gigantea is the rarest member of the section having not been collected for 46 years. The only two collections were made in Harris and Polk counties in acidic swampy woodlands. An artificial dichotomous key, county distribution maps and comparable species descriptions are provided.
41966844|A new species of Crataegus L. (Rosaceae), C. secreta Phipps, is described from westcentral Texas in the drier, northwestern parts of the Edwards Plateau. It is now known from at least a five-county area. The new species is compared with candidates in series Virides and Molles and easily excluded from these series. Its probable affiliation is series Tenuifoliae, but this awaits further study.
41966854|The Weches Geologic Formation, which was formed during the Eocene Epoch, supports a herbaceous flora in a region where forest is the general climax vegetation. Soils are shallow and basic in contrast to the deeper acid soils of eastern Texas and the sites are usually waterlogged during spring. Species with the highest importance values in the Weches plant communities are Sedum pulchellum, Satureja arkansana, Sporobolus vaginiflorus, Arenaria patula, Valerianella spp. and Tri folium dubium. Lesquerella pallida and Leavenworthia texana are endemic to these outcrops. Disjunct species include Calylophus drummondianus, Liatris mucronata, Paronychia virginica and Petalostemon pulcherrimum. Species richness ranged from 49 to 81 species for the sites studied, while species diversity ranged from 3.23 to 4.56. Although the Weches sites contained many species in common with cedar glade plant communities in the southeastern United States, overall similarity was generally low. La formacin geolgica del Weches, formada durante la poca Eocena, sostiene una flora herbcea en una regin donde el bosque es el climax vegetal. Los terrenos son poco profundos y bsicos en contraste con los terrenos ms profundos y cidos del Este de Tejas; los sitios por lo general estn anegados durante la primavera. Las especies ms valiosas e importantes en las comnidades de plantas del Weches son Sedum pulchellum, Satureja arkan sana, Sporobolus vaginiflorus, Arenaria patula, Valerianella spp. y Trifolium dubium. Lesquerella pallida y Leavenworthia texana son endmicas al Weches. Las especies dislocadas incluyen Calylophus drummondianus, Liatris mucronata, Paronychia virginica y Petalos temon pulcher rimum. La riqueza en especies vari de 49 a 81 especies en los sitios estudiados, mientras la diversidad de especies vari de 3.23 a 4.56. Aunque los sitios del Weches contienen muchas especies en comn con la comunidad de cedros en la regin sudeste de los Estados Unidos, la semejanza en general no es muy grande.
41966845|A floristic list of angiosperms found above or in association with timberline vegetation in northeastern Mxico is presented. The flora doubles the number of alpine-subalpine species previously reported for the region, and extends the known distribution of this vegetation type. Included are 170 species, representing 119 genera and 46 families. Se presenta un listado floristico de angiospermas que existen en los limites arboreos de zonas altas en el nordeste de Mxico. Se reconoce el doble del numero de elementos alpinosubalpinos reportados para la region en trabajos anteriores, y se extiende la distribucion conocida de este tipo de vegetacin. Se reconocen 170 especies, 119 generos y 46 familias.
41966853|The 27 species of Ericameria sensu stricto occur primarily in the western United States and northwestern Mexico. Eight species traditionally associated with Ericameria are primarily endemics of the Chihuahuan Desert region and comprise a well-defined natural group separated from the others. Although the last are superficially similar to Ericameria in habit and morphology of the leaves and capitulescence, they are strongly divergent in other aspects, particularly their zygomorphic (vs. regular) disc corollas with long (vs. short) lobes and phyllaries with an apical glandular patch but without a prominent midline (vs. no apical patch but a resinous midline). Studies of patterns of restriction site variation in chloroplast DNA corroborate the observations that these two groups are widely divergent phylogenetically and place Ericameria sensu stricto nearest Chrysotbamnus and the Chihuahuan species closest to Euthamia. The latter species are segregated as a new genus, Xylo thamia Nesom, Suh, Morgan, & Simpson, and the following new combinations are proposed: X. diffusa (Benth.) Nesom, X. palmeri (A. Gray) Nesom, X. parrasana(S. F. Blake) Nesom, X. pseudobaccharis (S. E. Blake) Nesom, X. purpusii (Brandegee) Nesom, X. riskindii (B. Turner & Langford) Nesom, and X. triantha(S. E Blake) Nesom. One new species is described: X. johnstonii Nesom. A key to the species is provided, as well as a summary of typification, morphological description, and distribution map for each one. Las 27 especies de Ericameria sensu stricto se encuentran distribuidas principalmente en el oeste de los Estados Unido y el noroeste de Mexico. Ocho especies que anteriormente han sido incluidas en Ericameria comprenden un grupo natural bien definido y separado de las dems especies, y son principalmente especies endmicas del desierto Chihuahuense. Aunque estas ocho especies son semejantes a Ericameria en cuanto al hbito y la morfologa de las hojas y la capitulescencias, se destacan fuertemente en otros aspectos, especialmente en cuanto a las corolas zigomrficas (vs. actinomrficas) con lbulos largos (vs. cortos) de las flores del disco, y los filarios con una mancha apical glandulosa pero sin una linea medial prominente (vs. sin mancha apical pero con linea medial resinosa promiente). Los estudios de los patrones de variacin de los sitios de restriccin del ADN de los cloroplastos apoyan a las observaciones que estos dos grupos son fuertemente divergentes filogeneticamente e indican que Ericameria sensu stricto es mas semejante a Chrysothamnus mientras que las ocho especies del desierto Chihuahense se asemejan mas a Euthamia. Estas ltimas especies se incluyen en el gnero nuevo Xylothamia Nesom, Suh, Morgan, and Simpson, con las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: X. diffusa (Benth.) Nesom, X. palmeri (A. Gray) Nesom, X. parrasana(S.  Blake) Nesom, X. pseudobaccharis (S. F. Blake) Nesom, X. purpusii (Brandegee) Nesom, X. riskindii (B. Turner & Langford) Nesom, and X. triantha (S.  Blake) Nesom. Una especie nueva se describe: X. johnstonii Nesom. Se incluyen una clave para la identificacin de las especies, asi como un resumen de la tipificacin, una descripcin morfolgica, y un mapa de la distribucin para cada una.
41966848|Cyperus entrerianus Bckeler, an apparently recent introduction from South America or Mexico, is reported in temperate North America. It is presently known from 20 sites in five states in southeastern United States. Its distribution and ecology are discussed, and differences between it and closely related Cyperus luzulae (L.) Retz. are detailed. A key is given to distinguish Cyperus entrerianus from other members of section Luzuloidei, which occur in North America. Cyperus entrerianus Bckeler es registrada para la zona templada de America del Norte; esta especie aparentemente es de reciente introduccion de Mexico o America del Sur. Esta expecie se conoce actualmente de 20 localidades en cinco estados en el sureste de los Estados Unidos. Se discute aqui su distribucion y ecologia y se detallan las diferencias entre esta y la especie mas afin Cyperus luzulae (L.) Retz. Se incluye una clave taxonomica para distinguir Cyperus entrerianus de los otros miembros de la seccion Luzuloidei, que ocurren en America del Norte.
41966842|The only yellow-flowered Viola known to exist in the Guadalupe Mountains, Texas, is described as V. guadalupensis. The rock-dwelling new species is known from a single, small limestone formation on the East Rim of the mountains, and is an immediate candidate for endangered status. The new species is related to V. vallicola and V. nuttallii of northern New Mxico and western United States, and is also similar to V. painteri of northern Mxico. La nica Viola con flores amarillas en las montaas Guadalupes, Texas, se describe como V. guadalupensis. La especie, que vive (existe) entre las piedras, se reconoce de una sola, pequea formacin de piedra caliza en la Orilla al Este de las montaas, y es candidata imediate para estado o posicin de peligro. La nueve especie esta relacionada a V. vallicola y V. nuttallii del norte de nuevo Mxico y el oeste de los Estados Unidos, y es tambin semejante a V. painteri del norte de Mxico.
41966847|The Clematis virginiana complex of eastern North America consists of two closely related and often confused species. The morphological, phenological, ecological and geographical characterization of these two species is clarified here, accompanied by notes on typification, nomenclature and synonymy. Clematis catesbyana Pursh is distinguished from the more widespread C. virginiana L. on the basis of leaves 5-foliolate to biternate as opposed to 3-foliolate, and carpels 18  35 as opposed to 40  60. Clematis catesbyana also flowers earlier in the season than C. virginiana and occupies drier habitats. Clematis catesbyana is restricted to several disjunct regions of the southeastern United States, while C. virginiana is widespread throughout eastern North America.
41966871|No type specimen was designated with the 1903 publication of Laciniaria cartnata Small (= Liatris carinata [Small] Coker). The lectotypification of this name became necessary in order to evaluate its suitability of application to the sandhills blazing-star, which has passed in recent treatments of the genus as part of Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann. Of four specimens obtained from NY which were annotated by Small as La. carinata, the one which best fits Small's initial 1903 description is a collection which is actually material compatible with Liatris secunda Elliott. This choice of a lectotype is made in accordance with the principle that the lectotype chosen should be the specimen which is most compatible with the authors description. This choice makes Liatris carinata a synonym for Liatris secunda, and necessitates the naming and description of the sandhills blazing-star as a species novum, Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky. En la publicacin de la descripcin de Laciniaria carinata Small (= Liatris carinata [Small] Coker) en 1903 no fue designado ningn espcimen de tipo. Fue necesaria la lectotipificacin de esta denominacin para determinar si era adecuado aplicarla al "sandhills blazing-star" (estrella resplandeciente de las colinas arenosas). En los tratos recientes de este genus esta planta se ha considerado como parte de Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann. De los cuatro especmenes recibidos del Herbario de Nueva York, que Small anot como La. carinata, el que mejor corresponde a la descripcin inicial de Small, en 1903, es una colecta que en realidad es compatible con Liatris secunda Elliott. La eleccin del presente lectotipo se hace de acuerdo con el principio de que el lectotipo elegido debe ser el espcimen que mejor corresponde a la descripcin hecha por el autor. Esta eleccin hace que Liatris carinata sea un sinnimo de Liatris secunda, y hace necesaria la descripcin y denominacin de la sandhills blazing-star como una species novum, Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky.
41966883|The species listed in the Annotated Checklist of the Vascular Plants of Collier, Dade, and Monroe counties, Florida (1965) as occurring in the three southernmost counties of Florida have been compared with those species included in A Flora of Tropical Florida (1971, 1976) and with the known flora of the area. Corrections are made by deletion of 62 species and six families reported to occur in South Florida, restoration of 18 species and one family once reported but later omitted, and assignment of 23 names that should have been included in synonymy in the later publication.
41966881|Quercus shumardii Buckl. var. acerifolia Palmer is elevated to species Q. acerifolia. It is restricted to the north-facing bluffs of Magazine Mountain, Logan County, Arkansas. A comparison of certain morphological features with Q. shumardii sensu lato is made.
41966864|Acourtia ovatifolia, a new species from Guerrero and Oaxaca, Mxico, is described and illustrated. This species is similar in some characters to A. lozanii. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Acourtia ovatifolia, colectada en Guerrero y Oaxaca, Mxico. Esta especie es similar a A. lozanii en algunos caracteres.
41966875|A new species, Gentianella canosoi, is described and illustrated from Durango, Mexico, where it is known from several collections.
41966880|Our understanding of the morphological variability of Agarista boliviensis is significantly expanded by an examination of a population in the Sierra de Zapla in the Province of Jujuy in extreme northwestern Argentina. The Sierra de Zapla plants may be distinguished from Bolivian populations of A. boliviensis by several features relating to the indumentum of stems and leaves, petiole and inflorescence lengths, and leaf margins. The taxonomic status of this population is discussed and a revised description for the species is provided. The pattern of variation o Agarista boliviensis is similar to that of the closely related A. eucalyptoides. The species also is compared with A. paraguayensis, the only other species of Agarista occurring in Argentina.
41966870|Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann has been regarded as a species widely distributed in the western Piedmont and adjacent provinces of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. Principal components analyses (PCA) show that the holotype and an isotype of L. regimontis from the western Piedmont of NC are close morphological approximates of the holotype of L. graminifolia var. smallii (Britton) Fern. & Griscom from the mountains of VA and that the two types of the former species fall well within the range of morphological variability described by a sample of the latter variety. It is concluded that L. graminifolia var. smallii and the types of L. regimontis represent the same taxon. PCA and cluster analyses show that specimens from the Fall-line sandhills of North and South Carolina previously determined by other investigators as L. regimontis are morphologically discontinuous with material from other portions of the species range, including the holotype and isotype, and with collections of L. graminifolia var. smallii. This distinct sandhills plant is here described as a new species, Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky. In a geographical zone in the Coastal Plain of the Carolinas, where the ranges of L. cokeri and L. graminifolia become contiguous, specimens that are morphologically intermediate between the two species have been collected. Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann ha sido considerada una especie ampliamente distribuida en la parte occidental del Piedmont y en provincias prximas de los estados de Virginia, Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur, y Georgia. Los anlisis de componentes principales (PCA) muestran que el holotipo y un isotipo de L. regimontis de la parte occidental del Piedmont en Carolina del Norte son prximas en morfologa al holotipo de L. graminifolia var. smallii (Britt.) Fern. & Griscom de las montaas de Virginia, y que los dos tipos de la primera especie se hallan dentre del rango de variabilidad morfolgica circumscrita por un muestro de la seguna variedad. Se concluye que L. graminifolia var. smallii y los tipos de L. regimontis representan el mismo taxon. PCA y anlisis de grupos ("cluster analysis") muestran que especmenes del area Fall-line sandhills en Carolina del Norte y del Sur, anteriormente identificados como L. regimontis por otros investigatores, son morfolgicamente discontinuos con colectas de otras areas de la distribucin de la especie, incluyendo el holotipo e isotipo, y con colectas de L. graminifolia var. smallii. Esta planta distinta de las colinas arenosas se describe aqu como una especie nueva, Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky. En una zona geografica donde la distribucin de L. cokeri y de L. graminifolia son contguas, especmenes que son morfolgicamente intermedios entre las dos especies han sido colectados.
41966874|A new species of Ibervillea is described from western Mexico. Ibervillea maxima is most closely related to I. hypoleuca (Standl.) C. Jeffrey, but has a more robust stature and larger fruit.
41966867|The Plumbaginaceae is represented in the native southeastern flora by Limonium carolinianum, Limonium limbatum, and Plumbago scandens. Plumbago auriculata is widely cultivated and has become naturalized. This paper describes, illustrates, and maps these species in the southeastern flora. Las Plumbaginceas estan representadas en la flora nativa del sureste por Limonium carolinianum, Limonium limbatum, y Plumbago scandens. Plumbago auriculata es cultivado ampliamente y se ha naturalizado. En este papel se describen, ilustran, y presentan mapas de distribucin para estas cuatro especies para la flora del sureste.
41966882|Specimens examined in 14 herbaria resulted in the identification of 25 species of Convolvulaceae for the state of New Mexico. The list includes three species not recorded in the recent state flora, and makes nomenclatural changes in five others to bring them in accord with current literature. A lectotype is chosen for I. mexicana. Un revision de las muestras de catorce herbarios ha resultado en la identificacion de veinticinco especies de Convolvulaceas para el estado de New Mexico. La lista incluye tres especies nuevemente reportados en el estado, y se realiza cambios de nomenclatura en cinco de las otras para ponerlas en acuerdo con la literatura moderna. Se selecciona un lectotipo para Ipomoea mexicana.
41966877|Paxistima Raf. (Celastraceae), a North American genus of shrubs and subshrubs, has a confusing nomenclatural history. The genus name has four spellings in the literature. Although the name of the eastern species, P. canbyi Gray, is unequivocal, two specific epithets have been in use for the western species. In 1943, Wheeler concluded that Paxistima was the correct spelling of the genus, and that myrtifolia was the correct epithet for the western species. Wheeler combined several taxa into Paxistima myrtifolia (Nutt.) Wheeler, and indicated the possible existence of an uninvestigated (Mexican) taxon. After our review of the literature, the name of the western species is determined to be P. myrsinites (Pursh) Raf. Based on our numerical phenetic analyses, two species of Paxistima, P. canbyi and P. myrsinites, are recognized. We have clarified the holotypification of P. canbyi, and have selected a lectotype for P. myrsinites. A new subspecies, Paxistima myrsinites subsp. mexicana Navaro and Blackwell, is described herein.
41966873|In Sida L., the leaves are simple having serrate margins, except S. schimperiana, where the leaves have entire margins. The venation type is pinnate or actinodromous. The leaf shape, apex, base, number of areoles and the vein endings entering the areoles vary from species to species. The highest degree of vein order is resolved up to fifth degree. Vein endings exhibit brachytracheoids as well as tracheoids-in-aggregates.
41966879|The morphologic similarity of Aristida ternipes and A. hamulosa was assessed. All 29 measured variables exhibited considerable overlap in their ranges, and only eight of the 29 had correlations greater than 0.50. Multivariate (principle component and discriminant) analyses revealed a lack of phenetic patterning; only awn lengths distinguished the taxa. The two entities are recognized at the varietal level. The nomenclatural combination A. ternipes var. hamulosa (Henrard) Trent is made. Se evalus la similitud morfolsgica entre Aristida ternipes y A. hamulosa. Las 29 variables medidas mostraron considerable superposicisn, y solamente ocho de ellos dieron correlaciones mayores que 0.50. Un analisis multivariada reveis una carencia de patrones feniticos; unicamente la longitud de las aristas sirvis para distinguir los taxa. Las dos entidades son reconocidas a nivel variedad. Se propone la combinacisn A. ternipes var. hamulosa (Henrard) Trent.
41966865|Twelve species are recognized in a taxonomic revision of Digitaria section Aequiglumae. The DELTA computer system was used in the collection, analysis, and presentation of taxonomic data. A comprehensive set of data was gathered from herbarium specimens and analyzed in order to produce a description of the section, key to the species, and comparative species descriptions. Given with each species is a complete set of specimen citations and discussion of diagnostic characters and taxonomic relationships. Recognized species include D. aequiglumis, D. connivens, D. costarcensis, D. cuyabensis, D. ekmanii, D. eriostachya, D. lanuginosa, D. leucites, D. pauciflora, D. sabulicola, D. simpsonii, and D. texana.
41966687|A key, descriptions, revised nomenclature, range statements and maps are presented for the species of Peciis known to occur in Florida. A new combination, Pectis glaucescens, is published for the plant formerly known as P. leptocephala. A naturally occurring triploid interspecific hybrid, Pectis  floridana (P. glaucescens  P. prostrata), is described and illustrated.
41966689|Vaccinium simulatum Small is lectotypified, author citation for V. atrococcum Heller is corrected, and the type locality of V. corymbosum is restricted.
41966686|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Agrostis elliottiana, Aster hemisphericus, Plantago rugelii, Ratibida columnifera, Salix eriocephala, Stachys tenu if olia, Veronica agrestis, and Vicia hugeri. Over 30 additions to the flora of the Florida panhandle are documented here.
41966685|Reconsideration of circumscription of Dyssodia s. l. has led to resurrection of Adenophyl lum, Boeberastrum, Comadinium, Dysodiopsis, and Thymophylla and to change to generic rank for one section: Boeberoides (DC.) Strother with one species, B. grandiflora. New combinations in Adenophyllum are: A. anomalum, A. appendiculatum, A. aurantium, A. cooperi, A. glandulosum, A. porophylloides, A. porophyllum var. cancellatimi, A. porophyllum var. radiatum, A. speciosum, A. squamosum, and A. wrightii var. pulcherrimum; in Comadinium: C. montanum; and in Thymophylla: T. acerosa, T. aurea var. polychaeta, T. concinna, T. gentryi, T. gypsophila, T. micropoides, T. mutica, T. pentachaeta var. belenidium, T. pentachaeta var. hartwegii, T. pentachaeta var. puberula, T. setifolia var. radiata, T. tenuiloba var. texana, T. tenuiloba var. treculii, T. tenuiloba var. wrightii, and T. tephroleuca.
41966695|Disjunct populations of Hedeoma hyssopifolium from northeastern Chihuahua and western Coahuila differ from Arizona and southwestern New Mexico populations in their more erect, nonrhizomatomous stature, more angular stems with vestiture restricted to decurrent lines, larger inflorescences, shorter, nonciliate lower calyx lobes and are recognized as Hedeoma hyssopifolium var. chihuahuensis Henrickson.
41966699|Two species of Scaevola (Goodeniaceae) occur in southeastern United States: S. plumieri (L.) Vahl, a native strand plant, and S. sericea Vahl, a shrub used as an ornamental and sparingly escaped and naturalized. Notes on biology, and keys to and descriptions of taxa, including two varieties of S. sericea, are given.
41966691|Miilerocauiis first used by Erasmus and mentioned by Herbst for Miller's previously proposed "Osmundacaulis herbstii group" is discussed and validated. Osmundacaulis, as now restricted, includes only members of Miller's "O. skidegatensis group." A new informal group "O. hoskingii" is proposed for Osmundacaulis (sensu stricto) containing an adaxial crenateshaped sclerenchyma mass in their leaf and/or petiole traces. New nomenclatural combina tions include: Miilerocauiis amajolensis (Sharma) Tidwell, Miilerocauiis beardmorensis (Schopf) Tidwell, Millerocaulis dunlopii (Kidston & Gwynne-Vaughn) Tidwell, Millerocaulis estipularis (Sharma, Bohra & Singh) Tidwell, Millerocaulis gibbiana (Kidston & Gwynne-Vaughn) Tidwell, Millerocaulis guptai (Sharma) Tidwell, Millerocaulis hebeiensis (Wang) Tidwell, Millerocaulis herbstii (Archangelsky & de la Sota) Tidwell, Millerocaulis indica (Sharma) Tidwell, Millerocaulis kidstonii (Stopes) Tidwell, Millerocaulis kolbei (Seward) Tidwell, Millerocaulis patagonica (Archangelsky & de la Sota) Tidwell, Millerocaulis rajmahalensis (Gupta) Tidwell, Millerocaulis sahnii (Mittre) Tidwell, and Millerocaulis wadei (Tidwell & Rushforth) Tidwell.
41966701|Herbarium and field studies on Florida and Texas representatives of Houstonia nigricans sens. lat. resulted in the recognition of three varieties in Florida: var. nigricans, var. floridana, and var. pulvinata. Taxonomic and nomenclatural confusion surrounding the name H. filifolia and its parent combinations are discussed, and these names and the Texas taxa H. salina and H. tennis are relegated to synonymy under var. nigricans. A key to Florida varieties and a nomenclatural summary are provided.
41966697|The classic Psoralea is presented as Orbexilum, Pediomelum and Psoralidium: Pediomelum digitatum (Nutt. ex T. & G.) comb, nov.; Orbexilum pedunculatum var. eglandu losum (Elliott) comb, nov.; Orbexilum lupinellum (Michx.) comb. nov. Amorpha essentially follows Wilbur's monograph: Amorpha herbacea Walter var. crenulata (Rydberg) comb. nov. Baptista lactea (Raf.) Thieret (B. leucantha T. & G.) and alba (L.) Vent. of prior literature must change names; Baptisia alba var. macrophylla (Larisey) comb. nov. Sesbania concerns the delimitation of Sesbania macrocarpa and S. emerus (Aubl.) Urban, and the distribution of S. virgata (Cav.) Poir. in the United States. An author alteration for Chamaecrista nictitans var. aspera is noted.
41966693|Wolffia papulifera Thompson is reported for the first time from Michigan and LaPorte County, Indiana. An illustration of W. papulifera in flower and electron photomicrographs of its echinate pollen surface are included.
23909830|Potamogeton floridanus Small, first collected in Milton, Florida in 1886 and represented by two specimens, was named in 1903. Its taxonomic status has fallen since into ambiguity among students of the genus, owing largely to the fact that its existence has continued to be represented only by the two original collections. It has not been recognized as a distinct species by anyone other than Small since 1933. Recently the plant was rediscovered and is known now from four disparate populations. Specimens from these populations match exactly the type and the type description. Observations in the field suggest strongly that these specimens represent a valid species endemic to the lower Blackwater River drainage in Santa Rosa County, Florida.
23909821|Species lists and vegetational descriptions are given for sedge savannahs (primarily), colluvial creek swamps, and pine-oak-nance woods of the Mosquitia region along the eastern Caribbean coast of Honduras. This vegetation is contrasted with that of adjacent tropical wet forests.
23909822|Nama lobbii and N. rothrockii, members of the monotypic sects. Arachnoidea and Cinerascentia, respectively, are divergent elements in Nama and their relationships with the genus have been questioned. Alternative genera with which the two might be allied are Eriodictyon, traditionally allied with Nama, or possibly, Turricula, historically associated with both genera. Utilizing scanning electron microscopy, seeds from five distinctive species of Eriodictyon, E. crassifolium var. denudatum, E. tomentosum, E. traskiae subsp. smithii, E. angustifolium and E. californicum, Turricula parryi and the two namas were examined for implications resident in seed morphology that might bear on placement of N. lobbii and N. rothrockii. Seeds of the namas are distinct from both Eriodictyon and Turricula, while seeds of the latter taxa are quite similar. Seed morphology combined with other available evidence suggests that N. lobbii and N. rothrockii are distinct phyletic elements within the Hydrophyllaceae.
23909825|A taxonomic treatment of the genus Flyriella is rendered including information relating to its generic relationship, phyletic arrangement of its four species, chromosomal, and chemical data. Illustrations of the species are presented along with a map showing distributions.
23909831|The narrow endemic Lesquerella lyrata Rollins (Cruciferae), considered by Department of Interior specialists as possibly extinct, was found in several localities, including the type locality, in April 1984. Ideas as to its sporadic yet abundant occurrence are proposed, and positive management practices suggested.
23909828|A new species, Wallenia formonensis, is described from a disturbed cloud forest at 1520 m alt. on the southern slope of Morne Formon in the Massif de la Hotte of southern Haiti. The genus, Wallenia, of some 25 species, is, itselt, endemic to the West Indies. The cloud forests and moist pine forests of the higher elevations of Morne Formon and adjacent M. Macaya are diverse and contain many local endemics. The flora of this area is known mainly through the field work of Erik L. Ekman, but is in need of additional botanical investigation.
23909827|Pinus glabra Walter is the least common of the southeastern pines. It rarely if ever grows in pure stands. Quadrats were established at 14 sites in the southeastern United States wherever P. glabra was abundant throughout its range. Importance values of trees found in sample plots indicate that P. glabra had a higher importance value in Mississippi than had been previously reported.
23909826|Range maps for the subspecies of P. oleracea (Portulacaceae) in Florida are provided. The collections are enumerated. Unusual specimens are noted and their seeds illustrated with scanning electron micrographs.
23909829|Solidago ouachitensis C. & J. Taylor, a rare endemic of the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas and Oklahoma is described new to science. The range of Solidago speciosa var. pallida is extended southward into New Mexico and Oklahoma.
41966551|A survey of literature and herbarium specimens indicates that two species of Bassia (Chenopodiaceae), both introduced, have become established members of the North American flora. Bassia hirsuta entered the flora of North America around 1900, and has gradually expanded its range along the East Coast. Bassia hyssopifolia has spread extensively in western North America since its introduction in Nevada around 1915, and has maintained a limited distribution in the East following its introduction there around 1930.
41966553|The vascular flora of Cedar Gap Lake and environs in the Oak-Hickory Forest Region of southern Missouri are the focus of this study. An annotated list of 504 taxa from 87 families are recorded from Cedar Gap, the second most elevated point, 1694 feet, of the unglaciated, dissected Ozark Plateaus Province of the Interior Highlands. Twenty-one percent of the taxa are nonindigenous plants. One hundred twenty-six Webster County and 134 Wright County distributional records are documented.
41966556|Sixty-two species of flowering plants were collected from Indian middens (shell mounds) located in the salt marshes of Hancock Co., Miss. The diversity of the flora depended on the height of the midden above the marsh surface and increased with increased elevation. The largest midden (Cedar Island), with an elevation of about 1 m above the surface of the marsh (about 1.3 m above MLW) had the greatest diversity of species (47). Radiocarbon dating indicates that clam shells (Rangia cuneata) found on the surface of Cedar Island are over 2,600 years old. The geological history surrounding the establishment of the middens is discussed. Indicator plants for these Indian occupation sites 0.5 m or more above MLW are the calciphiles Juniperus silicola, Erythrina herbacea, and Aesculus pavia. These shell middens provide the only known habitat of Sageretia minutiflora, the first report of its occurrence in Mississippi.
23909679|Different names and realignments are presented for several species of Galactia. It is shown that G. volubilis (L.) Britt. and G. macreei M. A. Curtis sensu most recent authors should be called G. regularis (L.) BSP and G. volubilis (L.) Britt. respectively. G. glabella Michx. is supported as the replacement name for what has been treated by most authors as G. regularis (L.) BSP. G. glabella is shown to consist of three partly sympatric forms but studies are insufficient to decide what taxonomic status, if any, should be assigned to them. A diagnostic key for eight species and distribution maps for six species are presented. More detailed diagnoses than can be included in a key are presented for better understanding of G. regularis, glabella, volubilis, and mollis, specimens of which have been abundantly misidentified.
41967735|The presence of the South American native Gamochaeta simplicicaulis (Willd. ex Spreng.) Cabrera is documented for North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, and Alabama, based on specimens in NCU and US. It has not previously been included in accounts of the North American flora. The species apparently is abundant on the coastal plain of the Carolinas, where first collected in 1957, and may be expected to occur with frequency in other regions of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal plain. A morphological description, illustration, and specimen citations are provided. Se documenta la presencia de la planta nativa de Sur Amrica Gamochaeta simplicicaulis (Willd. ex Spreng.) Cabrera en Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur, Florida, y Alabama, basada en especmenes depositados en NCU y US. No haba sido incluida previamente en los informes de la flora norteamericana. La especie es aparentemente abundante en la llanura costera de las Carolinas, donde fue colectada por primera vez en 1957, y puede que se d con frecuencia en otras regiones de la llanura costera del Atlntico y del Golfo. Se ofrecen una descripcin morfolgica, una ilustracin y citas especmenes.
41967726|Erigeron sect. Linearifolii is narrowed to a monotypic taxon, comprising only Erigeron hyssopifolius of northern North America. Erigeron sect. Pycnophyllum is restricted to the 14 species of the E. foliosus group, which are primarily Californian in distribution. The Mexican species E. exilis is transferred from sect. Cincinnactis to sect. Lamprocaules. Erigeron rhizomatus (New Mexico) and E. lepidopodus (Chihuahua and Durango, Mexico) are consolidated as Erigeron sect. Geronpternix Nesom & Noyes, sect. nov. The two species are distinct from other erigerons in their scaled-leaved, rhizomiform caudex branches, large, solitary heads, and long, narrowly oblong cypselas. Sect. Geronpternix is the most primitive phylogenetic element of Erigeron and of subtribe Conyzinae. Erigeron sect. Linearifolii se reduce a un taxon monotpico, que comprende slo Erigeron hyssopifolius del norte de Norte Amrica. Erigeron sect. Pycnophyllum se restringe a las 14 especies del grupo E. foliosus, que primariamente tienen una distribucin Californiana. La especie mexicana E. exilis se transfiere de la sect. Cincinnactis a la sect. Lamprocaules. Erigeron rhizomatus (Nuevo Mxico) y E. lepidopodus (Chihuahua y Durango, Mxico) se consolidan como Erigeron sect. Geronpternix Nesom & Noyes, sect. nov. Las dos especies se distinguen de otros erigeron por sus ramas rizomiformes con hojas escamosas, captulos grandes solitarios y cipselas largas estrechamente oblongas. La Sect. Geronpternix es el elemento filogentico ms primitivo de Erigeron y de la subtribu Conyzinae.
41967715|Setaria subgenus Reverchoniae is proposed. New combinations in subgenus Reverchoniae, Setaria reverchonii (Vasey) Pilg. subsp. ramiseta (Scribn.) W. E. Fox, S. reverchonii (Vasey) Pilg. subsp. firmula (Hitchc. & Chase) W.E. Fox are proposed. New combinations in subgenus Paurochaetium, S. utowanaea (Scribn.) Pilg. var. ophiticola (Hitchc. & Ekman) W.E. Fox, S. utowanaea (Scribn.) Pilg. var. subtransiens (Hitchc. & Ekman) W.E. Fox are also proposed. Keys separating the subgenera, subspecies of S. reverchonii, species of subgenus Paurochaetium, and varieties of S. utowanaea are included. Se propone Setaria subgnero Reverchoniae. Son propuestas combinaciones nuevas en el subgnero Reverchoniae, S. reverchonii (Vasey) Pilg. subsp. ramiseta (Scribn.) W.E. Fox y S. reverchonii (Vasey) Pilg. subsp. firmula (Hitchc. & Chase) W.E. Fox,. Son tambi propuestas combinaciones nuevas en el subgnero Paurochaetium, S. utowanaea (Scribn.) Pilg. var. ophiticola (Hitchc. & Ekman) W.E. Fox y S. utowanaea (Scribn.) Pilg. var. subtransiens (Hitchc. & Ekman) W.E. Fox. Se incluyen claves para separar los subgneros, subespecies de S. reverchonii y las variedades de S. utowanaea.
41967712|Eighteen new combinations are made in the Hispaniolan Melastomataceae, transferring the species of Ossaea and two species of Clidemia into the genera Henriettea, Leandra, and Sagraea. Se hacen diez y ocho nuevas combinaciones en las Melastomataceae de la Espaola, transfiriendo las especies de Ossaea y dos especies de Clidemia a los gneros Henriettea, heandra y Sagraea.
41967730|Sarracenia rosea is described as a new species from the Gulf Coastal Plain of southern Alabama, northwestern Florida, southwestern Georgia, and southeastern Mississippi. Pink petals, large flowers, short scapes, pitchers with thick lips, and lips deeply concave in dorsiventrally pressed pitchers are among the features that distinguish S. rosea from its closest relative, S. purpurea. Sarracenia rosea most often grows in sunny to lightly shaded, wet, acid sites in pinelands. Its infrequent occurrence within a small geographic range makes its conservation of concern. Se describe como nueva Sarracenia rosea de la Llanura Costera del Golfo del sur de Alabama, noroeste de Florida, sudoeste de Georgia, y sudeste de Mississippi. Los ptalos rosas, flores grandes, escapos cortos, utrculos con labios gruesos, y labios muy cncavos en los utrculos aplastados dorsiventralmente son las mejores caractersticas que distinguen S. rosea de su pariente ms cercano, S. purpurea. Sarracenia rosea crece la mayora de las veces en lugares hmedos cidos en pinares abiertos, de soleados a ligeramente sombros. El vivir en un rea geogrfica pequea, donde aparece con poca frecuencia hace que su conservacin sea de inters.
41967728|Preparation of a taxonomic treatment of the Myrsinaceae for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana project resulted in the discovery of a new species, Cybianthus liesneri Pipoly & Ricketson, which is described, illustrated, and its systematic relationships discussed. A key to distinguish Cybianthus liesneri from the other species of Cybianthus subgenus Weigeltia of the Venezuelan Guayana is provided. In addition, Parathesis viridis Lundell is found to be a member of the genus Stylogyne. The combination, Stylogyne viridis (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly is proposed, the species is newly illustrated and an updated description is provided. In addition, a key to the species o Stylogyne found in the Venezuelan Guayana is presented. Estudios para preparar un tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Myrsinaceae para la Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana dieron como resultado el descubrimiento de una especie nueva para la ciencia. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute el parentesco de la nueva especie, Cybianthus liesneri Pipoly & Ricketson. Se ofrece una clave taxonmica para separar Cybianthus liesneri de las otras especies pertenecientes al gnero Cybianthus subg. Weigeltia dentro de la Guayana venezolana. Adems, se encontr que Parathesis viridis Lundell se ubica mejor dentro del gnero Stylogyne. Se propone la nueva combinacin, Stylogyne viridis (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly, se ilustra la especie, y se discute su parentesco. Se aporta una clave para distinguir las especies del gnero Stylogyne en la Guayana venezolana.
41967714|Pennisetum advena Wipff & Veldkamp, a common ornamental grass in the southern United States, is described and illustrated. A key is provided to separate it from similar taxa (P. macrostachys, P. orientale, and P. setaceum). Pennisetum advena is readily distinguished from P. setaceum, its closest putative relative, by vegetative, inflorescence, fascicle, and spikelet characters. Se describe e ilustra Pennisetum advena Wipff & Veldkamp, una gramnea ornamental frecuente en el sur de los Estados Unidos. Se ofrece una clave para separarla de taxa similares (P. macrostachys, P. orientale, y P. setaceum). Pennisetum advena se distingue fcilmente de P. setaceum, la especie ms prxima, por los caracteres vegetativos, de la inflorescencia, del fascculo y de la espiguilla.
41967731|The vascular flora of Biscayne National Park, Florida consists of 372 species within 277 genera and 92 families. The largest families in the flora are the Poaceae (47 species), Asteraceae (34 species), and Fabaceae (28 species). The largest genera are Tillandsia (7 species), Chamaesyce (7 species), and Cyperus, Eugenia, Kalanchoe and Paspalum, each with 5 species. Each taxonomic entry in the checklist is accompanied by an annotation, when appropriate, which includes: C = cultivated species, not escaped; H = historical record, now extirpated; X = naturalized exotic species; E = Florida endangered; T = Florida threatened; CE = Florida commercially exploited. La flora vascular del Biscayne National Park, Florida, est formada por 372 especies pertenecientes a 277 gneros y 92 familias. Las mayores familias de esta flora son las Poaceae (47 especies), Asteraceae (34 especies), y Fabaceae (28 especies). Los mayores gneros son Tillandsia (7 especies), Chamaesyce (7 especies), Cyperus, Eugenia, Kalanchoe y Paspalum, con 5 especies cada uno. Cada entrada taxonmica al catlogo est acompaada de una anotacin, cuando es apropiada, que incluye; C = especie cultivada, no escapada; H = cita histrica, rechazada ahora; X = especie extica naturalizada; E = en peligro en Florida; T = amenazada en Florida; CE = explotada comercialmente en Florida.
41967725|Revision of the group of species formerly placed in Zunilia Lundell revealed that the group is synonymous with Ardisia subgenus Graphardisia Mez. This paper incorporates those taxa in the subgenus, necessitating further revision of Graphardisia, including an emended description of the subgenus, a key to the species and subspecies, along with updated descriptions of the two added taxa and new illustrations for each. Two additional taxa are recognized, including one new combination: Ardisia verapazensis subsp. cucullata (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Six binomials are relegated to synonymy within A. verapazensis Donn. Sm. Ardisia hyalina Lundell [Zunilia hyalina (Lundell) Lundel] is excluded from subgenus Graphardisia, and placed in subgenus Ardisia. Una revisin del grupo de especies anteriormente clasificadas dentro del gnero Zunilia Lundell, revel que Zunilia es sinnimo del gnero Ardisia subgnero Graphardisia Mez. Se incorporan dichos taxa dentro del subgnero Graphardisia, y se incluye una descripcin actualizada, una clave para separar todos los taxa, acompaados de dos descripciones actualizadas y nuevas ilustraciones para ellos. Se reconocen dos taxa adicionales, incluyendo la nueva combinacin: Ardisia verapazensis subsp. cucullata (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Se relegan seis binomios a la sinonimia bajo A. verapazensis Donn. Sm.. Se excluye Ardisia hyalina Lundell [Zunilia hyalina (Lundell) Lundell] del subgnero Graphardisia, y se la ubica dentro del subgnero Ardisia.
41967732|The flowering plants of Padre Island National Seashore (PINS) were sampled over a two year period in three different regions of the island. Specimens from our investigation and plants reported for PINS from the literature were compiled into a checklist. The flora contains both Flaveria brownii and Sporobolus tharpii which are endemics of the western Gulf of Mexico barrier islands. Lycium carolinianum var. quadrifidum, reported only along bayshores in Texas, was found in the tidal flat community. Two hundred and fifty-nine genera and 456 species of flowering plants were identified as part of the PINS flora. These occur in 77 families with the Poaceae (95 spp.), Asteraceae (57 spp.), Fabaceae (44 spp.) and Cyperaceae (29 spp.) most common. Se han tomado muestras de las angiospermas del parque nacional "Padre Island National Seashore" (PINS) durante un perodo de dos aos, en tres reas diferentes de la isla. Se hizo un catlogo de los "especmenes" de nuestra investigacin y de las plantas citadas a PINS procedentes de una serie de artculos. La flora contiene tanto Flaveria brownii como Sporobolus tharpii que son endmicas de las islas de barrera del Oeste en el Golfo de Mxico. Se ha encontrado en la comunidad de la zona mareal plana Lycium carolinianum var. quadrifidum que antes solamente se haba citado a lo largo de las bahas de Texas. 259 gneros y 456 especies de angiospermas fueron identificados en la flora de PINS. Las plantas mencionadas pertenecen a 77 familias siendo las familias Poaceae (95 especies), Asteraceae (57 esp.), Fabaceae (44 esp.), y Cyperaceae (29 esp.) las ms abundantes.
41967724|A synopsis of the genus Myrsine in Venezuela is provided. The generic description is updated, along with discussions of its morphology and ecology in Venezuela. A key to the species and subspecies is provided, along with descriptions, discussions of distribution, ecology and conservation, and etymology for all species. Each of the 12 species known for the country (one with two subspecies) is newly illustrated and its distribution is mapped. Four binomials: Rapanea ambigua Mez in Engl. (a synonym of Myrsine coricea R. Br. ex Roem. & Schult, subsp. coriacea), Rapanea andina Mez (Myrsine andina (Mez) Pipoly), Rapanea nitida Mez (Myrsine nitida (Mez) Pipoly), and Rapanea guianensis Aubl. (M. guianensis (Aubl.) Kuntze) are lectotypified. Three additional binomials are relegated to synonymy. Se presenta una sinopsis del gnero Myrsine para Venezuela. Se actualiza la descripcin genrica, acompaada por discusiones sobre su morfologa y ecologa dentro del pas. Se provee una clave para separar las especies y subespecies, descripciones, discusiones sobre distribucin, ecologa, conservacin y etimologa. Se ilustran y se ofrecen mapas de distribucin de cada una de las 12 especies (incluyendo una con dos subespecies). Se lectotipifican cuatro binomios: Rapanea ambigua Mez in Engl.(=Myrsine coriacea R. Br. ex Roem. & Schult, subsp. coriacea), Rapanea andina Mez (=Myrsine andina (Mez) Pipoly), Rapanea ntida Mez (=Myrsine ntida (Mez) Pipoly), y Rapanea guianensis Aubl. (=M. guianensis (Aubl.) Kuntze) y tres especies adicionales se relegan a la sinonimia.
41967722|A new variety of Pinus greggii is described. Variety australis is endemic to east central Mexico and represents the southern disjunct region of the natural range of the species. Variety greggii represents the northern population of the species. Characters that segregate the varieties are presented. Se describe una nueva variedad de Pinus greggii. La variedad australis es endmica del centro-este de Mxico, y abarca la distribucin natural austral de la especie. La variedad greggii representa la poblacin localizada en el norte de su distribucin natural. Se incluyen caractersticas que distinguen las dos variedades.
41967707|Portulaca yecorensis is described from the conglomeritic mudflow barrens at 1500-1600 m elevation in the Ycora valley in the Sierra Madre of eastern Sonora, Mexico. This annual is related to P. oleracea and P. retusa but differs in small size, strong reddish pigmentation, smaller seeds, larger flowers and pollen, distribution, and habitat. Se describe la especie nueva Portulaca yecorensis del Valle de Ycora de la Sierra Madre Occidental en la parte oriental de Sonora, Mexico; crece en reas con conglomerados de lodolita casi sin vegetacin. Esta especie anual est relacionada con P. oleracea y P. retusa, pero difiere de stas por su tamao pequeo, pigmentacin rojiza fuerte, semillas ms pequeas, flores y polen ms grandes, distribucin, y hbitat.
41967709|A review of the early nomenclature o Euthamia summarizes observations by Sieren (1981) and Reveal (1991) and adds other perspectives. Nuttall published the group in 1818 in the format of a new subdivision of Solidago, interpreted here at sectional rank, but noted it as "a subgenus, or rather genus." Cassini in 1825 provided the elements for validation of Euthamia at generic rank, but he did so unintentionally and ascribed the name to Nuttall. In this interpretation, separate citations of lectotype and type are required for the two names (sect. Euthamia Nutt. and genus Euthamia Nutt. ex Cass., respectively). Also in this interpretation, Nuttall in 1841 validated nomenclatural combinations for E. graminifolia (L.) Nutt. and E. tenuifolia (Pursh) Nutt. and added E. occidentalis Nutt. as a new species. The name Euthamia caroliniana (L.) Greene ex Porter & Britt. was validated in 1894, based on Erigeron carolinianus L., and includes E. tenuifolia as a synonym. There is reason to maintain Euthamia galetorum Greene at specific rank rather than as a variety of E. caroliniana or E. graminifolia. The discussion includes application of several potentially controversial interpretations of the ICBN: disposition of "alternative names;" "the term type or an equivalent" in typification; and conditions of "indirect reference" for valid publication. Una revisin de la nomenclatura previa de Euthamia resume las observaciones de Sieren (1981) y Reveal (1991) y aade otras perspectivas. Nuttall public el grupo en 1818 como una nueva subdivisin Solidago, que se interpreta aqu en el rango de seccin, pero la cit como "un subgnero o quizs gnero." Cassini en 1825 dio los elementos para la validacin de Euthamia en el rango genrico, pero lo hizo as sin querer y adscribi el nombre a Nuttall. En esta interpretacin se requieren citaciones separadas de lectotipo y tipo para los dos nombres (sect. Euthamia Nutt. y gnero Euthamia Nutt. ex Cass., respectivamente). Tambin en esta interpretacin, Nuttall en 1841 valid combinaciones nomenclaturales para E. graminifolia (L.) Nutt. y E. tenuifolia (Pursh) Nutt. y aadi E. occidentalis Nutt. como una nueva especie. El nombre Euthamia caroliniana (L.) Greene ex Porter & Britt. fue validado en 1894, basado en Erigeron carolinianus L., e incluye E. tenuifolia como sinnimo. Hay una razn para mantener Euthamia galetorum Greene en el rango especfico en vez de variedad de E. caroliniana o E. graminifolia. La discusin incluye la aplicacin de varias interpretaciones potencialmente controvertidas del ICBN: disposicin de "nombres alternativos;" "el trmino tipo o un equivalente" en la tipificacin y condiciones de "referencia indirecta" para la publicacin vlida.
41967705|A survey of the flora on a hitherto unexplored gypsum outcrop on the west face of the Guadalupe Mountains in southern New Mexico has revealed a new variety o Anulocaulis (Nyctaginaceae), A. leiosolenus (Torr.) Standl. var. howardii Spellenb. & Wootten (var. nov.). This variety has a combination of characteristics in various degrees intermediate to other taxa, an observation that results in the inclusion of A. gypsogenus Waterf. into A. leiosolenus as A. leiosolenus var. gypsogenus (Waterf.) Spellenb. & Wootten (comb. nov.). Also from this outcrop is described Mentzelia humilis (A. Gray) J. Darl. var. guadalupensis Spellenb. (var. nov.). Fifty-nine species in 29 families were observed to occur on the gypsum outcrop. A key is provided to all known Anulocaulis taxa and a list is presented documenting the other plant species that occur with it and the new variety of M. humilis. La exploracin de la flora en un afloramiento de yeso, inexplorado previamente, en la ladera oeste de las Montaas Guadalupe en el sur de Nuevo Mxico ha revelado una variedad nueva de Anulocaulis (Nyctaginaceae), A. leiosolenus (Torr.) Standl. var. howardii Spellenb. & Wootten (var. nov.). Esta variedad tiene una combinacin de caracteres intermedios en varios grados con otros taxa, una observacin que da como resultado la inclusin de A. gypsogenus Waterf. en A. leiosolenus as como A. leiosolenus var. gypsogenus (Waterf.) Spellenb. & Wootten (comb. nov.). Tambin, Mentzelia humilis (A. Gray) J. Darl. var. guadalupensis Spellenb. (var. nov.) est descrita de este afloramiento. Cincuenta y nueve especies de 29 familias de plantas fueron observadas en este afloramiento de yeso. Se ofrece una clave para todos los taxa conocidos de Anulocaulis y se presenta una lista documentando las otras especies de plantas que conviven con las dos variedades nuevas.
41967729|Fieldwork conducted during a survey of Las Orqudeas National Park in Antioquia, Colombia, resulted in the discovery of two undescribed species o Clusia section Anandrogyne. Clusia deminuta Pipoly & Cogollo and C. paisarum Pipoly & Cogollo are described and illustrated, and their respective distributions, ecology, conservation status, etymology of epithets and phylogenetic relationships are elucidated. El trabajo de campo durante una investigacin de la flora del Parque Nacional Natural "Las Orqudeas," ubicado en el Departamento de Antioquia, Colombia, dio como resultado el descubrimiento de dos especies nuevas, pertenecientes al gnero Clusia seccin Anandrogyne. Se aportan descripciones, ilustraciones, comentarios sobre sus respectivas distribuciones geogrficas, ecologa y condiciones en cuanto a la conservacin, as como la etimologa de los eptetos especficos y el parentesco de Clusia deminuta Pipoly & Cogollo y de C. paisarum Pipoly & Cogollo.
41967710|A new species Bulbophyllum wakoi, section Brachystele Schltr., collected from the Crater Mountain Wild Life Management Area in Papua New Guinea is described. It resembles B. foetidum Schltr. and its variety B. foetidum Schltr. var. grandiflorum J.J. Smith. However, it differs from these in the size and the shape of the sepals, petals, labellum, and column arms. Niupela kain orchid Bulbophyllum wakoi, sekson Brachystele Schltr., ol bin kisim long Creta Mauntein Wail Laif Management Eria insait long Papua New Guinea em ol bin diskraibim. Em i wankain long B. foetidum Schltr. na wantaim variety B. foetidum var. grandiflorum J.J.Smith. Dispela em minim olsem long dispela insait long sais na seip long sepals, petals, labellum, na colum ams.
41967720|Two species are formally described from the 1996 survey of the Lakekamu basin. The new plants are Medinilla sapoi-riverensis (Melastomataceae) and Tricbospermum stevensii (Tiliaceae). Medinilla bismarck-ramuensis is described from the 1995 biological survey of the Bismarck-Ramu tract. Taxonomic and ecological notes are provided with the diagnoses. Wanpela wok bus painimaut kamap pinis long pies Lakekamu, long Oktoba 14 igo Novemba 12, 1996. Dispela wok i kamapim tupela liklik diwai we i nupela samting olgeta. Lain saientis givim ol nem olsem: Medinilla sapoi-riverensis na Trichospermum stevensii. Narapela nupela samting kamapim long graun long Bismak-Ramu, na nem bilong dispela em i Medinilla bismarck-ramuensis.
41967717|Data for 20 morphological characters taken from recent collections of the Cyperus virens group from the southeastern United States were statistically analyzed using principal components analysis and discriminant analysis. Based upon results of the analyses and recent field observations, it is concluded that C. drummondii and C. virens are distinct at the rank of species. The taxonomy is revised accordingly. A taxonomic key, technical descriptions, distributional, and ecological data on the two species are presented. Los datos de 20 caracteres morfolgicos de colecciones recientes del grupo de Cyperus virens del sureste de los Estados Unidos fueron analizados estadsticamente usando el anlisis de componentes principales y el anlisis discriminante. En base a los resultados de los anlisis y de recientes observaciones de campo, se concluye que C. drummondii y C. virens son distintas en el rango de especie. Se revisan de acuerdo con esto la taxonoma. Se presentan una clave taxonmica, descripciones tcnicas, datos ecolgicos y sobre la distribucin de las dos especies.
41967719|Male and female flower morphology is documented for Florida plants, augmenting the original floral analysis of this rare, dioecious species (Lindera subcoriacea). Sexual dimorphism is readily apparent; leaves on male plants are much larger than those on female plants. Leaf surfaces of the two sexes also contrast strongly in features of trichome size, epicuticular wax (abundance and pattern), and development of peristomatal rims. Such dimorphism has not been previously reported for the Lauraceae. Se documenta la morfologa de flores masculinas y femeninas de Lindera subcoriacea en plantas de Florida, aumentando el anlisis floral de esta especie rara y dioica. El dimorfismo sexual es muy aparente; las hojas de las plantas masculinas son mucho mayores que las de las plantas femeninas. Las superficies foliares de los dos sexos tambin contrastan fuertemente en cuanto a las caractersticas del tamao de los tricomas, ceras epicuticulares (abundancia y patrn), y desarrollo de los bordes peristomticos. Este dimorfismo no haba sido citado previamente en las Lauraceae.
41967704|An exploratory survey of the Crater Mt. Wildlife Management Area (CMWMA) has revealed the presence of at least 1,200 vascular plant taxa within the 2,700 sq. km reserve. Included among the findings are several new species and a significant number of distributional records. Three novelties are formally described and illustrated. The new species are Glochidion beehlerii, Jasminum pipolyi, and Psychotria matambuai. An annotated checklist of the collections is also provided. The botanical documentation for the CMWMA is one of the most substantial for any locality in Papuasia. The preservation status and floristic richness of surveyed communities are very high, comparing favorably with the best sites in Papua New Guinea. Continued application of the ICAD (Integrated Conservation and Development) strategy is recommended for the subject area. Crater zan yaseiseibutu kanri chitai chousa niyori 1,200 ijou no ikansoku (kansoku) shokubutsu bunrui guntai no sonzai ga 2,700 heihou kilometoru inai de kiroku shoumei sareta. Hakken saretamono no nakani fukumareteirumono wa kazukazu no shinshu to soutou naru kazu no mezurashi ishu shokubutsu to bunpukuiki kiroku dearu. Mittsu no mezurashii shokubutus wa seishiki ni kijyutsu oyobi zukai ni yori shimesareta. Shinshu wa Glochidion beehlerii, jasminum pipolyi, soshite Psycbotria matambuai dearu. Chushaku tuki no shushu butsu ichiranhyou mo futai sareru. Crater zan yaseiseibutu kanri chitai no shokubutusgakuteki bunken wa Papuasian chihou nitotte mottomo kuwashi monono hitotus de aru. Chosa sareta shkubutsu gunraku no hozonjotai oyovi shokubutussou no yutakasa wa soutou ni takaku, Papua New Guinea no sairyou na basho ni masaru hododearu. Kadai to sareteiru chiiki ni taisuru tougouteki hogo oyobi kaihatu doryoku wo zokkou surukoto ga shourie sareru.
41967734|In order to contribute to our understanding of lianas and vines, as well as to facilitate future research, a preliminary checklist of the dicotyledonous lianas and vines from the Las Cruces Biological Station, Costa Rica is presented. Seventy species in sixty genera and thirtytwo families are recorded. The largest climbing families at Las Cruces are Cucurbitaceae (11 spp.), Leguminosae (6 spp.), Sapindaceae (5 spp.), and Bignoniaceae (4 spp.). Para contribuir al conocimiento de lianas y enredaderas, as como para facilitar otras investigaciones, se presenta una lista preliminar de las lianas y enredaderas dicotiledneas de la Estacin Biolgica Las Cruces, Costa Rica. Se citan 70 especies de 60 gneros y 32 familias. Las familias ms grandes de Las Cruces son Cucurbitaceae (11 spp.), Leguminosae (6 spp.), Sapindaceae (5 spp.) y Bignoniaceae (4 spp.).
41968890|Muhlenbergia jaime-hintonii P.M. Peterson & Valds-Reyna, sp. nov., is described and illustrated. The new species occurs in gypsum soils in southern Nuevo Len, Mexico between the municipalities of Aramberri and General Zaragoza. Based on anatomical and morphological features Muhlenbergia jaime-hintonii is placed in subgenus Podosemum, section Epicampes. The new species seems most closely allied with Muhlenbergia pubigluma but differs by its shorter culms (44-82 cm long), shorter truncate ligules (0.4-1.0 mm long) with ciliolate apices, shorter spikelets (1.5-2.1 mm long), shorter glumes (0.7-1.2 mm long), shorter lemmas (1.5-2.0 mm long), shorter paleas (1.5-2.0 mm long), and shorter anthers (0.8-1.0 mm long). Se describe y se ilustra Muhlenbergia jaime-hintonii P.M. Peterson & Valds-Reyna, sp. nov. Esta nueva especie se presenta en parte de las tierras gipsfilas en el sur del estado de Nuevo Len, Mxico, en los municipios de Aramberri y General Zaragoza. Basados en caractersticas anatmicas y morfolgicas Muhlenbergia jaime-hintonii se ubica en el subgnero Podosemum, seccin Epicampes. Esta nueva especie est fuertemente relacionada con Muhlenbergia pubigluma pero difiere de ella por sus clmenes ms cortos (44-82 cm de largo), lgulas ms cortas (0.4-1.0 mm de largo) truncadas con pices ciliolados, espiguillas ms cortas (1.5-2.1 mm de largo), glumas ms cortas (0.7-1.2 mm de largo), lemas ms cortas (1.5-2.0 mm de largo), paleas ms cortas (1.5-2.0 mm de largo), y anteras ms cortas (0.8-1.0 mm de largo).
41968896|Botanical results are presented from the 1995 biological survey of the Bismarck-Ramu tract, an area identified by multiagency assessment as a prime site for possible conservation action. The findings provide confirmation of the area's presumed biodiversity value. Over 610 distinct morphospecies and up to 15 confirmed or suspected plant novelties were documented by an intensive 24-day expedition. Three of the new species are formally described. General descriptions of the vegetation are also provided for the major floristic environments explored by the survey team. Adoption of special management and conservation measures is recommended for the subject territory. Wanpela wok bus painimaut bilong ol saveman bilong ol bus diwai, rop, na gras, ibin kamap long Bismak - Ramu territori long Oktoba 2 igo 24, 1995. Ol saveman bilong bus ol i kaunim olsem moa long 610 ol kain kain diwai, rop, na gras i kamap long dispela hap. Na wok painimaut i kamapim olsem fiftinpela long ol diwai na gras i nupela kain olgeta. Dispela tupela ten na foa de wok i soim dispela ples Bismak - Ramu em i holim wanpela long ol kain ples bus we Papua New Guinea mas lukautim gut. Stori long dispela pepa i tok klia long olgeta samting mipela lukim long Bismak-Ramu bus.
41968907|Native American shell rings are composed almost exclusively of shellfish remains, and occupy coastal sites. The nine shell rings and one shell mound selected in this study range approximately 40 kilometers north of Charleston, South Carolina to 10 kilometers north of St. Augustine, Florida. The vascular flora consists of 241 species within 182 genera in 80 families. The Poaceae and Asteraceae are the largest families in the flora. Soil salinity and daily flooding affect the distribution of vascular plants at the tidal shell rings. Calcareous soils influence species distribution at inland shell ring sites. Each taxonomic entry in the checklist is accompanied by an annotation, which includes frequency of occurrence, rarity status and pertinent synonyms. Los "shell rings" nativos de Amrica estn compuestos casi exclusivamente de restos de conchas marinas y ocupan lugares costeros. Los nueve "shell rings" y un "shell mound" seleccionados en este estudio van aproximadamente desde 40 kilmetros al norte de Charleston, Carolina del Sur hasta 10 kilmetros al norte de St. Augustine, Florida. La flora vascular consiste en 241 especies agrupadas en 182 gneros de 80 familias. Las Poaceae y Asteraceae son las mayores familias de la flora. La salinidad del suelo y las inundaciones diarias afectan la distribucin de las plantas vasculares en los "shell rings" intermareales. Los suelos calcreos influencian la distribucin de las especies en los "shell ring" interiores. Cada entrada taxonmica del catlogo se acompaa de una anotacin de la frecuencia, estado de rareza y los sinnimos pertinentes.
41968900|A new generic name, Barnebydendron, is proposed for Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Tul. which is an illegitimate, later homonym of Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Endl. Se propone el nuevo nombre genrico, Barnebydendron, para reemplazar a Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Tul., ya que, este nombre es ilegtimo y un homnimo posterior de Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Endl. O novo nome genrico, Barnebydendron,  proposto para substitutir a Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Tul., visto que este nome  ilegtimo e homnimo posterior de Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Endl.
41968892|A new species of Buddlejaceae, Emorya rinconensis, is described here as the second species of the genus. The species is known from a single collection from the Serranas del Burro in northern Coahuila, Mexico. Although associated with a more mesic flora than Emorya suaveolens, morphological adaptations and associated species suggest that E. rinconensis may grow in edaphically xeric, steep rock outcrops. The racemose inflorescences of the new species are unique among New World Buddlejaceae and appear to represent a reduction from the open, few-flowered axillary cymes found in Emorya suaveolens. In the context of North American Buddlejaceae, the long tubular corollas in open inflorescences, long styles, linear calyx lobes, and prolate pollen support the present generic placement of the new species with Emorya, but future confirmation of the phyletic position of both species in a larger geographic context is needed. En este trabajo se describe una nueva especie de Buddlejaceae, Emorya rinconensis, como la segunda especie del gnero. La especie se conoce a partir de una sola colecta de las Serranas del Burro en el norte de Coahuila, Mxico. Aunque asociada con una flora ms msica que Emorya suaveolens, las adaptaciones morfolgicas y especies asociadas sugieren que E. rinconensis puede crecer en afloramientos rocosos, escarpados y xricos. Las inflorescencias racemosas de la nueva especie son nicas entre las Buddlejaceae del Nuevo Mundo y parecen representar una reduccin de las cimas axilares abiertas de pocas flores encontradas en E. suaveolens. En el contexto de las Buddlejaceae Norteamericanas, las largas corolas tubulares en inflorescencias abiertas, estilos largos, lbulos del cliz lineares, y polen prolado, apoyan la presente posicin genrica de la nueva especie con Emorya, pero se necesita una futura confirmacin de la situacin filtica de ambas especies en un contexto geogrfico ms amplio.
41968886|The traditional, broadly conceived genera Semcio, s.l., and Cacalia, s.l., will be divided into several segregate genera in the forthcoming Flora of North America North of Mexico, (FNANM). Provided here are a synoptical key and annotated catalog for the genera, and a nomencltor for the specific and infraspecific epithets for Senecio, s.l., and Cacalia, s.l., that have been commonly used in North American floristics. Los gneros, tradicionalmente concebidos ampliamente, Senecio, s.l., y Cacalia, s.l., sern divididos en varios gneros segregados en la Flora of North America North of Mexico, (FNANM) de prxima aparicin. Ofrecemos aqu una clave sinptica, un catlogo anotado de los gneros y un ndice de los eptetos especficos e infraespecficos de Senecio, s.l., y Cacalia, s.l., que han sido usados normalmente en las floras norteamericanas.
41968903|A new naturally occurring hybrid between Spiraea douglasii var. menziesii and S. splendens var. rosea is described and named S. hitchcockii W. Hess & N. Stoynoff. Morphological, chromosome number, and pollen stainability evidence is presented. The hybrid is the first reported triploid for the genus Spiraea. Se describe un nuevo hbrido natural entre Spiraea douglasti var. menziesii y S. splendens var. rosea que se nombra S. hitchcockii W. Hess & N. Stoynoff. Se presentan evidencias morfolgicas, nmero cromosmico y tincin del polen. El hbrido es el primer triploide citado del gnero Spiraea.
41968887|The new variety Physarta newberryi var. yesicola is described and illustrated. It is readily distinguished within P. newberryi by its very long styles. Variety yesicola occurs upon the gypseous Yeso Formation in the Sierra Lucero of west-central New Mexico. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva variedad Physaria newberryi var. yesicola. Se distingue fcilmente de P. newberryi por sus estilos muy largos. La variedad yesicola aparece en suelos gipscolas de la Formacin Yeso en la Sierra Lucero del centro-oeste de Nuevo Mxico.
41968889|Two new species of Commicarpus from Mxico (C. coctoris and C. praetermissus) are described. A key to the five New World species is presented. Se describen dos nuevas especies de Commicarpus (Nyctaginaceae) de Mxico. Se ofrece una clave para las cinco especies del Nuevo Mundo.
41968905|One new species of Abildgaardia, A. papillosa, and seven of Bulbostylis, are described and illustrated, and their relationships to closely allied species are discussed. In addition, an updated description of the genus along with a key to the species of New World Abildgaardia is provided. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Abildgaardia, A. papillosa, y siete nuevas especies de Bulbostylis, y se discute su relacin con especies cercanas. Adems, se ofrece una descripcin actualizada del gnero, acompaada de una clave para identificar las especies del Nuevo Mundo de Abildgaardia.
41968909|The authors provide a list of 41 additions, reinstatements, and significant range extensions for the flora of Arkansas. Trautvetteria caroliniensis, Dalea gattingeri, Rbynchosia minima, and Setaria pumila are reported as new and persistent elements, while Magnolia macrophylla, Didiplis diandra, Valerianella locusta, and Sisyrinchium exile are reinstated to the state flora. A number of alien weeds are noticed and documented for the first time, however, their persistence is not known. Los autores proporcionan una lista donde se enumeran 41 adiciones, confirmaciones, y extensiones significativas para la flora de Arkansas. Trautvetteria caroliniensis, Dalea gattingeri, Rhynchosia minima, y Setaria pumila se citan como componentes nuevos y persistentes en el rea, mientras que Magnolia macrophylla, Didiplis diandra, Valerianella locusta, y Sisyrinchium exile se confirman para la flora del estado. Un nmero de malas hierbas de origen alctono son mencionadas y documentadas por primera vez, sin embargo, no es conocida su persistencia.
41968904|The unispecific genus Pseudosagotia is placed in synonymy under Croizatia and a new combination, Croizatia brevipetiolata (Secco) Dorr, is proposed for its sole species. An emended description is provided for C. brevipetiolata, a dioecious species that was known previously only from female flowers and fruits. Croizatia brevipetiolata is compared to C. neotropica and C. naiguatensis, two species from coastal Venezuela, and to C. panamensis, a species from Panama and Pacific Colombia. Se ubica el gnero monoespecfico Pseudosagotia como sinnimo del gnero Croizatia y se propone una nueva combinacin, Croizatia brevipetiolata (Secco) Dorr, para su nica especie. Se presenta una descripcin corregida de C. brevipetiolata, una especie dioica, de la cual previamente slo se conocan las flores femeninas y los frutos. Se compara C. brevipetiolata con C. neotropica y C. naiguatensis, dos especies de la regin litoral de Venezuela, y con C. panamensis, una especie de Panam y el extremo occidental de Colombia.
41968882|The new combination, Packera subnuda (DC.) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley is proposed, based upon Senecio subnudus DC. Se propone la nueva combinacin Packera subnuda (DC.) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, en base a Senecio subnudus DC.
41968884|We report the existence of a new species, Phaseolus albescent, from western Mexico, with close affinities to P. vulgaris, P. coccineus, P. costaricensis, and particularly to P. polyanthus, and describe plants commonly occurring in wild habitats, examine morphological and anatomical characters and give notes on observations made on its floral biology. An illustration of the plant, photographs of its pollen, and stem anatomy are provided. Also, a key to the species of the Phaseolus vulgaris group is presented. Se reporta la existencia de una nueva especie, Phaseolus albescens, del occidente de Mxico, especie afn a P. vulgaris, P. coccineus, P. costar icens is, y en particular a P. polyanthus y se describen plantas de esta especie de habitats silvestres, se examinan caracteres morfolgica y anatmicamente y se presentan notas sobre observaciones efectuadas a su biologa floral. La especie se ilustra y se provee de figuras de su polen y anatoma del tallo. Tambin, una clave de las especies del grupo Phaseolus vulgaris es presentada.
41968897|Amaranthus crassipes is recognized as consisting of two varieties: var. crassipes from the West Indies, coastal Mexico-Texas-Louisiana, and northern South America, and var. warnockii of the Chihuahuan Desert region of Texas and Mexico. Amaranthus scleropoides contains two morphs that are not taxonomically recognized. Amaranthus  texensis, considered of hybrid origin between A. crassipes and A. scleropoides, is described as new. Amaranthus berlandieri is not considered as distinct from the more wide ranging A. polygonoides. A new species, Amaranthus tamaulipensis, is described from southmost Texas and eastern Mexico. It is related to A. dubius and the poorly known A. brandegei of Sinaloa. An enigmatic Amaranthus  tucsonensis is described from the Tucson Mountains of southern Arizona, with related populations occurring in Sonora, Mexico. Se reconoce a Amaranthus crassipes como constituida por dos variedades: la var. crassipes, con distribucin desde la costa de Mxico, Texas y Louisiana, a travs del Caribe hasta el norte de Sudamrica; y la var. warnockii, de la regin del Desierto Chihuahuense. Amaranthus scleropoides consiste de dos fases morfolgicas sin designacin de rango taxonmico formal. La notoespecie nueva Amaranthus  texensis probablemente se origin de la hibridacin entre A. crassipes y A. scleropoides. No se considera a A. berlandieri como diferente de A. polygonoides, especie de ms amplia distribucin. Se describe Amaranthus tamaulipensis, especie nueva del este de Mxico y la parte ms meridional de Texas. Esta especie est relacionada con A. dubius y con A. brandegei, taxon sinaloense pobremente conocido. Se describe la enigmtica Amaranthus  tucsonensis como notoespecie nueva de la Sierra de Tucson, del sur de Arizona.
41968912|Diploid and tetraploid chromosome numbers and pollen measurements are reported for 95 collections from five taxa of Thelesperma (Asteraceae). These chromosome counts include the first 17 diploid (2x) reports for T. megapotamicum var. ambiguum. A correlation between ploidy level (2x, 4x) and pollen diameter (mm) is found in diploid and polyploid plants of T. megapotamicum and T. simplicifolium. In both taxa, multivalent configurations (IV, V, VI, X) are found. A recurring oversized bivalent (II) was observed in up to 23 of the 103 collections from four of the five taxa studied. En este estudio se contaron nmeros cromosomticos diploides y tetraploides, y medidas de polen de 95 colecciones, las cuales en total agrupan cinco txones de Thelesperma (Asteraceae). Los recuentos de cromosomas incluyen 17 de diploides (2x) de T. megapotamicum var. ambiguum, publicados ahora por primera vez. En plantas diploides y poliploides de T. megapotamicum y T. simplicifolium se encontr una correlacin entre el nivel de ploida (2x, 4x) y el dimetro del polen (mm). Adems ambos txones presentaron configuraciones multivalentes (IV, V, VI, X). Posiblemente en 23 de las 103 colecciones se observ una recurrencia de bivalentes (II) con tamao incrementado, en cuatro de los cinco txones.
41968911|Herbarium study and field exploration, primarily in the Longleaf Pine and Coastal Pine Meadows regions, have yielded the following new species to Mississippi: Chamaecrista deeringiana, Cladium mariscoides, Dichanthelium fusiforme, Dryopteris ludoviciana, Eleocharis elongata, E. melanocarpa, E. robbinsii, Isoetes louisianensis, Lobelia boykinii, Mitreola angustifolia, Rhynchospora decurrens, R. globularis var. pinetorum, R. harperi, Rhynchospora scirpoides, Sagittaria isoetiformis, Scleria reticularis sensu stricto, Spiranthes brevilabris var. floridana, Utricularia olivacea. The following are previously known from the state, but are rarely collected, or represent significant range extensions within Mississippi: Agrimonia incisa, Aristida condensata, A. simpliciflora, A. tuberculosa, Burmannia biflora, Calopogon multiflorus, Coelorachis cylindrica, Dichanthelium erectifolium, Elyoneurus tripsacoides, Gordonia lasianthus, Isoetes melanopoda, Juncus gymnocarpus, Marshallia trinervia, Myriophyllum laxum, Parnassia grandifolia, Polygala leptostachys, Potamogeton epihydrus, Rhynchospora curtissii, R. fascicularis var. distans, R. nitens, R. tracyi, Ruellia pedunculata ssp. pinetorum, Sorghastrum apalachicolense, Stylisma aquatica, S. pickeringii, Tridens carolinianus. Los estudios de herbario y exploraciones de campo en las zonas de pino palustre y de prados costeros con pinos, han dado las siguientes especies nuevas para Mississippi: Chamaecrista deeringiana, Cladium mariscoides, Dichanthelium fusiforme, Dryopteris ludoviciana, Eleocharis elongata, E. melanocarpa, E. robbinsii, Isoetes louisianensis, Lobelia boykinii, Mitreola angustifolia, Rhynchospora decurrens, R. globularis var. pinetorum, R. harperi, Rhynchospora scirpoides, Sagittaria isoetiformis, Scleria reticularis sensu stricto, Spiranthes brevilabris var. floridana, Utricularia olivacea. Las siguientes se conocan previamente del estado, pero se colectan raramente o representan una ampliacin significativa de su areal er Mississippi: Agrimonia incisa, Aristida condensata, A. simpliciflora, A. tuberculosa, Burmannia biflora, Calopogon multiflorus, Coelorachis cylindrica, Dichanthelium erectifolium, Elyoneurus tripsacoides, Gordonia lasianthus, Isoetes melanopoda, Juncus gymnocarpus, Marshallia trinervia, Myriophyllum laxum, Parnassia grandifolia, Polygala leptostachys, Potamogeton epihydrus, Rhynchospora curtissii, R. fascicularis var. distans, R. nitens, R. tracyi, Ruellia pedunculata ssp. pinetorum, Sorghastrum apalachicolense, Stylisma aquatica, S. pickeringii, Tridens carolinianus.
41968899|Two new species of Poaceae, Tripogon sivarajanii Sunil and T. vellarianus Pradeep from the Western Ghats of Kerala, India are described and illustrated. Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Poaceae, Tripogon sivarajanii Sunil y T. vellarianus Pradeep de los Western Ghats de Kerala, India.
41968901|Mentzelia conspicua T.K. Todsen, endemic to the Rio Chama basin of New Mexico, is illustrated and described. It is compared to a similar species, Mentzelia laciniata (Gray) Darl. The distribution of the two species in Rio Arriba County is shown. Se ilustra y se describe Mentzelia conspicua T.K. Todsen, endmica de la cuenca del Ro Chama en Nuevo Mxico. Se compra con la especie semejante, Mentzelia laciniata (Gray) Darl. Se muestra la distribucin de las dos especies en el condado de Ro Arriba.
41968895|A review of herbarium specimens of Myrsine for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana project revealed the presence of a distinctive new taxon from the Serra de Lua in the adjacent Territorio do Roraima, Brazil. Myrsine luae is described and illustrated, and its relationship to its nearest congener, Myrsine guianensis is discussed. An outline map showing the type locality is provided. Al estudiar pliegos del herbario pertenecientes al gnero Myrsine de la guayana venezolana, se encontr una especie nueva para la ciencia proveniente de la Serra de Lua, del Territorio do Roraima, Brazil; la zona brasilea adyacente a la guayana venezolana. Se describe, se ilustre y se discute el parentezco de la nueva especie, Myrsine luae. Tambin incluye un mapa mostrando la localidad tipa.
41968881|A new genus, Villasenoria (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), is described and a new combination, Villasenoria orcuttii (Greenm.) B.L. Clark, comb, nov., is proposed. Se describe un nuevo gnero, Villasenoria (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), y se propone una nueva combinacin, Villasenoria orcuttii (Greenm.) B.L. Clark, comb. nov.
41968902|Recent revisionary and cladistic studies in Nuphar Sm. resulted in the following nomenclatural amendments: two novel sections are described (sect. Nuphar and sect. Astylus), five new combinations are proposed (N. advena subsp. orbiculata, N. advena subsp. ozarkana, N. advena subsp. ulvacea, N. pumila subsp. sinensis, N. pumila subsp. oguraensis), and one species, N. oguraensis Miki, is lectotypified. Los estudios recientes, cladsticos y revisiones de Nuphar Sm. dan por resultado las siguientes enmiendas nomenclaturales: se describen dos secciones nuevas (sect. Nuphar y sect. Astylus), se proponen cinco combinaciones nuevas (N. advena subsp. orbiculata, N. advena subsp. ozarkana, N. advena subsp. ulvacea, N. pumila subsp. sinensis, N. pumila subsp. oguraensis), y se lectotipifica N. ogaraensis.
41968885|A group of black-fruited Crataegus (Rosaceae) from the western United States is analysed. Crataegus erythopoda, a species with previously poorly understood affinities, is shown to be closely related to C. rivularis. The affinity of C. rivularis and C. saligna is reconfirmed. The three species form a clade subtended by C. brachyacantha and different from the clade containing C. douglasii and C. okennonii when analyzed by PAUP using 38 morphological characteristics. Crataegus rivularis and C. saligna are lectotypified. Se estudia un grupo de Crataegus (Rosaceae) con frutos negros del oeste de los Estados Unidos. Crataegus erythopoda, una especie con afinidades pobremente conocidas, se muestra que est muy relacionado con C. rivularis. Se reconfirma que C. rivularis es tambin muy afn a C. saligna. Las tres especies forman un ciado en cuya base se encuentra C. brachyacantha y que es diferente del ciado que contiene a C. douglasii y C. okennonii cuando se analiza mediante el PAUP usando 38 caractersticas morfolgicas. Se lectotipifican Crataegus rivularis y C. saligna.
41968894|The taxonomic revision of a neotropical group of taxa formerly placed by Lundell in Auriculardisia, Chontalesia, and Icacorea, resulted in the discovery that they were actually members of the otherwise Indo-Malesian genus, Hymenandra. The genus is defined by its filaments fused at least basally to form a staminal tube, the tube adnate to the base of the corolla tube and anthers connate along their longitudinal dehiscence sutures at least until anthesis. It is also noted that all species of the genus exhibit Fagerlind s Architectural Model, a model that is otherwise extremely restricted, and one whose vegetative vs. reproductive shoot dimorphism has led to taxonomic overdescription. Nine species of Hymenandra are recognized in the Neotropics, bringing the total number of species in the genus to 16. Owing to a lack of complete material for Indo-Malesian species, and previous workers' hesitancy to unequivocally assign all of those species to a subgenus, the neotropical group is transferred to the genus without circumscription of any subgenera. It is postulated that the geography of Hymenandra, now considered an amphipacific taxon, is consistent with that predicted by the Boreotropics Hypothesis, and its logical extension postulated by Wendt (1993) and Lavin and Luckow (1993), especially when viewed in light of the biogeography for the rest of the tribe Ardisieae. Each neotropical Hymenandra species is fully described, newly illustrated, and provided with citations for all taxonomic and nomenclatural synonyms. In addition to the general section on morphology, biogeography and ecology provided for the genus, each species is accompanied by a discussion of its distribution, ecology and conservation status, along with citation of specimens examined. Five binomials are newly relegated to synonymy, and one taxon, Hymenandra pittieri, is lectotypified. The following new combinations are made: Hymenandra stenophylla (Donn. Sm.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. calycosa (Hemsl.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. srdida (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. squamata (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. wilburiana (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. pittieri (Mez) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. callejasii (Pipoly) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. acutissima (Cuatrec.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. crosbyi (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. A complete list of exsiccatae is provided at the end for all collections examined. Al llevar a cabo una revisin taxonmica de un grupo comprendiendo taxa anteriormente clasificados por Lundell como pertenecientes a los gneros Auriculardisia, Chontalesia, y Icacorea, se revel que todos pertenecen al gnero indo-malesiano, Hymenandra. El gnero se define por sus filamentos conados, formndose un tubo estaminal, por lo menos en su base, adnado a la base del tubo corolino y con anteras conadas a lo largo de las hendiduras longitudinales de dehiscencia. Se note que todas las especies del gnero se caracterizan por exhibir el Modelo Arqutectural de Fagerlind, un modelo bastante nico y cuyo dimorfismo entre ramas vegetativas y reproductivas se ha ocasionado sobredescripcin taxonmica. Se reconocen nueve especies neotropicales de Hymenandra, sumando el total para el gnero hasta 16. Debido al hecho de que el material indo-malesio es muy incompleto, no se han podido asignar a un subgnero todas las especies. Por lo tanto, se transfierren las especies neotropicales al gnero sin circumscribir subgneros. Se postula que la geografa del gnero est de acuerdo con el patrn fitogeogrfico proveniente del Hiptesis Boreotropical, especialmente en vista de la distribucin y relaciones con el tribu Ardisieae. Adems de la seccin general sobre morfologa, biogeografa, y ecologa proveda para el gnero, se discute la distribucin geogrfica, ecologa y estado de conservacin, y se lista pliegos examinados para todos los taxa. Se relega cinco binomiales a la sinonimia, y se lectotipifica Hymenandra pittieri. Las nuevas combinaciones se incluyen a continuacin: The following new combinations are made: Hymenandra stenophylla (Donn. Sm.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. calycosa (Hemsl.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. srdida (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. squamata (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. wilburiana (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. pittieri (Mez) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. callejasii (Pipoly) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. acutissima (Cuatrec.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. crosbyi (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Se provee una lista completa de exsiccata al final del trabajo.
23909809|Dalea candida has been collected from the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province in Meigs County, Tennessee and Catoosa County, Georgia. This is the first report of the species from eastern Tennessee, Georgia and the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province.
23909800|Descriptions, habitats, ranges, frequencies, and flowering times of the four species of Sorghastrum indigenous to Florida are presented. Three-dimensional features of the inflorescences have proven critical in the discrimination of species. Past difficulties in identification are largely attributable to the two-dimensional aspects of the inflorescences seen in herbarium specimens. Sorghastrum apalachicolense D. W. Hall, endemic to Florida, is described from elevated spots in wet pine-wiregrass savannas.
23909804|Morphological, anatomical, and cytological data were used to show the taxonomic relationship between the perennial Digitaria milanjiana and the annual species of Digitaria section Digitaria (D. bicornis, D. ciliaris, D. horizontalis, D. nuda, D. saguinalis and D. setigera). A phenetic analysis showed populations of D. milanjiana form a distinct cluster separate from the most closely related annual (D. bicornis), and a statistical analysis showed these species differed significantly on 16 of the 20 characters measured. A nested analysis of variance gave corresponding results. Instead of characters pertaining to longevity, it is suggested that the total absence of leaf pubescence, the presence of spicules on the lower lemma nerves, a narrow lateral branch, and a short and narrow bract blade be used to segregate D. milanjiana from the annual taxa. An analysis of North American populations of D. milanjiana showed no justification for the recognition of subspecific categories of this species. In addition, general shape and average size of the epidermal long cells and the association of sclerenchyma tissue with second-order vascular bundles differed between the annual taxa and D. milanjiana. Cytologically, D. milanjiana was found to be both male and female sterile, whereas the annuals were highly male fertile and produced a normal embryo sac. It was concluded that a measurable and definable difference exists between D. milanjiana and the annual members of the section Digitaria.
23909802|The earlier and correct name for what has been called Iresine grandis Standl. actually is I. cassiniiformis Schauer. The species to which the latter name has been misapplied is recognized here as I. orientalis, sp. nov. Iresine orientalis is known from the mountains of Tamaulipas, Nuevo Len, San Luis Potos, Quertaro, and Hidalgo; its closest relative is I. discolor Greenm. from Oaxaca and Puebla.
41967400|Lesquerella lescurii (Gray) Watson, a mustard of limited distribution and threatened status, has heretofore been viewed as endemic to the Central Basin of Tennessee. Recent collections show that the species is well established northwest of the Basin on the Highland Rim, apparently due to migration along the Cumberland River. Collections from Dickson County, Tennessee, are cited, making a total of nine known county occurrences from that state. The species is reported as new to Kentucky (Trigg County).
41967398|Two new names and seven new combinations are proposed in species of Erigeron previously classified as Achaetogeron. For ten validly named Erigeron species to which names as Achaetogeron have been applied, synonymies are given. An index is presented to the current disposition of all names in Achaetogeron.
41967399|Naturalized populations of Nymphaea lotus are reported for the first time in the Western Hemisphere. A recently discovered population in Florida is discussed and additional records of N. lotus in Louisiana, Guyana, Panama, Venezuela, Colombia, and Brazil are presented.
41967394|The species Sida helleri is segregated out of Sida and placed in the new genus Billieturnera, named in honor of the noted Texas botanist, B. L. Turner. The new genus is of isolated taxonomic position but has a greater affinity with Abutilon than with Sida. It occurs in southern Texas and northeastern Mexico (Nuevo Len and Tamaulipas).
41967295|Strophostyles Elliott is the only genus within the Phaseolinae with a center of distribution in the United States. It comprises three species, namely S. helvula (L.) Elliott, S. umbellata (Willd.) Britton, and S. leiosperma (Torrey & A. Gray) Piper, and it is considered as allied to Dolicbopsis Hassler, a monotypic genus endemic to South America. This study analyses the leaf flavonoid content from the three Strophostyles species and Dolkhopsisparaguariensis Hassler with the aim of examining the phylogenetic relationships among taxa. We isolated 38 glycosides based on kaempferol, quercetin and isorhamnetin. All Strophostyles species were characterized by the presence of isorhamnetin glycosides. However, S. leiosperma showed a distinctive profile while S. helvula and S. umbellata clustered together. In contrast, D. paraguariensis lacked isorhamnetin-based compounds. A cladistic analysis of flavonoid plus morphological data supported Strophostyles monophyly and showed S. leiosperma as the sister taxon of the clade S. helvula-S. umbellata. Strophostyles Elliott es el nico gnero de las Phaseolinae con un centro de distribucin en los Estados Unidos. Comprende tres especies: S. helvula (L.) Elliott, S. umbellata (Willd.) Britton y S. leiosperma (Torrey & A. Gray) Piper, y se considera afn a Dolichopsis Hassler, un gnero monotipia) endmico de Sudamrica. Este estudio analiza el contenido de flavonoides foliares en las tres especies de Strophostyles y en Dolichopsis paraguariensis Hassler con el objeto de examinar las relaciones filogenticas entre estos taxa. Se aislaron 38 glicsidos de kaempferol, quercetina e isoramnetina. Todas las especies de Strophostyles se caracterizaron por la presencia de glicsidos de isoramnetina. Sin embargo, S. leiosperma mostr un perfil distintivo mientras que S. helvula and S. umbellata se agruparon juntas. Por el contrario, D. paraguariensis no sintetiz compuestos basados en la isoramnetina. Un anlisis cladstico conjunto de los datos de flavonoides y caracteres morfolgicos apoy la monofilia del gnero y mostr a S. leiosperma como el taxn hermano del ciado S. helvula-S. umbellata.
41967305|Caryopsis morphology of the grass genus Leptochloa was studied regarding the necessity of some authors for segregating Diplachne. The data do not support the separation of Diplachne from Leptochloa based on a putative bimodal distribution of dorsal and lateral cross-sectional compression. The presence or absence of a prominent sulcus and the relative adnation of the pericarp are the only attributes sufficiently distinct to warrant use as phylogenetic markers. However, variations in surface texture and color can be useful regionally as diagnostic characters at the species level. Se estudi la morfologa del caripside del gnero Leptochloa dada la supuesta necesidad de algunos autores de segregar Diplachne. Los datos no apoyan la separacin de Diplachne y Leptochloa basada en una supuesta distribucin bimodal de la compresin dorsal y en seccin transversal lateral. La presencia o ausencia de un surco prominente y la adnacin relativa del pericarpo son los nicos atributos suficientemente diferentes para justificar su uso como marcadores filogenticos. Sin embargo, las variaciones en textura y color de la superficie pueden ser tiles regionalmente como caracteres diagnsticos a nivel especfico.
41967311|Field and herbarium studies have documented Cyperus fuscus as new for Missouri and Nevada. Localities, habitat data, lists of associated species, description, illustrations, photo of habit, and discussion of weedy potential are presented. Los estudios de campo y de herbario han documentado Cyperus fuscus como nuevo para Missouri y Nevada. Se aportan localidades, datos del hbitat, listas de especies asociadas, descripcin, ilustraciones, foto del hbito, y discusin de su potencial como mala hierba.
41967294|In 1874 Sereno Watson described Atriplex nuttallii as a new species, citing his number 981 collection, made in 1868 from northern Nevada, as a representative. His collection consisted of three plants each collected from a separate population all mounted on one sheet. One is A. canescens, two are the new species, A. nuttallii. Failure to recognize the original collection and collection site of A. nuttallii has resulted in assignment of the name A. nuttallii to several different Atriplex species in western North America. However, by using quantitative as well as qualitative differences, A. nuttallii is readily distinguished from its near relatives A. cuneata, A. falcata, A. gardneri, and A. tridentata. The principal distinguishing features include plant size and habit, leaf dimensions, fruiting-bract size and shape, fruiting bract appendages, chromosome number, saponin content, flavonol content, dates of anthesis, and geographic distribution. En 1874 Sereno Watson describi Atriplex nuttallii como nueva especie, citando su recoleccin nmero 981, hecha en el norte del estado de Nevada, E.E.U.U., como representativa. Consiste esta recoleccin en tres plantas, de distintos lugares pero colocadas todas en un mismo pliego de herbario. Una de ellas es A. canescens y dos son de la nueva especie, A. nuttalli. El no darse cuenta los botnicos de la colecta original y su lugar de origen ha tenido como consecuencia la aplicacin del nombre de Atriplex nuttallii a varias otras especies de Atriplex del oeste de Norte Amrica. Sin embargo, usando tanto caractersticas cuantitativas como cualitativas, se distingue fcilmente A. nuttallii de las especies afines, A. cuneata, A. falcata, A. gardneri, y A. tridentata. Las caractersticas de mayor utilidad son la altura de la planta, las dimensiones de la hoja, la forma y tamao de las brcteas fructferas, sus apndices, el numero de cromosomas, contenido de saponinas, contenido de flavonoides, fecha de antesis, y la distribucin geogrfica.
41967312|A specific case of the forensic use of animal-dispersed propagules is presented, and it is suggested that this type of evidence deserves wider utilization by the law enforcement community. Animal dispersed seeds and fruits are ubiquitous, often cling tenaciously to clothes or other materials worn or used by suspects, and are small and frequently go unnoticed. Furthermore, their identification is relatively inexpensive and technically straightforward, and their presentation as evidence is visually and intuitively obvious, making it ideal for the courtroom. It is also suggested that forensic botany is an excellent topic to use as a case study in college botany or biology classes because of its inherent interest and integrative nature. In order to facilitate such usage, a brief review of some aspects of forensic botany is presented including references to pertinent literature. Se presenta un caso especfico de propgulos diseminados por animales en uso forense, y se sugiere que este tipo de evidencia puede tener mayor utilizacin en varios aspectos legales. Las semillas y frutos dispersados por animales estn por todas partes, a menudo se enganchan tenazmente a las ropas u otros materiales llevados o usados por sospechosos, y por ser pequeos pasan frecuentemente inadvertidos, adems, su identificacin es relativamente barata y tcnicamente sencilla, y su presentacin como prueba es obvia visual e intuitivamente, convirtindose en ideal para los juicios. Se sugiere tambin que la botnica forense es un tema excelente para ser usado como caso prctico en las clases de biologa por su inters inherente y naturaleza integrativa. Para facilitar ese uso se hace una breve revisin de algunos aspectos de la botnica forense incluyendo las referencias bibliogrficas pertinentes.
41967290|The genus Cybianthus was revised to provide taxonomic treatments of the Myrsinaceae for Flora of Peru, Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Ecuador, and Flora of Ecuador. Eight of Cybianthus' ten subgenera are represented, and an updated description of the genus, keys to its subgenera and emended descriptions for each are provided. Detailed descriptions of the morphology, anatomy and ecology of the genus are presented. Cybianthus subgenus Iteoides is relegated to synonymy under subgenus Microconomorpha. Within each subgenus, keys, full descriptions, synonymy, distribution, ecology and conservation statuses, local names and uses are given for each species. In addition, specimens are cited for each species, including extralimital ones to show extremes in morphological variation. Thirteen species are relegated to synonymy, nine names are lectotypified, and one, Conomorpha rigida, is neotypified. One new combination, Cybianthus guyanensis subsp. pseudoicacoreus, is made, and Cybianthus poeppigii is transferred from subgenus Cybianthus to subgenus Weigeltia. The following 15 new species are described, illustrated and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed: Cybianthus anthuriophyllus, C. cenepensis, C. comperuvianus, C. croatii, C. flavovirens, C. fosteri, C. grandezii, C. granulosus, C. huampamiensis, C. incognitus, C. jensonii, C. nestorii, C. pseudolongifolius, C. timanae, C. vasquezii. Al preparar tratamientos taxonmicos sobre la familia Myrsinaceae para los proyectos Flora del Per, Catdlago de las Plantas Vasculares del Ecuador, y Flora del Ecuador, se llev a cabo una revisin del gnero Cybianthus. Se encuentra en la regin ocho de los diez subgneros, y se proveen tanto una descripcin actualizada para el gnero como para cada subgnero tambin. Se presenta descripciones detalladas tratando la morfologa, anatoma y ecologa del gnero. Se relega Cybianthus subgnero Iteoides a la sinonimia bajo subgnero Microconomorpha, y se transfiere Cybianthus poeppigii del subgnero Cybianthus al subgnero Weigeltia. Para cada subgnero, se proveen claves, descripciones completas, sinonimia, distribucin geogrfica y estado actual de su conservacin, nombres locales y usos. Tambin se cita colecciones revisadas para cada especie, incluyendo ellas fuera de la regin delimitada cuando se muestran variacin morfolgica significativa. Se relegan 13 especies a la sinonimia, se lectotipifica 9 binomiales y uno, Conomorpha rgida, se neotipifica. Se publica la nueva combinacn, Cybianthus guyanensis subsp. pseudoicacoreus. Se describen, se ilustran y se discuten el parentezco para 15 especies nuevas, listadas a continuacin: Cybianthus anthuriophyllus, C. cenepensis, C. comperuvianus, C. croatii, C. flavovirens, C. fosteri, C. grandezii, C. granulosus, C. huampamiensis, C. incognitus, C. jensonii, C. nestorii, C. pseudolongifolius, C. timanae, C. vasquezii.
41967306|A new species of Xanthostemon, X. fruticosus, presently known only from the Palanan Wilderness in Isabela Province, Luzon, is described and its relationships discussed. Una nueva especie de Xanthostemon, X. fruticosus, en la actualidad solamente conocida de la Palanan Wilderness en la provincia de Isabela es descrita y sus relaciones con otras especies discutidas.
41967291|Botanical exploration of the Hans Meyer Range in southern New Ireland revealed the existence of two previously unknown taxa in the families Rubiaceae and Corsiaceae. The novelties, Psychotria osiana Takeuchi & Pipoly, (Rubiaceae) and Corsia purpurata var. wiakabui Takeuchi & Pipoly (Corsiaceae) are described and illustrated. Taxonomic and ecological notes are also provided for the new taxa. Wanpela wok bus long sait bilong botani ibin kamap long ol lain maunten bilong Hans Meyer, Niu Hand Province, long yia 1994. Dispela wokbus o stadi ibin kamapim tupela niupela samting. Wanpela em sotpela diwai bilong famili Rubiaisi. Namba tu em wanpela liklik gras nating bilong famili Korsiasi. Tupela igat nem olsem: Psychotria osiana na Corsia purpurata var. wiakabui. Dispela stori i tok klia na soim tu sampela piksa bilong tupela.
41967310|The following 15 taxa are documented new to Texas: Alternanthera sessilis, Cyperus eragrostis, Urochloa ramosa, Lindernia crustacea, Phyllanthus fraternus, Stellaria parva, Alysicarpus vaginalis, Cardamine debilis, Rhynchospora debilis, Lilaeopsis chinensis, Rumex paraguayensis, Saccharum coarctatum, Utricularia foliosa, Polygonum meisnerianum, and Cuscuta polygonorum. Significant new collections records are provided for five: Scirpus cubense, Polygonum cespitosum, Phyllanthus niruri, Ludwigia microcarpa, and Armoracia lacustris. Data are presented to question the presence of Eleocharis compressa in Texas. Taxa are listed alphabetically by family, genus, and species with annotations and citation of voucher specimens. Los siguientes 15 taxa se citan como nuevos para Texas: Alternanthera sessilis, Cyperus eragrostis, Urochloa ramosa, Lindernia crustacea, Phyllanthus fraternus, Stellaria parva, Alysicarpus vagina I is, Cardamine debilis, Rhynchospora debilis, Lilaeopsis chinensis, Rumex paraguay ens is, Saccharum coarctatum, Utriculariafoliosa, Polygonum meisnerianum, y Cuscuta polygonorum. Se ofrecen nuevas citas importantes para cinco: Scirpus cubense, Polygonum cespitosum, Phyllanthus niruri, Ludwigia microcarpa, y Armoracia lacustris. Se presentan datos para cuestionar la presencia de Eleocharis compressa en Texas. Los taxa estn listados alfabticamente por familia, gnero, y especie con anotaciones y citas de los pliegos testigo.
41967307|We compared seasonal changes in concentrations of four elements, arsenic, cadmium, copper and lead, in samples of various tissues of creosotebush collected in the El Paso, USA/Ciudad Juarez, Mexico region during 1980-81 and 1994-95. Levels in leaf tissue changed seasonally, with concentrations dropping in the spring and late fall, corresponding to the time of leaf drop in the plant. This suggests that most of the heavy metals were simply deposited on the surface of leaves, although data are presented which indicate that internal tissues also have significant levels of heavy metals. These seasonal cycles were less pronounced in the most recent samples. Levels of all four elements in cresotebush were significantly high in the region, as compared to a distant control area. Concentrations of most elements dropped below detection limits within 12 to 30 km from areas of highest concentration. Densities of native Chihuahuan Desert flora and lichens are low in the area, suggesting an apparent negative impact of industrial pollution on the local vegetation. Cadmium and lead levels in creosotebush tissues have dropped over the past 15 years, suggesting that enforcement and strengthening of environmental laws has reduced the air pollution levels in the El Paso area. Comparamos los cambios estacionales de las concentraciones de 4 elementos, arsnico, cadmio, cobre y plomo, en muestras de varios tejidos de gobernadora colectados en el rea de El Paso y Ciudad Jurez, Mxico durante 1980-81 y 1994-95. Se encontr un cambio estacional de los metales con las concentraciones disminuyendo en la primavera y otoo, que coresponden al momento de la cada de las hojas de la planta. Esto sugiere que hay deposicin de los elementos en la superficie de las hojas, aunque presentamos datos de que hay acumulacin de metales en los tejidos interiores. Estos ciclos estacionales estn menos pronunciados en los ltimos aos. Los niveles de los elementos son altos en la regin, pero estn concentrados en un rea entre 12 y 30 kilmetros del rea con concentraciones ms altas. Las densidades de la flora y lquenes en el rea son bajas, sugiriendo un impacto negativo de la polucin industrial en la vegetacin local. Los niveles de cadmio y plomo en los tejidos ha disminuido en los ltimos 15 aos, lo que sugiere que la aplicacin de las leyes medioambientales ha reducido los niveles de polucin en el rea de El Paso.
41967304|The Sporobolus floridanus complex is defined to include five North American species. Keys, descriptions, distributions, illustrations, and habitat information are provided for: S. curtissii, S. floridanus, S. silveanus, S. teretifolius, and a new member of the complex from North Carolina, South Carolina, and eastern Georgia, Sporoboluspinetorum Weakley and P. M. Peterson. A lectotype is chosen for S. floridanus. The taxonomic and ecological relationships of these five species, as well as the related S". junceus and S. heterolepis, are compared and discussed. Sporobolus curtissii, S. floridanus, S. pinetorum, S. silveanus, and S. teretifolius are all relatively narrow endemics of various portions of the southeastern Coastal Plain. Each of these five species is the locally dominant or codominant grass in fire-maintained pinelands with open canopies of Pinus palus tris, P. serotina, and/or P. elliottii var. elliottii. The geographic distributions and many ecological requirements of the S. curtissii, S. floridanus, S. pinetorum, and S. teretifolius overlap, but they can be separated on a hydrologie gradient. El complejo Sporobolus floridanus es definido para incluir cinco especies de Norte America. Se proporcionan claves, descripciones, distribucin, ilustraciones, e informacin del habitat para: S. curtissii, S. floridanus, S. silveanus, S. teretifolius, y un nuevo miembro del complejo de Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur y del este de Georgia, Sporobolus pinetorum Weakley & P. M. Peterson. Un lectotipo es escogido para S. floridanus. Las relaciones taxonomicas y ecolgicas de estas cinco especies, asi como de las especies afines S. junceus y S. heterolepis, son comparadas y discutidas. Sporobolus curtissii, S. floridanus, S. pinetorum, S. silveanus, y S. teretifolius son todas relativamente endmicas restringidas a varias partes del sureste de la llanura costera. Cada una de las cinco especies, es el pasto localmente dominante o codominate en terrenos de pinos mantenidos por quemas con dosel abierto de Pinuspalustris, P. sertina, y/o P. elliottii var. elliottii. La distribucin geogrfica y muchos de los requerimientos ecolgicos de S. curtissii, S. floridanus, S. pinetorum, y S. teretifolius se solapan, pero pueden ser separados en base a un gradiente hidrolgico.
41967298|In preparation for a forthcoming treatment of the Apocynaceae of Mexico, a routine examination of herbarium specimens revealed the following new species, Mandevilla pringlei J.K. Williams, sp. nov. The new species is distinct from other members of its alliance (sect. Torosae) in having subsessile leaves and larger peduncles and flowers. In addition, Mandevilla apocynifolia (A. Gray) Woodson is here presented to be a synonym of M. foliosa (Mll. Arg.) Hemsl. En la preparacin de un prximo tratamiento de las Apocynaceae de Mxico, un examen de rutina de los especmenes de herbario revel la nueva especie siguiente, Mandevilla pringlei J. K. Williams, sp. nov. La nueva especie se distingue de otros miembros de su alianza (sect. Torosae) por tener hojas subssiles, y pednculos y flores ms grandes. Adems, Mandevilla apocynifolia (A. Gray) Woodson se presenta aqu como un sinnimo de M. foliosa (Mll. Arg.) Hemsl.
41967300|In preparation for a forthcoming treatment of the Apocynaceae of Mexico, it was discovered that Echites holoserkea of Sess & Mo. has priority over the species Mandevilla sertuligera Woodson and M. syrinx Woodson, accordingly Mandevilla holoserkea (Sess & Mo.) J. K. Williams comb. nov. is here proposed. En la preparacin de un prximo tratamiento de las Apocynaceae de Mxico, se descubri que Echites holoserkea Sess & Mo. tiene prioridad sobre Mandevilla sertuligera Woodson y M. syrinx Woodson, como consecuencia se propone Mandevilla holoserkea (Sess & Mo.) J. K. Williams comb. nov.
41967308|Twenty-six vascular plant species are reported here for the flora of Dominica, in the Lesser Antilles. These include two pteridophytes, 13 monocotyledons, and 11 dicotyledons. Four of these species are reported as new to the Lesser Antilles: Marsilea polycarpa Hook. & Grev., Diplacrum capitatum (Willd.) Boeck., Rhynchospora racemosa Wright ex Sauvalle, and Pharus lappulaceus Aubl. Se citan 26 plantas vasculares adicionales para la flora de Dominica en las Antillas Menores. Estas especies incluyen dos pteridfitos, 13 monocotiledneas y 11 dicotiledneas. Cuatro de estas especies se presentan como nuevas para la flora de las Antillas Menores: Marsilea polycarpa Hook. & Grev., Diplacrum capitatum (Willd.) Boeck., Rhynchospora racemosa Wright ex Sauvalle, y Pharus lappulaceus Aubl.
41967309|The widespread Old World adder's-tongue, Ophioglossum polyphyllum A. Br. is reported for the first time in North America. Formerly confused with O. engelmannii Prantl, we now recognize as O. polyphyllum collections from U.S.A. (Texas and Arizona) and Mexico (Hidalgo, Oaxaca, San Luis Potos, and Zacatecas). The earliest confirmed collection was in 1874. The two species are keyed out and illustrated, and specimens of O. polyphyllum are listed. The known county distribution of the species in Texas is mapped, and the habitat and phenology are briefly described. La lengua de serpiente del Viejo Mundo, muy frecuente, Ophioglossum polyphyllum A. Br. se cita por primera vez en Norte Amrica. Previamente confundida con O. engelmannii Prantl, reconocemos ahora como O. polyphyllum colectas de E.E.U.U. (Texas y Arizona) y Mexico (Hidalgo, Oaxaca, San Luis Potos, y Zacatecas). La primera colecta confirmada fue en 1874. Se ofrece una clave de identificacin y se ilustran las dos especies, y se listan los especmenes de O. polyphyllum. Se cartografa la distribucin conocida por condados en Texas, y se describen brevemente el hbitat y la fenologa.
41967296|Ruellia jimulcensis Villarreal sp. nov., from the Jimulco mountains area (southwestern Coahuila and northeast Durango), is described and illustrated. It is similar to R. occidentalis (Gray) Tharp and Barkley, and recognized by its relatively smaller flowers, shorter corolla basal tube and its distribution. Ruellia jimulcensis Villarreal sp. nov. del rea de las montaas de Jimulco (suroeste de Coahuila y noreste de Durango), es descrita e ilustrada. Es similar a R. occidentalis (Gray) Tharp y Barkley, y se reconoce por sus flores ms pequeas, tubo basai de la corola ms corto y su distribucin.
41967292|Three new species of Crataegus, C. okennonii J. B. Phipps (from series Douglasianae), C. okanaganens is J. B. Phipps & O'Kennnon (from the newly described series Purpureofructi J. B. Phipps & O'Kennon), and C. phippsii O'Kennon (near series Molles) are described from western North America. All are striking, widespread taxa with a substantial number of records. Tres nuevas especies de Crataegus, C. okennonii J.B. Phipps (de la serie Douglasianae), C. okanaganensisJ. B. Phipps & O'Kennnon (de la nueva serie descrita Purpureofructi J.B. Phipps & O'Kennon), y C. phippsii O'Kennon (prximo a la serie Molles) se describen del oeste de Norte Amrica. Todos son taxa sorprendentes y de amplia difusin con un sustancial nmero de citas.
41967297|Se describe e ilustra Agave gracilis de los estados de Guerrero y Oaxaca, Mxico. La especie pertenece al grupo Striatae Baker, del subgnero Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker, y muestra similitudes con A. dasylirioides Jacobi & Bouch. Agave gracilis from Guerrero and Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The species is a member of group Striatae Baker, subgenus Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker. It is similar to A. dasylirioides Jacobi & Bouch.
41967302|Trachypogon mayansis, a new species from the Maya Mountains in Belize, is described and illustrated. A key is provided to separate it from other species in Central America. Trachypogon mayansis is readily distinguished from other Central American species by its annual life cycle, height, leaf blade length and width, and prominent and conspicuous sheath auricles/ligules, that can reach to 6 cm in length. Se describe y ilustra una especie nueva, Trachypogon mayansis, de las montaas Maya de Belize. Se presenta una clave para separarla de las otras especies Centro-americanas. T. mayansis se distingue fcilmente de ortras especies Centro-americanas por su ciclo de vida anual, altura, longitud y anchura de las lminas foliares, sus lgulas con aurculas prominentes y conspicuas, y que pueden llegar hasta 6 cm de largo.
41967636|Pollen descriptions of Echinopepon species and a palynological key are presented. Data on apertures, exine, polarity, shape, and size of pollen grains are included. Pollen morphology is distinctive for the species of Echinopepon and Echinocystis and in some Marah species. The main features of each taxon are illustrated by photographs. Se presenta la descripcin del polen de las especies de Echinopepon. Se incluyen datos de la apertura, exina, polaridad, forma y tamao de los granos, asi como una clave palinolgica para su identificacin. La morfologa polnica es caracterstica en Echinopepon y distintiva de Echinocystis y de algunas especies de Marah. Se ilustra con fotografas las caractersticas principales de cada taxon.
41967648|Chromosome counts for 14 species of Carex section Ovales are documented completing at least a single report for each of the over 40 species known for eastern North America. The haploid numbers in this report ranged from n = 24 to n = 42. Counts for Carex feta, C. muskingumensis, C. oronensis, and C. tetrastachya were determined for the first time and six aneuploid (sensu lato) series are indicated. The only previously published counts for C. adusta, C. argyrantha, and C. foenea (C. aened) were found to be incorrect. Se documentan los recuentos de 14 especies de Carex seccin Ovales completando al menos una cita de las ms de 40 especies conocidas del este de Amrica del Norte. Los nmeros haploides varan de n = 24 hasta n = 42. Se hacen por primera vez recuentos de Carex feta, C. muskingumensis, C. oronensis, y C tetrastachya y se indican seis series aneuploides (sensu lato). Los nicos recuentos previos de C adusta, C. argyrantha, y C. foenea (C. aenea) se ha encontrado que son incorrectos.
41967631|Seedling development is described for Chamaesyce hirta, C. hypericifolia, and C. mesembrianthemifolia as discerned by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Although these species ultimately develop erect to ascending growth habits, epicotyl development is limited to the production of a single pair of leaves located immediately superjacent to and decussate with the cotyledons. The shoot system develops from one or more buds located in the axils of the cotyledons. In all respects, seedling ontogeny is very similar to that of previously studied prostrate species of Chamaesyce. Evidence from seedling ontogeny thus contradicts a hypothesis concerning homologies of plant form pertinent to the origin of Chamaesyce from Euphorbia that was first articulated by Roeper in 1824. These results support an alternative hypothesis based on proliferation of branches from the cotyledonary node in hypothetical ancestral elements within Euphorbia where this morphology can be found in perennial hemicryptophytes as well as certain annual species. Se describe el desarrollo de la semilla de Chamaesyce hirta, C. hypericifolia, y C. mesembrianthemifolia al microscopio ptico y microscopio electrnico de barrido. Aunque estas especies desarrollan finalmente hbitos de crecimiento de erectos a ascendentes, el desarrollo del epictilo se limita nicamente a la produccin de un par de hojas localizadas inmediatamente encima y decusadas con los cotiledones. El sistema de ramas se desarrolla a partir de una o ms yemas localizadas en las axilas de los cotiledones. La ontogenia de la semilla es en todos los aspectos muy semejante a la de las especies de Chamaesyce postradas estudiadas previamente. Esta evidencia de la ontogenia de la semilla contradice la hiptesis relativa a las homologas, de la forma de la planta, relativas al origen de Chamaesyce & partir de Euphorbia emitida por Roeper en 1824. Estos resultados apoyan la hiptesis alternativa basada en la proliferacin de ramas a partir del nudo de los cotiledones en los hipotticos elementos ancestrales de Euphorbia donde puede encontrarse esta morfologa en hemicriptfitos perennes as como en algunas especies anuales.
41967621|The new species Arnoglossum album is described. Its phyllaries have prominently winged keelsa feature shared with A diversifolium, A. floridanum, A. phntagineum, and A sulcatum. Comparisons among members of this closely knit assemblage include morphology, phenology, ecological setting, and range, and a key is provided to distinguish the species. Se describe una especie nueva Arnoglossum album. Sus filarios tienen quillas aladas prominentesuna caracterstica que comparte con A. diversifolium, A. floridanum, A. phntagineum, y A. sulcatum. Las comparaciones entre miembros de este conjunto fuertemente reticulado incluye morfologa, fenologa, caractersticas ecolgicas y areal. Se ofrece una clave para diferenciar las especies.
41967628|Continuing studies on the Clusiaceae for Flora de Colombia, and fieldwork to document the phytodiversity of Ro amb Natural Reserve have revealed two new species, Clusia bernardoi Pipoly & Cogollo, and C. tetragono. Pipoly & Cogollo. The new species are described, illustrated, and hypotheses of their phylogenetic positions are proposed. Corrections to bibliographic errors in citations for Clusia sect. Oedematopus and Clusia sect. Havetiopsis are provided. The new combination Clusia comans (Mart.) Pipoly is validated. Colombian and related Andean Venezuelan species formerly included in the genus Oedematopus are transferred to Clusia, necessitating the new combinations: C. aristeguietae (Maguire) Pipoly, C divaricata (Cuatrec.) Pipoly, C. epiphytica (Cuatrec.) Pipoly, C. mirandensis (Cuatrec.) Pipoly. Estudios hacia un tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Clusiaceae para Flora de Colombia y para documentar la fitodivdersidad de la Reserva Natural Ro Namb, revelaron dos especies nuevas para la ciencia, Clusia bernardoi Pipoly & Cogollo, y C. tetragona Pipoly & Cogollo. Se describen, se ilustran y se proponen hipteses de parentezco para las nuevas especies. Errores bibliogrficos previamente publicados para Clusia secciones Oedematopus y Havetiopsis se corrigen. La nueva combinacin Clusia comans (Mart.) Pipoly se valida. Especies colombianas y venezolanas de la regin Andina anteriormente consideradas como miembros del gnero Oedematopus se transfieren a Clusia, resultando en las nuevas combinaciones: C. aristeguietae (Maguire) Pipoly, C. divaricata (Cuatrec.) Pipoly, C. epiphytica (Cuatrec.) Pipoly, C. mirandensis (Cuatrec.) Pipoly.
41967641|Crepidomanes indicum, a new species of filmy fern is described and illustrated from southern Western Ghats of India. Se describe e ilustra Crepidomanes indicum, una nueva especie de helcho membranoso de los Ghats del suroeste de la India.
41967624|Documentation of the flora of the Natural Reserve Ro amb has resulted in the discovery of a heretofore undescribed species, Ardisia niambiensis. The species is described, illustrated and its salient morphological features are elucidated. Ardisia niambiensis is best placed in subgenus Ardisia because of its terminal, glandular-papillate, paniculate inflorescences with tripinnate branches, and the evenly divided, 5-lobed calyx, whose symmetric lobes have glandular-ciliolate margins. It is most closely related to Ardisia premontana, a taxon endemic to the eastern slopes of the Eastern Andean Cordillera of southern Ecuador and Peru. Al documentar la flora de la Reserva Natural Ro Namb, se encontr una nueva especie, Ardisia niambiensis. Se describe, se ilustra y se discuten sus caracteres principales y sobresalientes. Ardisia niambiensis se ubica mejor dentro del subgnero Ardisia debido a sus panculas terminales y glandular-papillosas con ramificacin tripinnada, su cliz simtricamente dividido con lbulos simtricos y glandular-ciliolados a lo largo de los margenes. La nueva especie es muy afn a Ardisia premontana, una especie endmica a la falda oriental de la Cordillera Oriental del Ecuador y Per.
41967626|Documentation of the flora of the Natural Reserve Ro amb has resulted in the discovery of a heretofore undescribed species, Clusia niambiensis. The species is described, illustrated and its salient morphological features are elucidated. While its vegetative morphology is reminiscent of both Clusia laurifolia and C. venusta, the free, numerous, and subulate stamens with a central mass of staminodia producing a waxy resin indicate it is a member of section Chhmydoclusia rather than section Retinostemon, where the aforementioned congeners belong. At present, the relationships of Clusia niambiensis within section Chlamydoclusia, are unknown. It is anticipated that continuing studies of the genus, leading to a treatment of the family for Flora de Colombia, will resolve this problem. Al documentar la flora de la Reserva Natural Ro amb, se encontr una nueva especie, Clusia niambiensis. Se describe, se ilustra y se discuten sus caracteres principales y sobresalientes. Mientras que sus caracteres vegetativos son muy semejantes a los de Clusia laurifolia y C. venusta, sus estambres libres, numerosos y subulados indican claramente que C. niambiensis pertenece a la seccin Chlamydo clusia y no a la seccin Retinostemon, donde se ubican las otras especies congenricas susodichas. En este momento, no se sabe exactamente la ubicacin taxonmica de Clusia niambiensis dentro de la seccin Chlamydoclusia. Esperamos que a travs de los estudios en proceso para el tratamiento taxonmico de la familia para Flora de Colombia, se pueda resolver este problema.
41967633|A taxonomic revision of Ardisia subgenus Graphardisia is presented, including an emended description of the subgenus, a key to the species and subspecies, along with updated descriptions and new illustrations for each taxon. Six taxa are recognized, including three new combinations: Ardisia opegrapha subsp. paquitensis (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, A. opegrapha subsp. wagneri (Mez) Pipoly & Ricketson, and A. bartlettii subsp. lilacina (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Four binomials, Ardisia weberbaueri, A. opegrapha, A. wagneri and A. albovirens, are lectotypified and twenty-one are newly relegated to synonymy. Ardisia nigrovirens J. F. Macbr. is relegated to synonymy under A. albovirens Mez, and both are excluded from subgenus Graphardisia. Se presenta una revisin taxonmica del gnero Ardisia subgnero Graphardisia. Se provee una descripcin actualizada del subgnero junto con una clave para identificar las especies y subespecies, descripciones acutalizadas y nuevas ilustraciones para cada taxon. Se reconoce seis taxa, incluyendo tres combinaciones nuevas: Ardisia opegrapha subsp. paquitensis (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, A. opegrapha subsp. wagneri (Mez) Pipoly & Ricketson, y A. bartlettii subsp. lilacina (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Se lectotipifican cuatro binomiales: Ardisia weberbaueri, A. opegrapha, A. wagneri y A. albovirens y se relega veintiuno a la sinonimia. Tambin, Ardisia nigrovirens se relega bajo sinonimia de A. albovirens, y ambas se excluyen del subgnero Graphardisia.
41967647|Se realiz un inventario de las especies vegetales que son utilizadas con fines ornamentales en el rea metropolitana de Monterrey, encontrndose que se cuenta con 137 especies pertenecientes a 68 familias, de las cuales Fraxinus sp., Ligustrum lucidum Ait., Rosa centifolia L. y Melia azedarach L. son las especies ms frecuentes. An inventory was taken of the ornamental plants in the metropolitan area of Monterrey. We found 137 species in 68 families. The most frequent species are Fraxinus sp., Ligustrum lucidum Ait., Rosa centifolia L. and Melia azedarach L.
41967622|The following new combinations and new name are proposed: Packera bolanderi var. harfordii (Greenm.) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera dimorphophylla var. intermedia (T.M. Barkley) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera dimorphophylla var. paysoni (T.M. Barkley) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera pseudaurea var. flavula (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera psudaurea semicordata (Mack. & Bush) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera neomexicana var. toumeyi (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb. nov.; Packera neomexicana var. metcalfei (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb. nov.; and Packera buekii D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, nom. nov. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones y nuevo nombre: Packera bolanderi var. harfordii (Greenm.) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera dimorphophylla var. intermedia (T.M. Barkley) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera dimorphophylla var. paysoni (T.M. Barkley) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera pseudaurea var. flavula (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera pseudaurea var. semicordata (Mack. & Bush) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera neomexicana var. toumeyi (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera neomexicana var. metcalfei (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; y Packera buekii D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, nom. nov.
41967639|Lundell (1981a, 1986) published 68 new names and combinations for binomials in Ardisia and Myrsine. In both papers, he indicated that he was opposed to placement of the taxa involved in those genera and that the combinations and new names were provided in anticipation of future circumscriptions of the genera. We agree with Morales (1997) that in doing so, Lundell inadvertently invalidated his new names and combinations, according to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature Article 34.1. To remedy the situation, the following new combinations are proposed m Myrsine: M.. calcarata (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly and M. juergensenii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; the other seven Lundell combinations are taxonomic synonyms and thus, not in need of validation. In addition to those combinations validated by Morales (1997) in Ardisia, 27 new combinations are made, nine new names are proposed, and for those taxa described by Lundell in the segregate genus Icacorea Aublet but never transferred, five new combinations are proposed. The remaining 17 binomials are taxonomic synonyms and therefore, are not validated. Lundell (1981a, 1986) public 68 nombres y combinaciones nuevos para binomiales en los gneros Ardisia y Myrsine. En ambos trabajos, el indic que no estaba de acuerdo con la ubicacin taxnmica de los taxa dentro de los gneros susodichos y que se estaba llevando a cabo las combinaciones y nombres nuevos para anticipar circumscripciones futuras que podran ser descritas para los gneros. Estamos de acuerdo con Morales (1997) quien consideraba que Lundell, por haber dicho eso claramente, invalid sus nombres y combinaciones nuevos segn el Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica (ICBN) Artculo 34.1. Para corregir esta situacin, las combinaciones nuevas se proponen dentro del gnero Myrsine: M. calcarata (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly, y M. juergensenii (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly; las otras siete combinaciones que hizo Lundell se consideran como sinnimos taxonmicos y por lo tanto, no necesitan ser transferidos. Adems de las combinaciones validadas por Morales (1977) dentro de Ardisia, se proponen 27 combinaciones nuevas y nueve nombres nuevos. Para los taxa descrito por Lundell dentro del gnero segregado como Icacorea Aublet, pero nunca transferidos al gnero Ardisia, se transfierren cinco combinaciones nuevas. Los 17 binomiales restantes son sinnimos taxonmicos y por lo tanto, no necesitan ser transferidos.
41967634|Se describe e ilustra Polianthes bicolor, una nueva especie del estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Esta especie muestra similitudes con Polianthesgeminiflora (La Llave et Lex.) Rose var. geminiflora, Polianthesgeminiflora (La Llave et Lex.) Rose var. clivicola McVaugh y Polianthes graminifolia Rose. Polianthes bicolor from the state of Oaxaca, Mxico, is described as new and illustrated. This species is similar to Polianthes geminiflora (La Llave et Lex.) Rose var. geminiflora, Polianthes geminiflora (La Llave et Lex.) Rose var. clivicola McVaugh and Polianthes graminifolia Rose.
41967642|Oritrophium durangense Nesom, sp. nov., is described from the Sierra Madre of southern Durango, Mexico. It is the second species of the genus known from Mexico, following another recently described from the northeastern slopes of Pico de Orizaba in Veracruz, about 1000 kilometers northwest of the Durango locality. The remainder of the species of Oritrophium occur in montane habitats of northern South America. Se describe Oritrophium durangense Nesom, sp. nov., de la Sierra Madre del sur de Durango, Mxico. Es la segunda especie del gnero que se conoce en Mxico, despus de otra recientemente descrita de las laderas noreste del Pico de Orizaba en Veracruz, unos 1000 kilmetros al noroeste de la localidad de Durango. Las otras especies de Oritrophium se dan en habitats del norte de Amrica del Sur.
41967645|The ten species of Agalinis known to occur in the Ozark Highlands are treated floristically. A key to the species is presented along with descriptions, flowering time, ecological data, and distribution maps. In addition, taxa considered rare are noted and their current statuses indicated. Se trataron las diez especies de Agalinis conocidas de los "Ozark Highlands." Se presenta una clave de las especies, con descripciones, datos fenolgicos y ecolgicos, y mapas de distribucin. Adems, se anota el estado actual de las especies raras.
41967644|Recent collections and herbarium specimen study resulted in this review of the status of the 121 taxa in the genus Carex occurring the state of Arkansas, USA. A list of these taxa provides frequency and habitat data, while county dot maps show known distribution. The list gives additional information on selected taxa, especially on rare species, on taxa previously considered rare in Arkansas, or on nine taxa reported new to Arkansas. This paper considers several taxa as distinct which were previously treated as synonyms by other authors. It reports four hybrids, and treats taxa excluded from the Arkansas flora, as well as taxa considered to be possible additions to the state flora. Recientes recolecciones estudios de especmenes de herbario dieron como resultado esta revisin del estatus de los 121 taxa del gnero Carex del estado de Arkansas, USA. Una lista de estos taxa ofrece datos de frecuencia y habitat, mientras que los mapas de condados muestran la distribucin conocida. La lista da informacin adicional de taxa selectos, especialmente de especies raras, de taxa considerados raros previamente en Arkansas, o de los nueve taxa citados como nuevos para Arkansas. Este trabajo considera como distintos varios taxa que haban sido tratados como sinnimos por otros autores. Se citan cuatro hbridos, y se tratan taxa excluidos de la flora de Arkansas, as como taxa considerados como posibles adiciones a la flora del estado.
41967630|Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies del gnero Malaxis (Malaxideae, Orchidaceae) para Mxico, Malaxispalustris y Malaxis alvaroi. La primera crece en el estado de Morelos y la segunda se conoce de los estados de Morelos y Guanajuato. Malaxispalustris and Malaxis alvaroi (Malaxideae, Orchidaceae), two new species from Mexico, are described and illustrated. The former grows in Morelos and the latter is known from Morelos and Guanajuato.
41967638|Plants from southeast Texas and adjacent Louisiana previously identified in part as BerUndiera xbetonicifolia are regarded here as geographical variants of B. pumila and are treated as B. pumila var. scabrella Nesom & Turner, var. nov. Variety pumila and var. scabrella differ in features of cauline and foliar vestiture, that of the upper leaf surfaces allowing the most consistent separation. The type collection of B. betonicifolia (Hook.) Small (Silphium betonicifolium Hook., 1835) represents a species distinct from B. pumila and comprises plants previously identified by the name B. texana DC. (1836), which is displaced by the former. While the morphology of B. pumila var. scabrella has suggested that it originated as a hybrid between typical B. pumila and B. betonicifolia, there is no evidence of current hybridization between these two species. Plantas del sudeste de Texas y la parte adyacente de Louisiana identificadas previamente en parte como Berlandiera xbetonicifolia son consideradas aqu como variantes geogrficas de B. pumila y son tratadas como B. pumila var. scabrella Nesom & Turner, var. nov. La variedad pumila y var. scabrella difieren en caractersticas del indumento caulinar y foliar, siendo la del haz la que permite una mejor separacin. El tipo de B. betonicifolia (Hook.) Small (Silphium betonicifolium Hook., 1835) representa una especie distinta de B. pumila y comprende plantas previamente identificadas como B. texana DC. (1836), que es desplazada por la anterior. Mientras que la morfologa de B. pumila var. scabrella ha sugerido que se form como un hbrido B. pumila tpica y B. betonicifolia, no hay evidencia de hibridacin actual entre estas dos especies.
41967643|Morphological analysis led to the conclusion that Florida Semaphore Cactus is a distinct species. That conclusion is congruent with genetic studies reported elsewhere. Our plants are properly called Opuntia corallicoh (Small) Werdermann (O. subgenus Consoled). The Florida plants are not O. spinosissima, as recorded in recent literature. Indeed, the Florida plants are probably more closely related to O. rubescens and O. millspaughii than to O. spinosissima. Details of the Florida species, and a key to similar and confusing Caribbean relatives are provided. Because of the limited number of individuals remaining in the wild, the threat from the alien pest moth Cactoblastis cactorum, the low genetic diversity within Florida, and recent damage by Hurricane Georges, the Semaphore Cactus may be the most endangered plant in the United States. El estudio morfolgico nos lleva a la conclusin de que el cactus semforo de Florida es una especie distinta. Esta conclusin est de acuerdo con los estudios genticos publicados en otros lugares. Las plantas son propiamente llamadas Opuntia corallicola (Small) Werdermann (O. subgnero Consolea). Las plantas de Florida no son O. spinosissima, tal como fue publicado en la literatura reciente. Es mas, las plantas de Florida probablemente son ms cercanas a O. rubescens y O. millspaughii que a O. spinosissima. Se ofrecen detalles de la especie de Florida y una clave taxonmica de las especies emparentadas y confusas del rea del Caribe. Dado el nmero limitado de individuos que quedan en estado salvaje, la amenaza de la polilla alctona Cactoblastis cactorum, la poca diversidad gentica dentro de Florida, y el reciente impacto del huracn Georges, el cactus semforo puede que sea la planta ms amenazada de los Estados Unidos de Norte Amrica (EEUU).
41960963|Pennisetum orientale Rich., a polymorphic species, is potentially important as an ornamental and as a valuable source for germplasm in forage crop improvement programs. Unfortunately little information is available on the diversity within U.S. collections. This investigation was initiated to provide an extensive morphological analysis of each of eleven P. orientale accessions and to characterize the germplasm. Cytological studies revealed that all accessions were tetraploids (2n=36) and that the method of reproduction being sexual or aposporus apomicts. Based on plant heights, leaf blade lengths and widths, inflorescence density, and growth habit in College Station (with a latitude of 31.5) , Texas, the accessions 269961, 330717, 271595, 433, and Cowboy appeared to have the best forage potential. However, this has yet to be supported by studies on nutritional value. There were also some distinct taxonomic features such as the longest ligule length in PI 315867; central spikelet length in PI's 215600 and 315867 which was significantly longer than all the other accessions. Furthermore, long anthers and filaments were observed in PI's 330717 and 315867. Additional germplasm acquisitions from non-represented areas could expand genetic diversity in the germplasm collection. Pennisetum orientale Rich, es una especie polimrfica que tiene importancia potencial como planta ornamental y como fuente valiosa de germoplasma en los programas de mejora de forrajes. Desgraciadamente hay poca informacin disponible sobre la diversidad en las colecciones estadounidenses. Esta investigacin se inici para realizar un anlisis morfolgico amplio de cada una de once adquisiciones de P. orientale y para caracterizar el germoplasma. Los estudios citolgicos revelaron que todas las muestras eran tetraploides (2n=36) y que el mtodo de reproduccin es sexual o apomixis aposprica. Basndose en la altura de las plantas, longitud y anchura de la lmina de la hoja, densidad de la inflorescencia y hbito de crecimiento en la College Station (con una latitud 31.5), Texas, las muestras 269961, 330717, 271595, 433, y Cowboy parecen tener el mejor potencial forrajero. Sin embargo sto an no ha sido comprobado con estudios del valor nutritivo. Tambin se encontraron algunas caractersticas taxonmicas diferentes, tales como la mayor longitud de la lgula en PI 315867, longitud de la espiguilla central en PI's 215600 y 315867 que era significativamente ms larga que en todas las otras muestras. Adems se observaron filamentos y anteras largos en PI's 330717 y 315867. Muestras adicionales de germoplasma de reas no representadas podran ampliar la diversidad gentica de la coleccin de germoplasma.
41960956|A treatment is provided for the species of Spigelia formerly in the genus Coelostylis that lack elongated secund inflorescences. Two taxa are recognized: Spigelia loganioides (including S. texana), and S. hedyotidea (including S. lindheimeri, and S. coulteriand). Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico para las especies de Spigelia anteriormente incluidas en el gnero Coelostylis, o sea las especies sin inflorescencias elongadas y unilaterales. Se reconocen dos taxa: Spigelia loganioides (incluyendo S. texana), y S. hedyotidea (que incluye S. lindheimeri y S. coulteriana).
41960947|Populations of hybrids of distantly related black oaks (Fagaceae: Quercus: section Lobatae), Quercus conzattii Trelease and Quercus eduardii Trelease, are examined throughout the southern Sierra Madre Occidental of Mexico, where the distributions of the two parental species overlap. Morphometric analyses are presented to show the structure of a hybrid swarm relative to that of populations where extensive hybridization is not apparent. A major swarm south of Cd. Durango shows 82% Q. conzattii, 14% intermediate plants, and 4% Q. eduardii distributed unevenly within the site. Parental types are differentiated by leaf size, density of pubescence of the abaxial surface, rugosity of the adaxial leaf surface, reticulation of the adaxial leaf surface, cordateness of the leaves, leaf shape, and other characters. Hybrids were morphologically intermediate. Acorn production in all types is good, and in a very limited sample there is no indication of reduced pollen fertility. Anderson hybrid index histograms show continuous morphological variation at the hybrid swarm site and limited variation, representative of parental types, at other sites. Cluster analysis of populations yielded unexpected grouping of a Q. conzattii population with the adjacent hybrid swarm population. Discriminant function analysis explained the clustering pattern by grouping several immature plants and several weakly intermediate plants with the hybrid plants. Principal components analysis also showed strong overlap between the hybrids and Q. conzattii. Although morphological evidence did not suggest movement of genes between species, the hybrid swarm structure suggests that potential for introgression exists. Se examinaron poblaciones de hbridos de dos especies de robles rojos (Fagaceae: Quercus: seccin Lobatae) en sitios donde sus distribuciones se solapan, en el sur de la Sierra Madre Occidental de Mxico. Quercus conzattii Trelease y Quercus eduardii Trelease son de grupos filogenticos muy separados. Se presentan anlisis morfomtricos para mostrar la estructura de una poblacin de hbridos, las especies parentales, y plantas intergradientes en comparacin con poblaciones donde la hibridacin no es aparente. La poblacin hbrida, al sur de la Cd. de Durango, est integrada por 82% Q. conzattii, 14% plantas de morfologa intermedia, y 4% Q. eduardii las cuales no estn distribuidas uniformemente en esa localidad. Los tipos parentales estn caracterizados por diferencias en el tamao de las hojas, densidad de la pubescencia del envs, rugosidad del haz, reticulacin de las nervaduras, grado en que la base est cordada, forma de las hojas, y otras caractersticas. Los hbridos resultaron intermedios en su morfologa. La produccin de bellotas en todos los tipos morfolgicos fue amplia, y en una muestra limitada no hay indicacin de reduccin de la fertilidad del polen de las plantas de origen hbrido. Los histogramas de valores del ndice de Anderson de los hbridos sealan una variacin morfolgica continua en la poblacin hbrida y, en otros sitios, variacin limitada, representativa de los tipos parentales. Los anlisis de grupos (clusters) mostraron una agrupacin de la poblacin de Q. conzattii con la poblacin de hbridos adyacente, en lugar de una agrupacin con otras poblaciones de Q. conzattii, como se hubiera esperado. Los anlisis de la funcin discriminante explicaron el patrn de agolpamiento conjuntamente entre varias plantas inmaduras y varias plantas con morfologa intermedias con los hbridos. Los anlisis de componentes principales tambin mostraron que las morfologa de los hbridos y Q. conzattii solapan ampliamente. Aunque la evidencia morfolgica no indic movimiento de genes entre especies, la estructura de la poblacin hbrida surgiere que hay potencial para la introgresin.
41960960|The new combination Bouteloua hirsuta Lag. subsp. pectinata (H. Featherly) J. Wipff & S.D. Jones is proposed. A key to the two subspecies is provided. Se propone la nueva combinacin Bouteloua hirsuta Lag. subsp. pectinata (H. Featherly) J. Wipff & S.D. Jones. Se ofrece una clave de las dos subespecies.
41960951|Urocarpidium sect. Urocarpidium is shown to be synonymous with the genus Tarasa, and Urocarpidium sect. Anurum is generically distinct. The latter is redescribed in generic rank and given the name Fuertesimalva. Fourteen new combinations are made. Urocarpidium sect. Urocarpidium es un sinnimo del gnero Tarasa, y Urocarpidium sect. Anurum es considerado como un gnero distinto. Este ltimo se redescribe en el rango genrico con el nombre de Fuertesimalva. Se proponen catorce combinaciones nuevas.
41960974|Chromosome counts for seventeen species of Carex section Ovales are reported. They range from n=26 + IV to n=40. Counts for Carex alata, C. hyalina, C. longii, C. ozarkana, C. reniformis, C. suberecta, C. tincta, and C. vexans were determined for the first time and included 3 aneuploid (sensu lato) series. Four species (C. albolutescens, C. hormathodes, C. straminea, and C. tribuloides) yielded counts similar to previously published results. On the other hand, two species (C. cumulata and C. silicea) differed from previous reports and represent possible aneuploidy, while aneuploidy was demonstrated for C. festucacea. Se realizan recuentos cromosmicos de diez y siete especies de Carex seccin Ovales. Su nmero varia de n=26 + IV hasta n=40. Se realizan por primera vez recuentos de Carex alata, C. hyalina, C. longii, C. ozarkana, C. reniformis, C. suberect, C. tincta y C. vexans que incluyen tres series aneuploides (sensu lato). Cuatro expecies (C. albolutescens, C. hormathodes, C. straminea y C. tribuloides) dieron recuentos similares a resultados publicados previamente. Por otro lado, dos especies (C. cumulata y C. silicea) difieren de los recuentos previos y representan aneuploidia posible, mientras que se demostr la existencia de aneuploda en C. festucacea.
41960961|Collections from northwestern Durango have uncovered the presence of Gentianella heterosepala (Engelm.) Holub in Mexico. The species is previously known from the southwestern United States. The Mexican population, described here as subspecies durangensis, produces foliaceous calyx lobes joined to the tube and a calyx tube with glandular trichomes between the lobes, corolla fimbriae inserted at the base of the lobes and ovateauriculate leaves. A morphological description and an illustration are presented. Colectas provenientes del noroeste de Durango ponen de manifiesto la presencia de Gentianella heterosepala (Engelm.) Holub en Mxico. La especie se conocida previamente del sudoeste de los Estados Unidos. La poblacin mexicana, descrita aqu como subespecie durangensis, muestra los lbulos foliceous del cliz unidos al tubo, el tubo del cliz con tricomas glandulares entre los lbulos, fimbrias de la corola insertas en la base de los lbulos y hojas ovado-auriculades. Se presenta una descripcin morfolgica y una ilustracin de la subespecie.
41960958|The new combination Eragrostis pectinacea var. tracyi is proposed as a more appropriate means of recognizing the slight morphological difference of possessing longer anthers. A revised key to the three varieties of E. pectinacea, a diagnosis of var. tracyi, and specimens examined are provided. Se propone la nueva combinacin Eragrostis pectinacea var. tracyi como ms apropiada para reconocer las ligeras diferencias morfolgicas de tener anteras ms largas. Se ofrece una clave revisada de las tres variedades de E. pectinacea, una diagnosis de la var. tracyi, y los especmenes examinados.
41960965|Recent studies of Mexican Apocynaceae have led to a reevaluation of the taxonomic status of Thevetia peruviana (Pers.) K. Schum. var. pinifolia Standl. & Steyerm. The taxon is here viewed as specifically distinct and elevated accordingly with the new combination, Thevetia pinifolia (Standl. & Steyerm.) J.K. Williams, comb. nov. Los estudios recientes sobre las Apocynaceae mexicanas han permitido una reevaluacion del estatus taxonomico de Thevetia peruviana (Pers.) K. Schum. var. pinifolia Standl. & Steyerm. Este taxon se ve aqu como una especie distinta y por consiguiente es elevado de rango con la nueva combinacin, Thevetia pinifolia (Standl. & Steyerm.) J.K. Williams, comb. nov.
41960946|The move to place biological diversity and traditional cultural knowledge into the mainstream global economy is based on the premise that economic subsidies will stimulate conservation. This premise is arguably counterproductive if the effects of such subsidies are not felt at the local level. Ethnobotanical research should focus on characterizing traditional knowledge to establish priorities with the local community to ensure that local values are translated into rational use of resources and effective conservation of biological diversity and cultural knowledge. A case study focussing on twenty-five of the most locally valued plants from a community in the Sierra de Manantln Biosphere Reserve provides an example of recommendations that can be made based on basic ethnobotanical inventories. La tendencia a ubicar la diversidad biolgica y el conocimiento tradicional dentro de la corriente de la economa global, se fundamenta en la premisa de que las subvenciones estimularan la conservacin. Esta premisa resultara contraproducente si los efectos de tales subvenciones no llegaran al nivel local. La investigacin etnobotnica debera enfocarse en el uso del conocimiento tradicional para establecer las prioridades conjuntamente con la comunidad local, para asegurar que los valores locales se traduzcan en el uso racional de los recursos naturales, una conservacin efectiva de la biodiversidad y el conocimiento cultural. Un estudio de un caso en una comunidad de la Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Manantln, que examina veinticinco de las especies vegetales con mayor valor local, proporciona un ejemplo de las recomendaciones que pueden hacerse en base a la informacin de inventarios etnobotnicos.
41960949|Invasion and spread of the European native Coincya monensis (Brassicaceae) in North America are traced. In the late 1800s the species was found in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania/Hoboken, New Jersey area on ballast, where it has not persisted. Then, in the mid and late 20th century, naturalized populations of unknown source were documented in North Carolina, Pennsylvania, New York, Michigan, and Kentucky. Se esboza la invasin y dispersin de la planta nativa de Europa Coincya monensis (Brassicaceae) en Norte Amrica. A fines del siglo XX se encontr la especie en el rea de Philadelphia, Pennsylvania/Hoboken, New Jersey sobre cascajos, lugar donde no ha persistido. Luego, a mediados y fines del siglo veinte, han sido documentadas poblaciones naturalizadas de origen desconocido en Carolina del Norte, Pennsylvania, New York, Michigan, y Kentucky.
41960977|Observations reported here from 14 populations representing 13 species in 4 tribes of Compositae include first reports of chromosome number for Heterolepis (H. aliena; 2n = 12, a new number for Arctoteae), for Athanasia bremeri (2n = 20, a new number for the genus), and for four species of Ursinia (U. abrotanifolia, U. nudicaulis, U. pinnata, and U. punctata; all 2n = 16). Se presentan aqu las observaciones basadas en 14 poblaciones que representan 13 especies de 4 tribus de Compositae que incluyen los primeros recuentos de nmeros cromosmicos de Heterolepis (H. aliena; 2n = 12, un nuevo nmero para las Arctoteae), de Athanasia bremeri (2n = 20, un nuevo nmero para el gnero) y de cuatro especies del gnero Ursinia (U. abrotanifolia, U. nudicaulis, U. pinnata y U. punctata; todas ellas 2n = 16).
41960971|Field notes of pre-1860 Texas surveys in the Texas General Land Office were read and the included data on witness trees collected. This data were analyzed for evidence concerning the indigenous range of three trees: Catalpa speciosa Warder, Catalpa bignonioides Walt., and Madura pomifera (Raf.) Schneid. Catalpas were named as witness trees before 1860 in only two east Texas counties, Jasper and Newton. Their presence in the surveyors' reports from only these two contiguous counties, with their absence from the thousands of reports from the rest of the state, is advanced as evidence that these two counties make up most, if not all of any Catalpa's indigenous range in Texas. The location of these two counties being at the southeast Texas border seems to indicate that only C. bignonioides (the Southern Catalpa) should be considered indigenous in this state. Bois d' arcs appear as witness trees before I860 in only 12 northeast Texas counties. This is presented as evidence that the native range of Madura pomifera in Texas was probably limited to those 12 counties. Se leyeron las notas de campo de los informes sobe Texas, anteriores a 1860, de la Texas General Land Office y se recogieron los datos existentes acerca de los rboles testigo. Estos datos fueron analizados para buscar evidencias acerca del rea autctona de tres rboles: Catalpa speciosa Warder, Catalpa bignonioides Walt., y Madura pomfera (Raf.) Schneid. Antes de 1860 las catalpas fueron designadas como rboles testigo en slo dos condados del este de Texas, Jasper y Newton. Su presencia en los informes de los topgrafos en slo estos dos condados contiguos, junto con su ausencia de miles de informes del resto del estado, se toma como evidencia de que estos dos condados forman la mayor parte, si no el total del rea autctona de Catalpa en Texas. La localizacin de estos dos condados en la frontera sudeste de Texas parece indicar que slo C. bignonioides (la catalpa del sur) deba ser considerada autctona en este estado. Antes de 1860 Madura pomfera aparece, como rbol testigo, en slo 12 condados del nordeste de Texas. Esto se presenta como evidencia de que el rea nativa de Madura pomfera en Texas estaba limitada probablemente a estos 12 condados.
41960962|A synopsis of the genus Myrsine L. is provided for the Philippines, including all species heretofore assigned to the genus Rapanea Aublet. Fourteen species are recognized, of which four: Myrsine densiflora, M. cruciata, M. aralioides, and . penibukana, are reported from the archipelago for the first time. Myrsine aralioides, M. penibukana, and M. cruciata, previously thought to be endemic to Mt. Kinabalu, Sabah, are reported for Surigao, Mindanao, Abra and Rizal provinces, Luzon, and northern Palawan, respectively. A key to the species, descriptions, representative photographs and comments on the distribution, ecology and conservation status for each species are provided. Because Rapanea is here considered a taxonomic synonym of Myrsine, all Philippine species heretofore assigned to Rapanea are transferred to Myrsine, and new names are proposed for those species whose epithets in Rapanea are preoccupied under Myrsine. The following new combinations are made: Myrsine apoensis (Elmer) Pipoly, M. oblongibacca (Merrill) Pipoly, M. cruciata (Philipson) Pipoly, M. penibukana (Philipson) Pipoly, M. mindanaensis (Elmer) Pipoly, M. fastigiata (Elmer) Pipoly, M. aralioides (Philipson) Pipoly, M. glandulosa (Elmer) Pipoly, and Myrsine peregrina (Mez) Pipoly. Comparative studies of taxa in nearby Sabah, Brunei, Sarawak and Borneo result in the new combination Myrsine multibracteata (Merrill) Pipoly. In. addition, two new names are made: Myrsine medeciloae Pipoly and M. amorosoana Pipoly. Ten binomials are lectotypified and Rapanea venosa Elmer non (A. DC.) Mez is placed in synonymy under Myrsine peregrina (Mez) Pipoly. Se ofrece una sinopsis del gnero Myrsine L. para las Filipinas, incluyendo todos los taxa previamente asignados al gnero Rapanea Aublet. Se reconocen catorce especies, de las cuales cuatro, Myrsine densiflora, M. cruciata, M. aralioides, y M. penibukana, son nuevas citas para el pas. Myrsine aralioides, M. penibukana y M. cruciata, anteriormente fueron consideradas como especies endmicas del Mt. Kinabalu, de Sabah, sin embargo, el presente estudio revela que estas especies se encuentran en las provincias de Abra y Rizal en la isla de Luzn, y en la parte septentrional de la isla de Palawan. Se ofrece una clave de las especies, descripciones, fotos representativas y comentarios sobre la distribucin, ecologa y estatus de conservacin para cada especie. Debido al hecho de que se considera el gnero Rapanea como un sinnimo taxonmico del gnero Myrsine, todas las especies previamente asignadas al gnero Rapanea se transfieren al gnero Myrsine. Para las especies con eptetos previamente ocupados en Myrsine, se forman eptetos nuevos. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones: Myrsine apoensis (Elmer) Pipoly, M. oblongibacca (Merrill) Pipoly, M. cruciata (Philipson) Pipoly, M. penibukana (Philipson) Pipoly, M. mindanaensis (Elmer) Pipoly, M. fastigiata (Elmer) Pipoly, M. aralioides (Philipson) Pipoly, M. glandulosa (Elmer) Pipoly y Myrsine peregrina (Mez) Pipoly. Estudios comparativos del las especies de Sabah, Brunei Sarawak y Borneo dan como resultado la nueva combinacin Myrsine multibracteata (Merrill) Pipoly. Tambin, se proponen dos nombres nuevos: Myrsine medeciloae Pipoly y Myrsine amorosoana Pipoly. Se lectotipifican diez binmenes y se relega Rapanea venosa Elmer non (A. DC.) Mez, a la sinonimia de Myrsine peregrina (Mez) Pipoly.
41960972|The life of Emanuel Rudolph (19271992), noted polar lichenologist and historian of botany, was well documented by Ronald Stuckey. Rudolph's scholarly endeavors is further revealed through his devotion to Biological Abstracts. He accepted the intellectual challenge of preparing abstracts in 1952 when a graduate student in the Henry Shaw School of Botany at Washington University. From then as a volunteer, he prepared 382 abstracts through 1977, a most exacting and time consuming task, perhaps an art. Some background on procedures at Biological Abstracts is reviewed and Rudolph's role as a volunteer abstractor for Biological Abstracts/BIOSIS is assessed. La vida de Emanuel Rudolph (19271992), notable liquenlogo e historiador de la botnica, que fue bien documentada por los esfuerzos eruditos de Ronald Stuckey. Rudolph, se desvela en un grado mayor a travs de su dedicacin a los Resmenes Biolgicos. El acept el reto intelectual de preparar resmenes en 1952 cuando era estudiante en la Escuela de Botnica Henry Shaw de la Universidad de Washington. Desde entonces como voluntario, prepar 382 resmenes durante 1977, una tarea muy exigente y laboriosa, quizs un arte. Se revisan algunos antecedentes de los procedimientos de los Resmenes Biolgicos, y se evala el papel de Rudolph como voluntario en la elaboracin de resmenes para los Biological Abstracts/BIOSIS.
41960970|In this work the different plant communities on Socorro Island are described and delimited in a map of vegetation; also, the distribution of the endemic species in the different plant communities is analysed. The identification and mapping of the different plant communities was based in four trips to the island which included plant collecting, walk arounds and overviews by airplane, aerial photos 1:70,000 were revised as guide. Most of the plant communities and nomenclature used in this work agree with those proposed by earlier descriptions. Six plant communities (prairie, evergreen tropical forest, mixed scrub, Croton scrubland, grassland, and coastal groups) are described with data about their area and dominant species. The eroded area, induced by overgrazing of the domestic sheeps which since 1869 inhabits the island, is also considered in the mapping, it covers about 15% of the total surface. On 210 km, Socorro Island counts with 116 species of native vascular plants, plus 46 naturalized. En este trabajo se describen y delimitan los diferentes tipos de vegetacin de la isla Socorro, se presenta un mapa de las unidades de vegetacin, se analizan la distribucin de las especies endmicas y de las formas de vida en los diferentes tipos de vegetacin, as como la riqueza especfica en cada una de stas. Para la identificacin y cartografiado de las diferentes agrupaciones vegetales se realizaron cuatro viajes a la isla, durante los cuales se hicieron recorridos por tierra y por aire, tambin se revisaron fotos areas a escala 1:70,000. La nomenclatura de los tipos de vegetacin aqu presentados son compatibles con los sealados por trabajos previos. En total se describen seis tipos de vegetacin (pradera, bosque tropical perennifolio, matorral mixto, matorral de Crotn, pastizal y agrupaciones costeras), proporcionndose la lista de las especies ms comunes a cada una de ellas y delimitando su rea de distribucin. Tambin se consideran las superficies erosionadas, que cubren actualmente alrededor del 15% de la isla, las cuales han sido inducidas por el sobrepastoreo del borrego domstico, introducido en 1869-La flora de la isla Socorro (210 km de superficie) est formada por 116 especies de plantas vasculares nativas y 46 introducidas recientemente.
41960952|Robinsonecio, gen. nov., is a distinctive genus of two species from high elevations in Mexico and Guatemala. The plants are subscapose herbs with ovate to lanceolate or spatulate basal leaves and tussilaginoid microcharacters. Two new combinations are proposed: Robinsonecio gerberifolius (Sch. Bip.) T.M. Barkley & J.P. Janovec, and Robinsonecio porphyresthes (T.M. Barkley) T.M. Barkley & J.P. Janovec. Robinsonecio, gen. nov., es un gnero con dos especies que viven en lugares elevados de Mxico y Guatemala. Las plantas son herbceas, subescaposas, con hojas bsales de ovadas a lanceoladas o espatuladas y microcaracteres tussilaginoides. Se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones: Robinsonecio gerberifolius (Sch. Bip.) T.M. Barkley & J.P. Janovec, y Robinsonecio porphyresthes (T.M. Barkley) T.M. Barkley & J.P. Janovec.
41960954|Plants of the wide-ranging Swertia radiata from the Sierra de la Madera near Cuatro Cinegas, Coahuila, in Mxico differ from all other populations in having corollas that only partially open and remain globose at anthesis. As this feature is consistent throughout the Sierra de la Madera, the plants are recognized as a new variety, S. radiata var. maderensis. Las plantas de Swertia radiata, una espec ie de distribucion amplia, procedentes de la Sierra de la Madera, cerca de Cuatro Cinegas (Coahuila, Mxico), se diferencian del resto de las poblaciones por tener corolas que se abren solo parcialmente y permanecen globosas durante la antesis. Dado que este carcter es consistente a lo largo de toda la Sierra de La Madera, estas plantas son reconocidas aqu como una nueva variedad: S. radiata var. maderensis.
41960968|A key to the apocynaceous genera of Mexico is presented. The study is based on literature, field observations, and herbarium studies. The family is represented in Mexico by thirty genera (twenty-five native, four Old World cultivars, and one South American cultivar) and approximately ninety species (eighty-five native, four Old World cultivars, and one South American cultivar). Bibliographical references for the native genera are included, as are illustrations, a distribution list of genera by state, and a table of morphological novelties. Se presenta una clave de los gneros de Apocynaceae de Mxico. El estudio est basado en bibliografa, observaciones de campo y estudios de herbario. La familia est representada en Mxico por treinta gneros (veinticinco autctonos, cuatro del Viejo Mundo y uno de Sudamrica). Se incluyen referencias bibliogrficas para los gneros autctonos, as como ilustraciones, una lista de distribucin de gneros por estados y una tabla con las novedades morfolgicas.
41960964|Five new species of rust fungi (Uredinales) from Brazil parasitizing plant host species in the family Bignoniaceae are described. The new species are: Porotenus bibasiporulus, Porotenus biporus, and Uredo amapaensis on Memora spp.; Prospodium amapaensis on undetermined Bignoniaceae, and Prospodium laevigatum on Mansoa sp. Cinco novas espcies de fungos (Uredinales) so descritos, provenientes do Brasil, parasitando especies de plantas hospedeiras da familia Bignoniaceae. As novas espcies so: Porotenus bibasiporulus, Porotenus biporus, e Uredo amapaensis em Memora spp., Prospodium amapaensis em Bignoniaceae indeterminada e Prospodium laevigatum em Mansoa sp.
41960950|Barbieria is a monotypic genus that was transferred to subtribe Clitoriinae and included within the genus Clitoria in 1981 by Lackey. The morphology o Barbieria is compared with Clitoria and contrasted with genera Centrosema, Periandra and Clitoriopsis. Barbieria is found to be an abberrant member o Clitoria with characters supporting its recognition as a separate genus in the Clitoriinae. A key to genera of subtribe Clitoriinae and a taxonomic treatment o Barbieria is presented. Barbieria es un gnero monotpico que fue transferido a la subtribu Clitoriinae e incluido dentro del gnero Clitoria por Lackey en 1981. La morfologa de Barbieria se compara con Clitoria y se contrasta con los gneros Centrosema, Periandra y Clitoriopsis. Barbieria ha resultado ser un miembro aberrante de Clitoria con caracteres que corroboran su reconocimiento como un gnero separado en Clitoriinae. Se presenta una clave de los gneros de la subtribu Clitoriinae y el tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Barbieria.
41960966|Se describe Agave montana como especie nueva de la regin de la Sierra Madre Oriental. Est relacionada con A. gentryi y A. parrasana, pero difiere de ambas por sus rosetas grandes con hojas ms numerosas, panculas ovadas con mayor nmero de ramas florferas y brcteas dentadas. Se presenta una ilustracin con los detalles de la planta. Agave montana is described as a new species from the Sierra Madre Oriental. It is related to A. gentryi and A. parrasana but differs from both in its larger rosettes with more numerous leaves, ovate panicles with higher number of floriferous branches and armed bracts. A detailed illustration is included.
41960975|Chromosome counts are reported for over eighty collections of flowering plants from the U.S.A. and Mexico, representing 59 species in 39 genera of 10 families. Se presentan recuentos cromosmicos de ms de ochenta recolecciones de plantas con flores de U.S.A. y Mxico, pertenecientes a 59 especies, de 39 gneros, de 10 familias.
41967228|Routine determination of specimens received as gift for determination resulted in the discovery of four new species of Ardisia, from Ecuador and Peru. Ardisia premontana Pipoly, A. zakii Pipoly, A. flavida Pipoly, and A. websterii Pipoly are described, illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Al determinar pliegos de herbario recibidos como regalo para su determinacin, se encontraron cuatro especies nuevas pertenecientes al gnero Ardisia, y procedentes de Ecuador y Per. Se describen e ilustran Ardisia premontana Pipoly, A. zakii Pipoly, A. flavida Pipoly, y A. websterii Pipoly, y se discuten sus relaciones flogenticas.
41967230|Carex herteri (sect. Digitatae) is newly described from the Department of Florida in southern Uruguay and is known only from the holotype. This very distinctive, but diminutive species is characterized by having large, glabrous perigynia that are distinctly beaked, few perigynia per spike, large achenes that are strongly apiculate, and ciliate leaf margins. Additionally, the South American plants previously called C. phalaroides var. crassiflora (sect. Digitatae) are here raised to species rank. The name C. gibertii is offered for this species and a lectotype is selected. Se describe Carex herteri (sect. Digitatae) del Departamento de Florida en sur de Uruguay y slo se conoce el holotipo. Esta especie, muy diferente aunque diminuta, se caracteriza por tener utrculos grandes y glabros, con un pico distinto, pocos utrculos por espiga, aquenios grandes fuertemente apiculados, y mrgenes foliares ciliados. Adicionalmente, las plantas sudamericanas denominadas previamente C. phalaroides var. crassiflora (sect. Digitatae) se elevan aqu al rango especfico. Se propone para esta especie el nombre C. gibertii y se selecciona un lectotipo.
41967215|Recent discoveries of new localities for this rare species justify documentation of its presently known range. The additional specimens show that leaves and fruits can be much larger than previously recorded. Foliar micromorphology as viewed by scanning electron microscopy demonstrates the species is distinctive and probably not derived from S. lanuginosum and S. reclinatum as formerly thought. El reciente descubrimiento de nuevas localidades de esta rara especie justifica la documentacin de su rango conocido actualmente. Los especmenes adicionales muestran que las hojas y los frutos pueden ser mucho ms grandes que los citados previamente. La micromorfologa foliar al microscopio electrnico de barrido demuestra que esta especie es peculiar y que probablemente no es derivada de S. lanuginosum y S. reclinatum como se pens previamente.
41967214|Qualitative and quantitative wood data are provided for Limnantbes douglasii R. Brown and Tropaeolum majus L.; no descriptions of wood of Limnanthaceae or Tropaeolaceae have been offered hitherto. Limnanthes douglasii wood is present in localized zones at the rootstem junction; imperforate tracheary elements are absent; both axial and ray parenchyma are thin-walled. Tropaeolum majus has root wood in which all axial tracheary elements are wide or narrow vessels, and no libriform fibers are present; in stems, libriform fibers are present, although narrow vessels predominate in later-formed secondary xylem. The wood patterns of Limnantbes and Tropaeolum are characteristic of wood of an annual and a vine, respectively. Although both are herbaceous species, wood patterns are quite different, a fact explainable by both habit and systematic position. The concept that both of the families belong to a new expanded Capparales is compatible with wood data. Se ofrecen datos cualitativos y cuantitativos sobre los leos de Limnantbes douglasii R. Brown y Tropaeolum majus L.; hasta ahora no existan descripciones de los leos de Limnanthaceae y Tropaeolaceae. El leo de Limnantbes douglasii se presenta localizado en la unin entre la raz y el tallo. Los elementos traqueales sin perforaciones faltan completamente, y tanto el parnquima axial como el radial tienen paredes finas. Tropaeolum majus tiene el leo radical con elementos traqueales compuestos por vasos anchos y estrechos; y no hay fibras libriformes presentes. En los tallos existen fibras libriformes, aunque predominan en el xilema secundario formado tardamente. Los patrones del leo de Limnantbes y Tropaeolum son caractersticos de una hierba anual y una trepadora respectivamente. Aunque las dos especies son herbceas, los modelos del leo son bastante diferentes, hecho explicable tanto por el hbito como por la posicin sistemtica de las dos especies. Los datos del leo sostienen el concepto de que las dos familias se encuadran en un Capparales nuevo ampliado.
41967223|A new variety of an endangered plant species, Spigelia gentianiodes (Loganiaceae), is described. The new variety, differing largely in quantitative features, comprises a group of recently discovered populations in central Alabama, well disjunct from the type variety of central Florida. The new populations are localized to a rare glade community of Ketona dolomite on the Little Cahaba River and contain greater numbers of individuals than any of the Florida populations. Se describe una nueva variedad de una especie vegetal en peligro, Spigelia gentianoides (Loganiaceae). La nueva variedad comprende unas poblaciones descubiertas en el centro del estado de Alabama, separadas geogrficamente de la variedad tpica, que est restringida al estado de Florida. Las nuevas poblaciones se localizan en una comunidad tipo "glade," con abundancia de rocas dolomticas de la formacin Ketona, en el ro Little Cahaba. Esta poblacin contiene muchos ms individuos que cualquier poblacin de Florida.
41967216|The Mublenbergia repens complex consists of rhizomatous perennial species with short contracted inflorescences and awnless spikelets. A study was undertaken to determine the amount of morphological variation that is present within and among the species. Examination of morphological variation has shown that M. plumbea does not have a close affinity with other species of the complex. Mublenbergia ricbardsonis and M. squarrosa were not found to be morphologically distinct and are considered a single highly variable species most closely related to M. repens and M. utilis. Morphological variation between M. villiflora and M. villosa intergrades to a large extent, although they remain distinct throughout most of their distribution, and they are thus recognized as a single species with two varieties, var. villiflora and var. villosa. A key to the six species and two varieties is provided. El complejo Mublenbergia repens est formado por especies rizomatosas perennes con inflorescencias cortas contradas y espiguillas mticas. Se realiz un estudio para establecer la variacin morfolgica intraespecfica e interespecfica. El examen de la variacin morfolgica ha mostrado que M. plumbea no tiene afinidades grandes con las otras especies del complejo. Se encontr que Mublenbergia ricbardsonis y M. squarrosa no son distintas morfolgicamente y son consideradas como una sola especie de variabilidad alta, ms afn a M. repens y M. utilis. La variacin morfolgica entre M. villiflora y M. villosa se intergrada en una gran extensin aunque permanecen diferentes en la mayor parte de su distribucin, y por ello se reconocen como una nica especie con dos variedades, var. villiflora y var. villosa. Se ofrece una clave de las seis especies y las dos variedades.
41967221|During a study of Eleocbaris section Pauciflorae, and other species thought to be related, it became apparent that some nomenclatural changes were necessary. Two new combinations are proposed: Eleocbaris albibracteata var. boliviana and E. quinqueflora var. bernardina. Durante el estudio de Eleocbaris seccin Pauciflorae, y de otras especies al parecer relacionadas, se detect la necesidad de llevar a cabo cambios nomenclaturales. Son propuestas aqu dos combinaciones nuevas: Eleocbaris albibracteata var. boliviana y Eleocbaris quinqueflora var. bernardina.
41967225|In 1995, a population of 120 very large yellow lady's slippers was discovered in a remote ravine on the Northern Neck peninsula of Eastern Virginia. Multivariate and univariate analyses of morphological variation in the Virginia population suggest that these individuals belong to a rare species, Cypripedium kentuckiense, and not the more common yellow lady's slipper, C. parviflorum var. pubescens. These analyses also indicate that the dorsal sepal width and orifice length are two important characters that can be used to discriminate between C. kentuckiense and C. parviflorum var. pubescens. A few individuals at the Virginia site approached the size of C. parviflorum var. pubescens in some characters which may be due to historical introgressive patterns or genetic isolation. Lastly, a survey of records on C. kentuckiense populations revealed that Arkansas contains the largest number of populations (70 out of 156). These records also indicate that C. kentuckiense is characterized by a majority of populations (58%) with less than 21 individuals. En 1995 se descubri una poblacin de 120 individuos de zapato de venus ("yellow lady's slippers" en ingls) en un barranco alejado localizado en la pennsula llamada "Northern Neck" del este del estado de Virginia, EEUU. Un anlisis multivariante y univariante de la variacin morfolgica en la poblacin investigada de Virginia sugiere que estos especmenes pertenecen a una especie rara, Cypripedium kentuckiense, en vez de la especie ms comn de zapato de venus C. parviflorum var. pubescens. Este anlisis tambin indica que la anchura del spalo dorsal y la longitud del orificio son dos caractersticas importantes que pueden ser usadas para distinguir C. kentuckiense de C. parviflorum var. pubescens. Unos especmenes del lugar de investigacin en Virginia se aproximan al tamao de C. parviflorum var. pubescens en algunas caractersticas que pueden explicarse debido a patrones histricos introgresivos o aislamiento gentico. Por ltimo, una revisin del conjunto de investigaciones sobre poblaciones de C. kentuckiense revel que el estado de Arkansas contiene el nmero ms grande de poblaciones (70 de 156). Estas investigaciones tambin indican que C. kentuckiense est caracterizado por una mayora de poblaciones (58%) con menos de 21 especmenes.
41967231|A north central Texas Baptisia (Fabaceae, Faboideae, Thermopsideae) hybrid complex containing three parents (B. australis, B. sphaerocarpa, and B. bracteata) and the three F hybrids is investigated using morphological, spectrophotometric, and isozyme electrophoretic methods. Two of the three hybrids (B. bushii and B. bicolor) have been previously named, but the B. australis B. sphaerocarpa hybrid (B. variicolor) is here described for the first time. This is the first report of sympatric occurrence of these three Baptisia species and all the possible F hybrids. Morphological evidence for introgressive hybridization involving B. australis and B. sphaerocarpa is presented. Un complejo de hbridos del norte de Texas, Baptisia (Fabaceae, Faboideae, Thermopsideae) que contiene tres padres (B. australis, B. sphaerocarpa, y B. bracteata) y tres hbridos F se investiga por mtodos morfolgicos, espectrofotomtricos, y de electroforesis de isozimas. Dos de los tres hbridos (B. bushii y B. bicolor) haban sido nombrados previamente, pero el hbrido de B. australis B. sphaerocarpa (B. variicolor) se describe aqu como nuevo. Esta es la primera cita de la existencia simptrica de estas tres especies Baptisia y todos los hbridos posibles de F. Se presenta la evidencia morfolgica de hibridacin introgresiva que afecta B. australis y B. sphaerocarpa.
41967229|Routine determination of specimens received as gift for determination resulted in the discovery of three novelties in Geissantbus. Geissantbus vanderwerffii Pipoly, G. spectabilis Pipoly and G. cballuayacus Pipoly are described, illustrated and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Al determinar muestras recibidas como regalos para su determinacin, se encontraron tres especies nuevas, pertenecientes al gnero Geissantbus. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute el parentesco de Geissantbus vanderwerffii Pipoly, G. spectabilis Pipoly y G. challuayacus Pipoly.
41967211|Two poorly known species of spider-lilies described by Hamilton Traub, Hymenocallis choctawensis and Hymenocallis puntagordensis, are shown to be worthy of recognition. Distinguishing characteristics and distributions are presented. Somatic chromosome numbers and, for the first time, karyotypes of these species are presented. A short key is provided to help distinguish Hymenocallis choctawensis from taxa with which it is likely to be confused. Se demuestra que dos especies poco conocidas de himenoclide ("lirio araa") descritas por Hamilton Traub, Hymenocallis choctawensis y Hymenocallis puntagordensis, son dignas de reconocimiento. Se presentan las caractersticas distintivas y las distribuciones. Se dan los nmeros somticos de cromosomas, y, por primera vez, han sido preparados los cariotipos de estas especies. Se proporciona una clave corta para ayudar a distinguir Hymenocallis choctawensis de los taxa con los que puede confundirse fcilmente.
41967227|Using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light microscopy, we attempted to establish if xylem and phloem occur in Ceratopbyllum stems; roots are lacking in the genus. In larger stems, a central core of elongate cells contains scattered sieve tube elements with simple sieve plates; the sieve tubes are associated with companion cells. Sieve tubes are not organized into phloem strands. The central core of main and branch stems contains elongate cells, some of which lack starch and tannins. These cells lack any evidence of the annular or helical thickenings of secondary wall material characteristic of primary xylem in other vascular plants, and therefore xylem cannot be claimed for Ceratopbyllum. Absence of xylem in Ceratopbyllum is interpreted as secondary, a loss related to adaptation to the submersed habit. Empleando la microscopa electrnica de barrido y la microscopa ptica, hemos intentado establecer si existe xilema y floema en los tallos de Ceratopbyllum; no existen races en el gnero. En los tallos ms grandes, un ncleo central de clulas alargadas contiene elementos cribosos dispersos; estos elementos cribosos tienen placas cribosas simples y estn asociados con clulas compaeras. Los elementos cribosos no se organizan en paquetes de floema. El ncleo central de los tallos principales y laterales contiene clulas alargadas, y en algunas falta el almidn y los taninos. Estas clulas no tienen engrosamientos espiralados o anillados en la pared secundaria caractersticos del xilema primario en otras plantas vasculares, y no puede decirse que haya xilema en Ceratopbyllum. La ausencia de xilema en Ceratopbyllum se interpreta como secundaria, una prdida relacionada con la adaptacin al hbito sumergido.
41967218|A total of 72 families, 163 genera, and 443 species (including 14 represented by at least two subspecies or varieties each) are listed for Alabama. This includes 346 native and 60 naturalized species as well as 37 others believed likely to occur in the state. Se listan un total de 72 familias, 163 gneros y 443 especies (incluyendo 14 que estn representadas por dos subespecies o variedades cada una) para Alabama. Se incluyen 346 especies autctonas y 60 naturalizadas, as como otras 37 que se cree que pueden encontrarse en el estado.
41967219|Rhynchospora crinipes Gale and related species are considered as to sectional disposition, taxonomic relationships, geography and ecology. New distributional information is added. Se consideran Rbynchospora crinipes Gale y las especies prximas en cuanto a su disposicin seccional, relaciones taxonmicas, geografa y ecologa. Se aade informacin nueva de su distribucin.
41967233|Gametic chromosome numbers are reported for ten accessions of Campanulaceae, representing six genera and six species, one of which was represented by five cultivars. The chromosome number of Cyanea hirtella is reported for the first time; it has n = 14, the same as the four congeners previously reported. Within Lobelia erinus, a cultivar of the Pndula Group was tetraploid (n = 14), while four Compacta Group cultivars were hexaploid (n = 21). Previous counts of n = 14 in Clermontia kakeana and Hippobroma longiflora, n = 16 in Campanula isophylla, and n = 17 in Trachelium coeruleum were confirmed. Se citan los nmeros cromosmicos gamticos de diez recuentos de Campanulaceae, correspondientes a seis gneros y seis especies, una de las cuales est representada por cinco cultivares. Se recuenta por primera vez el nmero cromosmico de Cyanea hirtella; tiene n = 14, el mismo nmero que los cuatro congneres previamente contados. En Lobelia erinus, un cultivar del grupo Pndula es tetraploide (n = 14), mientras que cuatro cultivares del grupo Compacta son hexaploides (n = 21). Se confirman los recuentos previos de n = 14 en Clermontia kakeana y Hippobroma longiflora, n = 16 en Campanula isophylla, y n = 17 en Trachelium coeruleum.
41967213|Two species in Central America are known by the name Centrosema pubescens Benth. Description and differentiation of the two taxa are presented, along with a record of the nomenclatural history of confusion with other species [C. galeottii Fantz, C. macrocarpum Benth., C. molle Mart, ex Benth., C. schiedeanum (Schlecht.) Williams & Clements, and C. virginianum (L.) Benth.], and commentary on the type specimen of C. pubescens. Evidence from the type indicates the name C. pubescens should be applied to an upland Central American species currently known as C. galeottii or C. scbiedeanum. The widespread, lowland tropical species bearing the name C. pubescens must be renamed, with C. molle having priority. En Centroamrica son conocidas dos especies con el nombre de Centrosema pubescens Benth. Se presenta la descripcin de los dos taxa, junto con la historia nomenclatural de confusin con otras especies [C. galeottii Fantz, C. macrocarpum Benth., C. molle Mart, ex Benth., C. schiedeanum (Schlecht.) Williams & Clements, y C. virginianum (L.) Benth.], y un comentario sobre el tipo de C. pubescens. Una vez examinado el tipo aparecen evidencias que indican que el nombre de C. pubescens debe ser aplicado a una especie de las tierras altas de Centroamrica conocida normalmente como C. galeottii o C. schiedeanum. La especie tropical de las tierras bajas conocida como C. pubescens debe ser renombrada, teniendo prioridad C. molle.
41967232|Field explorations have yielded Carex austrina new to North Carolina and Tennessee, Carex fissa var. aristata, Cyperus ochraceus, and Eleocharis macrostachya new to Mississippi, Carex oklahomensis new to Tennessee, Cyperus lanceolatus new to Georgia and Mississippi, Cyperus difformis, C. oxylepis, and C. pumilus new to Georgia, Cyperus eragrostis new to Louisiana, Cyperus surinamensis new to Tennessee and Oxycarum cubense new to Georgia, U.S.A. Additional range extensions are presented for Carex hyalina, C. oklahomensis, C. scoparia var. scoparia, Cyperus aggregates, C. difformis, C. lancastriensis, C. pilosus, Kyllinga brevifolioides and Oxycaryum cubense. Localities, habitat data, lists of associated species, and discussions of weed potential are presented. Exploraciones de campo han dado como resultado la aparicin de Carex austrina nuevo para Carolina del Norte y Tennessee, Carex fissa var. aristata, Cyperus ochraceus, y Eleocharis macrostachya nuevos para Mississippi, Carex oklahomensis nuevo para Tennessee, Cyperus lanceolatus nuevo para Georgia y Mississippi, Cyperus difformis, C. oxylepis, y C. pumilus nuevos para Georgia, Cyperus eragrostis nuevo para Louisiana, Cyperus surinamensis nuevo Tennessee, y Oxycarum cbense nuevo para Georgia, U. S. A. Se presentan extensiones de rea de Carex hyalina, C. oklahomensis, C. scoparia var. scoparia, Cyperus aggregates, C. difformis, C. lancastriensis, C. pilosus, Kyllinga brevifolioides y Oxycaryum cubense. Se ofrecen localidades, datos del habitat, listas de especies asociadas, y discusiones de su potencial como malas hierbas.
41967063|Based upon recent field studies, 908 species and varieties of vascular plants, representing 502 genera and 148 families, are listed for Conecuh County, Alabama. The county is centrally located in the Coastal Plain Province and contains portions of the Red Hills, Lime Hills, and Pine Flatwoods subdivisions. At least 89 of the species listed (9.8%) are considered to be new county or state records, and several of these significantly extend previously reported geographic ranges. With very few exceptions, these records represent native, non-weedy taxa. En base a estudios de campo recientes se listan para el Condado de Conecuh, Alabama, 908 especies y variedades de plantas vasculares, pertenecientes a 502 gneros y 148 familias. El condado est localizad en e0l centro de Coastal Plain Province y contiene partes de subdivisiones de Red Hills, Lime Hills y Pine Flatwoods. Al mentos 89 de las especies listadas (9.8%) se considera que son nuevas citas para el condado o para el estado, y algunas de ellas aumentan significativamente el rango geogrfico previo. Con muy pocas excepciones estas citas representan taxa nativos que no se comportan como malas hierbas.
41967049|A new species, Mirabilis russellii, belonging to the section Oxybaphoides, is described and illustrated. It is known from two collection sites along the coast of Jalisco. It is rather common along the entry road to the Instituto de Biologia de la Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Chamela, Mexico, in tropical deciduous vegetation. Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva, Mirabilis russellii, perteneciente a la seccin Oxybaphoides. Se conoce nicamente de dos colectas a lo largo de costa de Jalisco. Es comn en el camino de entrada a la estacin biologa de la Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mexico "Chamela," Mxico, en bosques bajos caducifolios.
41967048|Mikania hoffmanniana var. macrophylla, M. pseudohoffmanniana, M. pseudohoffmanniana var. microphylla, and M. barrosoana are validated as new species. Se validan como nuevas especies Mikania hoffmanniana var. macrophylla, M. pseudohoffmanniana, M. pseudohoffmanniana var. microphylla, y M. barrosoana.
41967047|The invasion and spread of the European Erucastrum gallicum (Brassicaceae) in North America are traced from the first collection, in 1903, through 1992. The plant is now known from 29 states of the United States and from all provinces and one territory of Canada. The increasing North American range, shown on four maps, indicates a spot-and-fill pattern of spread. La invasin y expansin poblacional de la especie europea Erucastrum gallicum (Brassicaceae) en Norte Amrica se rastrea desde la primera coleccin (1903) hasta 1992. La planta se ha encontrado en 29 estados de los Estados Unidos y en todas las provincias y un territorio del Canad. El acrecentamiento del mbito en Norte Amrica, demostrado en cuatro mapas, indica un modelo de expansin poblacional de "spot-and-fill."
41967053|The priority of Eleutherococcus Maxim, over Acanthopanax (Decne. & Planch.) Witte necessitates additional transfers of Acanthopanax baoxinensis X.P. Fang et C. K. Hsieh, A. cissifolius (Griff. ex Seem.) Harms var. glaber Y.R. Li, A. nanpingensis X.O. Fang et C.K. Hsieh, A. giraldii Harms var. pilosulus Rehd. and A. yui H.L. Li var. villosus Y.R. Li to the genus Eleutherococcus. La prioridad de Eleutherococcus Maxim, sobre Acanthopanax (Decne. & Planch.) Witte necesita las transferencias adicionales al gnero Eleutherococcus de Acanthopanax baoxinensis X.P. Fang et C.K. Hsieh, A. cissifolius (Griff, ex Seem.) Harms var. glaber Y.R. Li, A nanpingensis X.P., Fang et C.K. Hsieh, A. giraldii Harms var pilosulus Rehd. y A. yui H.L. Li var villosus Y.R. Li.
41967055|A problem exists in the literature concerning the application of correct names to Echinacea angustifolia DC., E. pallida (Nutt.) Nutt., and E. tennesseensis (Beadle) Small. We review and clarify the past confusion concerning the nomenclatural history of these three taxa from 1753 to 1991. The contrasting views of A. Cronquist and R.L. McGregor on the taxonomic status of E. angustifolia, E. pallida, and E. tennesseensis are briefly discussed. Based on various types of evidence, these three taxa should be recognized as distinct species; thus, McGregor's view is accepted. Existe un problema en la bibliografa respecto a la aplicacin de los nombres correctos a Echinacea angustifolia DC, E. pallida (Nutt.) Nutt., y E. tennesseensis (Beadle) Small. Se revisa y clarifica la confusin pasada relativa a la historia nomenclatural de estos tres taxa desde 1753 a 1991. Los diferentes puntos de vista de A. Cronquist y R. L. McGregor sobre el estatus taxonmico de E. angustifolia, E. pallida, y E. tennesseensis se discuten brevemente. En base a evidencias de varios tipos, estos tres taxa deben ser reconocidos como especies distintas. As pues, se acepta el punto de vista de McGregor.
41967046|Agave isthmensis from Oaxaca and Chiapas, Mxico is described as new and illustrated. The new species belongs to the Hiemiflorae group. Its relationships with A. potatorum and A. pygmaea, its closest relatives are discussed. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Agave isthmensis de los estados de Oaxaca y Chiapas, Mxico. El nuevo taxon pertenece al Grupo Hiemiflorae. Se discuten sus relaciones con A. potatorum y A. pygmaea, las especies ms cercanamente emparentadas.
41967058|A new species of Anulocaulis, A. hintoniorum B.L. Turner, is described and illustrated from near Parras, Coahuila. It is related to A. eriosolenus but is amply distinct by a number of characters including larger flowers and smooth ellipsoid anthocarps.
41967056|Two Solanaceae, Solanum viarum, native to southern Brazil, Paraguay, and northern Argentina, and S. tampicense, native to the West Indies and Mexico to Costa Rica, are here reported for Florida and the contiguous United States. Solanum viarum has become a noxious weed in Florida in pasture land and S. tampicense has the potential to become one in wet forested habitats. A key to S. tampicense, S. viarum, and related species and the nomenclature of S. tampicense is given. Dos Solanaceae, Solanum viarum nativa del sur de Brasil, Paraguay y norte de Argentina, y S. tampicense nativa de las Indias Occidentales y de Mxico a Costa Rica, se citan aqu para Florida y los Estados contiguos. Solanum viarum se ha convertido en una mala hierba nociva en los pastos de Florida y S. tampicense tiene el potencial de convertirse en otra en los hbitats forestales hmedos. Se ofrece una clave para S. tampicense, S. viarum y especies relacionadas as como la nomenclatura de S. tampicense.
41967062|The occurrence of three species of Luziola in the United States is reviewed; L. fluitans is widespread, whereas L. peruviana and L. bahiensis are limited in range. Collection data and a distribution map are given for the latter two, plus a detailed description of the Florida plants of L. bahiensis. Se revisa la presencia de tres especies de Luziola en los Estados Unidos: L. fluitans est ampliamente distribuida, mientras que L. peruviana y L. bahiensis tienen una distribucin ms limitada. Se dan datos de la recoleccin y un mapa de distribucin para las dos ltimas, adems de una descripcin detallada de las plantas de Florida pertenecientes a L. bahiensis.
41967065|Chromosome counts are reported for 100 collections of flowering plants representing 81 species from the U.S.A., Mexico, Ecuador, and Guatemala: 71 species of Asteraceae, representing 44 genera; 3 species of Phacelia (Hydrophyllaceae); 3 species of Physalis (Solanaceae); 2 species of Brazoria (Lamiaceae); 1 species of Gilia (Polemoniaceae); and 1 species of Gibasis (Commelinaceae).
41967064|Chromosome numbers are reported for 29 species of Malvaceae in 13 genera, of which 18 are new reports. The taxonomic implications of these data are discussed. Se reporta nmeros cromosmicos para 29 especies de las malvceas en 13 gneros, de las cuales 18 son datos nuevos. La significacin taxonmica de estos datos est considerado.
41967016|The taxonomy of Anulocaulis (Nyctaginaceae: Nyctagineae) is reviewed. Fivespecies, one with two varieties, are recognized: A. annulatus (Coville) Standl.,A. eriosolenus (A. Gray) Standl., A.gypsogenus Waterf., A. leiosolenus (Torr.) Standl. var. leiosolenus, A . leiosolenus var. lasianthus I. M.Johnst., and A. reflexus I. M. Johnst.. The difference between Anulocaulis and Boerbavia includes habit, gross leaf features, perianth shape, and anthocarp morphology. Included is first report of chromosome numbers for the genus (n = 24 for A. annulatus, A. eriosolenus, A. leiosolenus var. leiosolenus). Se revis la taxonoma del gnero Anulocaulis (Nyctaginaceae: Nyctagineae). Se reconocieron cinco especies, una de ellas con dos variedades: A. annulatus (Coville) Standl., A. eriosolenus (A. Gray) Standl., A. gypsogenus Waterf., A. leiosolenus (Torr.) Standl. var. leiosolenus, A. leiosolenus var. lasianthusl. M. Johnst., y A. reflexus. M. Johnst.. En la discusin de las diferencias de A nulocaulis con el gnero Boerhavia se incluye el hbito, los caracteres distinctivos de las hojas, la forma del perianto, y la morfologa del antocarpo. As mismo se incluye el primer recuento de nmeros cromosmicos para el gnero (n = 24 para A. annulatus, A. eriosolenus, y A. leiosolenus var. leiosolenus).
41967014|Salvia divinorum, ceremoniously employed by the Mazatec Indians of Oaxaca, is endemic to the sierra inhabited by the Mazatec, its distribution anthropogenic. Plants spread vegetatively, flourishing in shaded, humid sites, flowering sporadically from October until June. Flower nectar and corolla dimensions suggest ornithophily, and the only pollination event observed involved a single hummingbird, but other factors suggest that visits by birds to the flowers in their present range are opportunistic, and not a product of plant-pollinator coevolution. The species is diploid with n= 11, pollen fertility is reduced, there is no active pollen tube inhibition within the style, but some event or process after the pollen tube reaches the ovary is aberrant, as no fully developed nutlet has ever been collected from a Mexican plant, and greenhouse cross-pollinations led to only 3% seed set. Hybridity is suggested, although intermediacy between two known species has not been recognized. Salvia divinorum, que fue usada en las ceremonias por los Indios Mazatecas de Oaxaca, es una planta endmica de la sierra habitada por los Mazatecas y su distribucin antropognica. Se reproduce vegetativamente, prosperando en lugares hmedos y sombros, y ocasionalmente florece de octubre a junio. Las dimensiones de la corola y la presencia de nctar sugieren ornitofilia y la nica polinizacin observada fue realizada por un colibr, pero hay otros factores que sugieren que las visitas de los pjaros a las flores son oportunistas y no el producto de una coevolucin plantpolinizador. La especie es dipolide, n = 11, la fertilidad del polen reducida, no hay inhibicin estilar activa del tubo polnico, pero algunos procesos posteriores a la llegada del tubo polnico al ovario son aberrantes, por lo que nunca se ha recolectado ninguna nuclua perfectamente desarrollada en plantas mexicanas, y las polinizaciones cruzadas realizadas en invernadero producen slo un 3% de semillas. Se ha sugerido hibridacin, aunque no se ha reconocido que sea intermedia entre dos especies concocidas.
41967025|A review of the taxonomic literature of Setaria P. Beauv. resulted in the production of a computer database consisting of 1009 scientific names. These include 114 accepted names, 628 synonyms, 240 names of uncertain status, and 26 names currently placed in genera other than Setaria. Presented in hard copy is an alphabetical list of the accepted names with associated synonyms in chronological order, an alphabetical list of names placed in genera other than Setaria, a list of names of uncertain status in alphabetical sequence, and an index to all names. The complete database is available from the author on request. Una revisin de la bibliografa taxonmica de Setaria dio como resultado la elaboracin de una base de datos informatizada que consite en 1009 nombres cientficos. Estos encluyen 114 nombres vlidos, 628 sinnimos, 240 nombres de estatus incierto, y 26 nombres que se aplican a otros gneros diferentes de Setaria. Se presenta una lista en orden alfabtico de los nombres vlidos con sus sinnimos en orden cronolgico, otra lista con los nombres que se ubican en gneros diferentes a Setaria, otra lista en orden alfabtico de los nombrees con estatus incierto y un ndice con todos los nombres. Se puede obtener la base de datos completa pidindosela al autor.
41967033|A total of 78 counts for 64 taxa of Compositae are presented. Of these, five are for previously uncounted taxa: Grindelia camporum var. bracteosa (n = 12), G. confusa (n = 6), Isocoma tenuisecta (n = 6II, 12II), Conoclinium betonicifolium (n = 10II), and Gnaphalium schraderi (n = 14II). Three counts are reports of previously unreported ploidy levels for the taxa they represent. Two counts are of interest because they conflict with earlier reports: Geissolepis suaedaefolia (n = 9II) and Vanclevea stylosa (2n = 12). Se presentan un total de 78 recuentos para 64 taxa de Asteraceae. De estos, cinco pertenecen a taxa que no haban sido recontados previamente: Grindelia camporum var. bracteosa (n = 12), G. confusa (n = 6), Isocoma tenuisecta (n = 6II, 12II), Conoclinium betonicifolium (n = 10II), y Gnaphalium schraderi (n = 14II). Tres recuentos ofrecen niveles de ploida no citados previamente para los taxa afectados. Dos recuentos son de inters porque estn en contradiccin con recuentos previos: Geissolepis suaedaefolia (n = 9II) y Vanclevea sty losa (2n = 12).
41967021|Hedeoma oblatifolia Villarreal sp. nov., from the mountains of southeastern Coahuila (Northeast Mexico), is described and illustrated. It is similar to H. johnstonii Irving, and is easily recognized by its relatively larger flower, circular-oblate leaves and retrorse hairs on the stem. Hedeoma oblatifolia Villarreal sp. nov. de las montaas del sureste de coahuila (Noreste de Mxico), es descrita e ilustrada. Es similar a H. johnstonii Irving, y se reconoce fcilmente por sus flores relativamente grandes, hojas circular-obladas y pelos retrorsos en el tallo.
41967019|Urochloa is represented in Texas by three species, U. mosambicensis, U. panicoides, and U. reptans. Urochloa mosambicensis is being reported new for Texas. Urochloa panicoides has recently been reported in the state and is listed in the Federal Noxious Weed Act. Urochloa reptans has been recognized in Texas and the U. S. as Panicum reptans or, more recently, Brachiaria reptans. A key to distinguish related genera, a key to the species of Urochloa in Texas, species descriptions, and their distribution in Texas are provided. Urochloa est representada en Texas por tres especies, U. mosambicensis, U. panicoides y U. reptans. Urochloa mosambicensis se cita como nueva para Texas. Urochloa panicoides ha sido citada recientemente en el estado y est catalogada en la Ley Federal de Plantas Nocivas (Federal Noxious Weed Act). Urochloa reptans ha sido reconocida en Texas y en el resto de los Estados Unidos como Panicum reptans, o ms recientemente como Brachiaria reptans. Se ofrece una clave para identificar los gneros prximos, otra clave para las especies de Urochloa en Texas, as como descripciones de las especies y su distribucin en Texas.
41967023|Agalinis navasotensis Dubrule & Canne-Hilliker is described from a sandstone outcrop in Grimes County, Texas. It is morphologically most similar to the Louisiana species, A. caddoensis Penn., from which it differs primarily in characters of the inflorescence, calyx, and corolla. The plant and its unusual habitat are described. A table and a key are provided to distinguish A. navasotensis from similar Agalinis of Texas and neighboring areas. Se describe Agalinis navasotensis Dubrule & Canne-Hilliker que crece en afloramientos de areniscas en el Condado Grimes, Texas. Morfolgicamente es muy similar a A. caddoensis Penn. de Louisiana, de la cual se diferencia principalmente por caracteres de la inflorescencia, cliz y corola. Se describen la planta y su habitat particular. Se incluyen un cuadro y una clave para distinguir A. navasotensis de las especies parecidas de Agalinis de Texas y de reas cercanas.
41967027|A revisionary treatment of Baileya is rendered following the examination of approximately 1,800 herbarium specimens of the genus. Three species are recognized: B. pauciradiata, B. multiradiata and B. pleniradiata. Descriptions, illustrations, dot-maps, keys to species and complete synonymy are presented. The relationship of Baileya to its most closely related genus, Psilostrophe, is discussed. Se hace una revisin del gnero Baileya mediante el examen de aproximadamente 1800 pliegos de herbario. Se reconocen tres especies: B. pauciradiata, B. multiradiata y B. pleniradiata. Se ofrecen descripciones, ilustraciones, mapas de distribucin, clave de especies y sinonimia completa. Se discuten las relaciones entre Baileya y Psilostrophe por ser el gnero ms semejante.
41967029|Complete lists of the species of vascular plants in the flora of Chicken Key in Dade County Florida were generated during surveys of the key on five occasions over a period of five years, including surveys conducted just before and just after Hurricane Andrew (which impacted the key on 24 Aug 1992). Although the short term effect on the species richness of the key was dramatic (a drop from 72 to 63 species), the post hurricane species richness is still well within the known range for the island, indicating that the long term effects on the species composition may not be significant. Se realizo la lista completa de plantas vasculares del "Chicken Key" (Cayo Pollo) en el condado de Dade de Florida. Fue elaborada en cinco visitas, durante un perodo de cinco aos, e incluyen reconocimientos llevados a cabo inmediatamente antes e inmediatamente despu del huracn Andrew (que afect el cayo el 24 de agosto de 1992). A pesar de que el impacto inmediato en el nmero de especies fue dramtico (una reduccin de 72 a 63 especies), la diversidad despus del huracn est aun dentro del rango normal para la isla, indicando que los efectos a largo plazo sobre la composicin de la flora, probablemente no sea significativo.
41967028|Carex lativena, section Triquetrae, is described from the Chisos Mountains in southern Brewster County, Texas. It was found in an open semi-dry hardwood-conifer forest. It differs from its putative closest relative, C. planostachys, in having more numerous and shorter basal peduncled pistillate spikes; shorter culms; perigynia that are conspicuously obovate, less pubescent and with shorter, abruptly bent beaks; achenes that are apically retuse, brown in color; and differing in achene micromorphology. Both species are cespitose in habit. The difference being that the cespitose clumps of C. lativena is composed of individual plants that can be pulled apart from each other. A key to the species of section Triquetrae is included.
41967024|Commelina socorrogonzaleziae Espejo & Lpez-Ferrari (Commelinaceae) is described from Mxico as new to science, commentaries are made about the genus Commelina in Mxico. The new species is distinguished by its flowers "flesh" colour, its linear to linear-filiform leaves and its subaquatic habit. Se describe Commelina socorrogonzaleziae Espejo & Lpez-Ferrari (Commelinaceae) como nueva para la ciencia a partir de material procedente del Centro-Norte de Mxico y se hacen comentarios acerca del gnero Commelina en Mxico. La nueva especie se distingue por sus flores color "carne," sus hojas lineares a linear-filiformes y su hbito subacutico.
41967022|Rottboellia cochinchinensis (Lour.) W.D. Clayton (syn. = R. exaltata L.f.), previously unreported in Texas, has been found in Jefferson County. A key is provided to separate this taxon from similar genera of Texas Andropogoneae, as well as a description of the species. Rottboellia cochinchinensis (Lour.) W. D. Clayton (sinnimo de R. exaltata L.f.) previamente no citada en Texas, se ha encontrado en el Condado Jefferson. Se ofrece una clave para separar este taxon de gneros similares de Andropogoneae de Texas, as como una descripcin de la especie.
41967017|Foliar trichomes of Quercus section Protobalanus, the smallest section of the oaks, were studied using scanning electron microscopy. Distinct complements of non-glandular trichome types were observed for each of the five recognized species (Q. cedrosensis C. H. Mll., Q. chrysolepis Liebm., Q. palmeri Engelm. [Q. dunnii Kell.], Q. tomentella Engelm., and Q. vaccinifolia Kell.). Trichome characters fully support the current taxonomy of the section and provide additional characters for species identification. Intraspecific trichome variation was used to address both geographic variation and hypotheses of hybridization between several species-pairs. Contrary to previous reports, the total complement of non-glandular trichomes documented in section Protobalanus is as diverse as that observed in both the larger red (black) and white oak groups. Se estudiaron, mediante el microscopio electrnico de barrido, los tricomas foliares de Quercus seccin Protobalanus, que es la seccin ms pequena de los robles. Se observaron distintas cantidades de tipos de tricomas no glandulares en cada una de las cinco especies (Q. cedrosensis C. H. Mll., Q chrysolepis Liebm., Q. palmeri Engelm., [Q. dunnii Kell.], Q. tomentella Engelm., y Q. vaccinifolia Kell.). Los caracteres de los tricomas apoyan la taxonoma aceptada de la seccin y ofrecen caracteres adicionales para la identificacin de especies. La variacin intraespecfica de los tricomas se uso tanto para explicar la variacin geogrfica como para hacer hiptesis de hibridacin entre varios pares de especies. Contrariamente a lo que se haba citado previamente, la cantidad total de tricomas no glandulares en la seccin Protobalanus es tan diversa como la observada en los grandes grupos de robles blancos y rojos (negros).
41967031|The monotypic genus Lindheimera, based upon L. texana, a common spring-flowering annual with the common name, Texas Star, occurs in mostly heavy clay or silty-clay soils of Central Texas and closely adjacent Oklahoma and the state of Coahuila, Mexico. A single record from the state of Arkansas is believed to have been introduced. A map showing the distribution of this species is provided, along with the citation of representative specimens from each of the counties in which it has been collected. El gnero monotpico Lindheimera, basado en L. texana, es una planta frecuente anual de floracin primaveral, de nombre vulgar Estrella de Texas (Texas Star), que vive normalmente en suelos calcreos del centro de Texas y en Oklahoma, as como en el estado de Coahuila, Mxico. Una nica cita del estado de Arkansas se cree que se trata de una planta introducida. Se ofrece un mapa que muestra la distribucin de la especie junto con la cita de los especmenes representativos de cada uno de los condados en que ha sido colectada.
41967015|On the basis of historical and recent collections, Staurogynejtgrestis is reported from western Mexico. This is the first report of this genus in North America. Descriptions and illustrations are provided of this poorly known species. Staurogyne is compared with other Mexican Nelsonioideae. Se cita por primera vez para Mxico (y Amrica del Norte) Staurogyne agrestis. Se describe e ilustra esta especie poco conocida. Tambin se ofrece una clave de todos los gneros de la subfamilia Nelsonioideae en Mxico.
41966512|Pollen grains of Dalea section Cylipogon are described by scanning electron microscopy. This section consists of ten species; nine are discussed here. In this section there are three definite pollen types. Two types are clearly distinct while the third is intermediate. The first type is spherical, highly reticulate with anomotreme apertures. The second is prolate, finely reticulate with tricolpate apertures. The intermediate type has three different forms, two prolate and a subprolate form.
41966516|Thorough field studies of the Ragland Hills area, Forrest and Perry counties, Mississippi began in 1969 and were continued until autumn 1973. The flora and ecology of several rich, mesic ravines were given special consideration. About 250-300 acres of these ravines, although disturbed by man, probably represent the largest and best remnant of the beech-magnolia forest in Mississippi. One-thousand nineteen species of vascular plants, variously distributed among 452 genera in 130 families, are recorded for the area.
41967372|The study of North American specimens of the halophytic genus Suaeda has led to recognition of 14 species and five varieties, plus two species of doubtful status. Taxonomic problems associated with the succulent habit of Suaeda and the historical development of the genus are discussed. Distribution, typification and systematics of the species are presented with citation of specimens from each county or district recorded.
41966668|Distributional studies of the coastal plain species isolated on the Cumberland Plateau and Highland Rim indicate that they are southern species which migrated onto the plateaus in late Pleistocene from northern Alabama.
41966670|The results of a herbarium study of two common species of Cyperus (C. manimae and C. odoratus) are presented. It is shown that: 1) in C. manimae, the varieties asperrimus, divergens and phaeocephalus do not merit recognition; 2) C. spectabilis Link and C. apiculatus Liebm. should be treated as synonyms of C. manimae; and 3) C. macrocephalus Liebm., C. eggersii Boeck., C. acicularis (Schrad.) Steud. and C. engelmannii Steud. are synonyms of C. odoratus L.
41966669|A guide to the vascular plants of the Florida panhandle is to be published next year. Over 30 additions to that guide are documnted here. The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Arabis canadensis, Asclepias, viridiflora, Bromus tectorum, Cayaponia grandiflora, Helianthus atrorubens, Scutellaria drummondii, and Solidago flaccidifolia.
41966667|Biosystematic study and study of type and other material of the eight species of Californian Coreopsis (sections Tuckermannia, Pugiopappus, and Euleptosyne) was undertaken. The group is resistant to the biosystematic approach, in the sense that artificial hybridizations attempted in all combinations among the species were mostly unsuccessful. Only C. maritima X C. gigantea hybrids (and the reciprocal) were produced and these had high pollen stainability. All eight species in the three sections are n = 12. The perennials (section Tuckermannia) have noticeably larger meiotic chromosomes than do the annuals (sections Pugiopappus and Euleptosyne). The three sections are well-differentiated and deserve sectional status. A key to the taxa and citation of observed types and other specimens examined is presented. Based on selected morphological characteristics, the relative evolutionary advancement of the species within each section is postulated.
41966666|Chromosome numbers are reported for 39 taxa of Nama. Counts for 25 taxa confirm numbers as previously reported. Counts for 14 taxa are initial reports; 12 taxa conform to the generally diploid pattern found in the genus, while two, N. dichotomum vars. dichotomum and pueblense, are tetraploid with n = 14. Notes on relationships of selected taxa are included.
41966671|The taxonomy of Duranta L. is provisionally reviewed in the form of a synoptic key and synonymy list. Seventeen species, without infraspecific taxa, are recognized. In zones of geographic sympatry, twelve of the species have been involved in forming nineteen putative natural hybrids, eight of which have been described previously as species or varieties.
41966651|Senecio millefolium T. & G. is restricted to the character of its protologue and a lectotype is designated for it. Senecio memmingeri Britt. is removed from the synonymy of S. millefolium and designated a hybrid between that species and Senecio anonymus Wood.
41966652|There are 25 species of Solidago (Goldenrod) in Oklahoma and Texas, with 10 species having two varieties each and one species having four varieties for a total of 38 taxa in this treatment. Information includes keys, data on type specimens, distribution maps, drawings of typical leaves, synonymy, discussion of differentiating characteristics, habitat, and one new combination: Solidago velutina var. nevadensis (Gray) C. & J. Taylor.
41966647|Aronia arbutifolia (L.) Elliott var. glabra Elliott is reduced to forma. A lectotype is designated for A. melanocarpa (Michaux) Elliott. A. prunifolia (Marshall) Rehder is formally designated a hybrid and the taxonomic consequence of this action is discussed.
41966646|A night-blooming, sagittate-leaved water-lily of Nymphaea subgenus Hydrocallis is described from the Amazon drainage in northern Brazil.
41968031|Pitcher plant bogs require frequent fires to prevent encroachment of woody vegetation. Little information is available on the relative effectiveness of growing-season burns for maintaining plant communities in bogs and reducing woody encroachment. In this study, the effects of growing-season and dormant-season burns on plant communities were assessed in two pitcher-plant bogs on the Peason Ridge Military Reservation in western Louisiana. Measurements were collected every month from March through November 1996 and from March through October 1997. Floristic composition and forb and woody plant density were determined in both bogs. Both bogs had been burned on 3-year rotations in the dormant season for approximately 20 years. One bog, hereafter Conef lower bog, was burned during the dormant season in December 1995 and is approximately 0.8 hectare (ha). The other bog, Woodpecker bog, was burned during the growing season in August 1996 and is approximately 0.7 ha. Over both years, we found 98 plant species in both bogs together with 94 of the 98 species in Conef lower bog and 90 of the 98 species in Woodpecker bog. No species were eliminated from either bog after the fires. In addition, all species that were present after the growing season fire in Woodpecker bog had been present before the fire. However, several species were much more abundant after the fire than before the fire. The study also contains comments on the occurrence of several rare and interesting species encountered during this study including Sabine conef lower (Rudbeckia scabrifolia), Texas pipewort (Eriocaulon texense), Red-top panicum (Panicum rigidulum var. combsii), Slender panicum (Panicum tenerum), Beakrush (Rhynchospora chalarocephala), Drummond's yellow-eyed grass (Xyris drummondii), and Rough-leaved yellow-eyed grass (Xyris scabrifolia). Las turberas requieren frecuentes fuegos para evitar la invasin de vegetacin leosa. Est disponible poca informacin sobre la relativa efectividad de los fuegos en la poca de crecimiento para mantener las comunidades vegetales en turberas y reducir la invasin de vegetacin leosa. En este estudio, se evaluaron los efectos de las quemas en la estacin de crecimiento y en la poca de parada de comunidades vegetales en dos turberas en la Reserva Peason Ridge Military en el oeste de Louisiana. Las medidas se tomaron todos los meses de marzo a noviembre de 1996 y de marzo a octubre de 1997. Se determin la composicin florstica y densidad de hierbas y plantas leosas en ambas turberas. Ambas turberas han sido quemadas en rotaciones de tres aos en la estacin de parada durante unos 20 aos. Una turbera, concretamente la Coneflower, se quem en diciembre de 1995 y tiene aproximadamente 0.8 hectreas (ha). La otra, Woodpecker, se quem durante la estacin de crecimiento en agosto de 1996 y tiene aproximadamente 0.7 ha. Durante ambos aos, encontramos 98 especies en ambas turberas junto con 94 de las 98 especies en la turbera Coneflower y 90 de las 98 especies en la turbera Woodpecker. Ninguna especie fue eliminada de las turberas despus de los fuegos. Adems, todas las especies que estaban presentes despus del fuego en la estacin de crecimiento en la turbera Woodpecker estaban presentes antes del fuego. Sin embargo, varias especies eran mucho ms abundantes despus del fuego que antes. El estudio tambin contiene comentarios sobe la presencia de varias especies raras e interesantes encontradas durante este estudio incluyendo Rudbeckia scabrifolia, Eriocaulon texense, Panicum rigidulum var. combsii, Panicum tenerum, Rhynchospora chalarocephala, Xyris drummondii, y Xyris scabrijolia.
41967985|Eriogonum riograndis, sp. nov., is segregated from plants previously identified as E. multiflorum Benth. The new species is known from 17 counties of the Rio Grande plains in south-central Texas. Eriogonum riograndis differs from E. multiflorum in its broader leaves with auriculate-subclasping bases (vs. attenuate, non-clasping leaf bases) and its involucres with more numerous flowers (22-28(-36) vs. 6-12(-15) flowers). The two taxa are primarily allopatric and sharply discontinuous in morphology. Putative intermediates have been observed in three counties. Both species are distinct from the apparently closely related E. annuum Nutt. in their longer peduncles, sparsely tomentose and glabrescent involucres, and cordate perianth lobes. Eriogonum riograndis, sp. nov., se segrega de las plantas identificadas previamente como E. multiflorum Benth. La nueva especie se conoce de 17 condados de las llanuras de Ro Grande en el sur-centro de Texas. Eriogonum riograndis difiere de E. multiflorum en sus hojas ms anchas con bases auriculado semiabrazadoras (en vez bases de las hojas atenuadas, no abrazantes) y sus involucros con flores ms numerosas (22-28(-36) vs. 6-12(-15) flores). Los dos taxa son primariamente aloptricos y fuertemente discontinuos en su morfologa. Se han observado intermedios putativos en tres condados. Ambas especies son distintas del aparentemente muy relacionado E. annuum Nutt. Por sus pednculos ms largos, involucros esparsamente tomentosos y lbulos del perianto glabrescentes, y cordados.
41968005|Infrageneric taxa in Panicum and Dichanthelium have a long history of usage, but at least eight of these taxa have not been validly published previously. The new taxa published here are Panicum sect. Antidotalia, P. sect. Hemitoma, Dichanthelium sect. Clandestina, D. sect. Linearifolia, D. sect. Macrocarpa, D. sect. Nudicaulia, D. sect. Pedicellata, and D. sect. Strigosa. Fifty-two new combinations, made for a forthcoming treatment of these two genera, are as follows: D. sect. Angustifolia; D. sect. Ensifolia; D. sect. Lancearia; D. sect. Lanuginosa; D. sect. Oligosantha; D. sect. Sphaerocarpa; D. aciculare subsp. angustifolium, subsp. fusiforme, subsp. neuranthum; D. acuminatum subsp. columbianum, subsp. fasciculatum, subsp. implicatum, subsp. leucothrix, subsp. lindheimeri, subsp. longiligulatum, subsp. sericeum, subsp. spretum, subsp. thermale; D. chamaelonche and subsp. breve; D. commutatum subsp. ashei, subsp. equilaterale, subsp. joori; D. dichotomum subsp. lucidum, subsp. mattamuskeetense, subsp. microcarpon, subsp. nitidum, subsp. roanokense, subsp. yadkinense; D. ensifolium subsp. curtifolium; D. oligosanthes subsp. scribnerianum; D. ovale subsp. praecocius, subsp. pseudopubescens, subsp. villosissimum; D. portoricense subsp. patulum; D. strigosum subsp. glabrescens, subsp. leucoblepharis; D. tenue; P. amarum subsp. amarulum; P.anceps subsp. rhizomatum; P. capillore subsp. hilmanii; P. dichotomiflorum subsp. bartowense, subsp. puritanorum; P. hallii subsp. filipes; P. hirticaule subsp. sonorum, subsp. stramineum; P. philadelphicum subsp. gattingeri, subsp. lithophilum; and P. rigidulum subsp. abscissum, subsp. combsii, subsp. elongatum, subsp. pubescens. Los txones infragenricos en Panicum y Dichanthelium han sido usados durante mucho tiempo, pero por lo menos ocho de estos txones no han sido publicados vlidamente. Los nuevos txones aqu publicados son Panicum sect. Antidotalia, P. sect. Hemitoma, Dichanthelium sect. Clandestina, D. sect. Linearifolia, D. sect. Macrocarpa, D. sect. Nudicaulia, D. sect. Pedicellata, y D. sect. Strigosa. Cincuenta y dos nuevas combinaciones, designadas en un futuro tratamiento de estos dos gneros, son: D. sect. Angustifolia; D. sect. Ensifolia; D. sect. Lancearia; D. sect. Lanuginosa; D. sect. Oligosantha; D. sect. Sphaerocarpa; D. sect. Angustifolia; D. sect. Ensifolia; D. sect. Lancearia; D. sect. Lanuginosa; D. sect. Oligosantha; D. sect. Sphaerocarpa; D. aciculare subsp. angustifolium, subsp. fusiforme, subsp. neuranthum; D. acuminatum subsp. columbianum, subsp. fasciculatum, subsp. implicatum, subsp. leucothrix, subsp. lindheimeri, subsp. longiligulatum, subsp. sericeum, subsp. spretum, subsp. thermale; D. chamaelonche y subsp. breve; D. commutatum subsp. ashei, subsp. equilaterale, subsp. joori; D. dichotomum subsp. lucidum, subsp. mattamuskeetense, subsp. microcarpon, subsp. nitidum, subsp. roanokense, subsp. yadkinense; D. ensifolium subsp. curtifolium; D. oligosanthes subsp. scribnerianum; D. ovale subsp. praecocius, subsp. pseudopubescens, subsp. villosissimum; D. portoricense subsp. patulum; D strigosum subsp. glabrescens, subsp. leucoblepharis; D. tenue; P. amarum subsp. amarulum; P. anceps subsp. rhizomatum; P. capillare subsp. hilmanii; P. dichotomiflorum subsp. bartowense, subsp. puritanorum; P. hallii subsp. filipes; P. hirticaule subsp. sonorum, subsp. stramineum; P. philadelphicum subsp. gattingeri, subsp. lithophilum; y P. rigidulum subsp. abscissum, subsp. combsii, subsp. elongatum, subsp. pubescens.
41968018|Melastomataceae es una familia con aproximadamente 4500 especies distribuidas en los trpicos y subtrpicos, principalmente en Amrica del Sur. En Ecuador se han registrado 43 gneros y 553 especies, de stos, 24 gneros y 124 reportan alguna utilidad para el ser humano. Segn los registros de los herbarios QCNE y QCA y la literatura, las especies ecuatorianas de Melastomataceae son utilizadas principalmente para tratar heridas, picaduras de culebras y para construcciones. De las 124 especies tiles, 27 (21,8%) son alimenticias, especialmente debido a los frutos dulces y a los tallos agrios usados para calmar la sed; 32 (25,8 %) son utilizadas para tablas y construccin; 59 (47,6%) son medicinales; 8 (6,4%) son usados por los shamanes para aliviar algunas enfermedades fsicas y espirituales; solamente 4 (3,2%) son ornamentales y 50 (40,3%) tienen otros usos, tales como cabos de herramientas, escobas, encofrados, forraje para animales, lea, tinciones, y como cercas vivas. Melastomataceae is a family with about 4500 species distributed mainly in the tropics, especially in South America. There are 43 genera and 553 species registered for Ecuador. Based on the revision of herbarium specimens housed at QCNE, QCA and the literature, 24 genera and 124 species are registered as useful for humans. Of these, 27 (21.8%) are used as food due to the sweetish fruits and acidic stems, used against thirst; 32 (25.8 %) are used for construction; 59 (47.6%) are medicinal; 8 (6.4%) are used by Shamans for treating fisical and spiritual ailments; only 4 (3.2%) are ornamentals; and 50 (40.3%) have various uses, such us for tools handles, brooms, fuelwood, charcoal, dyes, and for living fences.
41967990|Chromosome studies and phylogenetic analyses of morphology, allozymes, and nrDNA-ITS sequence data were used to resolve taxonomic relationships in the Thelesperma subnudum complex. Of special interest is the placement of three globally rare members of the complex: Thelesperma caespitosum, T. pubescens, and T. subnudum var. alpinum. The first two rare taxa yield only diploid (n=12) chromosome counts; T. subnudum var. alpinum is consistently tetraploid (n=24). Thelesperma subnudum var. subnudum exhibits both diploid (n=12) and tetraploid (n=24) populations. Phylogenetic analyses of individual data sets strongly support (bootstrap 88%99%) T. subnudum var. alpinum as being more closely related to T. pubescens and T. caespitosum than to T. subnudum var. subnudum. Combined analyses give the strongest support (bootstrap 100%) for the clade of T. pubescens, T. caespitosum, and T. subnudum var. alpinum. Preliminary evidence suggests that T. subnudum var. alpinum may be an allotetraploid resulting from hybridization between T. pubescens and T. subnudum. Based on the available evidence, we propose the following nomenclatural changes: Thelesperma pubescens Dorn var. caespitosum (Dorn) C.J. Hansen, stat. nov., and Thelesperma windhamii C.J. Hansen, nom. et stat. nov. Se han usado estudios cromosmicos y anlisis filogenticos de datos morfolgicos, alozimas y de secuencias de nrDNA-ITS para tratar de resolver las relaciones taxonmicas dentro del complejo Thelesperma subnudum. De especial inters es la posicin taxonmica de los tres miembros del complejo: Thelesperma caespitosum, T. pubescens y T. subnudum var. alpinum, considerados globalmente raros. Los dos primeros taxa mostraron solamente poblaciones diploides (n = 12), mientras que T. subnudum var. alpinum se mostr constantemente como tetraploide (n = 24). Thelesperma subnudum var subnudum mostr tanto poblaciones diploides (n = 12) como tetraploides (n = 24). Los resultados del anlisis filogentico de diferentes tipos de datos soportan ms fuertemente (bootstrap 88%-99%) el agrupamiento de T. subnudum var. alpinum con T. caespitosum y T. pubescens, que su agrupamiento con T. subnudum var. subnudum. Los anlisis combinados mostraron el mximo soporte (bootstrap 100%) para el ciado compuesto por T. subnudum var. alpinum, T. caespitosum y T. pubescens. Evidencias preliminares sugieren que T. subnudum var. alpinum podra ser un alotetraploide resultante de la hibridacin entre T. subnudum y T. pubescens. De acuerdo con la evidencia disponible proponemos los siguientes cambios nomenclaturales: Thelesperma pubescens Dorn var. caespitosum (Dorn) C.J. Hansen, stat. nov. y Thelesperma windhamii C.J. Hansen, nom. et stat. nov.
41967986|Ipomoea costellata var. edwardsensis, var. nov., is described, illustrated, and mapped. It apparently is endemic to the Edwards Plateau region of Texas, where it is known from six counties. It is set apart from I. costellata elsewhere in its range by its combination of shorter peduncles and bright white, nearly rotate flowers with fewer and deeper lobes. Se describe, se ilustra y se cartografa lpomoea costellata var. edwardsensis, var. nov. Es aparentemente endmica de la regin de la meseta Edwards de Texas, de donde se conoce de seis condados. Se separa de I. costellata por su combinacin de pednculos ms cortos y flores blanco brillante, casi rodadas con menos lbulos y ms profundos.
41968016|Chromosome numbers are reported for 85 collections of Cerastium (Caryophyllaceae) from continental North America belonging to 22 taxa. First published reports include those for C. nutans var. objectum Kearney & Peebles (2n = 34) and C. texanum Britton (2n = 36). First reports for material of North American origin include C. bialynickii Tolm. (2n = 108), C. brachypodum (Eng. ex Gray) B.L. Robinson (2n = 34), C. dichotomum L. (2n = 38), C. diffusion Pers. (2n = 72), C. fischerianum Ser. (2n = 66 & 72), C. glomeratum Thuill. (2n = 72) and C. semidecandrum L. (2n = 36). Se citan los nmeros cromosomticos de colecciones de Cerastium (Caryophyllaceae) de Norte Amrica continental pertenecientes a 22 taxa. Entre ellos se encuentran los primeros recuentos de C. nutans var. objectum Kearney & Peebles (2n = 34) y C. texanum Britton (2n = 36). Primeros recuentos en materiales de origen norteamericano de C. bialynickii Tolm. (2n = 108), C. brachypodum (Eng. ex Gray) B.L. Robinson (2n = 34), C. dichotomum L. (2n = 38), C. diffusum Pers. (2n = 72), C. fischerianum Ser. (2n = 66 & 72), C. glomeratum Thuill. (2n = 72) y C. semidecandrum L. (2n = 36).
41967991|A new species of Liatris (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae,) is described from Liberty County, Florida. Presumably its closest relative is L. gracilis, from which it differs in morphology, chemistry, and ecology. The species is diploid (n = 10). Se describe una nueva especie de Liatris (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae,) del condado de Liberty, Florida. Probablemente su pariente ms cercano es L. gracilis, de quien difiere en morfologa, qumica, y ecologa. La especie es diploide (n = 10).
41968021|The native and naturalized vascular plants of Konza Prairie Biological Station, a 3487-ha tallgrass prairie research site located in the Flint Hills of northeastern Kansas, are listed along with their primary habitat, relative abundance, flowering period, and life span. After more than 25 years of collections, the known vascular flora of Konza Prairie consists of 576 species, representing 336 genera and 96 families. Families with the most species are Poaceae (84), Asteraceae (79), Fabaceae (49), and Cyperaceae (33). Non-native species (n = 96) comprise 16.7% of the total flora. When categorized by life span, 64.6% of all species are perennials, 31.3% are annuals, and 4.2% are biennials. Species that are characteristically associated with a prairie habitat comprise 40.6% of the flora, followed by species in disturbed (22.4%), woodland (22.2%), and wetland (14.8%) habitats. In the prairie habitat, 16.2% of the species are grasses and 76.9% are herbaceous forbs. The C photosynthetic pathway occurs in 59.5% of all grass species and in 70.8% of the annual grasses. The diversified habitats created by management and research activities on Konza Prairie provide a flora richness that is likely greater than that of any other area of comparable size in the Great Plains region. Las plantas vasculares indgenas y aclimatadas de la Estacin Biolgica de la Pradera Konza, un sitio de investigacin en una pradera de pasto alto de 3487 hectreas en el noreste de Kansas, se listan indicando su hbitat principal, abundancia relativa, periodo de floracin y su longevidad. Tras ms de 25 aos de colectar, se han identificado 576 especies de flora vascular de la Pradera Konza, que representan 336 gneros y 96 familias. Las familias con mayor cantidad de especies son Poaceae (84), Asteraceae (79), Fabaceae (49) y Cyperaceae (33). Las especies no indgenas (n = 96) componen el 16.7% de la flora total. Cuando son clasificadas por su longevidad, 64.6% del total de especies son perennes, 31.3% anuales y 4.2% bienales. Las especies caractersticas de un hbitat de praderas componen el 40.6% de la flora total, seguidas por las de habitat perturbado (22.4%), forestal (22.2%) y pantano (14.8%). La ruta fotosinttica C aparece en el 59.5% de las especies de pastos y en el 70.8% de los pastos anuales. Los hbitats diversificados que se han producido a travs de actividades de administracin e investigacin en la Pradera Konza ofrecen una abundancia de flora que posiblemente sobrepasa cualquier otra rea de tamao comparable en esta regin.
41968037|The authors provide a list of 41 additions, reinstatements, and significant range extensions for the flora of Arkansas. Alternanthera paronychioides, Bowlesia incana, Eleocharis montevidensis, Hypoxis curtissii, Nandina domestica, Polygonum setaceum, and Trifolium lappaceum are reported as new and persistent elements, while Ipomea leucantha, Mirabilisjalapa, Najas minor, and Veronica polita are reinstated to the state flora. A number of alien weedsCynoglossum zeylanicum, Eleusine tristachya, Euphorbia hirta, Scoparia dulcis, Tragopogon pratensis, Trifolium nigrescens, Verbena montevidensisare noticed and documented for the first time, however, their persistence is not known. Los autores proporcionan una lista donde se enumeran 41 adiciones, restablecimientos, y extensiones de rea significativas para la flora de Arkansas. Alternanthera paronychioides, Bowlesia incana, Eleocharis montevidensis, Hypoxis curtissii, Nandina domestica, Polygonum setaceum, y Trifolium lappaceum son citadas como componentes nuevos y persistentes del rea, mientras que Ipomea X leucantha, Mirabilis jalapa, Najas minor, y Veronica polita son una rehabilitacin paraa la flora del estado. Un nmero de malas hierbas de origen alctonoCynoglossum zeylanicum, Eleusine tristachya, Euphorbia hirta, Scoparia dulcis, Tragopogon pratensis, Trifolium nigrescens, Verbena montevidensisson mencionadas y documentadas por primera vez, sin embargo, su persistencia no es conocida.
41968041|The publication of a vascular flora survey of Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana by Neyland et al. in 2000 is updated and revised. Subsequent field and herbarium research has yielded the discovery of four new species for the parish. Additionally, six species that had been previously reported by other sources to occur the parish but were not discovered during Neyland et al,'s original survey have been collected. Two corrections from the original survey are also noted. La publication de un inventario de flora vascular de Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana por Neyland et al. en 2000 se pone al da y se revisa. La investigacin subsiguiente de campo y herbario ha tenido como consecuencia el descubrimiento de cuatro nuevas especies para parroquia. Adicionalmente, se han colectado seis especies que haban sido citadas previamente por otras fuentes en la parroquia pero no fueron descubiertas durante la inspeccin original de Neyland et al. Se hacen tambin dos correcciones al catlogo original.
41967997|Five new species and one new variety of Crataegus (Rosaceae) are described for the northern Okanagan area of British Columbia. They are C. castlegarensis (ser. Douglasianae), C. shuswapensis (? ser. Douglasianae), and C. okanaganensis var. wellsii, C. enderbyensis, C. orbicularis and C. atrovirens (all ser. Purpureofructi). This generates a rich western North American center of diversity for Crataegus, with 13 species so far known from this newly recognized center. Four of the species described here are endemic to the northern Okanagan but C. castlegarensis ranges widely to northern Oregon, northeastern Utah and western Montana while C. okanaganensis var. wellsii extends into the Okanogan of Washington. All the new taxa are illustrated and mapped. Revised keys for the relevant series are provided. Se describen cinco especies nuevas y una variedad de Crataegus (Rosaceae) en el norte de la regin de Okanagan en la Columbia Britnica. Son C. castlegarensis (ser. Douglasianae), C. shuswapensis (? ser. Douglasianae), y C. okanaganensis var. wellsii, C. enderbyensis, C. orbicularis y C. atrovirens (all ser. Purpureofructi). Esto genera un centro de diversidad rico en el oeste de Norte Amrica para Crataegus, con 13 especies conocidas hasta el momento en este nuevo centro. Cuatro de las especies descritas aqu son endmicas del norte de Okanaga pero C. castlegarensis llega hasta el norte de Oregn, noreste de Utah y oeste de Montana, mientras que G okanaganensis var. wellsii se extiende por el Okanoga de Washington. Todos los nuevos taxa se ilustran y cartografan. Se aportan claves revisadas para las series relevantes.
41968028|A floristic inventory of Big Lake Bottom Wildlife Management Area, a bottomland hardwood forest located on the Trinity River approximately 16 km SW of Palestine in Anderson Co., Texas, was conducted from October 1997 to July 2001. The study area is characterized by eight distinct alliances: 1) Overcup Oak-Water Hickory; 2) Willow Oak; 3) Planer Tree; 4) Cottonwood; 5) Sugarberry-Cedar Elm; 6) Bur Oak-Shumard Oak; 7) Post Oak-Blackjack Oak; and 8) Sand Post Oak-Bluejack Oak. The annotated list of taxa includes 99 families, 298 genera, and 459 species. Se realiz un inventario florstico del Big Lake Bottom Wildlife Management Area, un bosque de madera dura localizado en el ro Trinity unos 16 km al SW de Palestine en el Anderson Co., Texas, desde octubre de 1997 a julio de 2001. El rea de estudio se caracteriza por ocho alianzas distintas: 1) Overcup Oak-Water Hickory; 2) Willow Oak; 3) Planer Tree; 4) Cottonwood; 5) Sugarberry-Cedar Elm; 6) Bur Oak-Shumard Oak; 7) Post Oak-Blackjack Oak; y 8) Sand Post Oak-Bluejack Oak. El catlogo florstico de taxa incluye 99 familias, 298 gneros, y 459 especies.
41967993|A new species of Gonolobus is described, resulting from collections from southern Costa Rica. Se describe una especie nueva de Gonolobus como resultado de recientes colecciones del sur de Costa Rica.
41967994|An undescribed species of the genus Medinilla Gaud., from the Anamalai Hills, South India, is described and illustrated. Una especie no descrita del gnero Medinilla Gaud., de Anamalai Hills, sur de India, se describe y se ilustra.
41967988|In Railroad Valley of east-central Nevada is a less densely pubescent, thinner-leaved, and somewhat smaller-flowered version of Sphaeralcea caespitosa of west-central Utah. This variety is described as new, S. caespitosa var. williamsiae N.H. Holmgren. En el valle Railroad del centro-este de Nevada est una versin de Sphaeralcea caespitosa con pubescencia menos densa, hojas finas, y flores algo ms pequeas que la del centro-oeste de Utah. Se describe como una nueva variedad, S. caespitosa var. williamsiae N.H. Holmgren.
41967989|The April River of East Sepik Province has received little attention since the German explorations of the early 1900s. However the social, logistical, and vegetation status of April environments present considerable opportunities for floristic discovery and documentation.     
41968015|Mitotic chromosome counts for Stenanthium densum and S. leimanthoides (2n = 20), reported here for the first time, match the number previously documented for S. gramineum, the only other species in this genus as recently recircumscribed based on molecular data. The significance of chromosome numbers in the Melanthiaceae, particularly as generic synapomorphies in tribe Melanthieae, is discussed. El recuento de cromosomas mitticos de Stenanthium densum y S. leimanthoides (2n = 20), reportados por primera vez aqu, concuerdan con el nmero previamente documentado para S. gramineum, la nica otra especie de este gnero recircumscrito recientemente basndose en datos moleculares. Se discute aqu el significado del nmero de cromosomas en Melanthiaceae, particularmente como sinapomorfas genricas en la tribu Melanthieae.
41968006|Senecio sandersiana B.L. Turner, sp. nov, is described and illustrated from near El Salto, Durango, Mexico. It occurs in pine-oak woodlands at relatively high elevations (ca. 2720 m) and is said to be common locally on shady slopes and along ledges. The species is believed to be closely related to S. tolucannus DC. but differs in leaf shape and features of the capitulescence. Se describe y se ilustra Senecio sandersiana B.L. Turner, sp. nov., de cerca de El Salto, Durango, Mxico. Aparece en bosques de pino-encino en elevaciones relativamente altas (ca. 2720 m) y se dice que es comn localmente en las laderas umbras y a lo largo de cornisas. Se cree que la especie est emparentada con S. tolucannus DC. pero difiere en la forma de la hoja y caractersticas de la capitulescencia.
41968038|A population of the federal noxious weed Commelina benghalensis L. (Commelinaceae) was recently identified in a soybean field in North Carolina. Voucher specimens are cited and an updated key to Commelina in the Carolinas is presented. Se identifica una poblacin de la hierba nociva federal Commelina benghalensis L. (Commelinaceae) en un campo de semilla de soja en Carolina del Norte. Citamos especmenes y presentamos una clave nueva para Commelina en las Carolinas.
41968044|The following ten taxa are documented new to Texas: Aster laevis var. purpuratus, Bidens alba var. radiata, Tridax procumbens, Raphanus raphanistrum, Calycanthus floridus var. glaucus, Lyonia lucida, Hyptis mutabilis, Lilium longiflorum, Lythrum lineare, and Myrtus communis. Significant new collection records are provided for eight: Hypochaeris glabra, Cyperus cephalanthus, Rhynchosia tomentosa, Quercus arkansana, Allium stellatum, Cuphea viscosissima, Oenothera elata subsp. hirsutissima, and Leptochloa dubia. Taxa are listed alphabetically by family, genus, and species with comments and citation of voucher specimens. Los siguientes diez taxa se citan nuevos para Texas: Aster laevis var. purpuratus, Bidens alba var. radiata, Tridax procumbens, Raphanus raphanistrum, Calycanthus floridus var. glaucus, Lyonia lucida, Hyptis mutabilis, Lilium longiflorum, Lythrum lineare, y Myrtus communis. Se hacen citas significativas de otros ocho nuevas recolecciones: Hypochaeris glabra, Cyperus cephalanthus, Rhynchosia tomentosa, Quercus arkansana, Allium stellatum, Cuphea viscosissima, Oenothera elata subsp. hirsutissima, y Leptochloa dubia. Los taxa se listan alfabticamente por familia, gnero y especie con comentarios y cita de los especimenes testigo.
41968009|Two new species of Cunoniaceae, Weinmannia bradfordiana Z. Rogers and Weinmannia condorensis Z. Rogers are described and illustrated. Both sclerophyllous species are known only from their type localities and were collected from the Cordillera del Condor mountain range in the province of Morona Santiago, Ecuador. Se describe y se ilustra Weinmannia bradfordiana Z. Rogers y Weinmannia condorensis Z. Rogers. Estas dos especies esclerofilas son conocidas nicamente de las localidades de los tipos, y fueron colectadas en la regin de la Cordillera del Cndor en la provincia de Morona Santiago, Ecuador.
41968024|This paper presents the results of a study of rust fungi (Uredinales) on wild and cultivated plants in the provinces of Catamarca, Jujuy, Salta and Tucumn that belong to the region known as Northwest Argentina. The rust fungi are represented by 635 collections on 257 host plant species belonging to 51 vascular plant families. These rusts constitute 182 species in 30 genera of which 61 are new records for Argentina and 10 are new species of rusts. Eighty-four of the collections represent new host records for Argentina, and 50 of these are new host records for rusts. Specimens have been deposited in either Fundacin Miguel Lillo (LIL) or the U.S. National Fungus Collection (BPI). En el presente trabajo se presentan los resultados de la prospeccin de royas (Uredinales) realizada sobre la flora silvestre y cultivada de las Provincias de Catamarca, Jujuy, Salta, y Tucumn, pertenecientes a la regin conocida como Noroeste Argentino. Como resultado de este trabajo se elaboraron 635 colecciones correspondientes a 51 familias de hospedantes (257 especies). Ochenta y cuatro de estas colecciones son nuevos hospedantes para Argentina, de las cuales 50 son nuevas citas como hospedantes para royas. Se identificaron 30 gneros y 182 especies de royas, de las cuales 61 son nuevos registros para el pas y 10 nuevas especies. Las colecciones fueron depositadas en Fundacin Miguel Lillo (LIL) y U.S. National Fungus Collection (BPI).
41968001|Boerhavia coulteri (Hook. f.) S. Wats. var. palmeri (S. Wats.) Spellenb., comb. nov., based on B. spicata Choisy var. palmeri S. Wats., from the vicinity of Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, is proposed for a Boerhavia that differs from the var. coulteri in its small fruits and flowers, and its with sparsely-fruited spicate inflorescences. The variety ranges from the Channel Islands of California to the Big Bend region of Texas near the Ro Grande, and is very common on the Sonoran Desert. The two varieties are often sympatric, and they intergrade to a slight extent. A key is presented to distinguish the species of Boerhavia with spicate inflorescences in the United States. Boerhavia coulteri (Hook. f.) S. Wats. var. palmeri (S. Wats.) Spellenb., comb. nov., basada en B. spicata Choisy var. palmeri S. Wats., de la vecindad de Guaymas, Sonora, Mxico, se propuso para una forma de Boerhavia que difiere de la variedad coulteri por su frutos y flores pequeos, y su frutos esparcidos en inflorescencias espiciformes. La variedad se extiende desde las Islas Canales de California hasta la regin del "Big Bend" del Ro Bravo del Norte de Texas, y es muy comn en el Desierto Sonorense. Las variedades a menudo son simptricas, y se intergradan un poco. Se presenta una clave para distinguir las especies con inflorescencias espigadas de Boerhavia de los Estados Unidos de Amrica.
41967998|Xylorhiza glahriuscula var. linearifolia is treated within Xylorhiza at specific rank as Xylorhiza linearifolia (T.J. Wats.) Nesom, comb. nov. Xylorhiza linearifolia is geographically isolated from X. glabriuscula sensu stricto, but it does overlap and apparently hybridize with X. tortifolia var. imberbis. Xylorhiza glabriuscula var. linearifolia se trata dentro Xylorhiza a nivel especfico como Xylorhiza linearifolia (T.J. Wats.) Nesom, comb. nov. Xylorhiza linearifolia est aislada geogrficamente de X. glahriuscula sensu stricto, pero se solapa y aparentemente se hibrida con X. tortifolia var. imberbis.
41968012|Macranthera flammea (Bartr.) Pennell is a rare, biennial species endemic to the pine flatwoods of the lower coastal plain of the southeastern United States. Field, experimental garden, and herbarium studies were used to update the species description. The taxonomic history of the species is reviewed. Recognition of more than one taxon in the genus is not warranted because differences in calyx length and lobing are due to the placement of flower units within the architecture of the inflorescence on individual plants. A map of the species' range is provided. Macranthera flammea (Bartr.) Pennell es una especie rara, bienal endmica de los pinaresde la llanura costera inferior del sudeste de los Estados Unidos. Se hicieron estudios de campo, jardn experimental, y herbario para poner al da la descripcin de la especie. Se revisa la historia taxonmica de la especie. No se necesita reconocer ms de un taxon en el gnero ya que las diferencias en la longitud del cliz y lobulacin se deben a la colocacin de las unidades florales en la arquitectura de la inflorescencia en los distintos individuos. Se aporta un mapa del rea de las especies.
41968025|Intensive floristic surveys of the Ro Mayo region of the Mexican state of Sonora, particularly the Municipio de Ycora, have uncovered more species of Cyperaceae not previously reported from the region, the state of Sonora, or, in some cases, northern Mexico. Here we present 14 species of Cyperaceae and two species of Juncaceae not previously known to occur in the Ro Mayo region, clarify the presence of three varieties of one Cyperus (Cyperaceae) species, and discuss the significance of the range extension involved with each new discovery. This brings the total number of Cyperaceae taxa known from the Ro Mayo region to 99 and Juncaceae taxa to 14. Las herborizaciones florsticas intensivas en la regin de Ro Mayo en el estado Mexicano de Sonora, particularmente en el Municipio de Ycora, han descubierto ms especies de Cyperaceae que no haban sido citadas previamente de esta regin, del estado de Sonora, o, en algunos casos, el norte de Mxico. Presentamos qu 14 especies de Cyperaceae y dos especies de Juncaceae que no se conocan previamente de la regin de Ro Mayo, clarificamos la presencia de tres variedades y una especie de Cyperus (Cyperaceae), y se discute el significado del rango de extensin implicado en cada descubrimiento. Esto lleva el nmero total de txones conocidos de Cyperaceae de la regin Ro Mayo a 99 y el taxones de Juncaceae a 14.
41967983|Two new species, Festuca cuzcoensis Stank & P.M. Peterson and F. tovarensis Stank & P.M. Peterson, from the Andes of Bolivia and Peru are described and illustrated. The two new species appear to be closely related to Festuca flacca Hack. ex E.B. Alexeev from Ecuador. A key to the South American species of Festuca sect. Subulatae is given. Se describen e ilustran dos especias nuevas de Festuca de los Andes de Bolivia y Per: F. cuzcoensis Stank & P.M. Peterson y F. tovarensis Stank & P.M. Peterson. Las nuevas especies se consideran estrechamente relacionadas con la especies F. flacca Hack. ex E.B. Alexeev de Ecuador. Adems se presenta una clave para la determinacin de las especies de Festuca sect. Subulatae en Suramrica.
41968019|Gyrinops ledermannii (Thymelaeaceae) is identified as the tree involved in the eaglewood trade. Several taxa are currently being confused with G. ledermannii but the true eaglewood is readily distinguished by its floral characters. Diwai ol i kolim Gyrinops ledermannii (Thymelaeaceae) long tok latin na igalwud or gaharu long tok malaia na nau em tu nem mipela i save long Papua New Guinea. Gyrinops, em nau i kamap wanpela diwai insait long maket bilong salim na baim dispela diwai. Pastaim sampela luksave long lif na flawa bilong dispela diwai ino bin kamap klia turnas. Tasol nau i gat wei bilong luksave long ol flawa na lif bilong trupela diwai igalwud.
41967982|A review of the Ericaceae of Bolivia is herein presented. Nineteen genera and 53 species are native; two genera and 19 species are endemic; 18 additional species are shared by Bolivia and adjacent Peru; one species is occasionally cultivated. Most taxa are found in the wet, cool habitat, montane "Yungas" of the eastern slopes of the Cordillera Real, ranging between 2000 m and 4000 m elevation. Siphonandra boliviana Luteyn and Themistoclesia unduavensis Luteyn are described and illustrated. A key in English and Spanish to the 19 genera and 53 native species is provided. The names of all taxa of Ericaceae attributed to Bolivia are accounted for. Se presenta una resea de las especies de Ericaceae de Bolivia. Diez y nueve gneros y 53 especies son nativas; dos gneros y 19 especies son endmicas; 18 especies adicionales son compartidas por Bolivia y la parte adyacente de Per; una especie es cultivada ocasionalmente. La mayora se encuentra en hbitats montaosos, hmedos y fros de las "Yungas" de la vertiente oriental de la Cordillera Real, entre 2000 y 4000 m de elevacin. Tambin se describen y se ilustran Siphonandra boliviana Luteyn y Themistoclesia unduavensis Luteyn. Se presenta una clave en ingls y en espaol para los 19 gneros y las 53 especies nativas. Los nombres de todos los taxones de Ericaceae atribuidos a Bolivia estn justificados.
41968013|The Atlantic forest is one of the ecosystems of Brazil that has suffered the greatest destruction and it is still imperiled, especially in the Northeast. Sergipe is one of the states where the Atlantic forest has been most greatly reduced, but it still has some fragments varying in size and degree of conservation. Despite their importance, botanical studies within these fragments are still greatly needed. In this paper we report for the first time the occurrence of four species of Campomanesia in Sergipe: C. aromatica, C. dichotoma, C. guaviroba, and C. viatoris. The last, formally thought to be known from only two collections from Alagoas, has a relatively wide distribution in Sergipe, and is found in forest and restinga areas of different districts. Campomanesia guaviroba is reported for the first time from the Northeast of Brazil. We hope that studies on the composition of these remnants may contribute to the local preservation of this ecosystem and help future programs of forest restoration. We emphasize the need for a greater collecting effort, more studies on plant taxonomy, and the training of new specialists. A mata atlntica  um dos ecossistemas brasileiros mais destrudos e ainda hoje ameaado, sendo a sua devastao mais pronunciada no Nordeste do Brasil. Um dos estados com menor rea de mata atlntica, Sergipe apresenta ainda hoje alguns fragmentos florestais com tamanho e grau de conservao variveis. Apesar de sua importncia, os estudos botnicos nesses fragmentos so ainda insuficientes. Nesse trabalho registra-se a ocorrncia indita de quatro especies de Campomanesia em Sergipe: C. aromatica, C. dichotoma, C. guavi roba e G viatoris. Esta ltima, anteriormente conhecida apenas por duas coletas, ambas em Alagoas, apresenta uma distribuio relativamente ampia no Estado, sendo encontrada em reas de mata e restinga de diversos municpios. Registra-se, ainda, a ocorrncia de C. guavi roba pela primeira vez na regio Nordeste. Espera-se que estudos sobre a composio desses fragmentos possam contribuir para a preservao desse ecossistema a nvel regional e subsidiar programas futuros de recomposio florestal. Salienta-se a necessidade de um esforo de coletas mais intenso, de mais estudos sistemticos e da formao de novos especialistas.
41968039|Agrostis avenacea J.F. Gmel. is reported from temporary and permanent ponds of the region of Huimilpan and Amealco of the state of Queretaro, Mexico. Previously, it was only known from Australia, south Africa, Argentina, Chile, United State of America, the Hawaiian Islands and recently from Costa Rica. Diagnostic morphological and anatomical characters and illustrations are provided, and collection data and voucher specimens are cited. Agrostis avenacea J.F. Gmel. se cita de charcos temporales y permanentes de la regin de Huimilpan y Amealco en el estado de Quertaro, Mxico. Anteriormente slo se conoca de Australia, sur de frica, Argentina, Chile, Estados Unidos de Amrica, Islas Hawai y recientemente de Costa Rica. Se proporcionan caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos diagnsticos e ilustraciones y se citan los datos de las colectas y especmenes examinados.
41968030|This study describes the floristics, soils, and small-scale species richness of xeric sandylands of the post oak savanna region of east central Texas and maps the distribution of xeric sandylands throughout the West Gulf Coastal Plain. The interrelation of xeric sandylands to wetlands and their interest for regional conservation assessment are discussed. En este estudio se describe la florstica, suelos, y riqueza de especies a pequea escala de los lugares arenosos xricos de la regin de sabana post oak del centro este de Texas y se cartografa la distribucin de los lugares arenosos xricos de la llanura costera del West Gulf. Se discuten la interrelacin de los lugares arenosos xricos con los humedales y su inters para la evaluacin de la conservacin regional.
41968033|Twelve species or varieties of vascular plants, all native to the southeastern U.S.A, are reported as new or noteworthy for Kentucky. Ten of these are the first documented records for the state: Bromus nottowayanus, Carex corrugala, C. oklahomensis, C. ouachitana, C. oxylepis var. pubescens, C. roanensis, Eleocharis tuberculosa, Gentiana andrewsii, Vaccinium erythrocarpum, and Viburnum lantanoides. Additional counties are reported for two rare species: Carex buxbaumii and C. seorsa. Se presentan 12 especies o variedades de plantas vasculares, todas nativas de la regin sudeste de los Estados Unidos y se citan como nuevas o de inters para el estado de Kentucky. Diez de estas plantas son las primeras citas documentadas del estado que son: Bromus nottowayanus, Carex corrugata, C. oklahomensis, C. ouachitana, C. oxylepis var. pubescens, C. roanensis, Eleocharis tuberculosa, Gentiana andrewsii, Vaccinium erythrocarpum, y Viburnum lantanoides. Al nivel del condado, se presentan dos especies raras: Carex buxbaumii y Carex seorsa.
41968022|The cerrado, a savanna-like ecosystem, is the second largest vegetation type in Brazil, originally covering about two million km (or 23%) of the Brazilian territory. The Emas National Park (ENP), comprising about 133,000 ha, is one of the most important reserves within the cerrado. From November 1998 to October 1999, we carried out a floristic survey of all the cerrado physiognomies of the ENP and found 601 species, belonging to 303 genera and 80 families. Among the collected species, 12 were weeds and seven were new to science. The herbaceous to woody species ratio was 3.03:1: The richest families were Asteraceae (88 species), Fabaceae (87), Poaceae (51), Myrtaceae (39), and Lamiaceae (24); these five families comprised 48% of the total number of species. The results obtained show the importance of the ENP to cerrado conservation, since from 8 to 20% of the species recorded for this vegetation type occur within the reserve. We emphasize the need for more floristic surveys in which the frequently overlooked herbaceous component should also be sampled. El cerrado, un tipo de sabana, es el segundo mayor tipo de vegetacin de Brasil. Una de las reservas ms importantes destinada a proteger el cerrado es el "Parque Nacional das Emas" (PNE), con un rea aproximada de 133.000 ha. En el periodo de noviembre de 1998 a octubre de 1999, fue realizado un levantamiento florstico en las fisionomas de cerrado del PNE, encontrndose 601 especies pertenecientes a 303 gneros y 80 familias. De entre las especies colectadas, fueron encontradas 12 invasoras y siete nuevas para la ciencia. La proporcin entre especies herbceo-subarbustivas y arbustivo-arbreas fue de 3,03:1. Las familias ms ricas en especies fueron: Asteraceae (88 especies), Fabaceae (87), Poaceae (51), Myrtaceae (39) e Lamiaceae (24), compreendiendo 48% del total de especies. Los resultados mostraron la importancia del PNE para la conservacin del cerrado, ya que en esta reserva aparecen de 8 a 20 % de las especies listadas para dicha formacin vegetal. Resaltamos aqu la necesidad de realizar levantamientos florsticos contemplando tambin el componente herbceo-subarbustivo, frecuentemente olvidado.
41968027|La Sierra "El Viejo" se ubica en el municipio de Pitiquito y Caborca, Sonora, en la porcin Centro - Oeste del desierto sonorense. El complejo orogrfico Sierra "El lamo"-Sierra "El Viejo" est catalogado como una Regin Prioritaria Terrestre para la conservacin en Mxico. Este trabajo tiene por objetivo contribuir al conocimiento florstico de las familias Cactaceae y Agavaceae principalmente en la Sierra "El Viejo." Se hizo una revisin bibliogrfica para establecer las especies que, posiblemente, se encontraran en el rea y posteriormente se corroboraron en campo mediante recorridos en diversas localidades. Se registraron 21 especies de cactceas distribuidas en 10 gneros y 4 especies de Agavaceas en 2 gneros, lo que hace un total de 25 especies distribuidas en las dos familias. Las especies de Cactceas representan un 21 % del total de las especies presentes en el estado de Sonora. Una especie, Ferocactus cylindraceus, cuenta con categora de proteccin. La literatura seala que dos de las especies de agaves son endmicas a la Sierra "El Viejo," Agave pelona y A. zebra. Se sugiere continuar con estudios para la determinacin de variedades y formas taxonmicas, as como tambin estudios ecolgicos en algunas especies, para establecer programas de manejo y proteccin de las poblaciones y el rea en conjunto. Sierra "El Viejo" is located in the municipality of Pitiquito and Caborca, Sonora, in the west central portion of the Sonoran Desert; the complex Sierra "El lamo"-Sierra "El Viejo" is catalogued as a terrestrial high-priority region for nature conservation in Mexico. The objective for this study is to contribute to the f loristic knowledge of the families Cactaceae and Agavaceae within this region, mainly in the Sierra "El Viejo." Bibliographical research was carried out and species reported were corroborated in the field by searching different localities in the area. Twenty-one species of cacti, in 10 genera, and 4 species, and 2 genera of the Agavaceae family were recorded. A total of 25 species are recorded in the two families. The total of species in the Cactus family represents 21 % of the total species present in the state of Sonora. One species of cactus is protected by federal law, Ferocactus cylindraceus. Two species of agaves, Agave pelona and A. zebra are endemic to the region. Further floristic and ecological work is needed in the region that will support conservation, management and protection of the natural resources of this particular region.
41968080|In Fennoscandia, Veratrum album L. (Melanthiaceae) is restricted to the northernmost part of Norway, Finland and Russia. It is locally abundant in coastal areas of northeast Finnmark (Norway), and well known in both Norwegian and Smi folk tradition as a toxic plant, frequently causing livestock poisoning. Until replaced by tobacco, the roots were used as snuff by the Smi, who had also found restricted use of the plant for medicinal purposes, e.g.as a remedy for rheumatism. En Fennoscandia, Veratrum album L. (Melanthiaceae) est restrigida a la parte norte de Noruega, Finlandia y Rusia. Es localmente abundante en areas costeras del noreste de Finnmark (Norway), y bien conocida tanto la tradicin noruega como en la finlandesa como planta toxica, que causa frecuentemente envenenamiento del ganado. Hasta que fue reemplazado por el tabaco, las races fueron usadas como rape por los finlandeses, quienes tambin encontraron un uso restringido de la planta con fines medicinales, por ejemplo como remedio para el reumatismo.
41968060|Lithospermum hintoniorum is newly described and illustrated. It reportedly occurs in marshy areas of oak woodlands in southern Nuevo Leon, Mexico at elevations of about 1500 meters. It is seemingly most closely related to the widespread L. calycosum but is distingished by a number of characters, including both vegetative and floral features. Se describe y se ilustra Lithospermum hintoniorum. Se ha localizado en reas encharcadas de robledales en el sur de Nuevo Len, Mxico en elevaciones de unos 1500 metros. Parece ser que su pariente ms cercano es el muy frecuente L. calycosum del que se diferencia por varios caracteres, tanto vegetativos como florales.
41968098|Nephrolepis exaltata (Dryopteridaceae) is reported as new to Arkansas. Nephrolepis exaltata (Dryopteridaceae) se cita como nueva de Arkansas.
41968076|Dahlia neglecta, a new species from the state of Hidalgo, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species is distinguished by the combination of glaucous stems, tufts of light-colored hairs at the rachis nodes, strongly oblique blade bases, and mucronate ligules. Se describe e ilustrada Dahlia neglecta, una nueva especie del estado de Hidalgo, Mxico. Esta especie se distingue por la combinacin de tallos glaucos y un copete de pelos de colores suaves en los nudos del raquis. Adems, las bases de las hojas pequeas son dominantemente oblicuas, y con lgulas mucronadas. Se ofrece una clave del gnero.
41968097|A vegetative population of Cryptocoryne (Araceae), introduced at a Florida spring, appeared to represent three closely related species in the C. beckettii complex: C. beckettii Thw. ex Trimen, C. wendtii de Wit and C. undulata Wendt. Individuals of C. undulata were true to type and could be delineated at the site. Intergradation of diagnostic features was common in others, upon transplanting and flowering. While some transplants produced spathes characteristic of either C. wendtii or C. beckettii, intermediates between the two species were common. Neither C. beckettii nor C. wendtii could be delineated at the site. The seclusion of the stream and the integrity of native plant communities have likely prevented dispersal downstream. Una poblacin vegetativa de Cryptocoryne (Araceae), introducida en un manantial de Florida, al parecer representa tres especies estrechamente relacionadas del complejo C. beckettii: C. beckettii Thw. ex Trimen, C. wendtii de Wit y C. undulata Wendt. En el lugar de estudio, fueron clasificados como verdaderos tipos ejemplares de C. undulata. En otros ejemplares, despus del transplante y floracin, fue comn observar intergradacin de caracteres diagnsticos. An cuando algunos transplantes produjeron espatas, caractersticas de C. wendtii o de C. beckettii, fue comn observar ejemplares con caractersticas intermedias de ambas especies. Las especies C. beckettii y C. wendtii no fueron delineadas en el sitio de estudio. La condicin de aislamiento del manantial y la condicin ntegra de las comunidades de plantas nativas han impedido probablemente la dispersin corriente abajo.
41968075|We investigated a recent report of a disjunct individual of Cupressus arizonica (Cupressaceae) collected in the Davis Mountains of Jeff Davis County, Texas. Chloroplast DNA sequences were obtained for the novel disjunct specimen and putative related taxa. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that the Davis Mountains C. arizonica specimen consists of vegetative tissue from Juniperus deppeana, a common species of the Davis Mountains. Based on this evidence, the present known distribution of C arizonica in Texas remains restricted to the Chisos Mountains of southern Brewster County. Hemos investigado un reciente registro de un individuo disyunto de Cupressus arizonica (Cupressaceae) colectado en las montaas de Davis del condado de Jeff Davis, Texas. Se obtuvieron secuencias de ADN cloroplastidial del nuevo registro y los supuestos taxa relacionados. El anlisis filogentico muestra que el espcimen de C arizonica de las montaas de Davis consiste en tejidos vegetativos de Juniperus deppeana, una especie comn de las montaas de Davis. En base a esta evidencia, la actual distribucin de C arizonica en Texas, permanece restringida a las montaas Chisos del condado de Brewster.
41968104|Cirsium nuttallii (Asteraceae) is documented for North Carolina. The species had previously been known from Florida to South Carolina and from disjunct populations in Virginia. An illustrated key is provided to aid others in the diagnosis of Cirsium in North Carolina and the southeast. Se documenta Cirsium nuttallii (Asteraceae) para el estado de Carolina del Norte. Previamente se conoca la especie slo desde Florida a Carolina del Sur y de poblaciones disyuntas en Virginia. Se presenta una clave ilustrada para ayudar los dems en las diagnosis de Cirsium en el sudeste.
41968073|Zizania texana Hitchc., an endangered macrophyte endemic to the upper 4.9 km of the San Marcos River, Hays County, Texas was Federally listed in 1978 after the species experienced a population decline between about 1940 and 1967. Recent interest in restoration has focused attention on the need for a better understanding of the species' response to a variety of microhabitats. This study documents biomass allocation patterns in three microhabitats over 7 months. Current velocities ranged from 0.0-0.010 m/s in the slow site, 0.038-0.142 m/s in the moderate site, and 0.250-0.369 m/s in the fast site. Plants were harvested from each site, on seven occasions, washed, separated into roots, submersed leaves, and reproductive culms with associated leaves and inflorescences, then dried and weighed. At the end of the study, mean total biomass of plants grown in the fast site was 28.42 gdw vs 4.24 gdw for plants grown in the slow site. Resource allocation patterns differed among sites and two distinct phenotypes were apparent. One phenotype, associated with relatively higher current velocities, had higher net productivity, a well-developed root system, and allocated proportionally more biomass to non-reproductive organs (49.2% gdw root biomass in fast site vs 24.8% gdw root biomass in slow site). A second phenotype, associated with relatively slower flowing water, had lower net productivity and allocated proportionally more biomass to reproductive organs (22.1% gdw reproductive culm in fast site vs. 65.0% gdw reproductive culm in slow site). Because of lower productivity and the potential for loss from herbivory to a significant proportion of the plant in slower flowing water, a microhabitat with relatively low current velocity would not be recommended for restoration purposes. Zizania texana Hitchc., un macrfito en peligro, endmicode los 4.9 km superiores del ro San Marcos, Hays Co., Texas se incluy en la lista Federal en 1978 despus que la especie experimentase una reduccin poblacional entre 1940 y 1967. El inters reciente en la restauracin ha prestado atencin a la necesidad de una mejor comprensin de la respuesta de la especie a una variedad de microhbitats diferentes. Este estudio documenta los modelos de situacin de biomasa en tres microhbitats durante 7 meses. Las velocidades normales variaron entre 0.0-0.010 m/s (el sitio lento), 0.038-0.142 m/s (en el sitio moderado), y 0.250-0.369 m/s (en el sitio rpido). Las plantas se cosecharon de cada microhbitat, en siete ocasiones, se lavaron, separaron las races, las hojas sumergidas, y los clmenes reproductores con las hojas e inflorescencias asociadas, luego se secaron y pesaron. A final del estudio, la biomasa total media de plantas del sitio rpido fue 28.42 gdw contra 4.24 gdw para plantas del sitio lento. Los modelos de recursos difirieron significativamente entre los diferentes sitios y fueron aparentes dos fenotipos claros eran. Un fenotipo asociado con velocidades actuales relativamente ms altas, tena una productividad neta ms alta, un sistema radical bien desarrollado, y coloc proporcionalmente ms biomasa en rganos vegetativos (49.2% de peso seco de biomasa de raz en el sitio rpido contra 24.8% de peso seco de biomasa de raz en el sitio lento). Un segundo fenotipo, asociado con agua de corriente relativamente ms lenta, tuvo una productividad neta ms baja y coloc proporcionalmente ms biomasa en los rganos de reproductores (22.1% de peso seco de biomasa en clmenes reproductores en el sitio rpido contra. 65.0% de peso seco de biomasa en clmenes reproductores en el sitio lento). A causa de tasas bajas de productividad y la prdida potencial debida a los herbvoros en una proporcin significativa en el agua de corriente ms lenta, este tipo de microhbitat no se debera recomendar para las restauraciones.
41968088|We studied the relationship between West Gulf Coastal Plain plant endemics and habitat. Approximately half of all West Gulf Coastal Plain endemics are associates of one habitat: xeric sandylands. We discuss some implications of these data to age and former extent of xeric sandylands in the region, notably isolation of the West Gulf Coastal Plain from the East Gulf Coastal Plain and a long and distinctive biotic history. Se han estudiado las relaciones entre las plantas endmicas y el habitat de la llanura costera del Golfo Oeste. Aproximadamente la mitad de los endemismo estn asociados a un habitat: terrenos arenosos xricos. Se discuten algunas implicaciones de estos datos con la edad y extensin anterior de los terrenos arenosos xricos en la regin, notablemente aislamiento de la llanura costera del Golfo Oeste de la llanura costera del Golfo Este y una historia bitica larga y diferente.
41968082|Carlo Giuseppe Bertero (1789-1831) is, among the famous Italian botanical collectors that contributed toward the knowledge of New World flora, the one who collected and travelled the most. Bertero gathered a large number of specimens, which were in turn distributed to many of his correspondents, and are now present in many herbaria worldwide. During his travels he also collected seeds, which he sent to numerous botanists, contributing toward the collections of private and public gardens. Several hundreds of his botanical collections turned out to be plants unknown to science, which were in turn described by many of his contemporary European botanists. The botanical work of Carlo Bertero in Italy has already been extensively treated by many specialists. Nevertheless, his botanical expeditions and collections in the New World have never been completely studied, although partial reports have already been published. Such studies need further investigations as new data have been recently obtained through correspondence, field books and herbarium label data in order to reconstruct the itineraries and the chronological sequence of Bertero's first expedition to the Antilles and northern Colombia (1816-1821), and his second expedition to Chile (1827-1830), Juan Fernndez Islands (1829) and Tahiti (1830-1831). This preliminary study is part of an ongoing project that will produce a complete biography of Carlo Bertero and a comprehensive account of his botanical work in the New World and the South Pacific, that will be published in the near future (Delprete, Forneris & Pistarino, in progress). Carlo Giuseppe Bertero (1789-1831) es, entre los famosos colectores botnicos italianos que contribuyeron al conocimiento de la flora del Nuevo Mundo, el que ms viaj y colect. Bertero acopi un gran nmero de especmenes, que fueron distribuidos a la mayora de sus correspondientes y que ahora estn conservados en muchos herbarios de todo el mundo. Durante sus viajes recolect tambin semillas, que mand a muchos botnicos, contribuyendo a las colecciones de jardines pblicos y privados. Varios centenares de sus especmenes se revelaron como especies desconocidas para la ciencia y fueron descritas por varios botnicos europeos contemporneos. El trabajo botnico de Cario Bertero en Italia fue extensamente tratado por muchos especialistas. Sin embargo, sus expediciones y colecciones en el Nuevo Mundo nunca fueron completamente estudiadas, aunque se publicaron algunos reportes parciales. Estos estudios necesitan de ulterior investigacin, puesto que fueron obtenidos nuevos datos recientemente a travs de su correspondencia, cuadernos de campo y etiquetas de herbario, en el intento por reconstruir los itinerarios y la secuencia cronolgica de su primera expedicin a Las Antillas y norte de Colombia (1816-1821) y su segunda expedicin a Chile (1827-1830), Islas de Juan Fernndez (1829) y Tahiti (1830-1831). Este estudio preliminar es parte de un proyecto en curso que producir una biografa completa de Cario Bertero y una relacin comprensiva de su trabajo botnico en el Nuevo Mundo y en el Pacfico Sur, que ser publicado en un futuro prximo (Delprete, Forneris & Pistarino, en curso).
41968084|Plant classification and nomenclature are in a continuing state of flux and heated debate between two opposing schools 1) traditional taxonomists supporting "evolutionary" or "Linnaean taxonomy"; and 2) cladists supporting "phylogenetic systematics" or "cladonomy." While it is a multifaceted controversy that has spanned several decades, relatively little attention has been focused specifically on the ramifications for floristics. The two goals of this paper are 1) to give special emphasis to the implications of the controversy for the writers of floras, and 2) to provide an overview of some of the arguments in a format accessible to a diverse audience of botanists interested in floristics. We examine some of the issues we have confronted in our floristic work, discuss how we are attempting to balance the strengths and weaknesses of both approaches, and indicate what we believe is the best, albeit imperfect, approach to the writing of floras at the present time. We argue that, for both practical and theoretical reasons, a modified traditional system (binomial nomenclature, ranked hierarchies) be used in floras (allowing paraphyletic groups but eliminating all polyphyletic groups despite some nomenclatural instability). Further, these floras should incorporate information on newly discovered phylogenetic relationships (even if too preliminary, tentative, or inappropriate for nomenclatural change) and discuss these in appropriate family and generic treatments in order to facilitate as complete an understanding of plant evolution as possible. La clasificacin y nomenclatura de las plantas est en un flujo continuo y debate ardiente entre dos escuelas opuestas 1) taxnomos tradicionales que apoyan la "taxonoma Linneana" o la "evolutiva"; y 2) dadistas que apoyan la "sistemtica filogentica" o "cladonoma." Mientras esta controversia se ha extendido durante varias dcadas, se ha prestado relativamente poca atencin a las ramificaciones de la florstica. Las dos metas de este artculo son 1) dar un nfasis especial a las implicaciones de la controversia para los autores de floras, y 2) ofrecer una visin general de algunos de los argumentos en un formato accesible a una audiencia diversa de botnicos interesados en la f lorstica. Examinamos algunos de los resultados que hemos confrontado en nuestro trabajo f lorstico, discutimos como hemos intentado equilibrar las bondades y debilidades de ambos mtodos, e indicamos lo que creemos que es el mejor, aunque imperfecto, mtodo de escribir floras en la actualidad. Argumentamos que, tanto por razones tericas como prcticas, se use en las floras un sistema tradicional modificado (nomenclatura binomial, sistema jerarquizado) (que permita grupos parafilticos pero eliminando todos los grupos polif ilticos aunque causen inestabilidad nomenclatural). Adems, estas floras deberan incorporar informacin sobre las relaciones filogenticas recin descubiertas (incluso si son demasiado preliminares, tentativas, o inapropiadas para cambios nomenclaturales) y discutir stas en la familia apropiada y tratamientos genricos para facilitar una comprensin lo mas completa posible de la evolucin de las plantas.
41968071|Morphology, distribution, ecology and phenology for Carphephorus odoratissimus and C. odoratissimus var. subtropicanus are discussed and compared. Carphephorus odoratissimus var. subtropicanus is illustrated and evidence supporting varietal status is quantified. It occurs in a fire-maintained pine savanna-flatwoods/dry prairie landscape, where it is a conspicuous, perennial, autumn-flowering forb, endemic to south and central peninsular Florida. Se discute y compara la morfologa, distribucin, ecologa y fenologa de Carphephorus odoratissimus y C. odoratissimus var. subtropicanus. Carphephorus odoratissimus var. subtropicanus se ilustra y se cuantifican las evidencias que apoyan su estatus varietal. Se da en una sabana/pradera seca de pinos mantenida mediante fuego, es una hierba perenne, otoal, endmica del sur y centro de la pennsula de Florida.
41968069|Seed and fruit morphology of ten species of five American genera of Spermacoceae (Diodia, Ernodea, Mitracarpus, Richardia, Spermacoce) are described, illustrated, and compared with that in the Hedyotideae. These data support the taxonomic recognition of two distinct tribes. La morfologa de la semilla y del fruto de diez especies de cinco gneros americanos de Spermacoceae se describe, se ilustra, y se compara con la de Hedyotideae. Estos datos apoyan el reconocimiento taxonmico de dos tribus distintas.
41968085|Extreme deforestation and overuse of resources have devastated El Salvador's natural environment while continued population pressure underscores the need for the few remaining natural areas to be studied and preserved. The 150-ha Monumento Nacional Laguna de Alegra is located inside the crater of Tecapa Volcano in southeastern El Salvador and includes both primary and disturbed subtropical forest, steep and rocky crater walls, and a sulfuric lake in the basin. The flora of the Laguna de Alegra was surveyed from December 1998 to November 1999 and results of this survey were combined with reports from other collectors and published reports to compile a list of 447 specific and 2 hybrid taxa representing 106 families. The taxa are cataloged in an annotated list that includes collection number and herbarium of deposit. Exotic species are designated. Trigonospermum annum McVaugh & Lask. is a new report for El Salvador. La deforestacin extrema y la sobreexplotacin de recursos han devastado la naturaleza de El Salvador, mientras la incesante presin demogrfica subraya la necesidad de estudiar y preservar las restantes reas naturales. El Monumento Nacional Laguna de Alegra mide 150 hectreas y est ubicado dentro del crter del Volcn Tecapa en el sur-este de El Salvador. El parque incluye bosque subtropical primario y perturbado, paredes volcnicas rocosas y empinadas, y una laguna sulfrica en la cuenca. Se identific la flora de la Laguna de Alegra desde diciembre de 1998 hasta noviembre de 1999 y se combinaron los resultados del estudio con los reportes de otros colectores y reportes publicados para compilar un listado de 447 taxa especficos y 2 hbridos. Estas representan 106 familias. Los taxa fueron catalogados en un listado anotado que incluye el nmero de la coleccin y del herbario, y se designaron las especies exticas. Es el primer reporte de Trigonospermum annum McVaugh & Lask. en El Salvador.
41968086|We surveyed the flora of Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, U.S.A., from February 1994 to 1996. Occupying 118 square kilometers in east-central Mississippi, Oktibbeha County lies among 3 physiographic regions that include, from west to east, Interior Flatwoods, Pontotoc Ridge, and Black Prairie. Accordingly, the county harbors a diverse flora. Based on field work, as well as an extensive review of published literature and herbarium records at IBE and MISSA, we recorded a total of 1,148 taxa (1,125 species, 7 hybrids, 16 infraspecific taxa) belonging to 514 genera in 160 families; over 85% of all taxa documented were native. Compared to 3 other counties in east-central Mississippi, Oktibbeha County has the second largest recorded flora. The number of state-listed (endangered, threatened, or of special concern) taxa (67) documented in this survey far exceeds that reported from any other county in the region. Three introduced species, Ilex cornuta Lindl. & Paxton, Mahonia bealei (Fortune) Carrire, and Nandina domestica Thunb., are reported in a naturalized state for the first time from Mississippi. We also describe 16 different plant communities belonging to 5 broad habitat categories: bottomland forests, upland forests and prairies, aquatic habitats, seepage areas, and human-influenced habitats. A detailed description of the vegetation associated with each of these communities is provided. Hemos investigado la flora del condado de Oktibbeha, Mississippi, U.S.A., desde febrero de 1994 a 1996. Con 118 kilmetros cuadrados en el centro-este de Mississippi, el condado de Oktibbeha est entre 3 regiones fisiogrficas que son, de oeste a este, Interior Flatwoods, Pontotoc Ridge, y Black Prairie. Consecuentemente, el condado alberga una flora diversa. Basados en el trabajo de campo, as como en una extensa revision de la bibliografa publicada y pliegos de herbario depositado en IBE y MISSA, hemos recopilado un total de 1,148 taxa (1,125 especies, 7 hbridos, 16 taxa inf raespecficos) pertenecientes a 514 gneros de 160 familias; ms del 85% de los taxa documentados fueron autctonos. Comparado con otros 3 condados del centro-este de Mississippi, el condado de Oktibbeha tiene la segunda flora ms numerosa. El nmero de taxa (67) listados para el estado (en peligro, amenazada, o de atencin especial) documentados en este trabajo excede con mucho a los de cualquier otro condado de la regin. Tres especies introducidas, Ilex cornuta Lindl. & Paxton, Mahonia bealei (Fortune) Carrire, y Nandina domestica Thunb., se citan en estado naturalizado por primera vez en Mississippi. Tambin se describen 16 comunidades vegetales diferentes pertenecientes a 5 categoras de habitat: bosques de tierras bajas, bosques de meseta y praderas, habitats acuticos, reas de filtracin, y habitats influenciados por el hombre. Se aporta una descripcin detallada de la vegetacin asociada a cada una de estas comunidades. Wir untersuchten die Flora des Verwaltungsbezirks Oktibbeha im Bundesstaat Mississippi, Vereinigte Staaten von Amerika, im Zeitraum Februar 1994 bis 1996. Der Verwaltungsbezirk umfat 118 Quadratkilometer im Mittelosten Mississippis und gehrt, von West nach Ost, zu 3 physiographischen Regionen (Interior Fiatwoods, Pontotoc Ridge und Black Prairie), weshalb die Flora sehr artenreich ist. Aufgrund unserer Freilandarbeit, sowie eines umfangreichen Studiums der Fachliteratur u n d zahlreicher Herbariumsbelege in IBE u n d MISSA, waren wir in der Lage 1.148 Taxa (1.125 Arten, 7 Hybriden und 16 Unterarten oder Varietten) aus 514 Gattungen und 160 Familien zu katalogisieren. 85% aller Taxa waren in Mississippi beheimatet. Der Verwaltungsbezirk Oktibbeha hat im Vergleich zu 3 anderen Verwaltungsbezirken im Mittelosten Mississippis die zweitgrte Flora. Die Anzahl der Arten auf der Roten Liste Mississippis (vom Aussterben bedroht oder von besonderem Belang) bersteigt mit 66 weit die aller anderen Verwaltungsbezirke in der Region. Drei eingeschleppte Arten, Hex cornuta Lindl. & Paxton, Mahonia bealei (Fortune) Carrire und Nandina domestica Thunb. werden hier zum ersten Mal von Mississippi erwhnt. Im weiteren Verlauf beschreiben wir auerdem im Detail 16 verschiedene Pflanzengesellschaften in 5 Lebensraumkategorien: Auenwlder, Hochlandwlder und Prairien, Aquatische Lebensrume, Sickerstellen und vom Menschen beeinflute Lebensrume.
41968065|Euchiton is treated apart from Gnaphalium primarily on the basis of its tendency for stolon production and cypselar surfaces with paired, non-mucilaginous epidermal papillae. Three species of Euchiton are recorded in North America: E. sphaericus (naturalized in California and Oregon), E. gymnocephalus (naturalized in California and Oregon), and E. involucratus (apparent waif in California and Massachusetts, the first published report of this species in North America). The first two species also are naturalized in Hawaii. A nomenclatural and ecological summary is presented for each species and a key clarifies their identifications, which have been confused in North America. Euchiton Se trata como diferente de Gnaphalium primariamente en base a su tendencia a la produccin de estolones y superficie de las cipselas con papilas epidrmicas pareadas y no mucilaginosas. Se han citado tres especies de Euchiton en Norte Amrica: E. sphaericus (naturalizada en California y Oregn), E. gymnocephalus (naturalizada en California y Oregn), y E. involucratus (aparentemente abandonada en California y Massachusetts, es la primera cita de esta especie en Norte Amrica). Las dos primeras especies estn tambin naturalizadas en Hawaii. Se presenta un resumen nomenclatural y ecolgico de cada especie y una clave clarifica sus identificaciones, que han sido confusas en Norte Amrica.
41968095|Eight taxa are reported as new to continental United States and the state of Florida: Alstonia scholaris, Bromelia pinguin, Costus pulverulentus, Enydra fluctuans, Eucalyptus torelliana, Hygrophila difformis, Khaya senegalensis, and Oxalis triangularis var. papilionacea. The reports for the nonnative BerberIs bealei and Cannaglauca and the native Rudbeckia auriculata are the first for Florida. The occurrence of Didiplis diandra in Florida is verified. Se citan ocho taxa como nuevos para los Estados Unidos continentales y el estado de Florida: Alstonia scholaris, Bromelia pinguin, Costus pulverulentus, Enydra fluctuans, Eucalyptus torelliana, Hygrophila difformis, Khaya senegalensis, y Oxalis triangularis var. papilionacea. Las citas de las no nativas Berberis bealei y Canna glauca junto con la autctona Rudbeckia auriculata son las primeras para Florida. Se verifica la existencia de Didiplis diandra en Florida.
41968056|Se describe y se propone a Portulaca rzedowskiana como especie nueva para la ciencia. De acuerdo con el material examinado, este taxon se encuentra distribuido en sitios con pastizal y matorral subtropical perturbado de la parte norte del estado de Michoacn. Se caracteriza principalmente por ser de hbito perenne con raz suberosa, por poseer hojas aplanadas a subrollizas, lanceoladas, en ocasiones oblongo-lanceoladas a oblanceoladas y por el oprculo de la cpsula que es de forma campanulada. Portulaca rzedowskiana is described and proposed as a new species. According to examined material this taxon is found in grasslands and disturbed subtropical scrub in the north part of the Mexican state of Michoacan. It is distinguised mainly by its perennial habit with suberous root, by its flat to subterete lanceolate leaves, sometimes oblong-lanceolate to oblanceolate in shape, as well as by the campanulated operculum of the capsule.
41968102|Including an extensive system of dunes, interdunal ponds, and wetlands, the Nags Head Woods Ecological Preserve (Dare Co., North Carolina) comprises one of the best remaining examples of mid-Atlantic maritime deciduous forests. This study presents additions to the flora of the preserve and the larger Outer Banks, based on recent collections. Thirty-four taxa have not previously been reported for the preserve, five have not been reported for the Outer Banks, and two have been rediscovered. La Nags Head Woods Ecological Preserve (Dare Co., North Carolina), que incluye un sistema extensivo de dunas, lagunas interdunares, y humedales, comprende uno de los mejores ejemplos restantes de bosques caducifolios martimos atlnticos. Este estudio presenta adiciones a la flora de la reserva y los mayores Outer Banks, basado en colecciones recientes. Treinta y cuatro taxa no haban sido citados previamente de la reserva, cinco no haban sido citados de los Outer Banks, y dos han sido redescubiertos.
41968063|Senecio spribillei W.A. Weber, a new, putatively narrow endemic species of Asteraceae, is described from a nunatak in the Rocky Mountains of northwestern Montana. It is distinguished from its nearest relative, Senecio neowebsteri Blake, by glabrous foliage, broader and shorter leaf laminae, wingless petioles, coarser marginal dentation, smaller, racemose capituli and minute ray flowers. Se describe Senecio spribillei W.A. Weber, una nueva especie endmica de Asteraceae, de un nunatak en las Montaas Rocosas del noroeste de Montana. Se diferencia de su pariente ms prximo, Senecio neowebsteri Blake, por sus hojas glabras, lmina foliar ms ancha y ms corta, peciolos sin alas, dientes del margen con dientes ms juntos, captulos racemosos ms pequeos y ligulas diminutas.
41968055|A general account is provided of the orchid gatherings from the 1994 Conservation International survey of southern New Ireland, an area identified by environmental assessment as one of Papua New Guinea's major terrestrial unknown regions. One new species (Dendrobium archipelagense) and one new variety (Dendrobium vexillarius J.J. Sm. var. hansmeyerense) are described and illustrated. Several distributional records are reported. Illustrations are provided for most of the cited taxa.  1994  Dendrobium archipelaaense  D. vexillarius J.J. Sm. var. hansmeyerense  2  
41968077|A description of two new infraspecific taxa in Liatris elegans is presented. Liatris elegans var. bridgesii, var. nov., occurs on the Carrizo and adjacent Eocene sand formations in central Texas. Liatris elegans var. kralii, var. nov., occurs on the Fall Line Sandhills and coastal plain of Alabama and Georgia to the northern panhandle of Florida. The newly described taxa are similar to each other in their creamwhite to yellow (vs. anthocyanin-colored) phyllary apices but they are widely separated geographically and each is distinct in other morphological features; they are viewed here as having independent origins. Liatris elegans var. flabellata is reduced to a form of L. elegans var. elegans, while Liatris elegans var. carrizana is maintained for southern-central Texas populations. Liatris elegans var. elegans is widespread on the coastal plain from South Carolina to eastern Texas. Se presenta la descripcin de dos nuevos taxa infraspecficos en Liatris elegans. Liatris elegans var. bridgesii, var. nov., se da en el Carrizo y formaciones arenosas adyacentes del Eoceno en el centro de Texas. Liatris elegans var. kralii, var. nov., aparece en la Fall Line Sandhills y llanura costera de Alabama y Georgia hasta el estrecho de Florida. Los nuevos taxa descritos se parecen entre si por sus pices de los filarios de blanco-crema a amarillo (vs. color de antociano) pero estn ampliamente separados geogrficamente y se diferencian por otras caractersticas morfolgicas; Se ven aqu con dos orgenes independientes. Liatris elegans var. flabellata se ha reducido a una forma de L. elegans var. elegans, mientras que Liatris elegans var. carrizana se mantiene para las poblaciones del sur-centro de Texas. Liatris elegans var. elegans es comn en la llanura costera desde Carolina del Sur al este de Texas.
41968068|The most common weedy Echinochloa species in EuropeE. colona (L.) Link, E. crus-galli (L.) Beauv., E. hispidula (Retz.) Nees ex Royle, E. oryzoides (Arduino) Fritsch, E. oryzicola (Vasing.) Vasing. are for the first time analyzed regarding the micromorphology of lemma and caryopsis, the anatomy of the caryopsis and the size of the starch grains. New potentially valuable characters are the size of the caryopsis, the pattern of surface variation of the caryopsis coat, and the size of the starch grains. A cautionary approach is suggested towards the taxonomic utility of the silica bodies shape. Based on the new characters, the relationships between the species are analyzed. Some nomenclatural issues involving E. oryzicola, E. oryzoides, and E. hispidula are also discussed. For the first time, E. colona is recorded from Romania. Las especies ms comunes de Echinochloa en Europa que son E. colona (L.) Link, E. crus-galli (L.) Beauv, E. hispidula (Retz.) Nees ex Royle, E. oryzoides (Arduino), Fritsch, E. oryzicola (Vasing.) Vasing. han sido analizadas por primera vez mediante micromorfologa del lemma y del caripside, la anatoma del caripside y por el tamao de los granos de almidn. Los nuevos caracteres que se pueden considerar de gran valor son el tamao del caripside, la variacin en el patrn de la superficie de la cubierta del caripside y el tamao de los granos de almidn. No se sugiere como herramienta taxonmica la forma de los cuerpos silceos. Basndose en los nuevos caracteres, se analiza la relacin entre las especies. Algunos tpicos de nomenclatura que involucran a E. oryzicola, E. oryzoides y E. hispidula son tambin discutidos. Por primera vez E. colona se cita de Rumania.
41968093|A newly discovered population of Opuntia corallicola is reported. This new population is in Miami-Dade County, Florida, 145 km north of what was believed to be the last remaining population in the wild. Se informa de una poblacin recientemente descubierta de Opuntia corallicola. Esta nueva poblacin est en el Condado Miami-Dade, Florida, 145 km al norte de lo que se pensaba que era la ltima poblacin que creca silvestre en la naturaleza.
41968079|Certain populations of more or less tomentose Packer a (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) in southeastern North America have recently been treated as P. paupercula var. appalachiana based on evidence from a common garden, canonical discriminate analyses of morphological characters and flowering date, a preliminary RAPDs analysis, and crosses. Previously they had been treated as disjuncts of P. plattensis, a species of the Great Plains, which may have migrated into the mid Appalachians during the post-glacial Hypsithermic Period and survived there as relicts. However, P. plattensis is tetraploid with n - 46 and x-23. Our two chromosome counts of the new variety from North Carolina and from Virginia are n -22 and n - ca. 44, respectively, a diploid and a tetraploid, both with x -22. Statistical analyses of pollen diameter provide evidence that the other individuals in the two populations are diploid and mostly tetraploid, respectively. Hybridization with P. aurea may be involved in the origin of the tetraploid. Thus, cytological evidence supports other data showing that these populations may be more closely related to P. paupercula. Ciertas poblaciones de Packer a (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) ms o menos tomentosas del sureste de Norte Amrica han sido tratadas recientemente como P. paupercula var. appalachiana basndose en evidencias procedentes de un jardn comn, anlisis cannico discriminante de caracteres morfolgicos y datos florales, un anlisis preliminar de RAPDs, y cruces. Previamente haban sido tratados como disyuntas de P. plattensis, una especie de las Grandes Llanuras, que podra haber migrado a los Apalaches medios durante el periodo hipsitrmico post-glacial y sobrevivido all como relicto. Sin embargo, P. plattensis es tetraploide con n - 46 y x -23. Nuestros dos recuentos cromosomticos de la nueva variedad de Carolina del Norte y de Virginia son n -22 y n -ca. 44, respectivamente, un diploide y un tetraploide, ambos con x -22. Los anlisis es tadsticos del dimetro del polen evidencian que los otros individuos de las dos poblaciones son diploides, y preferentemente tetraploides, respectivamente. La hibridacin con P. urea puede ser la causa del origen del tetraploide. As, la evidencia citolgica apoya otros datos que muestran que estas poblaciones pueden estar ms emparentadas con P. paupercula.
41968105|Based on field work and morphological analysis of herbarium specimens, Viburnum ozarkense Ashe is reinstated as a distinct species. Recognition of the occurrence and distribution of V. ozarkense has been compromised by its reduction to synonymy under Viburnum molle Michx. A morphological characterization of V. ozarkense and V. molle, a key to species, and a distribution map are provided. This research supports the recognition of V. ozarkense as an endemic shrub of the Interior Highlands of Arkansas, Missouri and Oklahoma. Basados en trabajo de campo y anlisis morfolgico de especimenes de herbario, Viburnum ozarkense Ashe se repone como una especie distinta. El reconocimiento de la ocurrencia y distribucin de V. ozarkense ha estado comprometido por su reduccin a sinnimo de Viburnum molle Michx. Se ofrecen una caracterizacin morfolgica de V. ozarkense y V. molle, una clave de especies, y un mapa de distribucin. Esta investigacin apoya el reconocimiento de V. ozarkense como un arbusto endmico de las montaas Ouachita y Ozark de Arkansas, Missouri y Oklahoma.
41968062|Schistocarpha calzadana B.L. Turner, sp. nov., is described from south-central Oaxaca (Mpio. Santiago Juxtlahuaca) and south-central Guerrero, Mexico. It is closely similar to S. bicolor but can be distinguished by a number of features including those of the leaf, size and congestion of the capitulescence, and number and size of ray florets. A re-evaluation of the Mexican taxa has resulted in the submergence of S. longiligula into S. platyphylla. A revised key to the Mexican species is provided, along with maps showing their distribution. Se describe Schistocarpha calzadana B.L. Turner, sp. nov., del centro-sur de Oaxaca (Mpio. Santiago Juxtlahuaca) y centro-sur de Guerrero, Mxico. Es muy semejante a S. bicolor pero puede diferenciarse por varios caracteres de la hoja, tamao y aglomeracin de la capitulescencia, as como el nmero y tamao de las lgulas. Una re-evaluacin de los taxa mexicanos ha dado como resultado la inclusin de S. longiligula en S. platyphylla. Se ofrece una clave revisada par alas especies mexicanas, junto con mapas de su distribucin.
41968074|Stachys cordata Riddell is the correct name for the species usually called S. nuttallii Shuttlew. ex Benth. Stachys cordata Riddell es el nombre correcto para la especie usualmente conocida como S. nuttallii Shuttlew. ex Benth.
41968058|Una especie de maguey, Agave ovatifolia Starr & Villarreal de la Sierra de Lampazos en el norte de Nuevo Len es propuesta como nueva. Es ubicada en la seccin Parryanae de subgnero Agave y se discute su relacin con A. havardiana Trel. y A. parrasana Berger. Se presenta una ilustracin de la planta y una clave parcial y modificada de la seccin Parryanae (Gentry 1982:526). A new species, Agave ovatifolia Starr & Villarreal from the Sierra de Lampazos in northern Nuevo Leon is described and illustrated. It belongs in the section Parryanae of the subgenus Agave, and its relationship to A. havardiana Trel. and A. parrasana Berger is discussed. A partial, modified key to section Parryanae (Gentry 1982:526) is provided.
41968091|The Mapim Biosphere Reserve is located at the boundaries of the Mexican states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, and Durango in the part central of the Chihuahuan Desert. It extends over 342,387 ha. within an endorreic basin locally known as the Bolsn de Mapim. Elevation varies between 1000 and 1480 m. Weather is very arid mostly with summer rains, the average annual precipitation is 264 mm. Vegetation types are mostly xerophytic scrub and halophytic grassland. The vascular flora is composed of approximately 71 families, 242 genera, 403 species and 426 taxa approximately. Families with the greatest diversity are Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cactaceae, and Fabaceae. Genera with the greatest number of species are Sporobolus, Opuntia, Aristida, and Acacia. I recorded 31 species endemic to the Chihuahuan Desert. La Reserva de la Biosfera de Mapim, se ubica en el lmite de unin de los estados de Chihuahua, Coahuila y Durango en la parte central del Desierto Chihuahuense, conforma una extensin aproximada de 342,387 ha y constituye una cuenca endorreica, denominada Bolsn de Mapim. La altitud vara entre los 1000 y 1480 m, su clima es muy rido con lluvias en verano y la precipitacin es de aproximadamente 264 mm anuales. Los tipos de vegetacin se clasifican como matorral xerf ilo y pastizal halfilo. La flora est constituida de aproximadamente 71 familias, 242 gneros, 403 especies y 426 taxa. Las familias con mayor diversidad son Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cactaceae y Fabaceae. Los gneros Sporobolus, Opuntia, Aristida y Acacia son los que presentan el mayor nmero de especies. Se registran 31 especies endmicas al Desierto Chihuahuense.
41968089|An annotated, vouchered checklist is provided of the vascular plant taxa of the 284 hectares Hickory Creek Unit of the Big Thicket National Preserve, Tyler County, in southeast Texas. The Hickory Creek Unit consists of four plant communities: wetland pine savanna, upland pine savanna, pond, and baygall. Four hundred one taxa are documented and their community affiliations are given. Previous lists for this unit numbered over 500 taxa. We believe that the discrepancy is the result of the larger lists being, in part, "conceptual" (what could be there, not what was actually there). Se ofrece un catalogo anotado, con pliegos testigo de los taxa de plantas vasculares de las 284 hectareas de la Hickory Creek Unit de la Big Thicket National Preserve, Condado de Tyler, en el sureste de Texas. La Hickory Creek Unit consiste en cuatro comunidades vegetales: sabana hmeda de pinos, sabana en tierras altas de pinos, estanque, y matorral de Ilex coricea. Se documentan cuatrocientos un taxa y se da la filiacin a su comunidad. Los listados previos de esta unidad contenan ms de 500 taxa. Creemos que la discrepancia es el resultado de que las grandes listas fueron en parte "conceptuales" (lo que puede estar all, no lo que est actualmente all).
41961029|Se estudian y describen las caractersticas de la epidermis foliar en ambas superficies, de los taxones del Grupo de especies Solatium sessile, representados en Venezuela a saber: Solanum chlamydogynum Bitter, S. obovalifolium Bentez, S. oppositifolium Ruiz & Pav, 5. sessile Ruiz & Pav, S. triste Jacq. y S. turgidum S. Knapp. Se utilizaron segmentos de aproximadamente 1 cm de la porcin media de hojas secas (especimenes de herbario) o frescas y fijadas en FAA al 70%. Fueron aplicadas tcnicas anatmicas convencionales para macerado y tincin. Se evalan las siguientes variables: presencia, tipo, dimensiones y ubicacin de estomas; presencia, tipo, longitud, ubicacin y densidad de tricomas; forma y grosor de la pared de las clulas epidrmicas normales e ndice estomtico. Los resultados muestran diferencias en algunas de las caractersticas anatmicas consideradas, especialmente las referidas a los tipos tricomticos y a la ubicacin de estomas. Dichos resultados se comparan y han permitido la separacin de las especies mediante una clave. Epidermal characteristics of leaf blades were studied and described from taxa belonging to the species Group containing Solanum sessile represented in Venezuela by the following species: Solanum chlamydogynum Bitter, 5. obovalifolium Bentez, 5. oppositifolium Ruiz & Pav, S. sessile Ruiz & Pav, S. triste Jacq. and S. turgidum S. Knapp. Middle portions of leaf blades were sampled from herbarium specimens and from fresh plant material fixed in FAA 70%. Conventional anatomical procedures for macerations and staining were used. The following criteria were evaluated: presence, type, dimension and location of stomata; presence, type, length, location and density of trichomes; shape and thickness of the wall of normal epidermal cells, and stomatal index. Results show there are differences in some anatomical characteristics between species especially with regards to trichome types and the location of stomata. These characteristics can be used to identify collections of Solanum to the species level. A key to the species of Solanum section Geminata using these characters is presented.
41960995|A new species, Chaptalia hidalgoensis L. Cabrera & Nesom, is described and illustrated. It is known only from the type collection made in Mun. Zimapan, Hidalgo. The occurrence of Chaptalia mexicana Burkart is documented here, with description and illustration, apparently for the first time since the type was collected by Ehrenberg in 1840. The recent collection was made in Mun. Pinal de Amoles, Quertaro. Both of these Mexican species appear to be members of sect. Chaptalia. Una nueva especie, Chaptalia hidalgoensis L. Cabrera & Nesom, se describe e ilustra; sta se le conoce nicamente de la coleccin tipo del Mun. Zimapan, Hidalgo. Tambin documentamos la existencia de Chaptalia mexicana Burkart, proporcionando una descripcin completa e ilustracin; aparentemente esta especie no se haba vuelto a colectar desde la colecta tipo de Ehrenberg en 1840. Esta coleccin reciente es del Mun. Pinal de Amoles, Quertaro. Ambas especies mexicanas parecen ser miembros de la seccin Chaptalia.
41961042|This report documents the occurrence and distribution of the Uvularia perfoliata and U. sessilifolia in the state of Texas. A key to species, notes, distribution (including a map), and a list of exsiccatae are presented. Se cita y se documenta la presencia y distribucin de Uvularia perfoliata y U. sessilifolia en el estado de Texas. Se presenta una clave de especies, notas, distribucin (incluyendo un mapa), y una lista de exsicatas.
41961024|This study documents type specimens for names associated with the twining vine Trachelospermum difforme. Although not cited in the literature, a holotype of Echues difformis Walter was discovered in the Thomas Walter herbarium of the Natural History Museum, London. Types and nomenclatural history are discussed for other synonyms and combinations. Se documentan tipos para nombres asociados con la enredadera Trachelospermum difforme. Aunque no citado en la literatura, fue descubierto un holotipo en el herbario de Thomas Walter en el Museo de Historia Natural, Londres. Se dan tipos e historia de nombres para los sinnimos y combinaciones.
41961016|Xanthisma incisifolium (I.M. Johnston) Nesom, comb. nov. (Machaeranthera pinnatifida var. incisifolia = Machaeranthera incisifolia), and Xanthisma glaberrimum (Rydb.) Nesom & O'Kennon, comb. nov. (Machaeranthera pinnatifida var. glaberrima), are transferred at specific rank to the genus Xanthisma, newly expanded by Morgan and Hartman to include species segregated from Machaeranthera sensu stricto. Xanthisma incisifolium (I.M. Johnston) Nesom, comb. nov.(Machaeranthera pinnatifida var.incisifolia = Machaeranthera incisifolia), y Xanthisma glaberrimum (Rydb.) Nesom & O'Kennon, comb. nov. (Machaeranthera pinnatifida var. glaberrima), se transfieren con rango especfico al gnero Xanthisma, ampliado de nuevo por Morgan y Hartman para incluir especies segregadas de Machaeranthera sensu stricto.
41961003|The Psidium salutare complex is revised with keys, descriptions, maps, and illustrations and is considered to consist of P. laruotteanum (with no additional subspecific taxa) and P. salutare (with a total of five varieties). This complex ranges from eastern temperate South America to Mexico and Central America. The following taxa are lectotypified: Calycolpus parviflorus Sagot, Myrtus acutata O. Berg, Myrtus blanchetiana O. Berg, Myrtus cuspidata O. Berg, Myrtus cuspidata var. tetramera O. Berg, Myrtus incana O. Berg, Myrtus mucronata Cambess., Myrtus nivea O. Berg, Myrtus pubescens O. Berg, Myrtus rigida O. Berg, Myrtus sellowiana O. Berg, Myrtus sericea var. fruticosa O. Berg, Myrtus suffruticosa O. Berg, Myrtus suffruticosa var. latifolia O. Berg, Psidium guayabita A. Rich., Psidium pohlianum O. Berg, Psidium salutare var. laxum O. Berg and Psidium salutare var. subalternum O. Berg. The following new combinations are made: Psidium salutare var. decussatum (DC.) Landrum, Psidium salutare var. mucronatum (Cambess.) Landrum, Psidium salutare var. pohlianum (O. Berg) Landrum, and Psidium salutare var. sericeum (Cambess.) Landrum. Se hace una revisin del complejo de Psidium salutare con claves, descripciones, mapas, e ilustraciones. El complejo incluye P. laruotteanum (sin taxa subspecficos adicionales) y P. salutare (con un total de cinco variedades). Este complejo se encuentra desde el este de Sur Amrica templada hasta Mxico y Centro Amrica. Se seleccionan lectotipos para los siguientes taxa: Calycolpus parviflorus Sagot, Myrtus acutata O. Berg, Myrtus blanchetiana O. Berg, Myrtus cuspidata O. Berg, Myrtus cuspidata var. tetramera O. Berg, Myrtus incana O. Berg, Myrtus mucronata Cambess., Myrtus nivea O. Berg, Myrtus pubescens O. Berg, Myrtus rigida O. Berg, Myrtus sellowiana O. Berg, Myrtus sericea var. fruticosa O. Berg, Myrtus suffruticosa O. Berg, Myrtus suffruticosa var. latifolia O. Berg, Psidium guayabita A. Rich., Psidium pohlianum O. Berg, Psidium salutare var. laxum O. Berg y Psidium salutare var. subalternum O. Berg. Se hacen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Psidium salutare var. decussatum (DC.) Landrum, Psidium salutare var. mucronatum (Cambess.) Landrum, Psidium salutare var. pohlianum (O. Berg) Landrum, y Psidium salutare var. sericeum (Cambess.) Landrum.
41961040|The occurrence of Polygonum aviculare subsp. rurivagum in North America is confirmed. The taxon is a rare adventive from Europe growing in sunny, dry and trampled ruderal habitats. La presencia de Polygonum aviculare subsp. rurivagum en Norteamrica es confirmada. Es un taxon raro originario de Europa que crece en lugares ruderales, soleados, secos y pisoteados.
41961021|The following new names and combinations in Solidago are proposed: Solidago subsect. Multiradiatae, Solidago subsect. Humiles, Solidago ser. Auriculatae, Solidago ser. Odorae, Solidago ser. Drummondiani, S. altissima subsp. gilvocanescens, S. kralii, S. lepida subsp fallax, S. lepida var. salebrosa, S. odora subsp. chaptmanii, S. patula subsp. strictula, S. puberula subsp. pulverulenta, S. rugosa var. cronquistiana, S. sempervirens subsp. azorica, S. sempervirens subsp. mexicana, S. speciosa subsp. pallida, S. stricta subsp. gracillima, S. velutina subsp. californica, and S. velutina subsp. sparsiflora. Se proponen los siguientes nombres y combinaciones nuevos en Solidago: Solidago subsect. Multiradiatae, Solidago subsect. Humiles, Solidago ser. Auriculatae, Solidago ser. Odorae, Solidago ser. Drummondiani, S. altissima subsp. gilvocanescens, S. kralii, S. lepida subsp fallax, S. lepida var. salebrosa, S. odora subsp. chapmanii, S. patula subsp. strictula, S. puberula subsp. pulverulenta, S. rugosa var. cronquistiana, S. sempervirens subsp. azorica, S. sempervirens subsp. mexicana, S. speciosa subsp. pallida, S. stricta subsp. gracillima, S. velutina subsp. californica, y S. velutina subsp. sparsiflora.
41961014|Two species of Liatris series Graminifoliae are described for the first time and illustrations and distribution maps are provided for both. Liatris savannensis Kral & Nesom, sp. nov., is similar to L.graminifolia but differs in its larger heads with more numerous florets and broader, erose-lacerate phyllary margins. It occurs on the western coast of peninsular Florida, south of the known range of L.graminifolia. Liatris patens Nesom & Kral, sp. nov., is similar to L.gracilis in its consistently pedunculate heads and hirtellous-strigose stems and peduncles but differs in longer peduncles and larger heads with more numerous florets; it is similar to L.graminifolia in head size and number of florets but differs in its hairy stems and peduncles and longer peduncles. Liatris patens occurs in southeastern Georgia and adjacent South Carolina, where it apparently is allopatric in range with its close relatives L.graminifolia and L. gracilis. Se describen por primera vez dos especies de Liatris serie Graminifoliae y se aportan ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin para ambas. Liatris savannensis Kral & Nesom, sp. nov., es similar a L.graminifolia pero se diferencia por sus cabezuelas ms grandes con flsculos ms numerosos y mrgenes de los filarios ms anchos y lacerados. Aparece en la costa oeste de la pennsula de Florida, al sur del rea conocida de L.graminifolia. Liatris patens Nesom & Kral,sp.nov., es similar a L.gracilis por sus cabezuelas pedunculadas, y tallos y pednculos hirto-estrigosos pero se diferencia por tener pednculos ms largos y cabezuelas ms grandes con muchos ms flsculos; es similar a L.graminifolia por el tamao de las cabezuelas y nmero de flsculos pero se diferencia por sus tallos pelosos, y pednculos pelosos y ms largos. Liatris patens aparece en el sureste de Georgia y parte adyacente de Carolina del Sur, donde aparentemente es aloptrica con sus parientes cercanos L.graminifolia y L.gracilis.
41961005|In connection with the treatment of Ixora for the Flora Fanerogmica do Estado de Sao Paulo, Flora Ilustrada Catarinense and Flora de Gois e Tocantins, it was necessary to undertake a taxonomic study of the taxa occurring in Central and Southern Brazil. Five native species occur in the state of Sao Paulo, and 12 taxa originally described by Mller Argoviensis are here treated as synonymous with the recognized species. Only one native species occurs in the state of Santa Catarina. Full typification, synonymies, brief descriptions, specimens cited, and a key to the Ixora of Sao Paulo are here presented. En conexin con el tratado de Ixora por la Flora Fanerogmica do Estado de So Paulo, la Flora Ilustrada Catarinense y la Flora de Gois e Tocantins fue necesario realizar un estudio taxonmico de los taxa presentes en Brasil central y meridional. Cinco especies nativas ocurren en el estado de Sao Paulo y doce taxa originariamente descritos por Mller Argoviensis son tratados aqu como sinnimos de especies reconocidas. Solamente una especie nativa ocurre en el estado de Santa Catarina. Se presentan aqu tipificaciones y sinonimias completas, descripciones, especmenes citados y una clave para las especies de Ixora de Sao Paulo.
41961023|A new subspecies of Polygonum sawatchense Small is described and illustrated for the forthcoming treatments of the genus Polygonum (Polygonaceae) in Flora of North America and Jepson Manual, Flora of California: Polygonum sawatchense subsp. oblivium. Polygonum sawatchense is typified and its taxonomy and distribution in North America are discussed. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva subespecie de Polygonum sawatchense Small para los futuros tratamientos del gnero Polygonum (Polygonaceae) en la Flora de Norteamrica y el Jepson Manual, Flora de California: Polygonum sawatchense subsp oblivium. Polygonum sawatchense se ha tipificado y se discute su taxonoma y distribucin en Norteamrica.
41961010|A new combination is reported here for an infraspecific taxon in Eurybia from North America: Eurybia glauca (Nutt.) G.L. Nesom var. pulchra (S.F. Blake) Brouillet, comb. nov. Se realiza una nueva combinacin para un taxon infraspecfico en Eurybia de Norte Amrica: Eurybia glauca (Nutt.) G.L. Nesom var. pulchra (S.F. Blake) Brouillet, comb. nov.
41961051|A newly recognized population of the dangerous invasive fern Lygodium microphyllum has been found in Orange County in central Florida. This population of the weed is known to have persisted within a cypress swamp for almost 15 years, during which time the area experienced single or multi-night freezes of -2.5 to -5.5C This finding indicates that the weed could live in other USDA Cold Hardiness Zone 9 areas such as southern Texas, which the fern may be able to reach via its wind-borne spores. Se encontr en el Condado de Orange, en el centro de la Florida, una poblacin reconocida recientemente del helecho invasivo y peligroso, Lygodium microphyllum. Se sabe que esta poblacin de maleza ha persistido durante 15 aos en una cinaga de ciprs donde fue encontrado, durante tal periodo de tiempo el rea experiment heladas de -2.5 hasta -5.5C durante una o ms noches. Esta observacin indica que la maleza podra vivir en otras reas de la Zona de Resistencia al Fro (USDA) Numero 9, tal como el sur de Tejas, rea que el helecho puede alcanzar por las esporas llevadas por el viento.
41961006|A new section of Baccharis is described: sect. Punctatae, including six species formerly placed in sect. Aristidentes (B. bigelovii, B. crassicuneata, B. mexicana, B. sulcata, B. thesioides, and B. zamoranensis). Baccharis palmeri is excluded from sect. Aristidentes while the South American B. hirta is added. Six species (B. auriculigera, B. huairacajensis, B. klattii, B. maxima, B. volubilis, and B. zumbadorensis) are added to sect. Tubulatae. A key is provided to differentiate these allied sections, as well as the related sect. Bogotenses. Se describe una nueva seccin de Baccharis: sect. Punctatae, la cual incluye seis especies previamente ubicadas en la seccin Aristidentes (B. bigelovii, B. crassicuneata, B. mexicana, B. sulcata, B. thesioides y B. zamoranensis). Baccharis palmeri es excluida de la seccin Aristidentes, mientras que la especie sudamericana B. hirta es agregada a ella. Seis especies (B. auriculigera, B. huairacajensis, B. klattii, B. maxima, B. volubilis y B. zumbadorensis) son agregadas a la seccin Tubulatae. Se provee una clave para diferenciar estas secciones afines, incluyendo asimismo la seccin Bogotenses.
41961019|Solidago faucibus, sp.nov., is described from two disjunct areas of the Appalachian Mountains: South Carolina and a contiguous area of Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. The species is a decaploid (2n = 90) and has its affinities with the Solidago arguta group. It is distinctive in its extremely large leaves, especially on basal off-shoots, generally shorter inflorescence branches, large capitulae, uniformly pubescent achenes, and in forming large clonal (few-flowering) patches. Population variation, distribution, and habitat are discussed. Solidago faucibus, sp. nov., se describe de dos reas disyuntas de los Montes Appalaches en Carolina del Sur y un rea contigua de Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, y West Virginia. La especie es un decaploide (2n = 90) y tiene afinidades con el grupo de Solidago arguta. Se diferencia por sus hojas extremadamente grandes, especialmente en los renuevos basales, generalmente ramas de la inflorescencia ms cortas, captulos grandes, aquenios uniformemente pubescentes, y en formar grandes cspedes clonales (que producen pocas flores). Se discute la variacin poblacional, distribucin, y hbitat.
41960992|Se describe como especie nueva y se ilustra a Ipomoea tacambarensis (Convolvulaceae), que se encuentra en la depresin del Balsas en el estado de Michoacn, Mxico. Esta planta, aunque de apariencia arbustiva, es una hierba perenne que alcanza hasta 2.2 m de alto. Es similar a Ipomoea stans Cav, pero se distingue por su mayor tamao (de hasta 2.2 m de alto), las hojas ms grandes (de hasta de 35 cm de largo) y las inflorescencias multifloras. Ipomoea tacambarensis (Convolvulaceae) from the Balsas depression in the state of Michoacn, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Although shrub-like in appearance, it does not undergo considerable secondary growth, and is thus really a robust perennial herb to 2.2 m tall. It is very similar to Ipomoea stans Cav., but it is distinguished by its greater size (to 2.2 m tall vs. to 1 m tall), longer leaves (to 35 cm long vs. to 11 cm long) and many flowered inflorescence (vs. flowers solitary).
41960991|A new species, Castilleja albobarbata Iltis & Nesom, is described from localities in Sierra de Manantln and Sierra Cacoma of Jalisco, Mxico. It differs from C. integrifolia primarily in features of vestiture and is geographically disjunct from the nearest populations of C. integrifolia by about 450 kilometers. Se describe una especie nueva, Castilleja albobarbata litis & Nesom, de la Sierra de Manantln y Sierra Cacoma de Jalisco, Mxico. Se diferencia de C. integrifolia principalmente por las caractersticas del indumento y est separada geogrficamente unos 450 kilmetros de la poblacin ms prxima de C. integrifolia.
41961012|Brazoria enquistii M.W. Turner sp. nov. from the central mineral region of Texas (Mason, Llano and Burnet counties) is described. It is similar to B. truncata (Benth.) Engelm. & A. Gray from which it differs in having longer floral bracts with more pronounced ciliation, shorter internodes, and distinctions in the lobes of the calyx. Its habitat and edaphic preferences, unique to the genus, are also discussed. Descriptions, photographs, dot-maps, and keys to species are presented. Se describe Brazoria enquistii M.W. Turner sp.nov.de la regin mineral central de Texas (condados de Mason, Llano y Burnet). Se asemeja a B. truncata (Benth.) Engelm. & A. Gray de la que se distingue por tener las brcteas florales ms largas con ciliacin ms destacada, los entrenudos ms cortos, y unas distinciones en los lbulos del cliz. Su habitat y preferencias edficas, nicos en el gnero, tambin se discuten. Se ofrecen descripciones, fotos, mapas de distribucin, y clave de especies.
41961008|The ultrabasic flora of the Kamiali Wildlife Management Area is described from a recent series of floristic surveys. The general account and checklist also incorporates information from earlier collections. Two new species are presented: Psychotria bulilimontis (Rubiaceae), and Trichadenia sasae (Salicaceae). Other taxa of special interest are briefly discussed.   2Psychotria bulilimontis()  Trichadenia sasae ()
41961037|During recent botanical explorations of Saurashtra, Gujarat, India, the narrowly endemic plant species Tephrosia jamnagarensis was rediscovered after a lapse of 3 decades. A full description of the species is provided along with photographs; a key to closely related species is included. Durante exploraciones botnicas recientes en Saurashtra, Gujarat, India, la especie endmica Tephrosia jamnagarensis fue redescubierta despus de un intervalo de tres dcadas. Se ofrece una descripcin completa de la especie junto con fotografas y se incluye una clave para las especies relacionadas ms prximas.
41961049|Nine species are reported as new to the flora of Arkansas: Agalinis nuttallii Shinners (Scrophulariaceae), Azolla caroliniana Willd. (Azollaceae), Crataegus thermopegaea Palmer (Rosaceae), Cyrtomium falcatum (L.f.) K. Presl (Dryopteridaceae), Nerium oleander L. (Apocynaceae), Polygala alba Nutt. (Polygalaceae), Punicagranatum L. (Punicaceae), Ricinus communis L. (Euphorbiaceae), and Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi (Anacardiaceae). They are a mixture of extinct, overlooked, or urban exotic-escaped species, some of which are of special concern as they pose new problems for urban poison control workers. Literature and herbarium work uncovered that 12 Arkansas species previously excluded actually have known and valid vouchers, and they are re-instated: Acacia farnesiana (L.) Willd. (Mimosaceae), Arabisglabra (L.) Bernh. (Brassicaceae), Canavalia ensiformis (L.) DC. (Fabaceae), Cladium jamaicense Crantz (Cyperaceae), Eragrostis trichodes (Nutt.) Wood (Poaceae), Halesia diptera Ellis (Styracaceae), Lygodesmia juncea (Pursh) D. Don (Asteraceae), Prosopis glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa (Mimosaceae), Rhynchospora colorata (L.) Pfeiffer (Cyperaceae), Rosa canina L. (Rosaceae), Sagina procumbens L. (Caryophyllaceae), and Trifolium stoloniferum Muhl. (Fabaceae). Another 13 species previously excluded and/or re-excluded from Arkansas were recently and erroneously re-instated, requiring re-exclusion. Another 76 species are here excluded, being reported erroneously as being from Arkansas, based either on literature reports that lack supporting voucher specimens or on a variety of clerical errors. These 21 additions and 89 subtractions to the Arkansas flora point to problems in achieving a uniform basis of deciding which plants to include in a flora and what constitutes sufficient documentation for known and valid vouchers. Se citan nueve especies nuevas para la flora de Arkansas: Agalinis nuttallii Shinners (Scrophulariaceae), Azolla caroliniana Willd. (Azollaceae), Crataegus thermopegaea Palmer (Rosaceae), Cyrtomium falcatum (L.f.) K. Presl (Dryopteridaceae), Nerium oleander L. (Apocynaceae), Polygala alba Nutt. (Polygalaceae), Punica granatum L. (Punicaceae), Ricinus communis L. (Euphorbiaceae), y Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi (Anacardiaceae). Son una mezcla de extintas, pasadas por alto, o especies urbanas exticas-escapadas, alguna de las cuales son de especial inters ya que causan nuevos problemas a los trabajadores del control de venenos urbanos. Con el trabajo bibliogrfico y de herbario se descubri que 12 especies de Arkansas previamente excluidas tienen actualmente testigos conocidos y vlidos, y son re-instauradas: Acacia farnesiana (L.) Willd. (Mimosaceae), Arabis glabra (L.) Bernh. (Brassicaceae), Canavalia ensiformis (L.) DC. (Fabaceae), Cladium jamaicense Crantz (Cyperaceae), Eragrostis trichodes (Nutt.) Wood (Poaceae), Halesia diptera Ellis (Styracaceae), Lygodesmia juncea (Pursh) D. Don (Asteraceae), Prosopis glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa (Mimosaceae), Rhynchospora colorata (L.) Pfeiffer (Cyperaceae), Rosa canina L. (Rosaceae), Sagina procumbens L. (Caryophyllaceae), y Trifolium stoloniferum Muhl. (Fabaceae). Otras 13 especies excluidas previamente y/o re-excluidas de Arkansas fueron reciente y errneamente re-instauradas, y necesitan una re-exclusin. Otras 76 especies se excluyen aqu, por haberse citado errneamente de Arkansas, basadas tanto en citas bibliogrficas que carecen de pliegos testigo o en varios errores administrativos. Estas 21 adiciones y 89 substracciones a la flora de Arkansas apuntan los problemas de poner a punto una base uniforme para decidir que plantas incluir en una flora, y que constituye suficiente documentacin para los pliegos testigo conocidos y vlidos.
41961033|Se analizan algunos aspectos de la ecologa, distribucin y estado de conservacin de Mammillaria theresae Cutak (Cactaceae), una especie endmica a una pequea rea de la Sierra de Coneto, localizada en el centro del estado de Durango (Mxico) al oriente de la Sierra Madre Occidental y en el lmite occidental del Desierto Chihuahuense. Por su condicin de serrana aislada, la Sierra de Coneto es de inters ecolgico y fitogeogrfico; es la nica localidad conocida para M. theresae y para un gnero recientemente descrito (Megacorax, Onagraceae). Mammillaria theresae es altamente apreciada por coleccionistas de especies exticas; se conoce localmente con los nombres de peyote y peyotillo, y su poblacin est siendo mermada debido a la ampliacin de un camino. Se evalu el estado actual de la poblacin de M. theresae mediante mustreos de vegetacin y monitoreo de 126 individuos en siete sitios. La especie crece en una superficie de 1.7 ha en manchones distribuidos en un rea de 2.5 km, principalmente sobre sustrato rocoso. Debido a su distribucin restringida, tamao de poblacin y disturbio y fragmentacin de su habitat, M. theresae califica en la categora de en peligro de extincin. La informacin generada puede ser aplicada en el diseo de un plan para la proteccin de la especie We analyzed some aspects of the ecology, distribution, and conservation status of Mammillaria theresae Cutak (Cactaceae), a narrow endemic to the Sierra de Coneto in central Durango, Mexico. Because its isolation, this sierra has ecological and phytogeographical importance. It is located at the east of the Sierra Madre Occidental and on the western boundaries of the Chihuahuan Desert, and it is the only known locality for M. theresae and for a genus recently described (Megacorax, Onagraceae). Mammillaria theresae is a highly appreciated species which is locally known as peyote and peyotillo. Its population is being severely affected mainly due to the construction of a road. We evaluated the present situation of the species as well as the environmental factors with which it is related. We studied the population size from seven plots sampled across its distribution area. Density, cover and frequency of M. theresae and its associated species were measured, and 126 individual plants were monitored to record its fenology and dispersal mechanisms. The species grows over 1.7 ha distributed over approximately 2.5 square km along an elevational range between 2180 and 2320 m a.s.l. Because its restricted distribution, size of the population, and increasing destruction and fragmentation of its habitat, it is considered as an endangered species. This information can be used to design a plan to protect the species from further decline.
41961045|Andropogon glomeratus (Walt.) B.S.P. var. glaucopsis (Elliott) Mohr is reported for Louisiana. A key to separate the Louisiana taxa in the A. virginicus complex is provided. Se cita Andropogon glomeratus (Walt.) B.S.P. var. glaucopsis (Elliott) Mohr de Louisiana. Se aporta una clave para separar los taxa del complejo A. virginicus en Louisiana.
41961022|The pappus in the goldenrod genus Solidago (Asteraceae: Astereae) was examined in 75 species and compared with variation in 14 species of 12 related genera in subtribe Solidagininae in the narrow sense following Nesom (2000) and three species of asters of two genera basal to the North American Clade of the tribe. Solidago has been described as having a simple pappus consisting of one whorl of barbellate bristles with the exception of a few species in several sections, sometimes treated as distinct genera. Species of Solidago sect. Corymbosae (Oligoneuron) have long been recognized as having a biseriate pappus with clavate bristles similar to that of other genera of the subtribe. However, nearly all species of Solidago displayed some evidence indicating the pappus bristles occur in two more or less heteromorphic whorls of bristles, here designated as the primary outer whorl and the primary inner whorl. A few species also occasionally had a third, much shorter secondary outer whorl of a few bristles. In the most heteromorphic species, the primary outer whorl of bristles was slightly shorter and had tips that gradually tapered. The primary inner whorl of slightly longer bristles had distinctly clvate tips up to several times as broad as the bristle below the tip. As well, the bases of the primary outer whorl were clearly external to those of the primary inner clvate whorl in some species. In contrast, most species in several subsections of the genus exhibited little evidence of a biseriate pappus or clavate bristle tips. The pappus of each species was scored on several traits: 1) non-clavate to distinctly clavate bristle tips, 2) evidence of alternating non-clavate and clvate bristles or shorter and longer bristles, and 3) evidence of overlapping primary outer and inner whorls of bristles. One species of Solidago had an atypically short pappus; the bristles of S. sphacelata were less than half the length of the cypsela body. The biseriate pappus of Brintonia discoidea was usually tinted with anthocyanotic pigments unlike any species of Solidago; the species has been included in Solidago by some authors. Se examin el vilano en 75 especies del gnero Solidago (Asteraceae: Astereae) y se compar con la variacin en 14 especies de 12 gneros relacionados de la subtribu Solidagininae en sentido restringido segn Nesom (2000) y tres especies de asterceas de dos gneros basales al ciado Norte Americano de la tribu. Solidago se ha descrito como poseedor de un vilano simple que consiste en un verticilo de sedas barbeladas, con la excepcin de unas pocas especies en varias secciones, a veces tratadas como gneros diferentes. Las especies de Solidago sect. Corymbosae (Oligoneuron) han sido reconocidas por presentar un vilano biseriado con sedas clavadas similares a las de otros gneros de la subtribu. Sin embargo, casi todas las especies de Solidago muestran algunas pruebas que indican que las sedas del vilano se sitan en dos verticilos ms o menos heteromrneos, que aqu se nombran como verticilo primario externo y verticilo primario interno. Unas pocas especies tambin tienen ocasionalmente un tercer verticilo, el verticilo secundario externo, mucho ms corto y de unas pocas sedas. En la especie ms heteromrfica, el verticilo primario externo de sedas era ligeramente ms corto y tena extremos gradualmente afilados. El verticilo primario interno, de sedas ligeramente ms largas, tiene extremos claramente clavados de hasta varias veces ms anchos que la propia seda debajo del extremo. As mismo, las bases del verticilo primario externo eran claramente externas a las del verticilo primario interno clavado en algunas especies. Por contra, la mayora de las especies de varias subsecciones del gnero mostraban pocas pruebas de un vilano biseriado o de extremos de las sedas clavados. El vilano de las distintas especies fue escrutado en varios aspectos: 1) extremos de las sedas de no-clavadas a distintamente clavadas, 2) evidencia de alternancia de sedas no-clavadas y clavadas o sedas ms cortas y ms largas, y 3) evidencia de solapamiento de los verticilos de sedas primario externo e interno. Una especie de Solidago tena un vilano atpicamente corto; las sedas de S. sphacelata eran menos de la mitad de la longitud del cuerpo de la cipsela. El vilano biseriado de de Brintonia discoidea estaba normalmente teido con pigmentos antocinicos, cosa que no ocurre en las especies de Solidago; la especie ha sido incluida en Solidago por algunos autores.
41961036|Quantitative methods were used to determine the transition zone between the eastern and western flora in Texas. The transition between the southeastern deciduous/coniferous forest region and the western plains/brushy-savanna is a 300 km wide area extending from around 95 degrees to 99 degrees west longitude. Across this area, eastern and western species drop out precipitously; this area is the range edge for the two floras. This finding agrees closely with earlier vertebrate biogeographic analyses. Se usaron mtodos cuantitativos para determinar la zona de transicin entre la flora oriental y occidental en Texas. La transicin entre la regin sur oriental de bosques deciduos/conferas y la occidental de llanuras/sabana arbustiva es un rea de 300 km de ancha que se extiende desde unos 95 grados a 99 grados de longitud oeste. A travs de esta rea, las especies orientales y occidentales se separan precipitadamente; esta rea es el extremo del rango de las dos floras. Este hallazgo concuerda en gran medida con anlisis biogeogrficos realizados previamente.
41961000|Arida mattturneri Turner & Nesom, sp. nov., is described from collections made near Ruidosa in Presidio County, Texas. The plants are perennial, lavender-rayed, and occur in gypseous soils along shallow perennial streams and seeps. It is a member of Machaeranthera sect. Arida, now segregated as the genus Arida, and is similar to Arida turneri in significant respects, especially the bipinnately parted leaves. The new species is illustrated by photographs. Se describe Arida mattturneri Turner & Nesom, sp. nov, a partir de colecciones hechas cerca de Ruidosa, en Presidio County, Texas. Las plantas son perennes, rayadas de lavanda, y aparecen en suelos yesosos a lo largo de arroyos permanentes poco profundos y lugares rezumantes. Es un miembro de Machaeranthera sect. Arida, ahora segregado como gnero Arida, y es semejante a Arida turneri en aspectos importantes, especialmente en las hojas bipinnado-partidas. La nueva especie se ilustra mediante fotografas.
41961017|A new goldenrod, Solidago arenicola, has been discovered from Blount County, Alabama. It is hereby described, figured, and contrasted with three other Solidago species, S. plumosa Small, S. simplex Kunth, and S. erecta Pursh, all of which have similar morphologies and are from the southeastern U.S. Una nueva vara de oro, Solidago arenicola, ha sido descubierta en el condado de Blount de Alabama. Aqu se describe, se ilustra y se contrasta con otras tres especies de Solidago, S. plumosa Small, S. simplex Kunth y S. erecta Pursh, que son del suroeste de los Estados Unidos y tienen morfologas similares.
41960999|Recent investigations of Machaeranthera s.l. incorporating molecular, morphological, cytological, and chemical evidence have supported relationships that do not conform to any recent circumscription of the genus. To bring the classification of Machaeranthera more in line with current understanding of its evolutionary history, revisions to its taxonomy are proposed. Machaeranthera is circumscribed to include two species, and other species that have been included in Machaeranthera are apportioned into three additional genera. Dieteria is revived to accommodate three of these species, Xanthisma is expanded to accomodate 16 more species, and the new genus Arida is proposed for those remaining. New combinations for the species in Dieteria, Xanthisma, and Arida are provided. Investigaciones recientes en Machaeranthera s.l. que incluyen datos moleculares, morfolgicos, citolgicos, y qumicos dan como resultado unas relaciones que no concuerdan con ninguna circunscripcin reciente del gnero. Para poner la clasificacin de Machaeranthera ms en lnea con el conocimiento actual de su historia evolutiva, se proponen revisiones de su taxonoma. Machaeranthera se circunscribe para incluir dos especies, y otras especies que se haban incluido en Machaeranthera se redistribuyen en tres gneros adicionales. Dieteria se rescata para acomodar tres de estas especies, Xanthisma se expande para incluir 16 especies ms, y se propone el nuevo gnero Arida para las restantes. Se realizan las nuevas combinaciones para las especies de Dieteria, Xanthisma, y Arida.
41960997|This paper presents a revised formal classification of the subfamilies and tribes of the Polemoniaceae based on a synthesis of new and old characters and on a traditional taxonomic approach. The genera are grouped into nine tribes and three subfamilies (Cobaeoideae, Polemonioideae, Acanthogilioideae). The five tropical and subtropical genera, which are basal in the family, fall into two primary groups: subfam. Cobaeoideae, containing Cantua, Cobaea, Bonplandia, and Loeselia; and subfam. Acanthogilioideae, containing Acanthogilia. The temperate herbaceous genera, which are derived, also fall into two primary groups. The subfam. Polemonioideae, related to and evidently derived from the Cobaeoideae, contains Polemonium, Collomia, Navarretia, Phlox, Linanthus, etc. The second main group of temperate herbaceous genera is the tribe Gilieae, which is related to the tribe Acanthogilieae and included in the same subfamily Acanthogilioideae with it. The Gilieae contains the genera Gilia, Eriastrum, Ipomopsis, etc. This system differs in numerous respects from the recent system of Porter and Johnson (Aliso, vol. 19(1), 2000), based on a molecular cladistic approach. Different goals and methods produce different results. It is suggested that other plant groups, which have been revised in recent times according to molecular cladistic evidence and criteria, should also be revised by taxonomic methods. Updated taxonomic classifications are needed for the useful features that they alone provide. En este trabajo se presenta una clasificacin formal revisada de las subfamilias y tribus de las Polemoniaceae basada en una sntesis de caracteres nuevos y viejos mediante un mtodo taxonmico clsico. Los gneros se agrupan en nueve tribus y tres subfamilias (Cobaeoideae, Polemonioideae, Acanthogilioideae). Los cinco gneros tropicales y subtropicales, que son bsales en la familia, quedan en dos grupos primarios: subfam. Cobaeoideae, con Cantua, Cobaea, Bonplandia, y Loeselia; y subfam. Acanthogilioideae, con Acanthogilia. Los gneros herbceos templados, que son derivados, tambin estn en dos grupos primarios. La subfam. Polemonioideae, relacionada y evidentemente derivada de Cobaeoideae, contiene a Polemonium, Collomia, Navarretia, Phlox, Linanthus, etc. El segundo grupo principal de gneros herbceos templados es la tribu Gilieae, que se relaciona con la tribu Acanthogilieae y est incluida tambin en la misma subfamilia Acanthogilioideae. Gilieae contiene los gneros Gilia, Eriastrum, Ipomopsis, etc. Este sistema difiere en numerosos aspectos del sistema reciente de Porter y Johnson (Aliso, vol. 19(1), 2000), basado en un mtodo cladstico molecular. Diferentes objetivos y mtodos producen resultados diferentes. Se sugiere que otros grupos de plantas, que han sido revisados recientemente con criterios y mtodos dadistas moleculares deberan revisarse tambin por mtodos taxonmicos. Las clasificaciones taxonmicas actualizadas se necesitan por las caractersticas que slo ellas pueden ofrecer.
41961054|Naturalized populations of the Asian amphibious species Rotala rotundifolia are documented for three peninsular Florida counties. Distinguishing characters and a comment on invasive potential are also provided. Se documentan las poblaciones naturalizadas de la especie Asitica anfibia Rotala rotundifolia para tres condados de Florida peninsular. Se presentan tambin caracteres distintivos y un comentario acerca del potencial de invasin.
41961048|An annotated list of 38 additions to the vascular flora of Cleveland County, Arkansas is presented. The additions presented were collected from Moro Bottoms Natural Area, a state-protected old-growth bottomland hardwood forest located in the northwest region of the county. Se presenta una lista comentada de 38 adiciones a la flora vascular de Cleveland County, Arkansas. Las adiciones presentadas se recolectaron en Moro Bottoms Natural Area, un bosque pantanoso viejo protegido por el estado, ubicado en la parte noroeste del municipio.
41961039|Plants previously considered Polygonum patulum Bieb in California are within the range of variation of Polygonum ramosissimum Michx. complex. The real Polygonum patulum is recorded now for the first time from Alabama, Illinois, Utah and Washington, where it has occurred as a rare ruderal. Las plantas consideradas previamente Polygonum patulum en California se encuentran dentro del rango de variacin del complejo de Polygonum ramosissimum. El verdadero Polygonum patulum es citado ahora por primera vez en Alabama, Illinois, Utah y Washington, donde ha aparecido como un ruderal raro.
41960993|Portulaca matthewsii is proposed and described as a new species. It belongs to subg. Portulaca sect. Catoclasis subsect. Conocarpae, and has been collected in the northern part of the "Sierra Gorda" Biosphere Reserve, in the Mexican state of Quertaro. The new taxon primarily differs from the known Mexican species of this subsection by the fibrous roots and by the stellate-tuberculate surface of the seed. Se propone y describe a Portulaca matthewsii como especie nueva para la ciencia. Este taxon se ubica en el subgnero Portulaca, seccin Catoclasis, subseccin Conocarpae, y ha sido colectada en la porcin norte de la Reserva de la Biosfera "Sierra Gorda", en el estado mexicano de Quertaro. La entidad nueva se diferencia de las especies de la subseccin conocidas para Mxico por la presencia de races fibrosas, as como por la superficie de la semilla que es estelulado-tuberculada.
41961007|Gentianella boliviana and G. inaequicalyx art recognized as species and the nomenclatural combinations are validated. Se reconocen como especies Gentianella boliviana y G. inaequicalyx, y se validan las combinaciones nomenclaturales.
41961001|Revision of the group of species formerly placed in Oerstedianthus Lundell revealed that the group is synonymous with Ardisia subgenus Graphardisia Mez. This paper incorporates those taxa in the subgenus, necessitating further revision of subgenus Graphardisia, including an emended description of the subgenus, a key to the species and subspecies, along with updated descriptions of the four added taxa and new illustrations for each. Four additional taxa are recognized, including one new species: Ardisia verdisepala Ricketson & Pipoly, and one new combination: Ardisia nigrescens subsp. donnellsmithii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly. Seven binomials are relegated to synonymy within A. tuerckheimii Donn. Sm. In addition, Ardisia nigrescens Oerst., A. nigrescens subsp. donnellsmithii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly and A. tuerckheimii Donn. Sm. are lectotypified. Una revisin del grupo de especies anteriormente clasificadas dentro del gnero Oerstedianthus Lundell revel que el grupo se ubica mejor dentro del gnero Ardisia subgnero Graphardisia Mez, y por lo tanto se relega el gnero a la sinonimia. El propsito del presente trabajo es para incorporar ese grupo dentro del subgnero, y actualizar su circunscripcin, claves para identificar las especies y subespecies, descripciones de ellas y nuevas ilustraciones para cada una. Se reconocen cuatro taxa adicionales, que incluye una especie nueva para la ciencia: Ardisia verdisepala Ricketson & Pipoly, y una nueva combinacin: Ardisia nigrescens subsp. donnellsmithii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly. Se relegan siente binomiales a la sinonimia bajo A. tuerckheimii Donn. Sm. Adems, se lectotipifican Ardisia nigrescens Oerst., A. nigrescens subsp. donnellsmithii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly y A. tuerckheimii Donn. Sm.
41968168|Thelypteris rhachiflexuosa Riba, described from Veracruz is recorded from Chiapas, where it was found in Northern Highlands. Additional data about distribution, habitat, and morphology are discussed. Thelypteris rhachiflexuosa Riba, descrito de Veracruz, es registrado para las Montaas del Norte de Chiapas. Se discute informacin sobre su distribucin, habitat y morfologa.
41968139|We describe in this paper the hybrid genus  Taxodiomeria Z.J. Ye, J.J. Zhang et S.H. Pan, gen. nov. (Taxodium Rich,  Cryptomeria D. Don) and the hybrid species  T. peizhongii Z.J. Ye, J.J. Zhang et S.H. Pan, sp. nov. (Taxodium mucronatum Ten.  Cryptomeria fortunei Hooibrenk ex Otto et Dietr.) (Taxodiaceae). The hybrid originated in Nanjing in 1963 and was introduced into Shanghai in 1975; it has been propagated vegetatively since then. These hybrids, about 2000 in all, were hardly known but are now big trees and highly valued for their fine shape, faster growth rate, and adaptation to urban environments compared to Taxodium and Metasequoia. Morphologically, the hybrid species strongly resembles Taxodium mucronatum, differing slightly in a few vegetative characteristics.  Taxodiomeria Z.J. Ye, J.J. Zhang et S.H. Pan, gen. nov. (Taxodium Rich.  Cryptomeria D. Don)  T. peizhongii Z.J. Ye, J.J. Zhang et S.H. Pan, sp. nov. (Taxodium mucronatum Ten.  Cryptomeria fortunei Hooibrenk ex Otto et Dietr.) (Taxodiaceae)  1963 1975  2000  (Taxodium)  (Metasequioa)   (Taxodium mucronatum) 
41968127|A new species of the South East Asian Genus Pteroceras Hassk is described, illustrated and compared to its closest relative Pteroceras johorense. Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Pteroceras Hassk. del sureste de sia, se ilustra y se compara con su pariente ms prximo Pteroceras johorense.
41968117|In the course of a cladistic analysis and systematic revision of Charianthus (Melastomataceae: Miconieae), it was discovered that one species, C. fadyenii (Hook.) Griseb., is unrelated to the other members of that genus, and this species is thus reassigned to Tetrazygia En el curso de un anlisis cladstico y revisin sistemtica de Charianthus (Melastomataceae: Miconieae), se descubri que una especie, C. fadyenii (Hook.) Griseb., no est relacionada a los otros miembros de este gnero y por ello es reasignado a Tetrazygia.
41968146|Pit membrane remnants in scalariform perforations of mature Illicium floridanum vessels of stems and roots from three sources were studied with scanning electron microscope (SEM). Several methods of preservation and microtechnical treatment were used; results for all of these methods, for the three sources, and for the two organs revealed similar patterns. The perforation pit membranes illustrated are believed to be relatively free of artifacts. Pit membrane presence in perforations of all collections of I. floridanum studied ranges from intact non-porose pit membranes to near-absence of any pit membrane fragments. However, the extreme conditions are relatively infrequent, and the most common condition is presence of less than 50% of the pit membrane; presence of more than 50% of the pit membrane is somewhat less common. The phylogenetic significance of pit membrane presence in perforations is considered a symplesiomorphic feature for angiosperms. Presence of pit membrane remnants in perforations is valuable in phylogenetic analyses of angiosperms. Se estudiaron al microscopio electrnico de barrido (SEM) restos de las membranas de punteaduras de las perforaciones escalariformes de vasos de tallos y raices de Illicium floridanum maduros procedentes de tres fuentes. Se usaron varios mtodos de conservacin y tratamientos microtcnicos; obteniendo patrones similares con todos los mtodos, para las tres fuentes y los dos rganos. Las perforaciones de las membranas de las punteaduras que se ilustran se cree que no tienen artefactos. La presencia de punteaduras de membrana en las perforaciones de todas las colecciones de I. floridanum estudiadas varan desde punteaduras intactas no-porosas hasta la casi ausencia de fragmentos de membrana. Sin embargo, las condiciones extremas son relativamente infrecuentes, y las condiciones ms comunes son la presencia de menos del 50% de membrana de la punteadura; la presencia de ms del 50% de la membrana de la punteadura es algo menos frecuente. El significado filogentico de la presencia de la membrana de la punteadura en las perforaciones se considera una caracterstica simplesiomorfica en angiospermas. La presencia de restos de la membrana de la punteadura en las perforaciones es valiosa en los anlisis filogenticos en angiospermas.
41968126|Preparation of a taxonomic treatment of the Myrsinaceae for the Flora Mesoamericana project resulted in the discovery of a new species, Stylogyne pucuroensis Ricketson & Pipoly, which is described and illustrated. Its closest relationship is with S. ardisioides A. DC Stylogyne glomeruliflora is removed from the project area. Al preparar un tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Myrsinaceae para Flora Mesoamericana, se descubri una especie nueva para la ciencia, Stylogyne pucuroensis Ricketson & Pipoly. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute el parentezco de la nueva especie. Se elimina la especie Stylogyne glomeruliflora como registro para Mesoamerica como resultado del estudio.
41968123|Ardisia escallonoides, Myrsine myricoides and Parathesis melanostricta (Myrsinaceae), are lectotypified, based on Schiede and Deppe collections housed at HAL. Se lecotipifican Ardisia escallonoides, Myrsine myricoides y Parathesis melanostricta (Myrsinaceae), en base a colecciones de Schiede y Deppe guardados en el herbario HAL.
41968159|A floristic inventory of the 3,755-ha Thurmond Ranch and immediate vicinity, located in southern Roger Mills County, Oklahoma, was conducted in 2001. Because of its unusual geologic and topographic setting, which has given rise to a heterogeneous environment and long history of human habitation, the site has been the subject of intense archeological and paleoclimatological research since the early 1980s. The inventory documented 85 families, 286 genera, and 470 species of vascular plants in the study area. The five most species-rich families, Asteraceae, Poaceae, Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae, and Cyperaceae, collectively account for 51% of the species. Non-native species constitute 10% of the total flora. Four North American species probably were introduced by Euro-Americans, and Native Americans may have introduced three species. Populations of four species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were discovered, and Epilobium leptophyllum is reported for the first time in Oklahoma. Collection data show a marked floristic difference between the Tertiary Ogallala Formation and the Permian redbeds along the ecotone. Nineteen major vegetation alliances were identified based on observational data, including three woodland alliances, seven shrubland alliances, and eight herbaceous alliances. Mixed-grass prairie plant communities dominate the study area landscape. Se realiz un inventario florstico de las 3,755-ha del Thurmond Ranch y alrededores, localizado en el sur del condado de Roger Mills, Oklahoma, en 2001. Debido a las inusuales caractersticas geolgicas y topogrficas, que dieron lugar a un ambiente heterogneo y larga historia de ocupacin humana, el lugar ha sido objeto de intensa investigacin arqueolgica y paleoclimatolgica desde principio de los 1980. El inventario document 85 familias, 286 gneros, y 470 especies de plantas vasculares en el rea de estudio. Las cinco familias ms ricas, Asteraceae, Poaceae, Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae, y Cyperaceae, tienen conjuntamente el 51% de las especies. Las especies no nativas comprenden el 10% de la flora total. Cuatro especies norteamericanas fueron introducidas probablemente por Euro-Americanos, y los nativos americanos puede que hayan introducido tres especies. Se descubrieron poblaciones de cuatro especies seguidas por el Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory, y Epilobium leptophyllum se cita por primera vez en Oklahoma. Los datos de coleccin muestran una clara diferencia floristica entre la formacin terciaria de Ogallala y las capas sedimentarias rojizas del prmico a lo largo del ecotono. Se identificaron diecinueve alianzas de vegetacin basadas en datos de observacin, que incluyen tres alianzas arbreas, siete arbustivas, y ocho herbceas. Las comunidades mixtas de pradera dominan el paisaje del rea de estudio.
41968152|The mitotic chromosome count for Toxicoscordion nuttallii (2n = 22), reported here, matches the number formerly documented for other species in the genus. A previous unvouchered report of 2n = 32 for this species, therefore, likely represents a misidentification, and a base number of x = 11 is synapomorphic for Toxicoscordion. An updated overview of this recently resurrected segregate genus is given. El recuento de cromosomas mitticos en Toxicoscordion nuttallii (2n = 22), citado aqu, concuerda con el nmero documentado anteriormente para otras especies del gnero. Un reporte previo, sin catalogar, de 2n = 32 para esta especie, probablemente representa una identificacin incorrecta y el nmero base de x = 11 es sinapomrfico para Toxicoscordion. Aqu se presenta una revisin de este gnero segregado recientemente resucitado.
41968125|A new infrageneric classification for the genus Parathesis is proposed. The genus is divided into two subgenera, Parathesis subg. Laterales Ricketson & Pipoly, and subg. Parathesis. Parathesis subgenus Laterales is further divided into sections Calophyllae Ricketson & Pipoly, and Laterales Ricketson & Pipoly. Parathesis subg. Parathesis is also further divided into sections Cubanae Ricketson & Pipoly, Parathesis, and Versatiles Ricketson & Pipoly. All 95 species are listed in their respective sections. Se propone una nueva clasificacin infragenrica para el gnero Parathesis. Se divide el gnero en dos subgneros, Parathesis subg. Laterales Ricketson & Pipoly, y subg. Parathesis. Se divide el Parathesis subgnero Laterales en secciones: Laterales Ricketson & Pipoly, y Calophyllae Rickeston & Pipoly. Se divide Parathesis subg. Parathesis en secciones, Cubanae Ricketson & Pipoly, Parathesis y Versatiles Ricketson & Pipoly. Se enumeran todas las 95 especies del gnero en sus secciones respectivas.
41968158|Big Branch Marsh National Wildlife Refuge is a U.S. Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service complex comprising approximately 5,870 ha (14,500 acres). A floristic survey was conducted to provide refuge staff with a checklist of vascular plant species, along with species abundance and habitat preference when one existed. Collecting trips made to the refuge from August 1999 through April 2002 yielded 563 infraspecific taxa of vascular plants representing 117 families and 309 genera. The four largest families are Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Asteraceae, and Fabaceae. Descriptions of salient plant communities are provided. El Refugio Nacional de Vida Salvaje de Big Branch Marsh es un complejo del Servicio del Departamento de Pesca Interior y Vida Salvaje de los Estados Unidos que tiene aproximadamente 5,870 ha (14,500 acres). Se realiz un estudio florstico para ofrecer al personal del Refugio un listado de las especies de plantas vasculares, junto con abundancia de especies y preferencia de habitat cuando existia. Los viajes de recoleccin al refugio de agosto de 1999 a abril de 2002 dieron 563 taxa infraespecficos de plantas vasculares pertenecientes a 117 familias y 309 gneros. Las cuatro familias ms grandes son Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Asteraceae, y Fabaceae. Se ofrecen descripciones de las comunidades vegetales ms importantes.
41968177|A rockhouse microhabitat located in the xeric savannah / woodland community of the West Cross Timbers of North Central Texas is discussed and an associated disjunct population of Arisaema triphyllum is reported. Se discute un microhabitat rocoso en la comunidad sabana / arbolado de West Cross Timbers en el centro-norte de Texas y se cita una poblacin disyunta asociada de Arisaema triphyllum.
41968156|One-hundred twenty-two species of seed plants, representing 95 genera and 35 families are documented for the 7,700 ha Mohawk Dune Field and its immediate surroundings, located in Yuma County, Arizona, USA. Three major habitats were studied: dunes, adjacent sand flats, and playa. The dunes (including interdune swales) support 78 species, of which 13 do not occur on the adjacent non-dune habitats. The adjacent non-dune habitats (sand flats and playa) support 109 species, of which 43 were not found on the dunes. The total flora has 81 annual species, or 66% of the flora. The dune flora has 63 annual (ephemeral) species, or 81% of the floraone of the highest percentages of annuals among any regional flora. Of these dune annuals, 53 species (84%) develop during the cool season. No plant taxon is endemic to the Mohawk region. There are 8 dune, or sand adapted, endemicsCryptantha ganderi, Dimorphocarpa pinnatifida, Dicoria canescens, Ditaxis serrata, Pleuraphis rgida, Psorothamnus emoryi, Stephanomeria schottii, Tiquilia plicata-all of which are found on nearby dune systems. Two of them (C. ganderi and S. schottii) are of limited distribution, especially in the USA, and have G2 Global Heritage Status Rank. There are four non-native species in the dune flora (Brassica tournefortii, Mollugo cerviana, Sonchus asper, Schismus arabicus), but only Brassica and Schismus seem to pose serious threats to the dune ecosystem at this time. The Mohawk Dune field is within the Lower Colorado Valley phytogeographic region of the Sonoran Desert and located within the Barry M. Goldwater Military Range. This unique dune system, largely unaffected by human activities, is recommended as a site for baseline studies of plant migrations and population dynamics affected by global climatic change. Ciento veintidos especies de espermatfitos, que representan 95 gneros y 35 familias se documentan para las 7,700 ha del Mohawk Dune Field y sus alrededores, en el condado de Yuma, Arizona, USA. Se estudiaron tres grandes habitats: dunas, arenales planos, y playas. Las dunas (incluyendo las depresiones interdunares) tienen 78 especies, de las que 13 no se dan en los habitats no dunares adyacentes. Los hbitats adyacentes no dunares (arenales planos y playa) tienen 109 especies, de las que 43 no se encontraron en las dunas. La flora total tiene 81 especies anuales, o el 66% de la flora. La flora dunar tiene 63 especies anuales (efmeras), o el 81% de la florauno de los porcentajes ms altos de anuales en las floras regionales. De estas anuales dunares, 53 (84%) se desarrollan durante la estacin fra.
41968161|We review the literature on West Gulf Coastal Plain ecoregions and examine the methodology used by ecoregion mappers. Ecoregion mapping has been done almost entirely without quantitative assessment. We suggest that quantitative descriptions should replace impressionistic descriptions. Hemos revisado la bibliografa de las ecorregiones de la West Gulf Coastal Plain y examinado la metodologa usada por los cartgrafos de ecorregiones. La cartografa ecorregional ha sido realizada casi totalmente sin evaluacin cuantitativa. Sugerimos que las descripciones cuantitativas deben reemplazar a las descripciones impresionistas.
41968121|Two new species of Parathesis, P. pseudocalophylla Ricketson & Pipoly from Chiapas, Mexico, and P. pseudocrassiramea Ricketson & Pipoly from San Jos, Costa Rica, are described and illustrated. Further revision of the genus has revealed the necessity of neotypifying P. rothschuhiana Mez. Se describen y se ilustran dos especies nuevas pertenecientes al gnero Parathesis, P. pseudocalophylla Ricketson et Pipoly, y P. pseudocrassiramea Ricketson et Pipoly, provenientes de Chiapas, Mxico y San Jos, Costa Rica. Adems, se neotipifica P. rothschuiana Mez.
41968118|A new combination is made for A Flora of the Chihuahuan Desert Region and for Flora of North America North of Mexico in the now more broadly constructed Acleisanthes (Nyctaginaceae): Acleisanthes lanceolata (Wooton) R.A. Levin var. megaphylla (Fowler & B.L. Turner) Spellenb. & J. Poole, comb. nov. This is based on evidence published recently by Levin (2000) showing that neither Acleisanthes nor Selinocarpus as traditionally treated is monophyletic, but together they form a well-defined clade in the Nyctaginaceae. We also provide a short review of the literature showing that Commicarpus somalensis (Chiov.) Lebrun & Stork is correctly an Acleisanthes (sensu lato), based on Selinocarpus somalensis Chiov. Due to need for consistency in level of infraspecific rank in treatments in Flora of North America North of Mexico Abronia umbellata Lam. subsp. breviflora (Standl.) Munz is recombined as Abronia umbellata Lam. var. breviflora (Standl.) L.A. Galloway, comb, et stat. nov. Se hace una combinacin nueva para "A Flora of the Chihuahuan Desert Region" y para "Flora of North America North of Mexico" en el gnero Acleisanthes, ahora construido mas ampliamente: Acleisanthes lanceolata (Wooton) R.A. Levin var. megaphylla (Fowler & B.L. Turner) Spellenb. & J. Poole, comb. nov. Esta combinacin resulta de la evidencia recientemente publicada por Levin (2000), demostrando que ni Acleisanthes ni Selinocarpus, como se han tratado tradicionalmente, son monofilticos, pero juntos forman un ciado bien definido en las Nyctaginaceae. Tambin, ofrecemos citaciones bibliogrficas declarando que Commicarpus somalensis (Chiov.) Lebrun & Stork es actualmente una Acleisanthes (sensu lato), basado en Selinocarpus somalensis Chiov. A causa de la necesidad de consistencia a nivel de categoras infraspecficas en los tratamientos de "Flora of North America North of Mexico" Abronia umbellata Lam. subsp. breviflora (Standl.) Munz se ha recombinado como Abronia umbellata Lam. var. breviflora (Standl.) L.A. Galloway, comb, et stat. nov.
41968148|The life cycle type of Grindelia lanceolata Nutt has been described as biennial, short-lived monocarpic perennial, and (polycarpic) perennial in the taxonomic literature. Plants of this species in middle Tennessee cedar glades clearly are monocarpic. However, field observations suggested that those from glades in northern Alabama are at least dicarpic, and further that they differ morphologically and flower later than those in Tennessee glades. The purpose of this study was to determine if differences in morphology, flowering phenology, and/or life cycle type of Tennessee and Alabama plants are retained when grown from seeds in a "common garden" - i.e., in a nonheated greenhouse in Lexington, Kentucky. Morphological differences (all statistically significant) between G. lanceolata plants from Tennessee and Alabama were measure in the following: (1) size of both rosette and stem leaves; (2) number of secondary basal stems; (3) height of primary stem; (4) number of capitula per plant; (5) number of ray and of disk flowers per capitulum; (6) diameter of capitulum; and (7) length of ray flower corolla . Tennessee plants began flowering about 1 month earlier than Alabama plants, and none of them produced basal rosettes after they flowered once (in their 2nd year), confirming that they are strictly monocarpic. Alabama plants also flowered first in their 2nd year; however, 66% of them have produced basal rosettes (which bolted and flowered) for five consecutive growing seasons, confirming that they are polycarpic. Also, individual Tennessee plants potentially can produce twice as many seeds as individual Alabama plants during a single flowering/fruiting period. These results strongly suggest genetic differences exist in vegetative and floral morphology, flowering phenology, and life cycle type between Tennessee and Alabama plants of G. lanceolata. We speculate that these differences could be associated with different ancestral geographic origins: Tennessee plants from a monocarpic race in the Ozarks and Alabama plants from a perennial race in the Southwest. El tipo de ciclo de vida de Grindelia lanceolata Nutt. ha sido descrito, en la literature taxonmica, como bianual, como perenne monocrpico de vida corta y como perenne (policrpico). Las plantas de esta especie presentes en claros calcreos del rea central de Tennessee son claramente monocrpicas. Sin embargo, observaciones de campo sugieren que aquellas de la zona norte de Alabama son, al menos, dicrpicas; y mas all, que difieren morfolgicamente y que florecen ms tarde que aquellas de los claros calcreos de Tennesssee. El propsito de este estudio fue determinar si las diferencias en morfologa, fenologa floral y/o tipo de ciclo de vida de plantas de Tennessee y Alabama se mantienen cuando las plantas crecen a partir se semillas en un "jardin comn" - i.e., en un vivero sin calefaccion en Lexington, Kentucky. Las diferencias morfolgicas (todas estadsticamente significativas) entre plantas de G. lanceolata de Tennessee y de Alabama incluyen: (1) el tamao de ambas clases de hojas, de roseta y de tallos; (2) nmero de tallos bsales secundarios; (3) altura del tallo principal; (4) nmero de captulos por planta; (5) nmero de flores radiales y de disco por captulo; (6) dimetro del captulo; y (7) longitud de la corolla de las flores radiales. Las plantas de Tennessee comenzaron a florecer aproximadamente l mes ms temprano que las plantas de Alabama y ninguna de ellas produjo rosetas bsales despus de haber florecido una vez (en su 2do ao), confirmando que son monocrpicas estrictas. Las plantas de Alabama tambin florecieron en su 2do ao; sin embargo, 66% de ellas sigui produciendo rosetas bsales (que desarrollaron tallo y florecieron) por cinco perodos de crecimiento, confirmando que son policrpicas. Adems, cada individuo de Tennessee puede producir potencialmente el doble se semillas que los individuos de Alabama durante cada perodo de floracin/fructificacin. Los resultados sugieren claramente que hay diferencias genticas en la morfologa vegetativa y floral, la fenologa floral, y los tipos de ciclo de vida entre plantas de G. lanceolata de Tennessee y de Alabama. Especulamos que estas diferencias pueden deberse a que estos dos grupos tengan diferentes orgenes geogrficos: las plantas de Tennessee, de una raza monocrpica en los Ozarks; y las plantas de Alabama, de razas perennes del sudoeste.
41968142|A new species, Festuca dentiflora E.B. Alexeev ex Stanik & P.M. Peterson from the Andes of Peru, is described and illustrated. The new species is a member of Festuca subg. Subulatae (Tzvelev) E.B. Alexeev sect. Glabricarpae E.B. Alexeev and is apparently closely related to Festuca caldasii (Kunth) Kunth from Ecuador and Colombia. A key to the species of Festuca sect. Glabricarpae is included. In addition, the taxonomic status and geographical origin of F. presliana is discussed. Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva de Festuca de los Andes de Per: F. dentiflora E.B. Alexeev ex Stank & P.M. Peterson. La nueva especie pertenece a Festuca subg. Subulatae (Tzvelev) E.B. Alexeev sect. Glabricarpae E.B. Alexeev, se considera estrechamente relacionada aparentemente con la especie F. caldasii (Kunth) Kunth de Ecuador y Colombia. Se presenta tambin una clave para la determinacin de las especies de Festuca sect. Glabricarpae. Adems, se discute el estatus taxonmico y origen geogrfico de F. presliana.
41968135|The morphology and anatomy of bracteoles were surveyed in 20 Amaranthus taxa in order to determine their taxonomic significance and role. Three types of bracteoles were distinguished: spinose, foliaceous and membranous. The bracteoles retain the C structure of the leaves, but they differ from the latter by the presence of well-developed sclerenchyma and the arch-shaped Kranz bundle-sheath. Protection and photosynthesis are the two functions of bracteoles inferred from their structure. Based on their structure, foliaceous and membranous bracteoles are considered symplesiomorphic, while spinose bracteoles are interpreted as synapomorphic. The spines present at the base of each leaf in A. spinosus L. are metamorphosed bracteoles. The shortness of bracteoles in the grain amaranths (A. caudatus L, A. cruentus L. and A. hypochondriacus L.) was found to be a reliable character, which separates them from their wild relatives (A. hybridus L. and A. powellii S. Watson). The structure of bracteoles may be significant for recognition of taxa in only a few cases: A. hybridus L. and A. powellii S. Wats.; A. powellii subsp. powellii and subsp. bouchonii (Thell.) Costea & Carretero and A. blitum L agg. La morfologa y anatoma de las bracteolas de 20 taxa de Amaranthus fueron examinadas para determinar su significado taxonmico y su funcin. Se diferenciaron tres tipos de bracteolas: espinosas, foliceas y membranosas. Las bracteolas retienen la estructura C de las hojas, pero difieren de estas ltimas por la presencia de un esclernquima bien desarrollado y en la forma arqueada de la vaina de los haces de tipo Kranz. Las dos funciones de las bracteolas son la proteccin y la fotosntesis segn se deduce de su estructura. Basndonos en su estructura, las bracteolas foliceas y membranosas son consideradas como simplesiomrficas, mientras que las bracteolas espinosas son interpretadas como sinapomrficas. Las espinas presentes en la base de cada hoja de A. spinosus L. son bracteolas metamorfoseadas. La cortedad de las bracteolas en los amarantos cultivados como pseudocereales (A. caudatus L., A. cruentus L. y A. hypochondriacus L.) fue encontrada como un carcter que los separa de sus parientes silvestres (A. hybridus L. y A. powellii S. Watson). La estructura de las bracteolas puede ser significativa para el reconocimiento de taxa slo en algunos casos: A. hybridus L. y A. powellii S. Wats.; A. powellii subsp. powellii y subsp. bouchonii (Tell.) Costea & Carretero y A. blitum agg.
41968133|This paper responds to Turner's inclusion of Glandularia verecunda and G. racemosa into G. quadrangulata. The latter has distinctive terminal appendages on the nutlets and the pericarp flares outward at the base; G. verecunda, is very similar vegetatively, has similar nutlets, but they lack the distinctive terminal appendage. Pollen/ovule ratios indicate that both taxa are facultative autogamous and both taxa have distinct ranges with limited areas of sympatry. No intermediates are known, and intermediate characteristics may not exist. They also differ in their flavonoid compliments supporting their recognition as distinct species. Glandularia racemosa, with larger corollas, a different nutlet type, and leaf structure, is a hexaploid (not tetraploid as in the other taxa) and represents a separate group within the genus and should not have been submerged into G. quadrangulata. Este artculo responde a la inclusin de Turner de Glandularia verecunda y G. racemosa en G. quadrangulata. Esta ltima tiene apndices terminales distintivos en las nculas y el pericarpo se acampana hacia el exterior en la base; G. verecunda, es muy similar vegetativamente, tiene nculas similares, pero le falta el apndice terminal distintivo. La relacin polen/vulos indica que ambos taxa son autgamos facultativos y ambos taxa tienen diferente distribucin con reas de simpatra limitada. No se conocen intermedios, y los caracteres intermedios puede que no existan. Tambin se diferencian en su dotacin de flavonoides que apoyan su reconocimiento como especies distintas. Glandularia racemosa, con corolas ms grandes, un tipo diferente de ncula, y estructura de la hoja, es un hexaploide (no tetraploide como en los otros taxa) y representa un grupo separado en el gnero y no debera haber sido incluida en G. quadrangulata.
41968173|New distribution records of Agalinis species are reported including Agalinis harperi Pennell new to Texas. Se citan nuevas localidades de especies de Agalinis incluyendo Agalinis harperi Pennell nueva para Texas.
41968162|The John D. Freeman Herbarium at Auburn University can trace its roots almost back to the foundation of the institution itself in 1856. By 1867 the campus boasted a natural history museum that housed botanical collections. This was most likely the first organized herbarium at Auburn University. Such notable former faculty as F.S. Earle, L.M. Underwood and especially P.H. Mell, Jr., surmounted early challenges, including a destructive fire in 1887, to establish and maintain a herbarium collection. By 1901, the herbarium housed over 40,000 specimens, including important collections from A.H. Curtiss, G.W. Carver, A.B. Langlois, and J. Darby. Tragically, the herbarium was again destroyed by fire in 1920. Despite this, AUA again emerged from the ashes to reestablish itself as an important state and regional herbarium. Growth at AUA from 1968-1995 was due to the efforts of the late John D. Freeman, who took the herbarium from obscurity to national recognition and quintupled the number of holdings during his tenure. The Freeman Herbarium now contains over 60,000 sheets and is one of the largest and most modern collections in Alabama. The herbarium currently houses 26 documented vascular plant type specimens that are catalogued. El Herbario John D. Freeman de la Universidad de Auburn puede rastrear sus races desde la fundacin de la universidad en 1856. En 1867 la ciudad universitaria disfrutaba ya de un museo de historia natural que albergaba colecciones botnicas. Es probable que ste no fuese el primer herbario organizado que tuvo la Universidad de Auburn. Los primeros profesores destacables como F.S. Earle, L.M. Underwood, y especialmente, P.H. Mell, Jr., vencieron desafos tempranos, incluso un incendio destructivo en 1887, que perjudic el mantenimiento de la coleccin del herbario. En 1901, el herbario albergaba ms de 40,000 especies, incluyendo colecciones importantes de A.H. Curtiss, G.W. Carver, A.B. Langlois, y J. Darby. Trgicamente, el herbario fue destruido una vez ms por un incendio en 1920. A pesar de la segunda tragedia, el herbario volvi a surgir de las cenizas para restablecerse como uno de los herbarios ms importantes del estado y de la regin. El crecimiento del herbario desde los aos 1968-1995, fue debido a los esfuerzos del ex-curador John D. Freeman, quien tomo el herbario desde sus penumbras hasta ser nacionalmente reconocido y quintuplic el nmero de colecciones durante su periodo como curador. Actualmente el herbario John D. Freeman cuenta con ms de 60,000 ejemplares y es uno de los herbarios ms grandes y modernos del estado de Alabama. Hasta la fecha el herbario alberga 26 ejemplares tipo de plantas vasculares documentadas que estn propiamente enumeradas y catalogadas.
41968154|The distinctive historical vegetation pattern of alternating tallgrass prairies on clay soils and oak woodlands/savannas on sandy soils in North Central Texas and East Texas has been described for more than a century. Many authors have attributed this pattern to relatively high levels of soil moisture available for tree growth on areas of sandy soil, and conversely, inadequate levels of soil moisture for tree growth on clay soils. However, this explanation is not consistent with present day observations of rapid invasion of clay soils by woody vegetation. We propose an alternative hypothesis, that the historical distribution of prairies and woodlands in North Central and East Texas can be explained by soil-dependent variations in grass biomass and resulting differences in fire frequency and intensity. El patrn histrico de vegetacin en el que alternan praderas con hierbas altas en suelos calcreos y robledales / sabana en suelos arenosos en el centro-norte y este de Texas ha sido descrito durante ms de un siglo. Muchos autores han atribuido este patrn a los niveles relativamente altos de humedad en el suelo disponible para el crecimiento de los rboles en reas de suelo arenoso, y por el contrario, niveles inadecuados de humedad en el suelo para el crecimiento de rboles en suelos calcreos. Sin embargo, esta explicacin no es consistente con las observaciones actuales de invasin rpida de suelos calcreos por vegetacin arbrea. Proponemos una hiptesis alternativa, que la distribucin histrica de las praderas y bosques en el centro-norte y este de Texas puede ser explicada por las variaciones dependientes del suelo en la biomasa de las gramneas y las diferencias resultantes en la frecuencia e intensidad del fuego.
41968153|The Raja Ampat district of Indonesian Papua is one of New Guinea's most unusual floristic environments. A recent rapid-assessment survey examined vegetation patterns across the district, characterizing the major plant communities and identifying existing biodiversity threats. Mangroves, beach forest, lowland hill forest, limestone karst, and ultrabasic (serpentine) woodland were the principal natural-growth habitats explored by the botanical team. Although several lowland areas are being degraded by concessional logging, most of the limestone communities remain in pristine condition. There are substantial prospects for future taxonomic discovery.       
41968128|A new species of Symplocaceae, Symplocos kothayarensis Sundaresan, Jothi, Rajkumar & Manickam from the Southern Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu, India is described and illustrated. Se describe y se ilustra una especie nueva de Symplocaceae, Symplocos kothayarensis Sundaresan, Jothi, Rajkumar & Manickam del suroeste de Ghats de Tamil Nadu, India.
41968150|The cultivated grain and the weedy Amaranthus L. species (section Amaranthus) originated in the Americas. The Spaniards conquered the New World in the 16th century. Consequently, the North American species of Amaranthus could not have been introduced in Europe before this date. However, the name of the amaranth existed long before its association with plants in the genus described by Linnaeus. Several everlasting plants were named "amaranth" by the ancient Greeks and Romans, and in the medieval times. Among these, Helychrisum spp. and Celosa argentea L. are the most common. The name "Amaranthus" has had multiple meanings and ramifications through time: botanical, ethnobotanical, religious, literary and philosophical. This paper explores this history of meanings of the name "Amaranthus." Las especies cultivadas como pseudocereales y las malas hierbas de Amaranthus L. (seccin Amaranthus) tuvieron su origen en las Americas. Los espanoles conquistaron el Nuevo Mundo en el siglo diecisis. Consecuentemente, las especies norteamericanas de Amaranthus no se pudieron haber introducido en Europa antes de esta fecha. Sin embargo, el nombre del amarantho existi mucho antes de su asociacin con plantas del gnero descrito por Linneo. Varias plantas fueron denominadas "amaranth" por los griegos y romanos antiguos, as como en los tiempos medievales. Entre stos, Helychrisum spp. y Celosa argntea L. fueron algunos de los ms comunes. El nombre "Amaranthus" ha tenido mltiples significados y ramificaciones a travs del tiempo: botnicos, etnobotnicos, religiosos, literarios y filosficos. Este artculo explora esta historia de significados del nombre "Amaranthus."
41968131|Packera texensis, sp. nov, is described and illustrated. It is endemic to the granitic sands of the Central Mineral Region within the Edwards Plateau of central Texas where it is known from four counties. Se describe y se ilustra Packera texensis, sp. nov. Es endmica de las arenas granticas de la "Central Mineral Region" en la Meseta Edwards del centro de Texas, de donde se conoce en cuatro condados.
41968140|A new species of Dioscorea, D. lisae Dorr & Stergios, is described and illustrated. Relationships, distinguishing characters, and sex distribution are discussed. Information also is provided on the ecology and geographical distribution of this new species. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Dioscorea, D. lisae Dorr & Stergios. Se discuten las relaciones, caracteres particulares y la distribucin del sexo. Adems, se presenta informacin de la ecologa y distribucin geogrfica de esta especie nueva.
41968143|Fourteen species of Packera are known to occur in Colorado. Recently published floras for the state have treated these species variously as Packera, Senecio and Ligularia. While preparing a treatment of this genus for the Flora of North America Project, the author discovered some confusion among the local botanists who rely on those floras for identifications of this difficult group. This paper presents descriptions for each of the species that occur in the state, comments on how to differentiate them in the field, and identification keys. Se conocen catorce especies de Packera en Colorado. Las floras del estado publicadas recientemente han tratado estas especies de modo diferente como Packera, Senecio y Ligularia. Mientras preparaba un tratamiento de este gnero para la Flora de Norte Amrica, el autor encontr confusin entre los botnicos locales que usan estas floras para las identificaciones de este grupo difcil. Este artculo presenta descripciones de las especies que viven en el estado, comentarios sobre como diferenciarlas en el campo, y claves de identificacin.
41968129|Se presenta una sinopsis del gnero Meliosma (Sabiaceae) en Costa Rica y Panam. Tres nuevas especies, Meliosma chiriquensis, M. clandestina y M. depressiva son descritas e ilustradas. A synopsis of the Costa Rican and Panamanian species of Meliosma (Sabiaceae) is presented here. Meliosma chiriquensis, M. clandestina, and M. depressiva are described and illustrated and their relationships are discussed.
41968137|Five new combinations are proposed in the genus Polygonum s. str. for the forthcoming treatment of Flora of North America: P. aviculare subsp. buxiforme, P. fowleri subsp. hudsonianum, P. humifusum subsp. caurianum, P. ramosissimum subsp. prolificum and P. striatulum var texense. The taxonomy of each taxon is briefly discussed and a diagnostic table is provided for the subspecies of Polygonum aviculare. Se proponen cinco nuevas combinaciones en el gnero Polygonum para el futuro tratamiento de este gnero en la Flora de Norteamrica: P. aviculare subsp. buxiforme, P. fowleri subsp. hudsonianum, P. humifusum subsp. caurianum, P. ramosissimum subsp. prolificum y P. striatulum var. texense. La taxonoma de cada taxon se discute brevemente y se incluye una tabla diagnstica para las subespecies de Polygonum aviculare.
41968145|The new combinations made here are: Panicum aciculare var. ramosum; Panicum aciculare var. neuranthum; Panicum acuminatum var. ferventicola; Panicum acuminatum var. thermale; Panicum commutatum var. equilaterale; Panicum ovale var. praecocius; and Panicum rigidulum var. abscissum. Se hacen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones: Panicum aciculare var. ramosum; Panicum aciculare var. neuranthum; Panicum acuminatum var. ferventicola; Panicum acuminatum var. thermale; Panicum commutatum var. equilaterale; Panicum ovale var. praecocius; y Panicum rigidulum var. abscissum.
41968164|Additions to the vascular floras of four states are reported herein: Colorado (Calibrachoa parviflora, Chamaesyce prostrata, Gleditsia triacanthos, Oenothera engelmannii, Oenothera laciniata, Trianthema portulacastrum, and Veronica persica); Iowa (Deschampsia danthonioides); Kansas (Alternanthera caracasana, Carex albicans var. australis, Carex swanii, Carum carvi, Catharanthus roseus, Cyperus diandrus, Dichanthelium dichotomum subsp. dichotomum, Dichanthelium polyanthes, Elyhordeum montanense, Erigeron canus, Geranium dissectum, Geranium molle, Hibiscus syriacus, Phyllanthus urinaria subsp. urinaria, Pyrus calleryana, Sagina apetala, Sedum sarmentosum, Silphium radula, and Tridens flavus var. chapmanii); and Oklahoma (Epilobium leptophyllum). Se hacen adiciones a la flora vascular de cuatro estados: Colorado (Calibrachoa parviflora, Chamaesyce prostrata, Gleditsia triacanthos, Oenothera engelmannii, Oenothera laciniata, Trianthema portulacastrum, y Veronica prsica); Iowa (Deschampsia danthonioides); Kansas (Alternanthera caracasana, Carex albicans var. australis, Carex swanii, Carum carvi, Catharanthus roseus, Cyperus diandrus, Dichanthelium dichotomum subsp. dichotomum, Dichanthelium polyanthes, xElyhordeum montanense, Erigeron canus, Geranium dissectum, Geranium molle, Hibiscus syriacus, Phyllanthus urinaria subsp. urinaria, Pyrus calleryana, Sagina apetala, Sedum sarmentosum, Silphium radula, y Tridens flavus var. chapmanii); y Oklahoma (Epilobium leptophyllum).
41968120|A new species of Yucca from the series Rupicolae is described from Jasper and Newton counties in eastern Texas. Series Rupicolae is distinguished by its characteristically denticulate leaves and beaked fruits. This new species, Yucca cernua, sp. nov. is described, illustrated, and distinguished from other acaulescent species in ser. Rupicolae. The combined characteristics of a tall flowering scape; the tendency of the branches of the inflorescence to recurve and droop as they lengthen; the moderately to densely floccose inflorescence; large leaves typically growing erect; relatively short capsules, pistils, and stamens; unique habitat; and disjunct distribution distinguish this species from other acaulescent species in ser. Rupicolae. The rarity of this species warrants its consideration as a candidate for state and federal regulatory protection. Also included is a key of the entire or denticulate, nonfiliferous leaved North American species of Yucca. Se describe una nueva especie de Yucca de la serie Rupicolae de los condados Jasper y Newton en el Este de Texas. La serie Rupicolae se distingue por las hojas denticuladas y frutos picudos. Esta nueva especie, Yucca cernua sp. nov., se describe, se ilustra y diferencia de las otras especies de la serie Rupicolae. Un conjunto de varias caractersticas distingue esta especie de las otras especies acaulescentes de la serie Rupicolae. Estas caractersticas son la presencia de un escapo alto con flores, la tendencia de las ramas de la inflorescencia a retorcerse y colgar cuando se alargan, la inflorescencia de mediana a densamente flocosa, cpsulas, pistilos y estambres relativamente cortos, las hojas grandes que tpicamente se desarrollan de forma erecta, un hbitat nico, y su distribucin disyunta. La rareza de esta especie justifica su consideracin como candidata para la regulacin de proteccin estatal y federal. Tambin se incluye una clave de todas las especies de Yucca norteamericanas con hojas denticuladas y filferas.
41968166|Two species of Corchorus (Tiliaceae) are reported for Mexico: Corchorus olitorius L. of Asian origin and C. trilocularis L., native of the tropics of Africa and Asia. The first species was introduced into Brazil and the Antilles toward the end of the 19th century and is now recorded for Mexico from the state of Sinaloa. The second species is known from Veracruz and Chiapas, Mexico, and as well as Panama and Ecuador. The exchange and trade of seeds from other continents could be an important way for their introduction and that might explain the presence of these two species in Mexico. At present six species of Corchorus art known to occur in Mexico. A dichotomous key for the identification of the Mexican species of the genus is provided, as well as descriptions of the two species, a map of geographic distributions for these species in America, and their vernacular names. Se dan a conocer dos nuevos registros de especies alctonas del gnero Corchorus (Tiliaceae): Corchorus olitorius L. de origen asitico y C. trilocularis L., nativa de los trpicos de frica y Asia. La primera especie fue introducido a Brasil y a las Antillas desde finales del siglo 19, en nuestro pas se reporta por primera vez del estado de Sinaloa; la segunda especie se registra de Veracruz y Chiapas, Mxico, ademas de Ecuador y Panam, se desconoce la fecha exacta de su arribo al continente americano. Se propone que el intercambio y comercio de semillas provenientes de otros continentes, puede ser una va importante para su introduccin, lo que podra explicar su presencia en Mxico. En la actualidad son seis las especies reconocidas de este gnero para Mxico. Se proporciona una clave dicotmica para separar de el gnero Corchoruse Mxico, as como la descripcin de las dos especies, un mapa de distribucin geogrfica para estas especies en Amrica y sus nombres comunes.
41966482|Keys, distributions, and taxonomic and nomenclatural notes are given for seven genera and 16 species of Lythraceae occurring in southeastern United States. Changes in the treatment of southeastern Lythraceae include recognition of the adventive ROTALA INDICA (Willd.) Koehne in Louisiana, uniting of AMMANNIA TERES Raf. of the United States with the Caribbean A. LATIFOLIA L., acceptance of the monotypic genus DIDIPLIS, and presentation of evidence for uniting LYTHRUM ALATUM Pursh and L. LANCEOLATUM Ell. as LYTHRUM ALATUM var. LANCEOLATUM (Ell.) T. & G. ex Rothrock, a previously overlooked combination. The chromosome number of CUPHEA GLUTINOSA Cham & Schlect. is reported for the first time.
41966579|A new interpretation of the Polygala grandiflora complex is presented based upon morphological, statistical, distributional, cytological, and palynological evidence. Evidence indicates that the complex consists of a single species with three infraspecific taxa. A probable phylogeny, descriptions, and a key to members of the complex are provided. The new combination Polygala grandiflora subsp. krugii (Chodat) Nauman is proposed.
41966587|Distribution information was obtained for two proposed endangered species, Schoenolirion wrightii and Bartonia texana. Eighteen current populations of Schoenolirion wrightii were observed with 10 located in Texas, five in Arkansas and three in Alabama. This taxon occurs in prairie-like openings among woodland which are likely a result of edaphic factors. Bartonia texana, in contrast, is generally encountered on gentle forested slopes with seeps and springs and occasionally along banks of shallow clear running creeks. Nine populations were found in five East Texas counties. Additional populations of both species are likely to exist. Findings indicate that these two species are more abundant and more widely distributed than originally suspected.
41966583|Numerical techniques were used to clarify the taxonomic relationships between two closely related grasses, Digitaria ciliaris and Digitaria bicornis. Principal component analysis illustrated distinct specimen clusters, whereas a correlation phenogram showed a distinct dissimilarity between the species and high degree of similarity among populations within the species. A multiple discriminant analysis procedure showed that there were no misclassifications of the specimens. Digitaria bicornis was found to have a shorter distance to the first lateral nerve on the lemma of the lower floret, a longer second glume, and a shorter first glume. Minor characters included a shorter main axis and a longer average rachis length. The length of the second glume, main axis, and rachis were characters previously not considered as taxonomically important. A nested analysis of variance showed these characters to have more than 70 percent of the measured morphological variation due to differences between species.
41966582|A new species, Erigeron tephropodus Nesom, is recognized from Oaxaca. Erigeron lepidopodus (Robinson and Fernald) Nesom is transferred from Aster to a more natural position. Description and illustrations are given for both.
41966581|The following taxa are reported new to ARKANSAS: Hypoxis longii; OKLAHOMA: Aristida roemeriana, Eragrostis refracta, Gymnopogon brevifolius, Panicum hirticaule, Paspalum langet, Paspalum notatum, Carex albursina, Carex careyana, Carex hitchcockiana, Hymenocallis caroliniana, Fatoua villosa, Chenopodium glaucum, Mirabilis gigantea, Ranunculus sardous, Camelina sativa, Cardamine hirsuta, Alchemilla microcarpa, Kubus cuneifolius, Melilotus indica, Hibiscus moscheutos, Samolus cuneatus, Lithospermum multiflorum; and from TEXAS: Hypoxis longii and Rudbeckia triloba. Isoetes butleri, type location in Oklahoma, has been recollected for the first time in over 100 years from that state.
41966598|The genus Stachys is well represented in North America. Within southeastern United States, seven species occur in a variety of habitats, some taxa very localized,some quite widespread. Field and herbarium study reveal the generally high variabilityamong these species, thus warranting the characterization of Stachys as a"difficult" genus taxonomically. Future studies on the cytology and breeding systemsat work within Stachys will be necessary for an understanding of these species'interrelationships.
41966602|The very large, mainly tropical American genus Mikania is represented in the United States by three species, none of which are endemic. These include M. scandens of much of the eastern United States, M. batataefolia of southern peninsular Florida, and M. cordifolia of Florida, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
41967549|Astragalus tennesseensis Gray ex Chapman (Fabaceae) is a cedar glade endemic that was first collected in Alabama by Professor Thomas P. Hatch in the 1850s. Evidence is presented that suggests his specimen was collected in Colbert County rather than in Lauderdale County, Alabama. The historic distribution of A. tennesseensis in Alabama was confined primarily to the Moulton Valley of the Interior Low Plateau. Recent field surveys have documented seven extant populations of this species in Alabama. Without protection, these populations likely will decline, and the species possibly could be extirpated from the southern portion of its historic range.
41967538|Quercus laceyi Small, a white oak (Quercus sect. Quercus) described in 1901 from limestone hills on the southern part of the Edwards Plateau of Texas, has been treated as a synonym of Quercus glaucoides Mart. & Gal. in recent literature. However, Q. laceyi is clearly a species distinct from Q. glaucoides, based on vegetative, floral, fruit, and embryological characters. In addition to the Edwards Plateau, Q. laceyi is found on limestone mountains of Nuevo Leon and Coahuila, Mexico, but does not overlap in distribution with Q. glaucoides sensu stricto. The latter species has a natural distribution in central and southern Mexico, from San Luis Potosi south to Oaxaca. Quercus glaucoides is the type species of subsection Glaucoideae, a group of about 30-35 species in the southwestern United States, Mexico, and Central America, which share the synapomorphy of fused cotyledons. Quercus laceyi, on the other hand, has free cotyledons, and is probably more closely related to the lobed-leaf white oaks (e.g., Quercus alba L.) of the eastern United States. A key and descriptions are provided for the two species. Quercus laceyi Small, un encino blanco (Quercus sect. Quercus) descrito en 1901 de colinas calizas en la parte sur de la Planicie Edwards en Texas, ha sido tratado como sinnimo de Quercus glaucoides Mart. & Gal. en la literatura reciente. Sin embargo, con base en caracteres vegetativos, florales, fructferos y embriolgicos, es obvio que se trata de dos especies distintas. Quercus laceyi se encuentra tanto en la Planicie Edwards como en las montanas calcareas de Nuevo Leon y Coahuila, Mxico, y su distribucin no coincide con la de Q. glaucoides. Esta ultima especie tiene una distribucion natural en el centro y sur de Mxico, desde San Luis Potos hacia el sur hasta Oaxaca. Quercus glaucoides es la especie tipo de subseccin Glaucoideae, un grupo de alrededor de 30-35 especies en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos, Mxico y Amrica Central, que presentan cotiledones fusionados como sinapomorfismo. Quercus laceyi, por otra parte, tiene cotiledones libres, y probablemente est ms relacionada con los encinos blancos de hoja lobulada (e.g., Q.alba L.) del este de los Estados Unidos. Se prove una clave y descripciones para las dos especies.
41967563|A literature review and statistical analyses of the traits used to distinguish C. strictum Herbert from C. americanum L. show that the species cannot be reliably separated. Crinum strictum is therefore considered to be conspecific with C. americanum.
41967552|A population of Wild Red Rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) was discovered in the Everglades National Park in south Florida. It has been growing in the area since at least 1959. This is the first occurrence of this species in the United States. Previous reports of its occurrence in the United States were evaluated as incorrect. Una poblacion de arroz rojo silvestre (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) fue descubierto en el Parque Nacional Everglades en el sur de Florida. Ha estado creciendo en el area desde por los menos 1959 Es la primera ocurrencia de esta especie en los Estados Unidos. Registros previos de su occurrencia en los Estados Unidos fueron evaluados como incorrectos.
41967561|Field work in the southeastern United States has resulted in a number of noteworthy Carex records. Carex conjuncta, C. ormostacbya, and C. vestita are reported new to Delaware, Virginia, and Alabama, respectively. Carex austrina, C. brevior, C. bullata, C. gravida, C. byalina, C. mitchelliana, C. molesta, C. oklabomensis, C. oligocarpa, and C. torta are reported new to Mississippi. Carex oxylepis var. pubescens is reported new to Alabama and Mississippi. Also, additional range extensions are presented for C. barrattii, C. bromoides, C. elliottii, C. byalina, C. jamesii, C. meadii, C. microdonta, C. mitchelli-ana, C. picta, C. seorsa, C. socialis, C. stricta, and C. willdenowii in several southern states.
41967532|Seventy-nine genera of the Paniceae are recognized as occurring in the Old World. For each genus a complete set of taxonomic data was collected and based on observations of all available specimens. The data were analyzed to construct a bracketed key for the genera. The fifty most diagnostic characters were selected and used in the production of fully comparative descriptions for the genera.
41967533|Croton alabamensis, formerly known only from Alabama in Bibb and Tuscaloosa counties, with one report from Coffee County, Tennessee, has been found in Texas in Coryell and Travis counties. The Texas plants are here described as C. alabamensis var. texensis. As in Alabama the plants occur in dense local populations generally as understory shrubs beneath hardwood dominated forest and typically grow in shallow soils over limestone. The possibility that a long distance dispersal event was responsible for the present distribution is discussed. Croton alabamensis, anteriormente conocido solo de los condados Bibb y Tuscaloosa, Alabama, con un reporte del Condado Coffee, Tennessee, ha sido encontrado en los condados de Coryell y Travis en Texas. Las plantas de Texas se describen aqu como C. alabamensis var. texensis. Como en Alabama, las plantas ocurren en poblaciones locales densas generalmente como arbustos del sotobosque debajo de bosque predominantemente caducifolio y tipicamente crecen en suelos poco profundos sobre un substrato de piedra caliza. Se discute la posibilidad de un evento de dispersion a larga distancia como responsable de la presente distribucin exhibida por este taxn.
41967541|The relationship between Portulaca pilosa L. and P. mundula I.M. Johnston has been reevaluated. Herbarium and live material from Mexico, the Caribbean and the United States were analyzed and the results were correlated with chromosome numbers from the same regions. No consistent morphological characters permit the separation of the two taxa when the entire geographical range is considered. The conclusion again, is that the correct name for the species is P. pilosa L., with P. mundula I.M. Johnston as a synonym. La relacin entre Portulaca pilosa L. y P. mundula I.M. Johnston a sido reevaluada. Materiel de herbario y materiel vivo de Mexico, el Caribe y 105 Estados Unidos de America fueron analizados y los resultados correlasionados con el numero de cromosomas de las misma regiones. Ningun caracterstico morfologico compatible con la separacion de Los dos taxos pudo ser determinado cuando la region geogrphica entera fue considerada. La conclucion otra vez, es que para nombrar la especie correctament se usa P. pilosa L. y que P. mundula I.M. Johnston es sinnimo.
41967529|The South American species, Clitoria arborescens R. Br. in Ait., reported as new to India by Bhaumik and Das in 1983 was a misidentification. The plant belongs to a variety of Clitoria mariana L. which is newly described as var. orientalis Fantz. Centrosema virginianum (L.) Benth. reported by Subramanian in 1961 was a misidentification for Centrosema pubescens Benth. The authors question the validity of the conclusion proposed by Almeida and Almeida that Clitoria annua J. Graham (the name with priority) is equivalent to Clitoria biflora Dalz., but have no evidence to refute it. Clitoria vaupellii J. Graham is best treated as ambiguous since there is a lack of evidence as to its identity.
41967560|Field and herbarium studies have yielded six species of Cyperus (Cyperaceae) new to Mississippi, U.S.A.: Cyperus aggregates, C. difformis, C. ovatus, C. oxylepis, C. pilosus, and C. tbyrsiflorus. At least one of these, C. difformis, has potential to be a serious threat as an agricultural weed. Additionally, significant range extensions for other species of Cyperus and Kyllinga are reported. Locality and habitat data are provided for all species reported.
41967545|A new species, Bupleurum sicbuenense, from Wenchuan District of northwestern Sichuan Province of China, is diagnosed, described and figured, and compared with the two most similar species, B. malconense Shan et Y. Li and B. cbaisboui Shan et Sheh. Besides, a key is given for distinguishing the five most closely related species of the genus.
41967564|During the teaching of the squash technique to two students, Smith and his students accumulated a list of chromosome numbers of Arkansas vascular plants. Eight new numbers are herein reported, with comments on certain of the numbers.
41967534|A new species, Mirabilis bintoniorum, belonging to the subgenus Mirabilis, is described and illustrated. It is known from only one collection obtained from dense woods in the vicinity of Villa Victoria, District Coalcoman, Michoacan, Mexico. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Mirabilis hintoniorum, perteneciendo al subgnero Mirabilis. Se conoce de una sla colecta del bosque cerca de Villa Victoria, District Coalcomn, Michoacn, Mxico.
41967557|An aquatic weed, Nomapbila stricta, new to North America, was discovered in San Felipe Springs, east of Del Rio, Texas, 0.2 mi., Val Verde Co., Texas, where it was well-established and vigorously reproducing by subsurface stolons. The species was apparently recently introduced from the paleotropics and should be carefully monitored by ecologists interested in aquatic ecosystems in the southwestern U.S.A. and adjacent Mexico.
41967565|Chromosome numbers of 26 species of flowering plants from the U.S.A. and Mexico are reported: 21 species of Asteraceae, representing 18 genera; and one species each of the families Acanthaceae (Ruellia corzoi), Cochlospermaceae (Amoreuxia wrightit), Lobeliaceae (Lobelia cardinalis), and Passifloraceae (Passiflora tenuiloba). The count for Amoreuxia wrigbtii (2n = 12) is a first report for the genus. Significant counts among the Asteraceae include Cbaetymenia peduncular is (2n = 18) and Wedelia mexicana (2n = 24), the former being a first report for the genus.
41967556|Tragus roxburghii Panigr. has recently been identified from a herbarium specimen from the Dominican Republic. This represents the first record of this species in the New World. Four species of Tragus are now known to have been introduced into the New World. A key to separate these species is provided, with a description of T. roxburgbii and its distribution in the New World.
41967005|Raunkiaer's life-form designations were used to produce several spectra for the flora of a recently exposed mudflat located on the Scioto River, Delaware County, Ohio. These spectra contain a high percentage of hemicryptophytes, which confirms previous life-form studies of eastern North American floras. However, the high percentage of therophytes (annual plants) in the spectra of a mudflat flora has not previously been reported for this phytoclimatic region, and suggests that localized factors such as disturbance may play a significant role in the determination of life-forms in specific habitats. Altering Raunkiaer's method to include species abundance values had little impact on the resulting spectra calculated for the mudflat flora.
41967007|Fimbristylis brevivaginata, a. new species of perennial fimbristyloid sedge endemic to sandstone and granitic glades in northeastern Alabama and piedmont Georgia, is diagnosed, described, and figured. Differences between it and its closest morphological relatives, F. puberula (Michx.) Vahl (vars.) and F. caroliniana (Lam.) Fern., are given.
41967004|Illicium floridanum f. album is described as a rare albino form of the Florida anise. Differences between the typical form with reddish purple flowers and the form with white flowers are detailed. The cultivar 'Semmes' is described as a clonal selection derived from I. floridanum f. album as the wild progenitor. The cultivar was introduced to the nursery trade as a select horticultural plant in 1988.
41966993|Tetraneuris linearifolia var. arenicola var. nov. is described from South Texas, where it is endemic and restricted to habitats of sandy soil. Morphologic, cytologie, and chemical data are all consistent with its recognition as a variety of T. linearifolia. Se describe una nueva variedad endmica, Tetraneuris linearifolia var. arenicola, del sur de Tejas, restringida a los habitatas de sustrato arena. Datos morfolgicos, citolgicos y qumicos son consistentes con reconocimiento de este taxn como una variedad de T. linearifolia.
41966990|The genus Venegasia is treated taxonomically. A single species V. carpesioides is recognized. It is largely confined to chaparral type vegetation of southern California and northern Baja California, Mexico. A map showing its distribution is provided. Possible relationships of this well-marked, isolated, genus are discussed and it is concluded that, on morphological grounds, its closest relatives axtjamesiantbus and Arnicastrum, small relictual genera of the southeastern U.S.A. and Mexico, respectively.
41966983|Liatrts regimontis (Small) Schumann and L. graminifolia var. smallii (Britton) Fernald & Griscom are two names used for a taxon that is widely distributed in the southeastern United States. Diagnostic features of the type of Liatris virgata Nuttall are compatible with those of the holotypes of the two previous taxa. Principal components analysis shows that the type of L. virgata is included in the continuous range of morphological variation of a sample of specimens previously determined as L. regimontis or L. graminifolia var. smallii. Nuttall's name has priority and is the correct name for this taxon. The unusual, environmentally induced inflorescence of the type of L. virgata probably caused botanists to disregard Nuttall's name for over 100 years. Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann y L. graminifolia var. smallii (Britton) Fernald & Griscom son dos nombres de un taxon que es ampliamente distribuido en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos. Las caracteristicas diagnosticas del tipo de Liatris virgata Nuttall son compatibles a esas de los holotipos de los taxones anteriores. El anlisis de los componentes principales muestra que el tipo de L. virgata esta incluido dentro del rango de la variabilidad morfolgica de un muestreo de los especimenes anteriormente identificados como L. regimontis o L. graminifolia var. smallii por otros investigadores. El nombre de Nuttall tiene la prioridad y es el nombre exacto para este taxon. La florescencia extraa y inducida por el ambiente del tipo de L. virgata probablemente causo los botanistas no hacer caso del nombre de Nuttall por mas de cien anos.
41967000|Structure, organographic distribution and taxonomic importance of trichomes in sixteen species oiTephrosia Pers. are described for the first time based on LM and SEM studies. Trichomes are either unicellular or multicellular and categorized into unicellular, uniseriate filiform and uniseriate macroform. Taxonomic utility of stylar trichiferous condition in Tephrosia is emphasized once again in the Indian context. The taxonomic significance and circumscription of Tephrosia in relation to other genera within tribe Galegeae are discussed based on the distribution of trichomes. A key is presented to delimit the sixteen species studied utilizing organographic distribution of trichome types.
41967008|The genus Nyssa has been the subject of bibliographic and taxonomic confusion for more than two centuries. This revisionary research reviews the nomenclatural history, ecological research, and certain evolutionary relationships of the genus. In an associated study that combined foliar flavonoids with traditional taxonomic exomorphic features, habit, and habitat characteristics of the North American Nyssa, a distinct monophyly for five taxa was revealed. A clarification of species separation between N. sylvatica and N. biflora is expanded to include habitat and morphological features. A new key, new species descriptions, and recently compiled distribution maps of the five North American Nyssa species also are presented. The five North American Nyssa taxa are: Nyssa aquatka L., N. biflora Walt., N. ogeche Bartr. ex Marsh., N. sylvatica Marsh., and N. ursina Small.
41967006|Additional information is presented on the distributions, habitats, and associates of Aster section Patentes. Seven new counties are reported for A. georgianus, 28 for A. patens, and 16 for A. phlogifolius. Aster georgianus is described as a rare species of the southern United States, and deserving of additional studies to determine its federal status. Aster patens is a widespread species of the eastern United States and divisible into three geographic varieties. Aster phlogifolius, an Appalachian taxon, should be treated at the specific level because of consistent morphological, ecological, and physiological differences from A. patens. Se presenta informacin adicional sobre la distribucin, habitats, y especies asociades de Aster seccin Patentes. Siete nuevos condados son reportados para A. georgianus, 28 para A. patens, y 16 para A. phlogofolius. Se describe Aster georgianus como una especie rara de el sur de los Estados Unidos, la cual merece estudios adicionales para determinar su estado legal federal. Aster patens es una especie de amplia distribucin de el oriente de los Estados Unidos y que se divide en tres variedades geogrficas. Aster phlogifolius, un taxn de los montes Apalaches, debe ser tratado al nivel de especie debido a las diferencias consistentes de morfologa, ecologa y fisiologa sobre A. patens.
41966988|Carex rhynchoperigynium, a new species of section Hymenochlaenae, is described from the Nonoalco area of northeast Hidalgo, Mexico. It differs from its putative closest relatives (C.conspeeta, C. brunnipes y and C. ixtapalucensis) in having: purple, basal, bladeless sheaths and purple lower leaf sheaths as opposed to brown; perigynia pale green turning brown with age, not green and neither red-dotted nor purple-mottled; and wider achenes. The new species was found locally frequent in the spray of a waterfall. An updated key to the species of Mexican and Central American Hymenochlaenae is included..
41966985|A comprehensive study of character significance and generic similarity is presented for genera of the Paniceae. A computerized database consisting of 102 recognized genera recorded 285 characters was constructed and analyzed by the DELTA system. The minimum combination of significant characters required to distinguish each genus within the Paniceae is given in form of diagnostic descriptions. Distribution and use of characters within the diagnosis are discussed. Presence of shared significant characteristics are used to defined generic groups. Morphological similarities among genera within the groups are fully analyzed.
41966979|Recent collecting in Mexico has uncovered a novelty in Ipomoea (Convolvulaceae), I. gesnerioides, from the arid Tehuacn valley of Oaxaca. It is closely related to I. bombycina Benth. & Hook., section Bombycospermum (Presl) Austin, but differs by producing basally terete stems, mostly terminal inflorescences, and larger, broadly urceolate corollas 3 - 3.5 cm long and 1.5 - 2 cm broad. Se reconoce una nueva especie del Valle de Tehuacn, Oaxaca, Ipomoea gesnerioides. Parece ser relacionada con I. bombycina, sect. Bombycospermum, de la cual se distingue por tallos bsales rollizos, inflorescencias usualmente terminales y corollas urceoladas, 3 -3.5 cm de largo.
41966996|An evaluation of available literature, as well as the historical connections and an original photograph from the herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem (B) shows that Agavescabra Salm-Dyck cannot be an older name for A. asperrima Jacobi, as interpreted by Gentry, but rather belongs to the complex of A. parryi Engelm. Because of A. scabra Ortega, A. scabra Salm-Dyck becomes an illegitimate younger homonym and A. wislizeni Engelm. again is legitimate. The three subspecies described by Gentry for A. scabra Salm-Dyck are here combined with A. asperrima. To equalize species rank Agave neomexkana Wooton & Standley is treated as a new subspecies of the variable A. parryi. Eine Auswertung der verfgbaren Literatur, sowie die historischen Zusammenhnge und ein bisher unverffentlichtes Originalphoto aus dem Herbarium Berlin-Dahlem (B), zeigen, da Agave scabra Salm-Dyck kein lterer Name fur A. asperrima Jacobi sein kann, wie Gentry interpretierte, sondern vielmehr dem Komplex um A. parryi Engelm. zuzuordnen ist. Wegen A. scabra Ortega ist A. scabra Salm-Dyck allerdings ein illegitimes, jngeres Homonym, wodurch A. wislizeni Engelm. wiederum legitim wird. Die drei von Gentry fur A. scabra Salm-Dyck beschriebenen Subspezies werden mit A. asperrima neu kombiniert. Im Interesse einer Angleichung des Artranges innerhalb der Gattung Agave, wird A. neomexkana Wooton & Standley neu als Subspezies der variablen A. parryi statuiert.
41966999|Since its circumscription in 1880, Phyllostylon has been attributed with between one and three species. A morphological reevaluation of the genus justifies the recognition of two species, Phyllostylon brasiliense, restricted to eastern coastal Brazil, and P. rhamnoides, ranging from Mexico to Paraguay and the West Indies. Descriptions of the two species, notes on the type specimens, and a map are included. Desde su delimitacin en 1880, a Phyllostylon se le han asignado entre una y tres especies. La reevaluacin morfolgica del gnero permite reconocer dos especies, Phyllostylon brasiliense restringida al este de Brazil, y P. rhamnoides que abarca desde Mexico hasta Paraguay y las Antillas. Se incluye la descripcin de las dos especies, notas sobre los ejemplares tipos y un mapa.
23909851|Thymelaea passerina, a herbaceous weed native to Europe, is reported as new to Ohio. The plant has been previously recorded in North America from Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, and Illinois. A description of the species and an illustration are included.
23909847|Phaedranassa brevifolia is described from Ecuador. Chromosome number of P. brevifolia is 2n = 46, as has been reported for other species of the genus. Eucharis moorei, E. cyaneosperma, and E. formosa are described from Ecuador and Amazonian Peru and Colombia. Eucharis moorei is putatively the most primitive species in the genus, with many ancestral characters of the genus. All three Eucharis species have a chromosome number of 2n = 46, the most common somatic number in the genus. Karyotypic differences between Peruvian and Ecuadorean E. formosa are reported.
23909859|The following thirty taxa are being reported new to Oklahoma: Amaranthus gracilis Desf., Amorpha nana Nutt., Apium leptophyllum (Pers.) Muell., Astragalus leptocarpus T. & G., Botrychium biternatum (Sav.) Underw., Cardamine angustata O.E. Schulz var. multifida (Muhl.) Ahles, C. a. var. ouachitana E.B. Smith, Carex digitalis Willd., Croton argyranthemus Michx., Erianthus ravennae (L.) Beauv., Euphorbia exstipulata Engelm., Geranium texanum (Trel.) Heller, Helianthus decapetalus L., Hordeum leporinum Link, Melica altissima L., Myagrum perfoliatum L., Pinaropappus roseus (Less.) Less., Poa canbyi (Scribn.) Piper, Potentilla paradoxa Nutt., Rubus invisus (Bailey) Britt., Rumex conglomeratus Murr., Salsola collina Pall., Scirpus fluviatilis (Torr.) Gray, Sisyrinchium minus Engelm. & Gray, Solidago auriculata Shuttleworth, Solidago wrightii Gary var. adenophora Blake, Utricularia radiata Small, Uvularia perfoliata L., Vicia exigua T. & G., Vaccinium fuscatum Ait., and Gentiana puberulenta Pringle are documented as occurring in Oklahoma. The type of Dalea phleoides (T. & G.) Shinners var. phleoides is most likely from Oklahoma.
23909852|Populations of Borreria terminalis Small and B: verticillata (L.) G.F.W. Meyer in southern Florida were studied to determine whether the recent reduction of the former to the synonymy of the latter was justified. Vegetative characters were found to distinguish populations but provided no means of separating the species. Marked differences were found between the species in several characters related to flower size. The consistency of the floral differences and the absence of hybrids supported the continued recognition of B. terminalis as a distinct species endemic to southern Florida.
23909849|As highlighted by the SEM, surficial sculpturings of the achenes of seven species of Ranunculus section Echinella adventive within the southeastern United States show two species with incurved trichomes and five species with protuberances and spines of varying lengths and frequency. A key, descriptions, habitats, and ranges within the southeastern United States of the seven species are included.
23909856|Six species are recognized in a revision of Digitaria section Digitaria in North America. The taxonomy is based on phenetic and statistical analyses of 2,530 specimens from 245 populations. Recognized species include D. bicornis, D. ciliaris, D. horizontalis, D. nuda, D. sanguinalis, and D. setigera. The DELTA computer programs were used to produce the descriptions and key.
23909858|Eustachys caribaea (Sprengel) Herter was recently collected from Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana and represents the first report of this South American taxon in the United States. A previous report of this species under the name Chloris capensis (Houtt.) Thell. has proved to be erroneous. The method of introduction is unknown but, it appears to have been unintentional. Two other adventive and four native species of Eustachys are now known in the United States.
23909855|Eriochloa is a genus of the grass tribe Paniceae, with a base chromosome number of x = 9. Most species are tetraploids (2n = 36); however, diploids (2n = 18), hexaploids (2n = 54) and octoploids (2n = 72) have been reported. The first chromosome count for E. michauxii is reported (2n = 36). The genus is represented in North and Central America by eight perennial and seven annual species which are predominantly distributed in the southwestern U.S. and Mexico. Keys and descriptions were produced using the DELTA computer programs. Distributions and representative specimens are provided for all taxa. The binomial E. acuminata was found to have priority over E. gracilis, and the new combination E. acuminata var. minor (Vasey) R.B. Shaw was required. Two taxa are reduced to varietal rank with the new combinations E. aristata var. boxiana (Hitchc.) R.B. Shaw and E. setosa var. ekmanii (Hitchc.) R.B. Shaw presented. The occurrence of E. pseudoacrotricha, an Australian species, is reported for the first time in North America. The name E. fatmensis is applied to specimens previously identified as E. procera.
23909848|Hexastylis shuttleworthii var. harperi, a new heartleaf from Alabama and Georgia, is described. Unlike Hexastylis shuttleworthii (Britten & Baker) Small var. shuttleworthii, H. shuttleworthii var. harperi has elongated and branched rhizomes, often forming a continuous ground cover in and around bogs where it is usually found. This heretofore undescribed variety is well-known in cultivation.
23909853|Preparation of a treatment of Cynanchum for the Chihuahuan Desert Flora resulted in a reevaluation of the varieties of Cynanchum barbigerum (Scheele) Shinners and recognition of a new variety of C. maccartii Shinners.
23909857|Coutaportla pailensis is described from the Sierra de la Paila, southern Coahuila, Mxico. Its closest relative appears to be C. ghiesbreghtiana from central Mxico from which it differs in a number of salient features.
23909854|Vauquelinia is a genus of small trees and shrubs endemic to Mexico and southwestern United States. Due to considerable overlap in vegetative characteristics, the 11 taxa are grouped into three species: V. australis of Oaxaca and Puebla; V. californica with four subspecies, subsp. californica, subsp. pauciflora, subsp. sonorensis, and subsp. retherfordii from Arizona and New Mxico south to Durango, Coahuila and Baja California, and; V. corymbosa with 6 subspecies, subsp. corymbosa, subsp. heterodon, subsp. angustifolia, subsp. karwinskyi, subsp. saltilloensis, and subsp. latifolia from Hidalgo, Quertaro north to Nuevo Len, Coahuila, and trans-Pecos Texas. Data on leaf, flower anatomy, as well as floral vascularization are also included.
41967419|Calycanthus brockiana occurs within populations of Calycanthus floridus var. floridus and van glaucus and is characterized by pale yellowish-green flowers and lighter textured leaves. It breeds true under selfing but fails to produce seed when crossed with C. floridus var. floridus.
41967426|A re-examination of Arabis serotina Steele shows that several morphological characters consistently correlate with the flowering time which clearly separates this species from its close relative, Arabis laevigata (Muhl.) Poir. var. burkii Porter. A chromosome count of 2n = 14 is reported. This information supports the original contention that Arabis serotina is a good morphological species.
41967410|Vitis nesbittiana, a new species in series Aestivales Planchon (Vitaceae), is described and compared with two morphologically similar members of Aestivales. Vitis nesbittiana is restricted to tropical cloud forests around Jalapa, Mxico at elevations from 1700 - 2120 m.
41967424|There are nine species of Cuscuta attributed to Louisiana. Three others are expected. This treatment includes keys, description of taxa, names of hosts, phenology, drawings of flowering and fruiting materials of 12 species, distribution maps for nine species, and a new varietal name combination.
41967412|Erigeron turnerorum, a new species from northern Nuevo Len, Mxico, is described and illustrated. It is most similar to E. tenellus, E. geiseri, and E. tenuis from the eastern United States and northeastern Mxico and to E. lobatus and E. velutipes from Arizona and northwestern Mxico.
41967417|Gossypianthus and Guilleminea are recognized as distinct genera. Two species of Gossypianthus are recognized, G. brittonii restricted to Cuba, and the more widespread G. lanuginosus with two varieties: var. lanuginosus from Hispaniola, Oklahoma, Texas and northeastern Mxico; and var. tenuiflorus from Oklahoma, eastern and coastal Texas. Two species of Guilleminea also also recognized, G. elongata from Uruguay, and G. densa with three varieties: G. densa var. densa in South America from Ecuador to Argentina and naturalized in Queensland, Australia and southern Africa; var. aggregata in Texas, New Mexico, south to Oaxaca, Mxico; and var. gracilis from high elevations in northern Argentina and adjacent Bolivia.
41967413|Cyanococcus cuthbertii Small is lectotypified from discordant elements.
41967421|Amsonia ludoviciana (Apocynaceae), recently placed under review for possible listing as an endangered species by the United States Department of the Interior, is shown to be of very limited occurrence in north central Louisiana. Populations discovered in 1983 and 1985 represent the only known natural populations of the species and total fewer than 1000 individuals. Because the only complete description of A. ludoviciana was published nearly 60 years ago and was based on observations of only three specimens, a redescription of the species is provided.
41967422|Leaves of eight species of Muhlenbergia composing the M. repens complex were analyzed for anatomical detail. Analysis of transverse section and epidermis shows that most species can be clearly defined. Muhlenbergia plumbea is the most unique species in the complex; characters by which it differs suggest there is little relationship between it and the other species. Differences between M. richardsonis and M. squarrosa were not found, supporting the current interpretation that these are conspecific. A few differences between M. villiflora and M. villosa were found, suggesting that these be maintained as distinct entities. In M. utilis, sclerenchyma formed an abaxial girder between the colorless cells and the epidermis as well as between the vascular bundle and the epidermis. Sclerenchyma in M. fastigiata was present on the adaxial side or associated with the abaxial side of primary bundles only; secondary bundles were absent and no girders were formed on tertiary bundles. The occurrence of rows of short cells on the epidermis appears to be correlated with the presence of sclerenchyma below the epidermis. The anatomical data suggests there are seven well defined taxa, two of which (M. villiflora and M. villosa) are distinguishable by only a few characters.
41967409|Actinea Juss. is reduced in status to a section of Helenium L., and a taxonomic treatment is presented for the three presently recognized taxa: Helenium radiatum (Less.) Bierner (= H. alternifolium [Sprengel] Cabrera), H. donianum (Hook. & Arn.) Cabrera van donianum, and H. donianum var. linearifolium (Kuntze) Bierner. The latter, which was originally described as a variety of Actinea heterophy Juss. (= H. radiatum), has not been recognized as a valid biologic entity since its description. Sectional relationships and sectional dis-junctions are also discussed. This treatment takes into account all known morphologic, cytologic, and chemical data.
41967411|The name Vitis simpsonii Munson has been applied by Munson and other authors to two different taxa. This has resulted in nomenclatural confusion in attempts to characterize and classify these taxa. Vitis simpsonii Munson of 1887 is treated in synonomy under Vitis cinerea Engelm. ex Millard. var. floridana Munson of series Cinerascentes. Vitis simpsonii Munson of 1890 is synonomized under Vitis aestivalis Michaux var. smalliana (Bailey) Comeaux of series Aestivales.
41967427|This treatment is based on field and herbarium research conducted over an eight year period and the examination of over 7,900 specimens of Sclerta from the United States and Canada. Major emphasis is placed on achene sculpturing, and on pubescence of achenes, scales, bracts, leaves, and culms. Achenes from many species examined vary from glabrous to highly pubescent and from almost smooth to deeply papillose or reticulate. Scales, bracts, leaves, and culms on many species vary in vestiture. The taxonomic importance of these characters is questionable in view of the variability. Descriptions often species, a new combination, and a new key are presented. Several significant range extensions are reported.
41967414|Hymenocallis palmeri S. Watson and H. floridana (Raf.) Morton, closely related species which grow sympatrically in the wetlands of Florida, were studied morphometrically to determine whether they could be consistently distinguished. Information was collected on leaf width and seven characters of the inflorescence from several populations in southern Florida. Analysis of this data suggested that the two species were separable on the basis of flower size and leaf width. Differences in habitat and blooming period were found to corroborate the separation of the two species.
41967519|Diaspores of burrograss (Scleropogon brevifolius Phil.) possess morphological features that enhance dispersal and seed implantation by wind on flat, non-vegetated ground. The awns of the female spikelet orient the diaspore to facilitate implantation of the floret into soil cracks, and the callus hairs hold the floret in the soil. In areas with even slight ground cover, however, the awns prevent contact of soil and diaspore and implantation of the floret is prevented.
41967510|Fifty genera are recognized in a taxonomic account of the Paniceae for the New World. A description of the tribe, based on a summation of variation in the recognized genera, is presented. A bracketed key is given and based on a computer analysis of the variation among the genera. A set of synoptic descriptions is presented and based on an accumulation of diagnostic characters. Panicum acostia R. Webster is proposed as a new name. English, Portuguese, and Spanish versions of the character list, key, and comprehensive descriptions are included on an accompanying microfiche.
41967517|A new species, Polymnia cossatotensis, is described from the Cossatot Mountains, a range of mountains in the Ouachita Division of the Interior Highlands. It was found growing abundantly on and among cherty novaculite talus. Polymnia cossatotensis is most closely related to P. laevigata and P. canadensis but is easily distinguished by its annual habit, cordate cauline leaves, fewer rays, and larger achenes.
41967513|A new variety of Carex lucorum Willd. ex Link (C. lucorum var. austrolucorum) from the southern Appalachians is proposed. Carexartitecta Mackenzie and C. physorhyncha Liebm. exSteud. are reduced to varieties of C. emmonsii Dewey ex Torrey (C. emmonsii var. muhlenbergii and C. emmonsii var. australis, respectively). Se propone una nueva variedad de Carex lucorum Willd. ex Link (C lucorum var. austrolucorum)del sur de la sierra Appalachia. Se reduce C. artitecta Mackenzie a variedad de C.emmonsii Dewey ex Torrey (como C. emmonsii var. muhlenbergii) as como C. physorhynchaLiebm. ex Steud. (como C. emmonsii var. australis).
41967511|Recent collections from the state of Chihuahua, Mxico, reveal a new species, Acourtia dieringeri, which coexists with A. thurberi and is similar to it in some characters.
41967518|Carex asynchrona, a new species of section Griseae, is described from the Gomez Farias area of southwestern Tamaulipas, Mexico. It differs from its close relatives (C. hitchcockiana, C. impressinervia, C. oligocarpa, and C. ouachitana) in that it possesses brown bases, glabrous sheaths, upper 3-4 spikes overlapping, and crowded, definitely beaked perigynia. Locally frequent in the upper elevational limit of cloud forest, C. asynchrona exemplifies the floristic affinity of the Gomez Farias cloud forest with forests in the southeastern United States.
41967514|This treatment, which takes into account all known morphologic, ecologie, cytologie, and chemical data, recognizes Helenium L. sect. Amarum Bierner with two taxa: Helenium amarum (Raf.) Rock var. amarum and H. amarum var. badium (A. Gray ex S. Wats.) Waterfall. These are the only taxa of Helenium in North America with leaves not decurrent along the stem.
41967512|Seven species of Aristida (POACEAE) are known from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands: A. spiciformis Elliott, A. chaseae Hitchcock, A. portorkensis Pilger, A. adscensionis L., A. suringarii Henrard, A. cognata Trin. et Rupr., and A. refracta Griseb. Aristida chaseae, previously known only from the type collection, was rediscovered and Aristida portorkensis was found in new localities. Aristida suringarii previously unknown for Puerto Rico, is reported from Mona Island. The two endemic, potentially threatened species may benefit from management practices. A key and illustrations are provided for all species. Se conocen siete especies del gnero Aristida (Poaceae) originarias de Puerto Rico y de las Islas Vrgenes: A. spiciformis Elliott, A. chaseae Hitchcock, A. portorkensis Pilger, A. adscensionis L., A. suringarii Henrard, A. cognata Trin. et Rupr., and A. refracta Griseb. Se descubri nuevamente a Aristida chaseae, conocida anteriomente slo a partir de coleccin tipo, y se encontr a Aristida portorkensis en nuevos lugares. En el presente trabajo, se informa sobre la existencia en la Isla Mona de Aristida suringarii, antes desconocida para Puerto Rico. Las prcticas de manejo que se recomiendan en este artculo podran beneficiar a las dos especies endmicas pontencialmente amenazadas. Se incluyen una clave e ilustraciones para todas las especies.
41967515|Seeds of Draperia systyia, sometimes considered to be a close relative of Nama, have been examined using scanning electron microscopy. Seeds are ovate-elliptic in outline, average 1.8 mm in length and exhibit an alveolate surface pattern. Secondary deposits are found in the outermost testa cells. The deposits fill the lower 1/3-1/2 of each cell and continue upward as a veneer of decreasing thickness to the apex of radial walls. Removal of deposits, by sonication, reveals that radial walls of these outermost cells have both pits and thickenings, a radial wall pattern not found in seeds of any species of Nama. Seeds of D. systyia are distinct from those of Nama and do not suggest the two genera are closely related.
41967520|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Carex willdenowii var. megarrhyncha, Crepis pulchra, Galium obtusum, Gnaphalium helleri, Iris fulva, Polygala nuttallii, and Scutellaria thieretii (mistakenly reported as S. drummondii in an earlier paper). Some additions to the Florida panhandle are documented here, and several significant range extensions, particularly for rare or endangered taxa within our area, are given.
41967516|Trifolium stoloniferum Muhl. ex A. Eaton (Fabaceae) (running buffalo clover) is Federally listed as an Endangered species by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. This species formerly grew in eight states from West Virginia to Kansas. As of 1987 this species was confirmed extant at only five sites in Indiana, Kentucky, and West Virginia. Trifolium stoloniferum was known historically from eight counties in southern Ohio, the last collection being in 1907. In 1988 this species was rediscovered at eight sites in Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren counties. Population sizes range from 1 to ca. 110 individuals. Historic and modern habitats for running buffalo clover are described. Trifolium stoloniferum seems restricted to mesic sites in semishade where there is a pattern of long term disturbance, such as mowing, trampling, or grazing. The decline of running buffalo clover in Ohio seems related to the decimation of herbivores on which the species depended for dispersal and subsequently to maturation of habitats.
41967484|A new species is described, Aster saxicastellii Campbell & Medley. It is closely related to the northeastern A. radula Aiton, but differs in its chromosome number (2n = 54); leafshape (broader, petioled, and more coarsely serrate); flowers (generally larger and paler); and cypselas (larger, pubescent, and with a white pappus). It has been found in only one locality, about 100 miles west of the most southern known station for A. radula. It grows on boulder-cobble bars along about three miles of the Rockcastle River in Pulaski and Laurel counties, Kentucky. It is concentrated in the shrubby transition from the open grassy bars to the adjacent forested terraces or slopes. This unusual vegetation is described.
41967494|Chromosome numbers in Thymophylla tenuiloba var. tenuiloba and congeners are evidently all based on x = 8. Past reports of n = 13 for taxa referable to Thymophylla probably resulted from incorrect interpretations of meiotic figures in triploids with 2n = 3x = 24. Reproduction in the triploids is apparently apomictic.
41967488|Muhlenbergia capillaris and its allied species, M. expansa and M. filipes have been variously classified in the past as three distinct species or a single species with three varieties. A numerical analysis was performed on data taken from herbarium specimens collected throughout the geographic distribution of these taxa. Analysis of variance, principal components analysis, cluster analysis, and discriminate analysis indicate there is a continuum of morphological variation present. A single species with three varieties (var. capillaris var. filipes and var. trichopodes is recognized. A key to the varieties and descriptions of each are presented.
41967490|The rare Florida endemic Ziziphus celata (Rhamnaceae), last collected in 1955 and presumed extinct, was rediscovered in Highlands and adjacent Polk counties. The fruit is here described for the first time.
41967487|This paper reports on the occurrence of nine species of grasses (Poaceae) not previously reported for Puerto Rico (Britton & Wilson 1924, Liogier & Mattorell 1982): Aristida suringari Henrard, Brachiaria arreca (Dur. & Schinz) Stent, Imperata brasiliensis Trin., Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus, Panicum venezuelae Hack., Paspalum macrophyllum Kunth, Paspalum pulchellum Kunth, Sorghastrum stipoides (Kunth) Nash, and Tricholaena repens (Willd.) Hitchc. Este articulo trata sobre la presencia de nueve especies herbaces (Poaceae) de Puerto Rico que no han sido descritas previamente (Britton & Wilson 1924, Liogier & Martorell 1982): Aristida suringari Henrard, Brachiaria arrecta (Dur. & Schinz) Stent, Imperata brasiliensis Trin., Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus, Panicum venezuelae Hack., Paspalum macrophyllum Kunth, Paspalum pulchellum Kunth, Sorghastrum stipoides (Kunth) Nash, y Tricholaena repens (Willd.) Hitchc.
41967489|Crotalaria avonensis DeLaney & Wunderlin is described from the xeric white sand scrub habitat of Highlands County, Florida. It is compared with C. rotundifolia.
41967480|Two new species, Valeriana bryophila and Valeriana gallinae, from Cerro de Teotepec in Guerrero, are described. Valeriana gallinae is closely related to V. pilosiuscula, differing most obviously in having fruits that are glabrous and lanceolate, rather than hirsute or pilose and ovate. The relationships of V. bryophila are less obvious; characters of the inflorescence and fruits suggest a possible relationship with V. pulchella, a species that is perennial rather than biennial, and in which the basal leaves are compound rather than simple. Se describen dos especies nuevas de Cerro Teotepec, Guerrero, Mxico. Valeriana gallinae asemeja a V. pilosiuscula Mart. & Gal., pero se distingue por frutos lanceolados y glabros en lugar de frutos ovados y pilosos o hirsutos. Las relaciones de V. bryophila son ms enigmticas; parece superficialimente a V. pulchella, una especie perene con hojas compuesta. Al obstante la especie nueva es bianual y presenta hojas basales simples.
41967492|The generic relationships and subtribal placement of the monotypic genera Mexianthus and Neobintonia are discussed using macro and micromorphological characters as well as chromosome numbers reported here for the first time. Neohintonia (x= 10) is placed in synonymy as a species of Koanophyllon (x= 10). The discussion is appended with a key to the genera Mexianthus (x= 16), Decachaeta (x= 16), and Koanophyllon. Descriptions and distributions for Mexianthus and Koanophyllon monanthum are provided.
41967481|Prunus cercocarpifolia (subgenus Amygdalus) is described and illustrated from southern Coahuila. It is closely related to P. microphylla (H.B.K.) Hemsl. but differs from it in leaf and floral characters.
41967495|Chromosome counts are reported for 24 species of Mexican Asteraceae, 12 of these previously unreported. Newly reported counts include Stevia latifolta, n = 45 I; S. lucida var. bipontini, n= 12 II; Desmanthodium fruticosum, n= 17 II; Viguierapotosina, n= 17 II, Dyssodia glandulosa, n= 13 II; Geissolepis suadaefolia, n = 8 II; Gymnolaena oaxacana, n= 13 II; Leucactinia bracteata, n= 16 II; Machaeranthera stenophylla, n= 4 II; Porophyllum calcicola, n= 12 II; and Pinaropappus multicaulis, n= 9 II. Reports for species of Desmanthodium, Geissolepis and Leucactinia represent new generic counts. Chromosome counts are reported for six species in four genera of the tribe Tageteae and are compared with all numbers previously reported in the tribe. When deemed appropriate, phyletic digressions are made.
41967491|The case for lectotypification of Azalea rosea Loiseleur fails on two major points. Primarily, because the only type included in Loiseleur's description of Azalea rosea is that of Azalea canescens Michaux (a previously validly published name) and secondly because the lectotype recently designated is in conflict with the protologue and the intent of the original author.
41967493|Disseminules from the following fourteen plants are reported as additions to those previously documented from beaches of Santa Rosa Island, Florida: Astrocaryum sp., Canavalia rosea, Carya glabra, Corylus sp., Crescentia cujete, Crinum americanum, Dioclea reflexa, Entada gigas, Manicara saccifera, Mucuna sloanei, Nyssa aquatica, Rhizophora mangle, Spondias mombin, and Terminalia catappa.
41966632|Phylogenetic tree diagrams have been used for over a century to portray visually the estimated phylogeny of plant groups. These often accompany revisionary studies and usually summarize the classification and evolutionary relationships. Despite their widespread use, most trees do not show all possible relationships among the taxa, and frequently the relationships are shown in an ambiguous fashion. This hampers communication about the systematics of the group and makes comparisons of several different competing classifications for the same group difficult. A phylogenetic tree which shows all possible relationships is called a phylogram, and it contains information about (1) cladistics (branching patterns), (2) chronistics (time of divergence), (3) phenetics (over-all similarity and/or difference among extant taxa), and (4) patristics (total evolutionary change). Use of explicitly derived phylograms with high informational content in routine revisionary work is recommended. A method is presented for making a phylogram showing all four relationships using the genus Lagascea (Compositae) as a model.
41966639|Aster section Patentes is a group of base-5 asters of the eastern United States. The group is characterized by widely-spaced, strongly-clasping cauline leaves, abruptlyreduced peduncular bracts, and glandular, green-tipped phyllaries. Three species are recognized in the section: Aster phlogifolius Muhl. ex Willd., a tetraploid, Appalachian taxon; Aster georgianus Alexander, a decaploid, Piedmont taxon; and Aster patens Ait., a wide-ranging taxon including both diploid and tetaploid populations, and divisible into three geographic varietiesthe southwestern var. gracilis Hook., the Interior Highland var. patentissimus (Lindl.) T. & G., and the eastern var. patens. The results of historical, morphological, chromosomal, hybridization, and ecological studies are presented, and the taxa are keyed, described, mapped, and synonymies are given.
41966634|The Sterculiaceae is represented in the southeastern flora by four genera and seven species which grow without cultivation. Distribution in the flora area is primarily in the warmer portions, mostly in the Coastal Plain Province. Taxa are highly polymorphic yet are well marked species in our range.
23909542|Study of trichomes and stomata on epidermal surfaces using the scanning electron microscope is presented with augmentation from sectioned and imprinted materials viewed using the light microscope. Trichomes always occur on flowers and abaxial leaf surfaces; they rarely occur on epidermis of mature twigs. The trichomes are mostly in fascicles of two to four parallel hairs; they vary in density and size. Stomata are cyclocytic with prominent stomatal rims and peristomatal rims, the latter usually in the form of buttressed cups. Comparisons are made with trichomes and stomata of related taxa.
23909545|This paper presents new information, derived from herbarium data, about the nature of variation in the Desmodium paniculatum complex. Three confluent species, Desmodium paniculatum, D. perplexum, and D. glabellum, are recognized, their discrimination, however, being subjective. Determination of the level of interbreeding in nature and of the effect of environment on the expression of phenotypes might lead to a clarification of interpretations.
23909544|Poa tracyi and P. occidentalis were found to be distinct, but closely related, species. Character differences between the taxa correspond to differences in breeding system, phenology, ecology, distribution, and possibly chromosome number. The species are rarely closely sympatric. Nevertheless, some intergradation and a few intermediate plants are apparent. Stepwise discriminant analysis correctly identified 99% of the 278 specimens tested. Geographic range of P. tracyi extends from northern Colorado to south central New Mexico; that of P. occidentalis from southwestern Colorado to southern New Mexico, east central Arizona and west Texas. New chromosome number reports are: P. tracyi 2n = 28; P. occidentalis, 2n = ca 28 with meiotic irregularities, and; P. reflexa, 2n = 28. A key to P. tracyi, P. occidentalis, and similar species, P. leptocoma, P. reflexa, and P. curta is included.
23909549|New distribution records are reported for four locations in New Mexico, one in Texas, and one in Mexico. The first count for meiotic chromosome divisions is reported as 2n = 44. Pollen fertility and caryopsis germination tests were made in an attempt to explain the rarity of the species. Scarcity of the specific habitat, limestone rock with chert or limestone derived soils on north facing slopes, is apparently more important in restricting distribution than the plant's reproductive capabilities.
23909546|Erigeron concinnus appears to be a distinct species rather than a subspecies of E. pumilus. Detailed study of E. concinnus and E. pumilus subsp. intermedius in Nevada and adjacent areas shows them to be allopatric and morphologically non-intergrading. Further, previous literature has reported that E. concinnus does not intergrade with E. pumilus subsp. pumilus where their ranges approach each other in Colorado. A new combination is proposed: E. concinnus var. subglaber (Cronq.) Nesom.
41968600|One new hybrid genus, Pascoelymus = Pascopyrum  Elymus, and 12 new combinations are presented for North American grasses. Six of the new combinations are for hybrids in the Triticeae. Stipa arnowiae is transferred to Achnatherum and Hystrix californica ( Elymus californicus) to Leymus. Agropyron riparium is recognized as a subspecies of Elymus lanceolatus; Ammophila champlainensis is reduced to a subspecies, based on the findings of others, and the previously recognized subspecies of Pseudoroegneria spicata are reduced to forms. Reasons for the changes are provided. Se presenta un nuevo gnero hbrido, Pascoelymus = Pascopyrum  Elymus, y 12 combinaciones nuevas de gramneas norteamericanas. Seis de las nuevas combinaciones son de hbridos en Triticeae. Stipa arnowiae se transfiere a Achnatherum y Hystrix californica (= Elymus californicus) a Leymus. Agropyron riparium se reconoce como una subespecie de Elymus lanceolatus; Ammophila champlainensis se reduce a una subespecie, basndonos en los hallazgos de otros, y la subespecie reconocida previamente de Pseudoroegneria spicata se reduce a formas. Se aportan razonamientos de los cambios.
41968650|The distribution of white-flowered Hedyotis australis is extended to Missouri and Florida as well as within Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Tennessee. This distribution is compared to allied homostylous species H. crassifolia and H. rosea which also flower as winter annuals in the southcentral United States. Hedyotis crassifolia is a diploid species having a flowering peak earlier than the tetraploid H. australis. An example of possible out-crossing within H. crassifolia via bee pollination is discussed. Hedyotis rosea is now considered extirpated in Missouri. Hedyotis australis de flores blancas se encuentra distribuida por Missouri y Florida as como tambin en Alabama, Arkansas, Mississippi, y Tennessee. Su distribucin se compara la de las otras especies homostilas H. crassifolia y H. rosea las cuales florecen como anuales de invierno en la regin centrosur de Estados Unidos. La especie diploide Hedyotis crassifolia tiene un pico de floracin ms temprano que la especie tetraploide H. australis. Se discute un ejemplo de posible entrecruzamiento dentro de H. crassifolia va polinizacin por abejas. Hedyotis rosea se considera ahora extinguida en Missouri.
41968593|Stenanthium diffusum Wofford, sp. nov., is described as a new species from Fentress, Morgan, Pickett, and Scott counties on the northern Cumberland Plateau of Tennessee. It is most closely related to S. gramineum but differs in having (1) a more diffuse inflorescence, (2) flowers on the mid-portion of lateral panicle branches spaced 8 mm apart and with distinct pedicels (1.6-4 mm long), and (3) the uppermost non-bracteal stem leaf less than 15 cm above ground level. It also flowers later and has ecological requirements differing significantly from S. gramineum. Stenanthium diffusum is an extremely rare rockhouse endemic in need of consideration for state and federal endangered species status. Se describe una nueva especie Stenanthium diffusum Wofford, sp. nov., de los condados de Fentress, Morgan, Pickett, y Scott del norte del Cumberland Plateau de Tennessee. Est estrechamente relacionada con S. gramineum pero difiere por tener (1) una inflorescencia ms difusa, (2) flores en la parte media lateral de las ramas del panculo espaciadas 8 mm y con pedicelos diferenciados (1.6-4 mm de longitud), y (3) la hoja superior del tallo no bracteal a menos de 15 cm sobre el nivel del suelo. Tambin florece ms tarde y tiene requerimientos ecolgicos que difieren bastante de S. gramineum. Stenanthium diffusum es un endemismo extremadamente raro de roquedos que requiere el estatus de especie amenazada estatal y federalmente.
41968566|Cuscuta pentagona, C. campestris, and C. glabrior are closely similar taxa recognized here at specific rank. Closely related to these are C. runyonii, C. harperi, C. plattensis, and C. sandwichiana, as well as C. obtusiflora var. glandulosa and C. polygonorum. Cuscuta runyonii, C. harperi, and C. sandwichiana are relatively narrow endemics, C. plattensis and C. glabrior have wider but apparently discrete ranges, while C. obtusiflora var. glandulosa, C. polygonorum, and especially C. pentagona and C. campestris are widespread and broadly sympatric in North America, at least in some regions. Cuscuta campestris is one of the most widespread species in the world, being additionally recorded from South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Comparisons among these nine species are presented as a key and as comparative descriptions. SEM images are provided for flowers, fruits, seeds, and pollen. Cuscuta pentagona, C. campestris, y C. glabrior son taxa fuertemente semejantes, reconocidos aqu como especies. Estrechamente relacionadas con stas estn C. runyonii, C. harperi, y C. plattensis as como tambin C. obtusiflora var. glandulosa y C. polygonorum. Cuscuta runyonii, C. harperi y C. sandwichiana son endmicas con reas pequeas, C. plattensis y C. glabrior tienen rangos geogrficos ms amplios pero aparentemente distintos, mientras que C. obtusiflora var. glandulosa, C. polygonorum, y especialmente C. pentagona y C. campestris son comunes y ampliamente simptricas en Norteamrica, al menos en algunas regiones. Cuscuta campestris ocurre fuera de Norteamrica, siendo mencionada de Sudamrica, Europa, Asia, Africa, y Australia. Las comparaciones entre estos seis taxa se presentan en forma de clave y descripciones comparativas. Se ofrecen imgenes de SEM de las flores, frutos, semillas, y polen.
41968629|This report compares fungi found in galled and non-galled plants of Borrichia frutescens (L.) DC., Asteraceae. Fungi were observed in the plant galls of the midge, Asphondylia borrichiae Rossi & Strong. A variety of endophytic fungi were cultured from the apical meristems, stems and leaves of galled and non-galled plants collected from several coastal sites in Florida. Fifteen percent of midges examined (n = 60) carried fungal spores of Alternaria sp. Este artculo compara los hongos encontrados en plantas con y sin agallas de Borrichiafrutescens (L.) DC., Asteraceae. Se observaron hongos en las agallas de Asphondylia borrichiae Rossi & Strong. Se cultiv una variedad de hogo endof tico de los meristemos apicales, tallos y hojas de plantas con y sin agallas colectadas en varios lugares costeros de Florida. El quince por ciento de las agallas examinadas (n = 60) tenian esporas de Alternaria sp.
41968585|Se proponen varias novedades nomenclatures en el gnero Mandevilla, incluyendo una nueva especie (M. tristis J.F. Morales), una nueva combinacin (M. angustata (Steyermark) J.F. Morales), y un nuevo sinnimo (M. bella (Pittier) Woodson). Nuevas adiciones a la Flora de Venezuela en los gneros Aspidosperma (A. rigidum Rugby, A. schultesii Woodson), Mandevilla (M. vanheurckii (Mll. Arg.) Markgr.) y Odontadenia (O. killipii Woodson) son reportadas. Several nomenclatural novelties are proposed in the genus Mandevilla, including a new species (M. tristis J.F. Morales), a new combination (M. angustata (Steyermark) J.F. Morales) and a new synonym (M. bella (Pittier) Woodson). New additions to the Venezuelan Flora in the genera Aspidosperma (A. rigidum Rugby, A. schultesii Woodson), Mandevilla (M. vanheurckii (Mll. Arg.) Markgr.), and Odontadenia (O. killipii Woodson) are reported. Several nomenclatural novelties are proposed in the genus Mandevilla, including a new species (M. tristis J.F. Morales), a new combination (M. angustata (Steyermark) J.F. Morales), a new report ((M. vanheurckii (Mll. Arg.) Markgr.) and a new synonym (M. bella (Pittier) Woodson).
41968647|Clematis morefieldii (Morefield's leather flower, Huntsville vasevine), a federally endangered species, is documented for the flora of Tennessee for the first time. Eighteen plants were discovered along a small rocky ravine positioned on the lower slopes of the western escarpment of the Cumberland Plateau in Franklin County, Tennessee. A general description of the habitat and associated flora is included. Clematis morefieldii (flor de cuero de Morefield,), especie en peligro, se documenta para la flora de Tennessee por primera vez. Se descubrieron dieciocho plantas a lo largo de un pequeo barranco en las laderas inferiores del escarpe occidental del Cumberland Plateau en Franklin County, Tennessee. Se incluye una descripcin general del hbitat y de la flora asociada.
41968583|Bahiella J.F. Morales (Apocynoideae, Echiteae), un nuevo gneroendmico al estado de Bahia en Brasil, es descrito, proponindose una nueva combinacin, B. blanchetii (A. DC.) J.F. Morales y una nueva especie, B. infundibulijlora J.F. Morales. Se incluyen descripciones completas, ilustraciones y especmenes examinados. Adicionalmente, se realiz un anlisis cladistico para determinar las posibles relaciones intergnericas de Bahiella, el cual incluy un total de 44 especies (19 gneros) de la tribu Echiteae como grupo interno y 10 especies (7 gneros) de las tribus Apocyneae, Malouetieae y Mesechiteae como grupos externos. Los resultados sugieren que Bahiella pertenece a las Echiteae, pero sus relaciones intergenricas ms cercanas no pueden ser determinadas por ahora. Bahiella J.F. Morales (Apocynoideae, Echiteae), a new genus endemic to Bahia, Brazil is described and illustrated. A new combination, B. blanchetii (A. DC.) J.F. Morales and a new species, B. infundibuliflora J.F. Morales are proposed. All the taxa are fully described and illustrated. Aditionally, a cladistic analysis was performed to determinate the possible intergeneric relationships of Bahiella, including 44 species (19 genera) as ingroup of the tribe Echiteae, and 10 species (7 genera) of the tribes Apocyneae, Malouetieae y Mesechiteae as outgroup. The results suggests that Bahiella belong to the Echiteae, but their intergeneric relationships can't be established by now.
41968625|An annotated, vouchered checklist is provided of the vascular plant taxa of the 5,806 hectare Big Sandy Creek Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, Polk County, southeastern Texas. Documented for the unit are 693 total taxa with 45 of them exotic. Se ofrece un listado con anotaciones, y testigos de los taxa de plantas vasculares de las 5,806 hectreas de Big Sandy Creek Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, Polk County, Sureste de Texas. Se documentan para la unidad un total de 693 de los que 45 son exticas.
41968582|A new species in Fargesia Franch. from China, and a new variety in Drepanostachyum falcatum (Nees) Keng f. from the eastern Himalayas, are described. Four new combinations are made in Borinda Stapleton for species from western China, previously placed in the genus Fargesia, and one new combination is made in Indocalamus Nakai for a Japanese species described in Pseudosasa Nakai. Se describe una nueva especie de Fargesia Franch. de China, y una nueva variedad de Drepanostachyum falcatum (Nees) Keng f. del Este del Himalaya. Se hacen cuatro combinaciones nuevas en Borinda Stapleton para especies del Oeste de China, previamente colocadas en el gnero Fargesia, y se hace una combinacin nueva en Indocalamus Nakai para una especie japonesa descrita en el gnero Pseudosasa Nakai.
41968614|Chromosome numbers were determined from somatic material for 73 individuals of Antennaria Gaertn. (Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae) representing 10 species from western and arctic North America. These counts support, and represent the typically more frequent, previously reported chromosome number determination for the respective species and as such are presented without comment, though they do supplement our knowledge relative to chromosome number distributions for these species. Se contaron los nmeros cromosomticos en material somtico de 73 individuos de Antennaria Gaertn. (Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae) que representan a 10 especies del oeste y el rtico de Norte Amrica. Estos recuentos apoyan, y representan el nmero tpicamente ms frecuente, previamente citado para la especie respectiva y como tales son presentados sin ningn comentario, aunque complementan nuestro conocimiento relativo a las distribuciones de nmeros cromosomticos de estas especies.
41968618|James Brigham McFarlin contributed to Florida botany and his work provided a rare glimpse into the diversity that once existed in the central part of the state three-quarters of a century ago. James Brigham McFarlin contribuy a la botnica de Florida y su obra dio una ojeada rara a la diversidad que exista en Florida central hace 75 aos.
41968562|Gentianella fabrisii (Gentianaceae) is proposed as a new species. It is known only from the type collection from the northwestern of Argentina (Prov. Tucumn); a key to distinguish this species from its closer relatives is provided. New synonyms for Cicendia quadrangularis, Curtia tenuifolia, Gentiana prostrata, Zygostigma australe and for 4 species of Gentianella are proposed. The ocurrence of Chelonanthus viridiflorus and Schultesiaguianensis in Argentina and Paraguay is confirmed. These two last species are described and illustrated in detail. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Gentianella (G. fabrisii), que habita en el noroeste de la Argentina (Prov. Tucumn), y se provee una clave para diferenciarla de sus congneres ms prximos. Se dan a conocer nuevos sinnimos para Cicendia quadrangularis, Curtia tenuifolia, Gentiana prostrata, Zygostigma australe y para 4 especies de Gentianella. Se confirma la presencia de Chelonanthus viridiflorus y Schultesia guianensis para la Argentina y Paraguay, las que se describen e ilustran detalladamente.
41968622|Starkey Wilderness Preserve, owned and managed by the Southwest Florida Water Management District, contains 7,739.5 hectares with 18 plant communities. A floristic inventory was conducted on 449.2 hectares within the property which consists of 11 community types and is considered as representative of the entire Preserve. The objective of this study, conducted from May 2003 to October 2004, was to compile a list of the vascular plant taxa found to be used by the Southwest Florida Water Management District to help in their management regimes. A total of 483 taxa were collected, representing 104 families, and 271 genera. Of these, 444 are native taxa, 16 Florida endemic taxa, 39 non-native taxa, 12 endangered, threatened or commercially exploited taxa, and 33 county records. Each plant community is described and an annotated list of the vascular plant taxa is presented. La reserva de Starkey Wilderness, gestionada por el Southwest Florida Water Management District, tiene 7,739.5 hectreas con 18 comunidades vegetales. Se realiz un inventario florstico en 449.2 hectreas de la reserva que contiene 11 tipos de comunidades y que se consideran representativos de la Reserva entera. El objetivo de este estudio, realizado desde mayo de 2003 hasta octubre de 2004, fue compilar una lista de taxa de plantas vasculares usadas por el Southwest Florida Water Management District para ayudar en su rgimen de gestin. Se colectaron un total de 483 taxa, que representan 104 familias, y 271 gneros. De ellos, 444 son taxa nativos, 16 taxa endmicos de Florida, 39 taxa alctonos, 12 taxa en peligro, amenazados o explotados comercialmente, y 33 citas del condado. Se describen las comunidades vegetales y se presenta una lista comentada de los taxa de plantas vasculares.
41968577|Bumelia macrocarpa Nutt. languished in obscurity for more than 150 years. Thomas Nuttall (1786-1859) collected this low shrub in 1830 and described it in 1849. Asa Gray relegated it to the synonymy of B. lanuginosa (Michx.) Pers. in 1886, apparently due to the lack of subsequent collections and without seeing any material of Nuttall's plant. In 1940 Robert Clark identified type material of B. macrocarpa as B. reclinata (Michx.) Vent., failing to notice the fact that more than one species had been mounted on the sheet, with only one small fragment actually representing B. macrocarpa. Since Bumelia Swartz is now considered to be a synonym of Sideroxylon L., the restoration of this distinctive species, endemic to southeastern Georgia (U.S.A.), requires a new combination, S. macrocarpum (Nutt.) J.R. Allison. Bumelia macrocarpa Nutt. languideci en la oscuridad durante ms de 150 aos. Thomas Nuttall (1786-1859) coleccion este arbusto bajo en 1830 y lo describi en 1849. Asa Gray lo releg a la sinonimia de B. lanuginosa (Michx.) Pers. en 1886, aparentemente debido a la carencia de colecciones subsiguientes y sin ver ningn material de la planta de Nuttall. En 1940 Robert Clark identific el material tipo de B. macrocarpa como B. reclinata (Michx.) Vent., al no notar el hecho que se haba montado en la lmina ms de una especie, con un solo fragmento pequeo que representa en realidad B. macrocarpa. Puesto que Bumlia Swartz se considera actualmente un sinnimo de Sideroxylon L., la restauracin de esta especie distintiva, endmica al sureste de Georgia (EEUU), requiere una nueva combinacin, S. macrocarpum (Nutt.) J.R. Allison.
41968595|Dodecatheon austrofrigidum is described as a species occupying scattered sites in the Coast Ranges of northwestern Oregon and adjacent Washington, U.S.A. It is similar in floral morphology to, but widely disjunct from, D. frigidum, a species of the interior mountains and arctic tundra of Alaska and northern British Columbia. It also is ecologically distinct, being associated with streams, waterfalls, cliffs, rocky river banks, and high elevation moist grassland and basalt talus slopes in a maritime climatic zone. Its relationships are with members of Sect. Dodecatheon, but its seedling morphology is different from any described thus far in the genus. Morphology of the seed testa is illustrated by scanning electron microscopy. Dodecatheon austrofrigidum se describe como una especie que ocupa lugares espaciados de la Cordillera Costera del Noroeste de Oregon y de Washington, U.S.A. Es similar en la morfologa floral, pero muy disyunta de, D. frigidum, una especie de las montaas interiores y la tundra rtica de Alaska y norte de British Columbia. Tambin es ecolgicamente diferente, estando asociada a arroyos, cascadas, acantilados, lechos rocosos de ros, y praderas hmedas a gran altitud y laderas baslticas en una zona climtica marina. Est relacionada con los miembros de la Sect. Dodecatheon, pero la morfologa de sus plntulas es diferente de cualquiera de las hasta ahora descritas en el gnero. Se ilustra la morfologa de testa seminal al microscopio electrnico de barrido.
41968602|Pappus variation in eight genera, 58 species, and 94 taxa of the Chrysopsidinae was examined; quadruple, triple, double and sometimes simple pappi were found with variation in the size, shape and numbers of short outer scales/bristles and mid to long barbellate bristles. In the genera with a higher chromosome base number (x = 9)Heterotheca, Noticastrum, Pityopsis, and probably Tomentaurumpappus elements are more numerous and in a greater number of series. This is interpreted as the primitive condition, similar to, but with less clavate inner bristles, than found in Doellingeria and Eucephalus, the basal genera in the North American Clade of the Astereae. All four genera have a quadruple pappus consisting of four, sometimes intergrading, series: a short secondary outer series of scales or scaly bristles; a secondary inner series of mid-length tapered bristles; a primary outer series of tapering bristles 80-95% the length of the inner series; and a primary inner series of usually weakly clavate bristles. Both ray and disc florets have a similar arrangement, except for the epappose ray fruits of H. sect. Heterotheca. In some species, the four series are distinct and in others they grade into each other. In Croptilon, the number of pappus series decreases with the dysploid reduction from x = 7 to x = 4. In the lower base number genera Bradburia, Chrysopsis, and Osbertia, a reduction in the number of series was observed, with quadruple, triple, double and sometimes simple pappi occurring. In Chrysopsis, the secondary outer series is well developed, but the secondary inner series is absent or reduced to a few bristles. In Osbertia, the pappus appears simple or includes a second series of 1-2 short bristles; all the long bristles are tapering or at best only very weakly clavate. In small sample per species, the number of bristles per fruit ranged from 20-125: Noticastrum, 46-125 averaging 87 bristles; Tomentaurum, 80-85; Heterotheca, 23-80 averaging 43 bristles; Pityopsis, 25-46, averaging 37; Bradburia, ray florets, 30-36, discs 0-5; Chrysopsis and Croptilon, 18-36 averaging 28; Osbertia, 20-35, averaging 27. The fruits with lower numbers of bristles had 0-few mid-length secondary inner series bristles. Se examin la variacin el vilano en ocho gneros, 58 especies, y 94 taxa de Chrysopsidinae; se encontraron vilanos cudruples, triples, dobles y a veces simples con variacin en el tamao, forma y nmeros de las escamas cortas externas y las sedas barbeladas medias a largas. En los gneros con un nmero cromosomtico bsico ms alto (x = 9)Heterotheca, Noticastrum, Pityopsis, y probablemente Tomentaurumlos elementos del vilano son ms numerosos y estn en mayor nmero de series. Esto se interpreta como una condicin primitiva, similar pero con menos sedas interiores clavadas de las que se encuentran en Doellingeria y Eucephalus, los gneros bsales del clado norteamericano de las Astereae. Los cuatro gneros tienen un vilano cudruple que consta de cuatro series, a veces intergradadas: una serie corta secundaria de escamas o sedas escamosas; una serie secundaria interna de sedas afiladas de longitud media; una serie primaria externa de sedas afiladas del 80-95% de la longitud de la serie interna; y una serie primaria interna de sedas normalmente clavadas. Tanto las flores radiadas como las del disco tienen una ordenacin similar, excepto los frutos sin vilano de H. sect. Heterotheca. El algunas especies, las cuatro series son distintas y en otras se intergradan entre ellas. En Croptilon, el nmero de series del vilano decrece con la reduccin disploide de x = 7 a x = 4. En los gneros con nmero base inferior Bradburia, Chrysopsis, y Osbertia, se ha observado una reduccin en el nmero de series, con vilanos cudruples, triples, dobles y a veces simples. En Chrysopsis, la serie secundaria externa est bien desarrollada, pero la serie secundaria interna est ausente o reducida a unas pocas sedas. En Osbertia, El vilano es simple o incluye una segunda serie de 1-2 sedas cortas; todas las sedas largas son afiladas o como mucho slo dbilmente clavadas. En una pequea muestra por especie, el nmero de sedas por fruto vari entre 20-125: Noticastrum, 46-125 con una media de 87 sedas; Tomentaurum, 80-85; Heterotheca, 23-80 con una media de 43 sedas; Pityopsis, 25-46, con una media de 37; Bradburia, flores radiadas, 30-36, del disco 0-5; Chrysopsis and Croptilon, 18-36 con una media de 28; Osbertia, 20-35, con una media de 27. Los frutos con menor nmero de sedas tuvieron 0-few en la serie secundaria interna de longitud media.
41968624|Sonoita Creek State Natural Area (SCSNA) and San Rafael State Park (SRSP) are the first two naturalarea parks in Arizona established with funding provided by the Heritage Initiative. Both sites are in Santa Cruz County, and both have riparian communities that are rare in the arid Southwest. The upland vegetation of SCSNA is primarily semidesert grassland, while that of SRSP is Plains grassland. The flora of SCSNA includes 525 native species and 36 exotic species; that of SRSP includes 407 native species and 50 exotic species. Significant taxa include one new species, Phacelia sonoitensis, found at SCSNA. Taxa new to the flora of Arizona include Pennellia robinsonii (SRSP), Rhynchosia minima (SCSNA), and Sibara virginica (SRSP). Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva, an endangered species, was found at SRSP. The floras of both SCSNA and SRSP are strongly Apachian in their affinities. Species found at SCSNA but not at SRSP have relatively greater affinities with the flora of the Sonoran Floristic Province, while those found at SRSP but not SCSNA have a greater affinity with the Great Plains. Sonoita Creek State Natural Area (SCSNA) y San Rafael State Park (SRSP) son los primeros parques naturales establecidos con fondos aportados por la Iniciativa de Herencia. Ambos lugares estn en el condado de Santa Cruz, y ambos tienen comunidades ribereas que son raras en el Suroeste rido. La vegetacin del altiplano de SCSNA es un pastizal semidesrtico y la de SRSP es un pastizal de las Grandes Llanuras. La flora de SCSNA incluye 525 especies indgenas y 36 especies exticas; la de SRSP incluye 407 especies indgenas y 50 especies exticas. Entre las plantas significativas se incluye una especies nueva, Phacelia sonoitensis, encontrada en SCSNA. Entre las especies nuevas para la flora de Arizona se incluyen Pennellia robinsonii (de SRSP), Rhynchosia minima (de SCSNA), y Sibara virginica (de SRSP). Lilaeopsis schaffneriana ssp. recurva, una especie en peligro fue encontrada en SRSP. Las floras de SCSNA y SRSP son fuertemente Apachianas en sus afinidades florsticas. Las especies encontradas en SCSNA pero no en SRSP tienen una afinidad ms grande con la flora de la provincia florstica de Sonora y las especies encontradas en SRSP pero no en SCSNA tienen una afinidad ms grande con las Grandes Llanuras.
41968610|The new combination Polytrichastrum alpinum var. sylvaticum (Menzies) G.L. Merrill is provided. Se aporta la nueva combinacin Polytrichastrum alpinum var. sylvaticum (Menzies) G.L. Merrill.
41968558|Clematis carrizoensis, a new narrowly endemic species of subgenus Viorna, is described from the Carrizo Sands of northeastern Texas. This species belongs to a complex of similar species characterized by glaucous and glabrous abaxial leaf surfaces and stems. Four additional species comprise this complex: C. addisonii, C. glaucophylla, C. texensis, and C. versicolor. Clematis carrizoensis is morphologically most similar to the scarlet sepaled C. texensis and the purplish-red to bluish-lavender sepaled C. versicolor. It differs from those two species in having yellowish-cream and lightly lilac-tinged sepals. From C. addisonii and C. glaucophylla, C. carrizoensis differs in sepal color and in having thicker and more reticulate leaves. All five species of the complex are allopatric and occupy somewhat different habitat types in different physiographic provinces. Further discussion of their morphological differences, geographic distribution, and habitat preferences is provided. Se describe Clematis carrizoensis, una nueva especies del subgnero Viorna, endmica de Carrizo Sands en el noreste de Texas. Esta especie pertenece a un complejo de especies similares caracterizadas por tener los tallos y el envs glaucos y glabros. El complejo tiene otras cuatro especies: C. addisonii, C. glaucophylla, C. texensis, y C. versicolor. Clematis carrizoensis es la ms similar morfolgicamente a C. texensis de spalos escarlata y C. versicolor de spalos que van del rojo prpura al lavanda azulado. Difiere de estas dos especies por tener los spalos amarillo crema ligeramente teidos de lila. De C. addisonii y C. glaucophylla, se diferencia C. carrizoensis por el color de los spalos y por tener las hojas ms gruesas y ms reticuladas. Las cinco especies del complejo son aloptricas y ocupan diferentes hbitats en provincias fisiogrficas diferentes. Se ofrece una discusin sobre sus diferencias morfolgicas, distribucin geogrfica, y preferencias de hbitat.
41968626|Biogeographers have divided Arkansas into physiogeographic provinces and ecoregions. Using quantitative methods, we examined the north-south floristic transition across Arkansas to see if phytogeographic regions are detectable by abrupt changes in the flora. We found only gradual change even though there are abrupt and major physiographical discontinuities. Los biogegrafos han dividido Arkansas en provincias fisiogeogrficas y ecorregiones. Usando mtodos cuantitativos, examinamos las transiciones norte-sur a travs de Arkansas para ver si las regiones fitogeogrficas son dtectables por cambios abruptos en la flora. Hemos encontrado slo cambio gradual aunque hay discontinuidades fisiogrficas abruptas y mayores.
41968640|We report the first record of Carex bicknellii Britt. for Arkansas. The species was collected by the authors in 2003 and 2005 from Baker Prairie Natural Area, an unplowed tallgrass prairie remnant in Boone County, Arkansas. Se realiza la primera cita de Carex bicknellii Britt. para Arkansas. La especie se colect por los autores en 2003 y 2005 en Baker Prairie Natural Area, una pradera de hierba alta remanente en Boone County, Arkansas.
41968628|Southern Arkansas appears to be at the edge of the potential range for naturalization of the water hyacinth, Eichhornia crassipes (Martius) Solms, due to the cold intolerance exhibited by the plant. A population discovered growing in DeGray Lake, Clark County, Arkansas, was examined from 2002-2003 to determine whether the population could survive after the freezes common during winter. The population was of particular interest because it had become rooted and remained submerged with higher lake levels during the surface freezes of winter. Rosettes that fragmented from the population established new growth during the next growing season, but fluctuating lake levels eventually stranded this growth and caused extirpation of the population. Arkansas meridional parece estar en la frontera del rango potencial para la naturalizacin del jacinto de agua, Eichhornia crassipes (Martius) Solms, debido a la intolerancia al fro exhibida por la planta. Una poblacin se descubri creciendo en el Lago DeGray, Condado de Clark, Arkansas, se examin entre 2002-2003 para determinar si la poblacin podra sobrevivir despus de las heladas comunes durante el invierno. La poblacin era de inters particular porque haba llegado a arraigar y quedaba sumergida con los niveles ms altos de lago durante las congelaciones de la superficie en invierno. Rosetas que se fragmentaron de la poblacin tuvieron crecimiento nuevo en la siguiente estacin de crecimiento, pero los niveles fluctuantes del lago desfavorecieron finalmente este crecimiento y causaron la extincin de la poblacin.
41968635|Described in this paper are two new records for Kansas, Myagrum perfoliatum L. (Brassicaceae) and Lespedeza thunbergii (DC.) Nakai (Fabaceae), with details about their local introduction and establishment. Se aportan dos nuevas citas para Kansas, Myagrum perfoliatum L. (Brassicaceae) y Lespedeza thunbergii (DC) Nakai (Fabaceae), con detalles de su introduccin local y establecimiento.
41968578|The reproductive mode (sexual diploid vs. apomictic polyploid) of prairie fleabane (Erigeron strigosus Muhl. ex Willd.) in Texas was estimated through the analysis of pollen quality for herbarium specimens from the Botanical Research Institute of Texas (BRIT) and the University of Texas (TEX). The approximate geographic coordinates for 285 unique collections were determined and geographic distributions of sexual vs. apomictic plants were plotted using Geographic Information System (GIS) software. The species as a whole occurs throughout the eastern half of Texas, although one outlying specimen was recorded from the northern Panhandle. Apomictic plants were far more common than sexual plants (245 vs. 40 specimens), and exhibited greater ecological amplitude with respect to natural area, precipitation, and soil. Sexual plants were restricted to Piney woods and Post Oak Savannah habitats in extreme eastern Texas, and correspond to Erigeron traversa Shinners. This taxon was described in 1964 but subsequently included as a synonym of E. strigosus. This geographical pattern is similar to that recorded for other taxa that include sexual and apomictic populations. The new combination E. strigosus var. traversa (Shinners) Noyes is proposed. El modo de reproduccin (diploide sexual vs. poliploide apomictico) de Erigeron strigosus Muhl. ex Willd. en Texas se estim mediante el anlisis de la calidad del polen en especmenes de herbario del Botanical Research Institute de Texas (BRIT) y de la Universidad de Texas (TEX). Se determinaron las coordenadas geogrficas aproximadas de 285 colectas y se representaron las distribuciones geogrficas de plantas sexuales contra apomcticas usando un software de Sistemas de Informacin Geogrfica (GIS). La especie en conjunto est por la mitad este de Texas, aunque se registr un espcimen del norte de Panhandle. Las plantas apomcticas fueron mucho ms frecuentes que las sexuales (245 vs. 40 especmenes), y mostraron mayor amplitud ecolgica con respecto al rea natural, precipitacin, y suelo. Las plantas sexuales estuvieron restringidas a habitats de pinares y robledales en el extremo este de Texas, y corresponden a Erigeron traversa Shinners. Este taxon se describi en 1964 pero despus fue incluido como sinnimo de E. strigosus. El patrn geogrfico es similar al registrado para los otros taxa que incluyen poblaciones sexuales y apomcticas. Se propone la nueva combinacin E. strigosus var. traversa (Shinners) Noyes.
41968646|Ten species of vascular plants, all native or naturalized in the southeastern United States, are reported as new or noteworthy for Arkansas. Of these, five are native and five are non-native. Seven are reported as state records, and the accounts for the other three species provide clarifications, including updates on the status of two aquatic weeds, one federally listed as an invasive non-native weed (Hydrilla verticillata) and another erroneously thought to be native to the United States (Salvinia minima). Species reported as a state record are: Amaranthus blitum, Chamaesyce hypercifolia, Chamaesyce opthalmica, Euphorbia gramnea, Hedyotis corymbosa, Ipomoea quamoclit, and Parietariafloridana. Se citan diez especies de plantas vasculares, todas nativas o naturalizadas en es sureste de los Estados Unidos, como nuevas o notables para Arkansas. De estas, cinco son nativas y cinco no nativas. Siete se citan para el estado, y para las otras tres especies se aportan clarificaciones, incluyendo puestas al da del estatus de dos plantas acuticas, una de ellas del listado federal de plantas invasoras no nativas (Hydrilla verticillata) y otra que se pens errneamente que era nativa de los Estados Unidos (Salvinia minima). Las especies citadas como nuevas para el estado son: Amaranthus blitum, Chamaesyce hypercifolia, Chamaesyce opthalmica, Euphorbia gramnea, Hedyotis corymbosa, Ipomoea quamocliU y Parietariafloridana.
41968644|A population of the introduced and expanding Cayratia japonica (Thunb.) Gagnep. (Vitaceae) is reported for North Carolina. Voucher specimens are cited and an updated key to the genera of Vitaceae in the Carolinas is presented. Se cita de Carolina del Norte una poblacin de la especie introducida y en expansin Cayratia japonica (Thunb.) Gagnep. (Vitaceae). Se dan los pliegos testigo y se presenta una clave puesta al da de los gneros de Vitaceae en las Carolinas.
41968648|Gratiola brevifolia (Plantaginaceae) is reported as a rare and native addition to the flora of Delaware, the Delmarva Peninsula, and to the Mid-Atlantic. This species is disjunct approximately 835 km (520 mi) from the closest known population in Burke Co., Georgia. Gratiola brevifolia (Plantaginaceae) se cita como una especie native rara para aadir a la flora de Delaware, la Pennsula de Delmarva, y as to the Mid-Atlantic. Esta especie est disyunta 835 km (520 mi) aproximadamente de la poblacin conocida ms cercana en Burke Co., Georgia.
41968573|The Cuscuta indecora complex (Cuscuta subsect. Indecorae) in North America is characterized by fleshy, papillose flowers, corolla lobes with inflexed tips, and capsules with a thickened stylopodium. It includes C. indecora, C. coryli, C. warneri, and C. jepsonii. Recent taxonomists have proposed to treat the latter three taxa at varietal rank within C. indecora or as synonyms of it. We maintain C. warneri and C. jepsonii at specific rank because of their distinctive morphology, even though the latter is known only from the type collection and the former from a very limited number of specimens. Cuscuta indecora includes var. indecora, var. longisepala, and C. indecora var. attenuata (Waterfall) Costea, comb, et stat. nov. Cuscuta indecora vars. bifida and neuropetala are treated as synonyms of C. indecora var. indecora. Cuscuta warneri and C. coryli are reported as new floristic records from New Mexico and Qubec, respectively. El complejo Cuscuta indecora (Cuscuta subsect. Indecorae) en Amrica del Norte est caracterizado por flores papilosas y suculentas, lbulos de la corola con puntas inflexionadas, y cpsulas con un estilopodio engrosado. El complejo incluye C. indecora, C. coryli, C. warneri, y C. jepsonii. Recientemente algunos taxnomos han propuesto tratar las ltimas tres variedades dentro de la categora C. indecora o como un sinnimo del mismo. Mantenemos que C. warneri y C. jepsonii estn en una categora especial por su morfologa distinta, a pesar de que la ltima se conoce slo por la coleccin del tipo, y la primera es conocida mediante un nmero de especmenes muy limitado. Cuscuta indecora incluye var. indecora, var. longisepala, y C. indecora var. attenuata (Waterfall) Costea, comb, et stat. nov. Cuscuta indecora vars. bifida y neuropetala son tratadas cmo sinnimos de C. indecora var. indecora. Cuscuta warneri y C. coryli figuran como nuevas citas florsticas de Nuevo Mxico y Quebec, respectivamente.
41968564|A new genus of Stipeae (Poaceae), Amelichloa, is described. It differs from other genera in the tribe in the woody, sharp tips of it basal leaves, the presence of smooth longitudinal ribs on its caryopses, its persistent stylar bases and in the frequent presence of cleistogamous panicles in the axils of its basal leaf sheaths. There are five species in the genus: A. ambigua, A. brachychaeta, A. brevipes, A. caudata, and A. clandestina. The first four species are native to South America; A. clandestina is native to northern Mexico. A key to the species is provided. Three of them, A. brachychaeta, A. caudata, and A. clandestina, have become established in disturbed areas on other continents. The name honors Dr. Maria Amelia Torres. Se describe Amelichloa, un nuevo gnero para la tribu Stipeae (Poaceae). El mismo difiere de otros gneros de la tribu por presentar pices de las hojas bsales punzantes y muy resistentes; suaves lineas longitudinales en la superficie del cariopse y bases estilares persistentes, as como en la frecuente presencia de cleistgenos en las axilas de las hojas bsales. El gnero se encuentra constituido por cinco especies: A. ambigua, A. brachychaeta, A. brevipes, A. caudata y A. clandestina. Las cuatro primeras nativas de Sudamrica; A. clandestina del norte de Mxico. Se incluye una clave para especies. Tres de las especies A. brachychaeta, A. caudata y A. clandestina se han establecido en reas disturbadas de otros continentes. Se dedica este gnero a la Dra. Mara Amelia Torres.
41968590|This paper deals with Crataegus series Parvifoliae (Rosaceae, subfamily Pyroideae) in the main part of its range, the southeastern United States. Two species, C. uniflora and C. brittonii, are recognized together with one putative interserial hybrid, C.  vailiae. A number of other obscure entities are also discussed. The series and constituent species are provided with detailed descriptions, full synonymy, keys to taxa and are typified so far as possible. Line illustrations and county level distribution maps, the latter derived from a database of over 1200 records, are also given for each species treated. Este artculo trata de Crataegus serie Parvifoliae (Rosaceae, subfamilia Pyroideae) en la parte principal de su rea, el sureste de los Estados Unidos. Se reconocen dos especies, C. uniflora y C. brittonii, junto con un hbrido putativo interserial, C. _ vailiae. Se discuten tambin un nmero de entidades poco claras. Tanto de la serie como de las especies constituyentes se ofrecen descripciones detalladas, sinonimia completa, claves de los taxa, y se tipifican en lo posible. Para cada especie tratada se dan ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin a nivel de condado derivados de una base de datos de ms de 1200 registros.
41968569|The Cuscuta californica complex (Cuscuta subsect. Californicae) is recircumscribed to include the species from subsect. Subinclusae. The species include C. salina, C. susksdorfii, C. californica, C. occidentalis, C. subinclusa, and C. howelliana. A summary of relevant taxonomic information is provided, along with a key to species and varieties, synonymy, distribution, host range, and conservation status. Morphology and micromorphology of flowers, seeds, and capsules are analyzed and illustrated. El complejo Cuscuta californica (Cuscuta subsect. Californicae) est circunscrito a incluir las especies de subsect. Subinclusae. Las especies incluyen G salina, C. susksdorfii, C. californica, C. occidentalis, C. subinclusa, y C. howelliana. En este trabajo se presenta un resumen de la informacin taxonmica junto con una clave para identificar las especies y variedades, sinnimos, distribucin, variabilidad de huspedes y estato de conservacin. Se analizan e ilustran la morfologa y micromorfologia de las flores, de las semillas y de las cpsulas.
41968604|Four asclepiadaceous types not listed in a previous type catalogue of the collections of the Instituto de Ecologa y Sistemtica, Habana, Cuba (HAC) are provided, along with a discussion of typification problems associated with the associated Charles Wright collections. Lectotypif ications are provided for Gonolobus stephanotrichus Griseb., Orthosia acuminata Griseb., Orthosia oblongata Griseb., and Poicilla ovatifolia Griseb. Se aportan cuatro tipos de Asclepiadaceae no listados en el catlogo previo de tipos de las colecciones del Instituto de Ecologa y Sistemtica, Habana, Cuba (HAC), juntocon una discusin de los problemas de tipificacin asociados con las colecciones Charles Wright. Se aportan lectotipificaciones de Gonolobus stephanotrichus Griseb., Orthosia acuminata Griseb., Orthosia oblongata Griseb., y Poicilla ovatifolia Griseb.
41968616|Over the last four decades, the size and density of populations of Lophophora williamsii (peyote) have diminished markedly in large areas of South Texas where licensed peyote distributors harvest the cactus for ceremonial use by the Native American Church. Part of the problem lies in the fact that some harvesters are cutting plants too low on the subterranean stem or taproot. That practice precludes the regeneration of new stems and ultimately results in the death of the decapitated plants. To address this problem, we describe the anatomical distinctions between subterranean stem and root in L. williamsii as follows: The stem cortex can be distinguished by the cortical bundles running through the parenchyma, in contrast to the root cortex, which consists of pure parenchyma without cortical bundles. The pith at the center of the stem is pure parenchyma (without xylem) and is readily distinguished from the dilatated metaxylem (with masses of dark-staining metaxylem tracheary elements) occupying the center of the root. With these new anatomical tools, it is now possible to set up titration experiments, first in the greenhouse and then in the field, to generate practical biometrie data to determine the maximum depth at which the peyote harvesters can cut the plants without significantly reducing the survival rate of the rootstocks left in the ground after harvest. Durante las ltimas cuatro dcadas, el tamao y densidad de las poblaciones de Lophophora wiilliamsii (peyote) han disminuido drsticamente en grandes extensiones del sur de Texas donde se dan permisos a distribuidores de peyote para recolectar especmenes de uso en las ceremonias religiosas de la Native American Church. Parte del problema estriba en el hecho de que algunos colectores estn cortando plantas muy abajo, o en el tallo subterrneo o en la raz pivotante. Esta prctica impide la regeneracin de nuevos tallos y finalmente ocasiona la muerte de las plantas decapitadas. Para abordar este problema, nosotros describimos las caractersticas anatmicas que distinguen el tallo subterrneo y la raz de L. williamsii como sigue: El tejido cortical del tallo se distingue por la presencia de haces corticales que se distribuyen por el parnquima, atributo que contrasta con el tejido cortical de la raz, el cual consiste en puro parnquima sin haces corticales. En el centro del tallo la mdula es puro parnquima (sin xilema), y se reconoce claramente del metaxilema dilatado (parches de elementos traqueales del metaxilema teidos de oscuro) que ocupa el centro de la raz. En base a estas caractersticas anatmicas ser posible hacer experimentos de corte, primero en invernadero y despus en el campo, con la finalidad de generar datos que permitan determinar la profundidad mxima a la cual los recolectores de peyote pueden cortar las plantas sin reducir significativamente la supervivencia de los individuos que quedan en el suelo despus de la colecta.
41968638|Documented records are reported for 89 taxa (81 species, 7 varieties, and one hybrid) from Collier County (31 taxa) and from Lee County (71 taxa), Florida (102 records altogether). A newly discovered hybrid, Carex gigantea  Carex lupuliformis, is discussed. Se realizan las citas documentadas de 89 taxa (81 especies, 7 variedades, y un hbrido) de Collier County (31 taxa) y de Lee County (71 taxa), Florida (102 citas en total). Se discute un hbrido descubierto nuevamente, Carex gigantea  Carex lupuliformis.
41968599|Two new species of Elymus L. are described, E. churchii J.J.N. Campb. and E. texensis J.J.N. Campb. Elymus churchii grows in the Ouachita and Ozark Mountains of Arkansas, Missouri and Oklahoma. It is similar to E. svensonii G.L. Church, but differs in its lemmas, which are usually pubescent, and have longer awns; its spikelets, which have fewer florets; its rachis internodes, which are longer, with hispid dorsal ridges and green longitudinal bands; and its foliage, which is typically less pubescent and less glaucous. Elymus texensis grows on the Edwards Plateau in southwest Texas. It is similar to E. pringlei Scribn. & Merr., but differs in its larger anthers; its glabrous lemmas; its larger spikelets; its longer spikes, with rachis internodes that are longer, with green longitudinal bands, and generally glabrous; and its foliage, which is sometimes densely pilose. The new species are known from few collections, and need much more study to assess their phylogentic status and geographic distribution. They are published here to allow inclusion in the Flora of North America, volume 24, and to stimulate further attention to them. Some additional notes and corrections are appended regarding the author's previous publications on Elymus. Se describen dos nuevas especies de Elymus L., E. churchii J.J.N. Campb. y E. texensis J.J.N. Campb. Elymus churchii vive en las montaas Ouachita y Ozark de Arkansas, Missouri y Oklahoma. Es similar a E. svensonii G.L. Church, pero se diferencia por sus lemas, que son usualmente pubescentes, y tienen aristas ms largas; sus espiguillas, que tienen menos flores; sus internudos del raquis, que son ms largos, con costillas dorsales hspidas y bandas verdes longitudinales; y su follaje, que es tpicamente menos pubescente y menos glauco. Elymus texensis vive en el Edwards Plateau en el sureste de Texas. Es similar a E. pringlei Scribn. & Merr., pero difiere por sus anteras ms grandes; sus lemas glabros; sus espiguillas ms grandes; sus espigas ms largas, con internados del caquis que son ms largos, con bandas verdes longitudinales, y generalmente glabras; y su follaje, que es a veces densamente piloso. Las nuevas especies se conocen de pocas colecciones, y necesitan mucho ms estudio para evaluar su estatus filogentico y distribucin geogrfica. Se publican aqu para que puedan incluirse en la Flora de Norte Amrica, volumen 24, y para estimular la atencin sobre ellas. Se aaden notas adicionales y correcciones a publicaciones previas del autor sobre Elymus.
41968606|The recent transfer of Chaptalia hintonii to Gerbera is doubted, as is any transfer of New World members to the Old World part of the Gerbera-complex. On a biogeographic basis it seems more probable that Gerbera is an Old World clade, while Chaptalia, Trichodine, and T. hieracioides (sometimes considered to be a Gerbera) are New World groups. The geographic distribution of Leibnitzia (North America, Asia) and Amblysperma spathulata (W. Australia) is enigmatic. Additional input of data is needed for a full understanding of the phylogeny in the Gerbera-complex. La reciente transferencia de Chaptalia hintonii a Gerbera es dudosa, como lo es cualquier transferencia de elementos del Nuevo Mundo a la parte del complejo Gerbera del Viejo Mundo. En base a la biogeografa parece ms probable que Gerbera es un ciado del Viejo Mundo, mientras que Chaptalia, Trichodine, y T. hieradoides (a veces considerado como una especie de Gerbera) son grupos del Nuevo Mundo. La distribucin geogrfica de Leibnitzia (Norte Amrica, Asia) y Amblysperma spathulata (Oeste de Australia) es enigmtica. Se necesitan datos adicionales para una completa comprensin de la filogenia del complejo Gerbera.
41968560|A taxonomic treatment of Bauhinia subgenus Bauhinia section Amaria is presented. Fifteen species are recognized in series Decandrae and one species is recognized in series Stenanthae. Bauhinia amatlana Wunderlin from southern Mexico, Bauhinia arborea Wunderlin from Ecuador, Bauhinia ayabacensis Wunderlin from Ecuador and Peru, and Bauhinia geniculata Wunderlin from Colombia are described and the combination Bauhinia petiolata (DC.) Triana ex Hooker f. var. caudigera (S.F. Blake) Wunderlin is proposed. Keys, descriptions, and distribution data are provided. Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico de Bauhinia subgnero Bauhinia seccin Amaria. Se reconocen quince especies en la serie Decandrae y una en la serie Stenanthae. Se describen Bauhinia amatlana Wunderlin del Sur de Mxico, Bauhinia arborea Wunderlin de Ecuador, Bauhinia ayabacensis Wunderlin de Ecuador y Per, y Bauhinia geniculata Wunderlin de Colombia, y se propone la combinacin Bauhinia petiolata (DC.) Triana ex Hooker f. var. caudigera (S.F. Blake) Wunderlin. Se aportan claves, descripciones, y datos sobre la distribucin.
41968641|A new population of Platanthera lacera is reported for Vernon Parish, southern Louisiana. Se cita una nueva poblacin de Platanthera lacera de Vernon Parish, Sur de Louisiana.
41968633|Specimens forming the basis of reports of Ficus palmata (F. pseudo-carica) in North America are misidentified and actually belong to F. carica, so F. palmata must be excluded from the adventive flora of North America. Morus nigra is present as a rare waif in California and Nevada. It is best distinguished from other Morus species in the area by its deeply cordate leaves and densely pubescent styles 3-5 mm long. Los especmenes en que se basan las citas de Ficus palmata (F. pseudo-carica) en Norte Amrica estn mal identificados y pertenecen a F carica, por lo que F palmata debe excluirse de la flora adventicia de Norte Amrica. Morus nigra est presente como una planta rara abandonada en California y Nevada. Se diferencia de otras especies de Morus en el rea por sus hojas profundamente cordadas y estilos densamente pubescentes de 3-5 mm de longitud.
41968561|Dendrophorbium restingue (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), a new species from So Paulo state, Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared with the related species D. paranense (Malme) Matzenb. & Baptista. Dendrophorbium restingue (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), una nueva especie de Sao Paulo, Brasil, es descrita, ilustrada y comparada con la especie relacionada D. paranense (Malme) Matzenb. & Baptista.
41968580|This paper presents a taxonomic treatment of nine species of Oldenlandia occurring as native or adventive in United States or Mexico. The subgenus Oldenlandia is represented by four species: O. corymbosa, O. lancifolia, O. uniflora, and O. boscii. Subgenera for the remaining species are undetermined. Four species are native to Mexico: O. pringlei, O. microtheca, O. ovata, and O. drymarioides. A ninth species, O. salzmannii, is native to South America and adventive in northwest Florida and adjacent Alabama. Keys, descriptions, and scanning electron micrographs of the seeds are provided. Este artculo presenta un tratamiento taxonmico de nueve especies de Oldenlandia que ocurren como nativas o adventicias en Estados Unidos o Mxico. El subgnero Oldenlandia est representado por cuatro especies: O. corymbosa, O. lancifolia, O. uniflora y O., boscii. Los subgneros para la especie restante son indeterminados. Cuatro especies son nativas de Mxico: O. pringlei, O. microtheca, O. ovata y O. drymarioides. Una novena especie, O. salzmannii, es nativa de Suramrica y adventicia en el noroeste Florida y Alabama adyacente. Se proporcionan claves, descripciones, y fotografas al microscopio electrnico de barrido de las semillas.
41968597|A detailed account is presented of the historical events relating to the discovery of Croton alabamensis var. alabamensis (Euphorbiaceae s.s.) by E.A. Smith in 1877 and its subsequent study by 19th century American botanists. A lectotype is designated and its provenance discussed. Este artculo presenta una descripcin detallada de los eventos relacionados con el descubrimiento de Croton alabamensis var. alabamensis (Euphorbiaceae s.s.) por E.A. Smith en 1877 y su estudio subsiguiente por botnicos en el siglo XIX. Adems, se designa un lectotipo para esta especie y se discute su origen.
41968617|The taxonomic position of 131 medicinal plants from the canal-irrigated areas of Punjab belonging to 112 families and 52 genera is presented. Their life form, parts used and pharmaceutical uses are also described. The most important family was Fabaceae containing 21 medicinal species, followed by Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Lamiaceae, Solanaceae (6 species each), Cucurbitaceae, Malvaceae, and Poaceae (5 species each). Life form analysis of these medicinal plants indicates that all life forms are represented with the majority herbaceous. To conserve this natural wealth, an integrated strategy for both saving species and meeting the increased demand for medicinal plants is suggested. The main points of this strategy should include formulation of a comprehensive policy, increased ethnobotanical surveys and sustainable production of medicinal plants through their cultivation. Se presenta la posicin taxonmica de 131 plantas medicinales de las reas irrigadas del canal del Punjab pertenecientes a 52 familias y 112 gneros. Se describen tambin las formas vitales, partes usadas y usos farmacuticos. La familia ms importante es Fabaceae con 21 especies medicinales, seguida por Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Lamiaceae, Solanaceae (6 especies cada una), Cucurbitaceae, Malvaceae, y Poaceae (5 especies cada una). El anlisis de las formas vitales de estas plantas medicinales indica que estn representadas todas con predominio de las herbceas. Para conservar esta riqueza natural, se sugiere una estrategia integrada tanto para salvar las especies como para abordar la creciente demanda de plantas medicinales. Los puntos principales de esta estrategia seran incluir la formulacin de una pol'tica integral, incremento de estudios etnobotnicos y la produccin sostenible de plantas medicinales mediante su cultivo.
41968637|Eleocharis liesneri is reported here for the first time from Brazil and Colombia. These newly discovered specimens represent the only collections known besides the type of the species, and suggest that this taxon might have a peri-Amazonian distribution. A detailed description, key, and illustration to aid in separation of E. liesneri from other South American species of Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa with which it has been confused are provided. Eleocharis liesneri se cita aqu por primera vez de Brasil y Colombia. Estos especmenes representan las nicas recolecciones conocidas aparte del tipo de la especie, y sugieren que este taxon pudiera tener una distribucin periamaznica. Se ofrece una descripcin detallada, una clave, e ilustracin para ayudar en la separacin de E. liesneri de otras especies suramericanas de Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa con las que ha sido confundido.
41968620|We report the results of a tree species inventory of seven hectares of lowland subtropical moist forest in the Palma Real River watershed of lower Madre de Dios, Peru, where we discovered a type of palm swamp forest vegetation that has not previously been studied. The goal of the study was to investigate the forest vegetation of the Palma Real watershed with special emphasis on a comparison between the wetland forest vegetation and the surrounding terra firme forests. A total of 3534 trees 10 cm DBH belonging to 442 species in 62 families were measured and identified in the seven plots. Three distinct forest types resulted from Principal Components Analysis (PCA) and WPGMA cluster analysis of both family and species abundance data, including two types of terra firme forests and a palm swamp forest. The five terra firme forest plots sampled, with a range of 104-138 species, were less diverse than other one-hectare forest plots reported from the region, which have a diversity ranging from 151-197 species. The two palm swamp forest plots, with 126 and 167 tree species, were more diverse than surrounding terra firme forest plots sampled in this study. One of the palm swamp forest plots was extremely diverse with 167 species, only seven species less than the average diversity across 14 one-hectare terra firme plots sampled by other investigators in Madre de Dios, Peru. Both palm swamp forest plots had a greater number of stems distributed across smaller size classes. Both Fabaceae and Arecaceae were the most important plant families across all plots. The Arecaceae contributed significantly to distinguishing the palm swamp forest plots, composing 16-25% of all stems compared to only 9% of the stems in terra firme plots of the region. This high abundance of the palm family is from where we derive the name we are applying to this wetland forest type in the Palma Real watershed. Using satellite imagery we illustrate the importance of the extent of these palm swamp forests throughout the region. Reportamos los resultados de un inventario floristico de siete hectreas en un bosque subtropical hmedo en la cuenca de la quebrada Palma Real, en Madre de Dios, Per. El objetivo de este estudio fue investigar la vegetacin de la Quebrada Palma Real con especial nfasis en una comparacin entre un tipo de vegetacin de pantano con palmeras y la vegetacin de terra firme circundante. En total de 3534 rboles mayores a 10 cm de dimetro (DAP) pertenecientes a 442 especies en 62 familias fueron medidos e identificados en siete parcelas. Tres tipos de bosque resultaron de los anlisis de componentes principales y anlisis de agrupamiento WPGMA mediante datos de abundancia por familia y por especie en los dos tipos de vegetacin. Las cinco parcelas muestreadas en terra firme, con un rango de 104-138 especies por parcela, fueron menos diversas que otras parcelas estudiadas en la regin, las cuales tienen un rango de 151-197 especies. Las dos parcelas muestreadas en bosque pantanoso de palmeras, con 126 y 167 especies, fueron ms diversas que las parcelas de terra firme circundantes. Una de las parcelas del bosque pantanoso de palmeras fue extremadamente diversa con 167 especies, solo siete especies menos que el promedio reportado para 14 otras parcelas estudiadas por otros investigadores en Madre de Dios. Ambas parcelas del bosque pantanoso con palmeras tuvieron una alta densidad de tallos distribuidos en las clases diammetricas ms pequeas, lo cual podra ser una explicacin de la alta diversidad de especies. Fabaceae y Arecaceae fueron las familias ms importantes para todas las parcelas. Arecaceae contribuy significativamente a distinguir el bosque pantanoso con palmeras, comprendiendo entre el 16-25% de todos los tallos, comparado con solo el 9% de tallos en bosque de terra firme de la region. Esta alta abundancia de palmeras determin el nombre que nosotros aplicamos a este tipo de bosque muy hmedo en la cuenca de la Quebrada de Palma Real. Usando imgenes satelitales nosotros ilustramos la importancia por su extensin, de estos bosques pantanosos de palmeras en la regin. Finalmente nosotros instamos a desarollar mas estudios de largo plazo sobre la diversidad y ecologa en la regin, con nfasis en la importancia de estos bosques de Palma Real en la extraccin de castaa (Bertholletia excelsa, Lecythidaceae) y otros recursos para la regin y sus moradores.
41968575|In the Piedmont Physiographic Province of the southeastern U.S.A., the endemic North American genus Pediomelum is known only from three dry, rocky, partly open sites near the Fall Line. The first collections were made in 1984, from Richland County, South Carolina; in 1996, from more than 100 km. to the west, in Columbia County, Georgia; and in 2005, from Lexington County, South Carolina, less than 20 km from the Richland County site. The two late-twentieth-century collections were referred, with reservations, to P. canescens, a species of sandy soils on the adjacent Atlantic Coastal Plain. This was the only known Pediomelum that resembled the Piedmont plants in having the petioles shorter than the petiolules and the only similarly erect and caulescent species east of the Mississippi River. Subsequent collections and study by the authors indicate that the Piedmont populations share a consistent morphology that is unique within the genus in combining subsessile leaves with congested, many-flowered inflorescences. These plants differ from P. canescens in additional ways (e.g., fruiting calyces gibbous and more narrowly campanulate, bracts conspicuously larger and broader, and leaflets more narrowly elliptic). The Piedmont plants also cannot be considered a sessileleaved variant of any of the western species, and therefore they are described as Pediomelum piedmontanum Allison, Morris, & Egan, sp. nov. En la Provincia Fisiogrfica de Piedmont del sureste de EEUU, el gnero Pediomelum, endmico de Norteamrica, se ha encontrado solamente en tres sitios secos y rocosos y parcialmente abiertos que estn cerca de la Fall Line. Las primeras colecciones se hicieron en 1984 en el Condado de Richland, Carolina del Sur; en 1996, a ms de 100 km al oeste, en el Condado de Columbia, Georgia; y en 2005 en el Condado de Lexington, Carolina del Sur, a menos de 20 km del sitio en el Condado de Richland. Las dos colecciones de finales del siglo XX se refirieron, con reservas, a P. canescens, una especie de los suelos arenosos en el Atlantic Coastal Plain contiguo. Este era el nico Pediomelum conocido que se asemejaba a las plantas del Piedmont en tener los pecolos ms cortos que los pecilulos y la nica especie semejante al este del Ro Mississippi erguida y caulescente. Las colecciones subsiguientes y los estudios por los autores indican que las poblaciones del Piedmont comparten una morfologa coherente que es nica dentro del gnero en combinar las hojas subssiles con las inflorescencias congestas y multif loras. Estas plantas se diferencian de P. canescens de otros modos (p.ej., los clices fructferos gibosos y ms angostamente campanulados, las brcteas visiblemente ms grandes y ms anchas, y las hojuelas ms angostamente elpticas). Las plantas del Piedmont tampoco se pueden considerar como una variante, con las hojas subssiles, de cualquiera de las especies occidentales, y por lo tanto se describen como Pediomelum piedmontanum Allison, Morris, & Egan, sp. nov.
41968643|Upon review of herbaria specimens and recent collections, it is clear that Seymeriafalcata B.L. Turner occurs in the Dead Horse Mountains of southern Brewster County, Texas. This is the first report of this species for Texas and the United States. Basndonos en la revisin de especimenes herbario y colecciones recientes est claro que Seymeria falcata B.L. Turner ocurre en las Montaas Caballos Muertos en el condado meridional de Brewster, Tejas. ste es la primera cita de esta especie para Tejas y los Estados Unidos.
41968579|During the preparation of a monograph of the Ebenaceae for Mexico, numerous collections previously determined to be Diospyros conzattii Standley and Diospyros riojae Gomez-Pompa could not be reconciled with their original descriptions, type specimens and illustrations. It was determined that collections of putative D. conzattii from Costa Rica represent a new species, D. costaricensis, described here. All but one collection of putative D. riojae from the Mexican states of Queretaro, Hidalgo, Tamaulipas, and San Luis Potosi, represent a new species, D. gomeziorum, described here. Putative collections of D. riojae from Veracruz additionally include specimens of D. conzattii, a species previously unreported for the state, and a new species from the Sierra de Los Tuxtlas, D. tuxtlensis, described here. We provide emended descriptions of D. riojae and D. conzattii, and describe three new species of Diospyros for Tropical America. We also provide comments on distribution, ecology, conservation, ethnobotany and provide illustrations for each of these taxa. Durante la preparacin de la monografa de Ebenaceae para Mxico, numerosas colecciones previamente determinadas como Diospyros conzattii Standley y Diospyros riojae Gomez-Pompa no pudieron ser reconciliadas con las descripciones originales, el espcimen tipo y las ilustraciones. Se determin que la coleccin putativa D. conzattii de Costa Rica, representa una especie nueva, D. costaricensis descrita aqu. Todas, excepto una de las colecciones putativas de D. riojae de los estados mexicanos de Quertaro, Hidalgo, Tamaulipas y San Luis Potos representan una especie nueva de D. gomeziorum, descrita aqu. Adicionalmente, las colecciones putativas de D. riojae de Veracruz, incluyen especmenes de D. conzattii, una especie no citada previamente para ese estado y de una especie nueva de la Sierra de los Tuxtlas D. tuxtlensis, descrita aqu. Proveemos descripciones corregidas de D. riojae y D. conzattii y describimos tres especies nuevas de Diospyros para Amrica tropical. Tambin hacemos comentarios sobre la distribucin, ecologa, conservacin, etnobotnica y aportamos ilustraciones de todos los taxa.
41968559|A newly recognized species of Arundinaria from the southern Appalachian Mountains is described, illustrated, and compared with the related species A. gigantea and A. tecta. Arundinaria appalachiana is distinguished by a combination of vegetative morphological characters including features of branching and leaf morphology, leaf anatomy, and ecology. Recognition of this species is consistent with genetic data that provide evidence for monophyly of the species and its sister relationship with A. tecta. A key for the identification of Arundinaria species in North America is included along with a comparative table based on morphology, leaf anatomy, and ecology. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Arundinaria del sur de la Cordillera de los Apalaches y se la compara con las especies relacionadas A. gigantea y A. tecta. Se distingue Arundinaria appalachiana por una combinacin de caracteres morfolgicos vegetativos, entre ellos aspectos de la ramificacin, morfologa y anatoma de las hojas, y ecologa. El reconocimiento de esta especie concuerda con datos genticos que apoyan la monofilia de la especie nueva y su posicin como especie hermana a A. tecta. Se incluye una clave para la identificacin de especies de Arundnaria en Amrica del Norte y una tabla comparativa basada en la morfologa, anatoma de las hojas, y ecologa.
41968612|The new combination Tetraphispellucida Hedw. var. trachypoda, is proposed to clarify the taxonomic rank of the moss Tetraphis trachypoda and to recognize the morphological difference of having a straight, slightly papillose seta. A revised key to the genus, a diagnosis of var. trachypoda, and specimens examined are provided. Se propone la nueva combinacin Tetraphis pellucida Hedw. var. trachypoda, para aclarar el rango taxonmico del musgo Tetraphis trachypoda y para reconocer las diferencias morfolgicas de tener una seda derecha ligeramente papilosa. Se ofrece una clave revisada del gnero, una diagnosis de la var. trachypoda, y los especimenes examinados.
41968571|Cuscuta umbrosa is the correct name for the species often recognized as C. megalocarpa. It apparently intergrades in some features with C. gronovii, but the two are generally distinct across a broad region of sympatry. Three varieties are recognized within C. gronovii: var. gronovii is widespread; var. latiflora is broadly sympatric with var. gronovii but is maintained because relationships with C. gronovii var. gronovii and C. cephalanthi art not clear; var. calyptrata is more distinct and narrowly restricted in range, although it also is sympatric with var. gronovii. Cuscuta umbrosa es el nombre correcto para la especie reconocida recientemente como C. megalocarpa. Es ampliamente simptrica y algo intergradada con C. gronovii, pero las dos especies son generalmente claras. Se reconocen tres variedades dentro de C. gronovii: var. gronovii que est muy esparcida; var. latiflora es ampliamente simptrica con la var. gronovii pero se mantiene debido a la relacin con C. gronovii var. gronovii y C. cephalanthi no est clara; la var. calyptrata es ms clara y estrechamente restringida en su distribucin geogrfica, aunque sea tambin simptrica con la var. gronovii.
41968613|A new combination, Bromus catharticus var. elata (E. Desv.) Planchuelo is proposed. This taxon has hitherto been treated either as B. stamineus E. Desv. or as B. cebadilla Steud. Recent morphological evidence supports its recognition as a variety of B. catharticus. Detailed illustrations are included along with a morphological description, synonym list, geographical distribution, and representative specimens. Se propone la nueva combinacin Bromus catharticus var. data (E. Desv.) Planchuelo. Este taxn fue previamente tratado indistintamente como B. stamineus E. Desv. o B. cebadilla Steud. Evidencias morfolgicas recientes validan su ubicacin como una variedad de B. catharticus. El trabajo se complementa con una detallada ilustracin, descripcin morfolgica, lista de sinnimos, distribucin geogrfica y especimenes representativos.
41968588|The previous lectotypification of Lantana camara L. is evaluated by examination of characters of the lectotype, review of other original material, and documentation of current usage of the name. The current usage is analyzed by surveying pertinent literature and by sampling specimens for annotations between 1753 and the present in relation to critical characters of those specimens. Current usage of L. camara includes a widely cultivated and naturalized cultigen species of hybrid origin that is taxonomically distinct from L. camara. To determine the correct name of the cultigen, all names in Lantana sect. Lantana are reviewed, typified if necessary and possible, and taxonomically disposed. No available name applies to the cultigen, which is newly described as Lantana strigocamara R.W. Sanders. Origin of the named hybrids in the L. camara complex is hypothesized. Two new combinations are made, Lantana cantara subsp. aculeata (L.) R.W. Sanders and Lantana nivea Vent, subsp. mutabilis (W.J. Hook.) R.W. Sanders. Nineteen lectotypifications and seven epitypifications are made. La lectotipificacin previa de Lantana camara L. se evala mediante examen de los caracteres del lectotipo, revisin de otro material original, y documentacin del uso actual del nombre. El uso actual se analiz revisando la bibliografa adecuada y por muestreo de especmenes entre 1753 y el presente por comentarios en relacin a caracteres crticos de esos especmenes. El uso actual de L camara incluye una especie ampliamente cultivada y naturalizada de origen hbrido que es taxonmicamente diferente de L camara. Para determinar el nombre correcto de la planta cultivada se revisaron todos los nombre de Lantana sect. Lantana, se tipificaron cuando fue necesario y posible, y taxonmicamente decidido. No hay nombres disponibles para la planta cultivada, que se describe como Lantana strigocamara R.W. Sanders. Se hace una hiptesis del origen de los hbridos nombrados en el complejo L. camara. Se hacen dos combinaciones nuevas, Lantana cantara subsp. aculeata (L.) R.W. Sanders y Lantana nivea Vent, subsp. mutabilis (W.J. Hook.) R.W. Sanders. Se realizan diez y nueve lectotipificaciones y siete epitipificaciones.
41968627|The physical conditions of mature seeds were examined from representatives of six Kentucky populations and one Indiana population of the endangered species Short's goldenrod (Solidago shortii, Asteraceae). A random sample of seeds from the Kentucky populations revealed the majority (71%-99%) were incapable of successful seedling development, being damaged due either to an insect predator or to unsuccessful fertilization or embryo abortion. Successful seedling development from phenotypically normal seeds ranged from 71% to 96% in the sampled Kentucky populations. The majority of the damaged seeds were necrotic, ranging from 62%-90%. The Indiana population exhibited the lowest level of herbivory (2%) observed for the species. Two congener goldenrod species (S. canadensis var. altissima and S. nemoralis) found growing either within or adjacent to three populations of Short's goldenrod exhibited lower levels of necrosis and higher levels of herbivory. A third congener species (S. gigantea) exhibited equal levels of the two seed conditions (herbivory and necrosis). The influence of seed inviability upon the persistence of natural populations of Short's goldenrod is at present unknown. Las condiciones fsicas de semillas maduras de la especie amenazada "Short's goldenrod" (Solidago shortii, Asteraceae) fueron examinadas en seis poblaciones de Kentucky y una poblacin de Indiana. La mayora de las semillas de poblaciones muestreadas al azar en Kentucky, presentaron un nmero reducido de plntulas. Altos niveles de herbivora, infertilidad, o aborto de embriones pueden explicar estas observaciones. Semillas normales encontradas en las poblaciones de Kentucky generaron plntulas que se desarrollaron con xito en un 71% a 96%. En la mayora de las semillas daadas los niveles de necrosis fluctuaron en un 62%-90%. La poblacin de Indiana present el menor nivel de herbivora (2%) observado en la especie. En dos especies de "goldenrod" (S. canadensis var. altissima y S. nemoralis) distribuidas entre o cerca de tres poblaciones de "Short's goldenrod" se observaron bajos niveles de necrosis y altos niveles de herbivora. En un una tercera especie de "goldenrod" (S. gigantea) se observaron condiciones similares de herbivora y necrosis. Se desconoce la influencia de inviabilidad de semillas en la persistencia de poblaciones naturales de Short's goldenrod.
41968587|Heterotheca villosa (as treated by Semple 1996, 2006) is a complex species with nine varieties, most of which are sympatric in various degrees. Heterotheca villosa var. nana and H. villosa var. scabra are essentially allopatric and intergrade little, but each is widely sympatric with H. villosa and distinct from it. Recognition at specific rank accurately reflects the status of var. nana and var. scabra, and they are treated here, respectively, as Heterotheca hrrida (Rydb.) Harms and Heterotheca polothrix Nesom, nom. et stat. nov. Heterotheca stenophylla sensu stricto is distinct from H. stenophylla var. angustifolia (sensu Semple) and sympatric with it, and the latter is appropriately treated as H. villosa var. angustifolia (Rydb.) Harms. The New Mexico endemic Heterotheca villosa var. sierrablancensis Semple is raised to specific rank as Heterotheca sierrablancensis (Semple) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov. Identifications of vars. villosajoliosa, bailarn, and minor (all sensu Semple) require arbitrary judgements because of their broad sympatry and extensive intergradation. The distinction between var. pedunculata and H. zionensis is not clear, and both taxa apparently intergrade broadly with more typical H. villosa. Variety depressa is maintained at specific rank as H. depressa (Rydb.) Dorn. Maps show the generalized distributions of the taxa of the H. villosa complex sensu Semple, and a nomenclatural summary outlines an alternative taxonomy. Heterotheca villosa (as treated by Semple 1996,2006) es un complejo de especies con ocho variedades, la mayora de las cuales son simptricas en varios grados. Heterotheca villosa var. nana y H villosa var. scabra son esencialmente aloptricas y se intergradan poco, pero cada una de ellas es ampliamente simptrica con H. villosa y diferente de ella. El reconocimiento a nivel especfico refleja con precisin el estatus de var. nana y var. scabra, y son tratadas aqu, respectivamente, como Heterotheca hrrida (Rydb.) Harms y Heterotheca polothrix Nesom, nom. et stat. nov. Heterotheca stenophylla sensu stricto es diferente de H. stenophylla var. angustifolia (sensu Semple) y simptrica con ella, y esta ltima es tratada apropiadamente como H. villosa var. angustifolia (Rydb.) Harms. La endmica de Nuevo Mxico Heterotheca villosa var. sierrablancensis Semple se eleva al rango especfico como Heterotheca sierrablancensis (Semple) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov. Las identificaciones de las vars. villosa, foliosa, ballardii, y minor (todas sensu Semple) requieren juicios arbitrarios debido a su amplia simpatria e intergradacin extensa. La diferenciacin entre var. pedunculata y H. zionensis no es clara, y ambos taxa aparentemente se intergradan con la ms tpica H. villosa. La variedad depressa se mantiene en el rango especfico como H. depressa (Rydb.) Dorn. En los mapas se muestran las distribuciones generales de los taxa del complejo H. villosa sensu Semple, y un resumen nomenclatural delinea una taxonoma alternativa.
41969108|Plants of Hexalectrisgrandiflora A. Richard & Galeotti (Orchidaceae) collected in Dallas County, Texas in 2005 and 2006 extend the range of this species northeast by more than 700 km and indicates greater diversity for the genus Hexalectris in Dallas County than previously observed. These observations suggest either the absence of sufficient data on this species' range in intervening counties, or the loss of populations between the north central Texas and western Texas locations, and argue for continued study of Hexalectris throughout the state. Las plantas de Hexalectris grandiflora A. Richard & Galeotti (Orchidaceae) colectadas en el condado de Dallas, Texas en 2005 y 2006 aumentan el rea de esta especie hacia el noreste ms de 700 km e indican mayor diversidad para el gnero Hexalectris en el condado de Dallas de la que se haba observado previamente. Estas observaciones sugieren tanto la ausencia de datos suficientes del areal de esta especie en los condados afectados, o la prdida de poblaciones entre el norte-centro de Texas y las localidades del oeste de Texas, y se aportan argumentos para continuar el estudio de Hexalectris en todo el estado.
41969063|Two new species of Myrtaceae from Ecuador and Peru are described and illustrated: Catyptranthes manuensis and Eugenia yasuniana. Se describen y se ilustran dos especies nuevas de Myrtaceae del Ecuador y Peru: Calyptranthes manuensis y Eugenia yasuniana.
41969091|A Geocarpon minimum population growing on a sandstone glade in Dade County, Missouri was monitored for ten years (1994-2003). Plants were counted annually in eight permanent plots at two scales (0.01 and 1.0 m) to determine population fluctuations through time. Soil depths as well as cover of bryophytes, lichens, vascular plants, and bare rock/soil were recorded in subplots between 1994 and 2000 to determine any possible association with G. minimum numbers. The number of G. minimum plants in the eight plots varied from 1 to 4230, with a mean of 1332. Mean soil depth of subplots containing G. minimum was 19 mm. There was a weak association (rs=0.16, P<0.0001) between soil depth and Geocarpon density. Regression analyses show that G. minimum numbers tend to increase with increasing soil depth to about 20 mm and decline thereafter. In addition, there were significant differences among vegetation types (P < 0.05) with the exception of lichens (P > 0.05). There was a significant difference between G. minimum population numbers and year (P < 0.05). There was discontinuity with scale and the Spearman rank correlations, however, when ecological groups were combined into larger categories (i.e., lichens and bryophytes were lumped into cryptogams), patterns were clearer across scales. Documentation of bare rock areas indicates a dynamic process of soil movement into and out of plots, but cover data did not indicate a consistent increase in coverage of moss, vascular plants, or lichens during the ten years of the study. It is concluded that G. minimum utilizes habitats with periodic soil disturbance and with minimal competition from bryophytes or perennial vascular plants. Although seed bank was not a subject of this study, its importance was evident from annual census data that showed the population is capable of rebounding dramatically following years with virtually no seed production. Una poblacin de Geocarpon minimum fue monitoreada durante diez aos (1994-2003) en un afloramiento de arenisca y suelo poco profundo en el condado de Dade en el estado de Missouri. Para determinar la fluctuacin del nmero de plantas en la poblacin durante el perodo de estudio, las plantas se contaron anualmente en ocho parcelas permanentes usando dos escalas (0.01 y 1.0 m). Durante los aos 1994 hasta el 2000 fueron evaluados datos sobre profundidad de suelo, cobertura de briofitas, liqenes, plantas vasculares y rea de tierra o rocas sin plantas en subparcelas con el propsito de determinar la posible asociacin de estas variables con el numero de plantas de G. minimum. El nmero de plantas de G. minimum en las ocho parcelas vari de 1 a 4230 con un promedio de 1332. La profundidad promedio del suelo de las subparcelas con G. minimum fue de 19 mm. La asociacin entre la profundidad de suelo y densidad de plantas de Geocarpon fue mnima (rs = 0.16, P < 0.001). El anlisis de regresin demostr que el nmero de G. minimum parece aumentar a medida que la profundidad de suelo alcanza los 20 mm y disminuye a mayor profundidad. Adems, la diferencia entre tipos de vegetacin (P < 0.05), con excepcin de los liqenes (P >= 0.05), fue significativa. La diferencia fue significativa tambin entre el nmero de plantas de G. minimum y el ao del muestreo (P < 0.05). Se observ una discontinuidad entre escala y las correlaciones de rango de Spearman, sin embargo, al combinar los grupos ecolgicos en categoras mayores (por ejemplo, los liqenes y las briof itas se unieron en la categora de las criptgamas), los patrones fueron ms claros a travs de las escalas. La documentacin sobre reas de afloramiento de rocas indica la existencia de un proceso dinmico de movimiento del suelo dentro y fuera de las parcelas, pero los datos sobre cobertura no indican un crecimiento constante de cobertura de musgos, plantas vasculares o liqenes durante los diez aos del estudio. La conclusin es que G. minimum utiliza habitats de suelos que estn cambiando constantemente y tienen poca competencia de briof itas y plantas perennes vasculares. Aunque el banco de semillas en el suelo no se investig en este estudio, su importancia fue evidente. En base a los datos anuales, esta poblacin de G. minimum tiene la capacidad para reproducirse considerablemente en aos siguientes aunque no exista produccin de semilla en aos anteriores.
41969048|A new species of witch-hazel, Hamamelis ovalis, is described from Perry County in southern Mississippi, U.S.A. The red flower color, clonal habit, and late winter flowering suggest affinity with the Ozarkan endemic H. vernalis; however, the large leaves, unlike any specimens examined of American or Asian witch-hazels, readily differentiate H. ovalis from its congeners. The problematic H. macrophylla is discussed. Se describe una nueva especie de la avellana-bruja, Hamamelis ovalis, del condado de Perry, Mississippi del sur, los Estados Unidos. El color rojo de la flor, el hbito clnico, y la floracin tarda en invierno sugieren afinidad con el Ozarkan endmico H. vernalis. Sin embargo, las hojas grandes, diferentes de cualquier espcimen examinado de avellanas-brujas americanas o asiticas distinguen fcilmente H. ovalis de sus congneres. Se discute el problemtico H. macrophylla.
41969059|Poa matri-occidentalis P.M. Peterson & Soreng, sp nov., is described and illustrated. Poa matri-occidentalis subsp. matri-occidentalis is known from steep rocky slopes of Cerro Gordo, Durango, and Poa matri-occidentalis subsp. mohinorensis Soreng & P. M. Peterson, subsp. nov. is known from rocky cliffs of Cerro Mohinora, Chihuahua. The new species is morphologically similar to Poa kelloggii but differs by having leaf sheaths that are closed near the base 2/3 to 4/5 their length, entire ligules that are 3.5-6 mm long, nodding panicles, ovate lemmas with obtuse to acute apices, and non-visible rachilla internodes. A key distinguishing 11 species now reported from northern Mxico is provided. Se describe e ilustra Poa matri-occidentalis P. M. Peterson & Soreng, sp. nov. Poa matri-occidentalis subsp. matrioccidentalis se encuentra en la zona de cuestas rocosas escarpadas de Cerro Gordo, Durango, y Poamatri-occidentalis subsp. mohinorensis Soreng & P.M. Peterson, subsp. nov. se encuentra en la zona de laderas rocosos del Cerro Mohinora, Chihuahua. La nueva especie es morfolgicamente similar a Poa helloggii pero difiere de sta ltima por tener las vainas de las hojas cerradas en la parte inferior de la base de 2/3 a 4/5 de su longitud, por tener lgulas enteras de 3.5-6 mm de largo, panculas recurvadas, lemas ovadas con pices agudos a obtusos y raquilla con entrenudos no-visibles. Se proporciona una clave para distinguir las 11 especies reportadas actualmente del norte de Mxico.
41969070|Crataegus series Pulcherrimae (Rosaceae) is reviewed, Beadle's group Sargentianae being incorporated. Ten species, C. sargentii, C. gilva, C. mendosa, C. pulcherrima, C. pinetorum, G venusta, C. opima, C. tecta, C. pallens, and C. eximia are recognized. In addition, a possible eleventh species, C. ? robur, is suggested but the evidence is not yet final on this. All species are lectotypified here except C. pinetorum, which is neotypified. Epitypes are proposed for two species, C. opima and C. venusta. Synonyms are also typified. Each species is keyed out and is represented by the most detailed description to date. Detailed line illustrations and county level range maps, in both cases generally the first for each species, are provided. Repesentative specimens are cited. Se revisa Crataegus serie Pulcherrimae (Rosaceae), se incorpora el grupo Sargentianae de Beadle. Se reconocen diez especies, C. sargenta, C. gilva, C. mendosa, C. pulcherrima, C. pinetorum, C. venusta, C. opima, C. tecta, C. pallens, y C. eximia. Adems, se sugiere una posible undcima especie, C. ? robur, pero no hay pruebas finales an. Se lectotipifican todas las especies excepto C. pinetorum, que es neotipificada. Se proponen epitipos para dos especies, C. opima y C. venusta. Tambin se tipifican los sinnimos. Se aporta una clave para todas las especies y se ofrece la descripcin ms detallada hasta la fecha. Se realizan ilustraciones detalladas y se aportan mapas de distribucin a nivel de condado, de ambos generalmente es el primero para cada especie. Se citan especmenes representativos.
41969080|Drepanostachyum falcatum var. sengteeanum Stapleton, a variety of bamboo thought to have originated from the Himalayas and cultivated in the west for over a century is discussed. The application and the typification of the name under which it was once grown, Arundinaria falcata var. glomerata Gamble, are considered, along with the application of the name Arundinaria falcata Nees. Arundinaria falcata var. glomerata is lectotypified in accordance with the protologue and current use of the name in India, placing it in synonymy of Drepanostachyum falcatum (Nees) Keng f., for which an epitype is designated to support its own incomplete lectotype. Se discute Drepanostachyum falcatum var. sengteeanum Stapleton, una variedad de bamb que se piensa que se origin en el Himalaya y se ha cultivado en el oeste durante ms de un siglo. Se consideran la aplicacin y la tipificacin del nombre bajo el que fue cultivado, Arundinariafalcata var. glomerata Gamble, junto con la aplicacin del nombre Arundinaria falcata Nees. Se tipifica Arundinaria falcata var. glomerata de acuerdo con el protlogo y el uso actual del nombre en la India, colocndolo en la sinonimia de Drepanostachyum falcatum (Nees) Keng f., para el que se designa un epitipo para apoyar su lectotipo incompleto.
41969106|This paper reports the occurrence of two species previously unknown to the flora of Oklahoma. Galium tricornutum, a Eurasian introduction, was discovered in a cement drainage ditch in Hughes County in central Oklahoma. Parentucellia viscosa, an introduction from Europe, was discovered in disturbed grassland in McCurtain County in extreme southeastern Oklahoma. Este artculo cita la ocurrencia de dos especies previamente desconocidas de la flora de Oklahoma. Galium tricornutum, una introduccin eurasitica, fue descubierta en una zanja de drenaje de cemento en el condado de Hughes en el centro de Oklahoma. Parentucellia viscosa (L.) Caruel, una introduccin de Europa, fue descubierta en un prado alterado en el condado de McCurtain en el extremo sudeste de Oklahoma.
41969107|Two new sites are reported for Capraria mexicana (Scrophulariaceae) in the United States. Se reportan dos nuevos sitios para Capraria mexicana (Scrophulariaceae) en los Estados Unidos.
41969073|Crataegus series Bracteatae and Triflorae, both of the southeastern United States, are revised and shown to possess significant similarities. In each series, one of the two species recognized is moderately common, the other possibly extinct in the wild, raising conservation concerns. A key to series is provided and full descriptions for both series. Each series has a key to species, detailed species descriptions, and county level distribution maps for each species, these being the first such known to be produced. In addition, each species except C. harbisonii (ser. Bracteatae), which has an excellent illustration in Lance and Phipps (2000), is provided a with new line illustration. All species are typified and representative specimens are cited for each. Crataegus series Bracteatae y Triflorae, ambas del sudeste de los Estados Unidos, se revisaron y mostraron tener similitudes significativas. En cada serie, una de las dos especies reconocidas es relativamente comn, la otra posiblemente extinta en la naturaleza y presentando problemas de conservacin. Se ofrece una clave para las series y una descripcin completa de ambas. Cada una de las series tiene una clave de especies, descripciones detalladas de las especies, y mapas de distribucin a nivel de condado de todas las especies, siendo la primera vez que se produce esto. Adems, se aporta una ilustracin todas las especies excepto C. harbisonii (ser. Bracteatae), que tiene una ilustracin excelente en Lance y Phipps (2000). Se tipifican todas las especies y se citan especmenes representativos de cada una de ellas.
41969051|Six new combinations are required in Dodecatheon L. for a forthcoming treatment of the genus in Flora of North America north of Mexico: D. clevelandii Greene var. gracile (Greene) Reveal, D. clevelandii var. insulare (H.J. Thomps.) Reveal, D. clevelandii var. patulum (Kuntze) Reveal, D. pulchellum var. macrocarpum (A. Gray) Reveal, D. pulchellum var. shoshonense (A. Nelson) Reveal, and D. utahense (N. H. Holmgren) Reveal. Se necesitan seis combinaciones nuevas en Dodecatheon L. en el tratamiento del gnero en la Flora of North America north of Mexico: D. clevelandii Greene var. gracile (Greene) Reveal, D. clevelandii var. insulare (H.J. Thomps.) Reveal, D. clevelandii var. patulum (Kuntze) Reveal, D. pulchellum var. macrocarpum (A. Gray) Reveal, D. pulchellum var. shoshonense (A. Nelson) Reveal, y D. utahense (N.H. Holmgren) Reveal.
41969077|A new species, Eugenia haberi Barrie (Myrtaceae), is described from the Pacific slope in Guanacaste and Puntarenas provinces of Costa Rica. It may be distinguished from E. rhombea by characters of the leaves and flowers, especially the calyx. The species is apparently restricted to cliff edges at elevations of 1100 to 1350 meters. Se describe una nueva especie, Eugenia haberi Barrie (Myrtaceae), de las provincias de Guanacaste y Puntarenas en el lado pacfico de Costa Rica. Puede diferenciarse de E. rhombea por caracteres de las hojas y flores, especialmente el cliz. La especie est restringida aparentemente a bordes de acantilados a elevaciones de 1100 a 1350 metros.
41969060|Bromus ayacuchensis, a new species from Departamento Ayacucho, Peru, is described and illustrated. The new species is similar to species in Bromus sect. Ceratochloa, particularly B. cebadilla, because of its strongly keeled lemmas. It differs from B. cebadilla by having densely pilose culms near the base, adaxially pilose ligules 3-6.6 mm long, lower glumes 1-veined, upper glumes 3-veined, pilose lemmas (especially along the margins and near the apex), lemma margins that are tightly involute on lower 1/5-1/4, and lemma awns 3-5.5 mm long. Phylogenetic analyses of sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA place B. ayacuchensis in a dade with species of sect. Ceratochloa, whereas analyses of plastid data from the trnL intron and the 3'-end of ndhF indicate that B. ayacuchensis is closely related to this dade. Confirmed records are provided for B. modestus and B. cebadilla in Peru, and B. coloratus and B. flexuosus are reported for the first time in Peru. A key to the 12 species of Bromus now known from Peru is included. Se describe y se ilustra Bromus ayacuchensis Saarela & P. M. Peterson, sp. nov, una nueva especie dd Departamento de Ayacucho, Per. La nueva especie es similar a las especies de Bromus secc. Ceratochloa, particularmente B. cebadilla, porque tiene lemas muy carenadas. Se diferencia de B. cebadilla por tener clmenes densamente pilosos cerca de la base, lgulas 3-6.6 mm de largo y pilosas en la parte ventral superior, glumas inferiores con 1 nervio, glumas superiores con 3 nervios, lemas pilosos (especialmente a lo largo de los mrgenes y cerca del pice), los mrgenes del lema son firmemente involutos en la porcin 1/5-1/4 inferior del lema y aristas de 3-5.5 mm de largo. Los anlisis filogenticos de los datos de la secuencia de ADN de las regiones transcritas internas del espaciador ribosmico nuclear colocan a B. ayacuchensis en un ciado con las especies de la sect. Ceratochloa, mientras que los anlisis de los datos del intrn del plstido del trnL y de los extremos 3' del ndhF indican que B. ayacuchensis est ntimamente relacionado pero no es parte de este ciado. Proporcionamos ejemplares de especmenes B. modestus y B. cebadilla provenientes del Per, y B. coloratus y B. flexuosus encontrados por primera vez en Per. Se incluye la clave para las 12 especies de Bromus conocidas en Per.
41969049|Eriogonum callistum, a new species of subg. Eucycla Nutt. from the Tehachapi Mountains of Kern Co., California, is the sole representative of Sect. Lanocephala, a new section allied to Sect. Lachnogyna Torr. & A. Gray, a taxon mainly of the Great Plains, but probably more closely related to Sect. Latifolia Benth. of the Pacific Coast. The new species differs in forming large, compact, roundish mounds of densely clothed caudex branches and rosettes of new leaves from which arise several upright scapose flowering stems terminated by a capitate inflorescence subtended by many bracts with many involucres containing numerous, hairy, bright white flowers on long, hairy pedicels, and glabrous, trigonous achenes. Eriogonum callistum, una nueva especie del subg. Eucycla Nutt. de las montaas Tehachapi de Kern Co., California, es el nico representante de la Sect. Lanocephala, una seccin nueva prxima a la Sect. Lachnogyna Torr. & A. Gray, un taxon de las Grandes Llanuras principalmente, pero probablemente ms relacionado con la Sect. Latifolia Benth. de la costa pacfica. La nueva especie difiere por formar grandes masas compactas redondeadas de ramas hojosas y rosetas de hojas nuevas, de las que surgen hacia arriba varios tallos floridos escaposos que terminan en una inflorescencia capitada subtendida por muchas brcteas, con muchos involucros que contienen numerosas flores blanco brillante, sobre pedicelos largos y pelosos, y aquenios trgonos glabros.
41969055|A new species of waterlily, Nymphaca minuta, is described from Madagascar. It is closely related to N. stellata Willd. but displays a characteristic combination of morphological characters and two growth forms in its life history. The undersurfaces of the leaves are muddy-gray to brownish-violet in color, a unique feature of the taxon. Nymphaea minuta in nature is a dwarf with small, submerged, cleistogamous flowers. In cultivation, it exhibits two distinct growth forms: a submerged form and an emergent form with floating leaves and larger, emergent, chasmogamous flowers. Se describe una nueva especie de lirio de agua, Nymphaea minuta, de Madagascar. Est muy emparentada con N. stellata Willd. Pero tiene una combinacin peculiar de caracteres morfolgicos y dos formas de crecimiento en su ciclo vital. El envs de sus hojas es de color gris-pardo a marrn-violceo, una caracterstica singular del taxon. Nymphaea minuta en la naturaleza es una planta enana, sumergida, con flores deistgamas. En cultivo, muestra dos formas de crecimiento diferentes: una forma sumergida y una forma emergente con hojas flotantes y flores ms grandes, emergentes y casmgamas.
41969064|A new species of Zeuxine Lindl., Zeuxine pantlingii Av. Bhattacharjee & H.J. Chowdhery closely allied to Z. goodyeroiaes Lindl. is described from West Bengal, India. A brief life sketch and a portrait of Robert Pantling after whom the species is named is also provided. Se describe una nueva especie de West Bengal, India de Zeuxine Lindl., Zeuxine pantlingii Av. Bhattacharjee & H.J. Chowdhery fuertemente relacionada con Z. goodyeroides Lindl. Se aporta tambin un breve resumen de la vida y un retrato de Robert Pantling a quien se dedica la especie.
41969084|The Natural History Museum, London, is the repository of a large volume containing plants collected by John Fraser in the southeastern United States in the 1780s and commonly known as the "Walter Herbarium." The importance of this collection is that many of its specimens were seen and perhaps used by Thomas Walter, author of Flora Caroliniana, the first American flora to adopt Linnaean binomials and classification. A description is provided here of this folio and the collection it contains. El Natural History Museum de Londres, es el depositario de un gran volumen que contiene plantas colectadas por John Fraser en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos en los 1780s y conocido normalmente como el "Walter Herbarium." La importancia de esta coleccin radical en que muchos de sus especmenes fueros vistos y quizs usados por Thomas Walter, autor de la Flora Caroliniana, la primera flora americana en adoptar la clasificacin Linneana y la nomenclatura binomial. Se hace una descripcin de este volumen y la coleccin que contiene.
41969076|Carex reznicekii is described as new from mesic to dry-mesic forests of Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. Previously, C. reznicekii had mostly been misidentified as either G umbellata or C. nigromarginata. It is distinguished from these species as well as other members of section Acrocystis by a combination of lack of basal spikes, short culms, narrow leaves, and only slightly red pistillate scales. A key to the 19 taxa of section Acrocystis that occur in eastern North America is provided. Se describe como nuevo Carex reznicekii de los bosques msicos a xrico-msicos de Alabama, Arkansas, Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur, Connecticut, Delaware, Distrito de Columbia, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, y Virginia. Previamente, G reznicekii, haba estado en su mayor parte mal interpretada como G umbellata o C. nigromarginata. Se distingue de estas especies as como de otros miembros de la seccin Acrocystis por la combinacin de carencia de espiga basal, clmenes cortos, hojas estrechas, y escamas femeninas slo levemente rojas. Se proporciona una clave para los 19 taxa de la seccin Acrocystis que ocurren en el este de Norteamrica.
41969104|Additions to the vascular flora of New Mexico are reported herein: Achnatherum nelsonii var. nelsonii, Betula glandulosa, Cardamine cordifolia var. incana, Carex deweyana var. deweyana, Carex rosea, Cynosurus echinatus, Drabagrayana, Equisetum nelsonii, Erigeron nivalis, Geum triflorum var. triflorum, Heuchera halliijuglans nigra, Lactuca biennis, Lepidium ramosissimumvar. bourgeauanum, Neoparrya lithophila, Penstemonglabervar. alpinus, Piptatherum pungens, Potentillafissa, Prunus persica, Ranunculus alismifolius var. montanus, Ranunculus repens, Rorippa sylvestris, Rudbechia laciniata var. laciniata, and Syringa vulgaris. Se aportan las adiciones siguientes a la flora vascular de Nuevo Mxico: Achnatherum nelsonii var. nelsonii, Betula glandulosa, Cardamine cordifolia var. incana, Carex deweyana var. deweyana, Carex rosea, Cynosurus echinatus, Draba grayana, Equisetum nelsonii, Erigeron nivalis, Geum triflorum var. triflorum, Heuchera halliijuglans nigra, Lactuca biennis, Lepidium ramosissimumvar. bourgeauanum, Neoparrya lithophila, Penstemonglaberwar. alpinus, Piptatherum pungens, Potentillafissa, Prunus persica, Ranunculus alismifolius war. montanus, Ranunculus repens, Rorippa sylvestris, Rudbecka laciniata var. laciniata, y Syringa vulgaris.
41969096|An annotated, vouchered checklist is provided of the vascular plant taxa of the 10,100 hectare Lance Rosier Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, Hardin County, in southeastern Texas. Documented for the unit are 694 taxa of which 71 (10%) are exotics. Se aporta un catlogo con comentarios y pliegos testigo de los txones de plantas vasculares de las 10,100 hectreas de la reserva Lance Rosier Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, del condado de Hardin, en el sureste de Texas. Se documentan para la unidad 694 txones de los que 71 (10%) son exticos.
41969109|Erodium malacoides (Geraniaceae) is reported as an addition to the flora of Texas. A description of the species and a key for identifying the Texas species of Erodium are provided. Se cita Erodium malacoides (Geraniaceae) como una nueva adicin a la flora de Texas. Se aporta una descripcin de la especie y una clave de las especies de Erodium de Texas.
41969110|Several species of Eupatorieae occur in southern Arizona and New Mexico at the northern end of their otherwise Mexican distribution: Stevia salicifolia (reported from New Mexico by a single collection, the exact locality unknown and perhaps in immediately adjacent Mexico), Ageratina (Eupatorium) thyrsiflora (known from Arizona by a single collection), and Koanophyllon (Eupatorium) palmeri (previously confused with K. solidaginifolium). Reports of K. palmeri or K. solidaginifolium from New Mexico have not been confirmed. Chromolaena (Eupatorium) bigelovii, primarily a species of northeastern Mexico, is documented for the U.S.A. by three Texas collectionsits occurrence was recorded in Arizona (cited from only the type collection), but that record apparently reflects a confusion of label data for the type, which almost certainly was collected along the Texas-Mexico border. Lectotypes are chosen for Eupatorium arborescens, Koanophyllon (Eupatorium) palmeri (var. palmeri), and Ageratina (Kyrstenia) thyrsiflora. Varias especies de Eupatorieae viven en el sur de Arizona y Nuevo Mxico en el extremo norte de su distribucin que de otro modo sera nicamente mexicana: Stevia salicifolia (citada de Nuevo Mxico con una sola recoleccin, cuya exacta localidad es desconocida y quizs adyacente a Mxico), Ageratina (Eupatorium) thyrsiflora (conocida de Arizona con una sola recoleccin), y Koanophyllon (Eupatorium) palmeri (previamente confundida con K. solidaginifolium). Las citas de K. palmeri o K. solidaginifolium de Nuevo Mxico no han sido confirmadas. Chromolaena (Eupatorium) bigelovii, primariamente una especie del noreste de Mxico, se documenta para los Estados Unidos mediante tres colecciones de Texassu ocurrencia fue citada en Arizona (nicamente don la coleccin del tipo), pero esa cita refleja aparentemente una confusin de los datos de la etiqueta del tipo, que casi con seguridad fue colectado a lo largo de la frontera de Texas y Mxico. Se eligen lectotipos de Eupatorium arborescens, Koanophyllon (Eupatorium) palmeri (var. palmeri), y Ageratina (Kyrstenia) thyrsiflora.
41969067|Preparation of the Apiaceae for Bolack San Juan Basin Flora has necessitated the following new combinations: Cymopterus breviradiatus, C. davidsonii, C. glomeratus var. fendleri, and C. sessiliflorus. La preparacin de las Apiaceae para la Flora de Bolack San Juan Basin ha necesitado las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Cymopterus breviradiatus, C. davidsonii, C. glomeratus var.fendleri, y C. sessiliflorus.
41969065|On-going study of subtribe Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) in the West Indies resulted in the discovery of four new species from Hispaniola: Matelea corynephora, M. phainops, M. rhynchocephala, and M. torulosa. Matelea pauciflora is lectotypified. Se describen cuatro especies nuevas de Matelea de la Espaola como resultado del estudio de la subtribu Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) en las Indias Occidentales: Matelea corynephora, M. phainops, M. rhynchocephala y M. torulosa. Se lectotipifica Matelea pauciflora.
41969079|The eastern North American Symphyotrichum patens has been treated by Jones (1983,1992) and other botanists to include var. patens, var. patentissimum, and var. gracile. These taxa have been distinguished primarily by habit, involucral size and vestiture, and phyllary orientation. Morphological distinctions between var. patens and var. gracile have been viewed as overlapping and the two taxa have been interpreted as sympatric over a wide region; the present study concludes that it is not possible to distinguish them in an unarbitrary or evolutionarily meaningful way, and var. gracile is not recognized. Variety patens sensu lato apparently comprises two diploid and three or four tetraploid population systems. Variety patentissimum is morphologically distinct and consistently tetraploid, and it intergrades with tetraploid var. patens where their ranges are contiguous or overlapping. A county-level map shows the distribution of the two infraspecific taxa of S. patens, as interpreted in the present study. A similar map shows ploidal distribution within the species, based on data available from previous studies. Symphyotrichum patens del este de Norte Amrica ha sido tratado por Jones (1983,1992) y otros botanicos para incluir las var. patens, var. patentissimum, y var. gracile. Estos taxa han sido distinguidos principalmente por el hbito, tamao involucral y pubescencia, y la orientacin de los filarios. Las distinciones morfolgicas entre var. patens y var. gracile ha sido vista como solapada y los dos taxa han sido interpretados cornos simptricos en una regin amplia; el presente estudio concluye que no es posible distinguirlos de un moso que no sea arbitrario o en una lnea evolutiva significativa, y la var. gracile no se reconoce. La variedad patens sensu lato comprende aparentemente dos sistemas de poblaciones diploides y tres o cuatro tetraploides. La variedad patentissimum es morfolgicamente diferente y constantemente tetraploide, y se intergrada con la var. Patens, que es tetraploide, all donde sua areales son contiguos o se solapan. Un mapa a nivel de condado muestra la distribucin de los dos taxa infraespecficos de S. patens, tal como se interpretan en el presente estudio, un mapa similar muestra la distribucin ploidal de la especie, basado en datos disponibles de estudios previos.
41969061|Psidinm cauliflorum, from the Brazilian state of Bahia, is described and illustrated. It differs from all other species of Psidium in having its flowers borne in clusters on older branches and trunks. It may belong to a complex of species including P. oligospermum, P. sartorianum, P. glaziovianum, P. schenckianum, and perhaps P. appendiculatum. Psidinm cauliflorum, uma nova espcie do estado da Bahia, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Essa espcie, distinta das demais do gnero pelas inflorescencias aglomeradas em ramos velhos e troncos,  possivelmente relacionada ao complexo que inclu P. oligospermum, P. sartorianum, P. glaziovianum, P. schenchianum, e talvez P. appendiculatum.
41969099|It has been a quarter century since a checklist of the vascular flora of Caddo Parish, Louisiana, was published. Therefore, we revise and update the Caddo Parish checklist, accepting only vouchered species. We found 1405 species (1168 native, 237 non-native). Additionally, we examine the Caddo Parish flora in terms of its phytogeographical affinities. It is closely associated with the eastern United States and particularly with the southeastern United States. Caddo Parish appears to be particularly species rich compared to other parishes and counties of approximately the same size across the southeast. This may be not only because Caddo Parish is diverse but because it has been particularly well-collected. Among communities occurring in Caddo Parish, xeric sandylands are particularly well-represented and account for a high percentage of West Gulf Coastal Plain endemic and rare species. Hace ya un cuarto de siglo que se public el catlogo de la flora vascular de Caddo Parish, Louisiana. Por ello, revisamos y ponemos al da el catlogo de Caddo Parish, aceptando nicamente especies con pliegos testigo. Encontramos 1405 especies (1168 nativas, 237 no nativas). Adems, examinamos la flora de Caddo Parish en trminos de sus afinidades fitogeogrficas. Est muy asociada con el este y particularmente con el sureste de los Estados Unidos. Caddo Parish parece ser particularmente rico en especies comparado con otros condados de aproximadamente el mismo tamao en el sureste. Esto puede que no sea solo porque Caddo Parish es diverso sino porque ha sido particularmente bien muestreado. Entre las comunidades que aparecen en Caddo Parish, estn muy bien representados los campos arenosos xricos y aparece un alto porcentaje de especies raras y endmicas de la llanura costera del oeste del golfo.
41969081|Selection of 997.18 (LINN) as the lectotype of Aster amellus L. is rejected because the specimen is in conflict with the protologue. A new lectotype is designated from authentic material seen by Linnaeus. Rejecting the original lectotypification and selecting an appropriate specimen circumvents the need for conservation or redefining the concept of the genus Aster L. Herb. Linn. 997.16 (LINN) is designated the new lectotype of Aster amellus. Se rechaza la seleccin del pliego 997.18 (LINN) como lectotipo de Aster amellus L. porque el espcimen est en conflicto con el protlogo. Se designa un nuevo lectotipo a partir de material autntico visto por Linnaeus. El rechazo de la lectotipificacin original y la seleccin de un espcimen apropiado evita la necesidad de conservacin o redefinicin del concepto del gnero Aster L. El pliego Herb. Linn. 997.16 (LINN) se designa nuevo lectotipo de Aster amellus.
41969053|A previously undescribed, distinctive subspecies of rabbitbrush has been recently discovered in south-central Colorado where it is the dominant plant on sandsheet and is frequent on low sand dunes. It is here named Ericameria nauseosa subsp. ammophila. A detailed description is given. Comparisons are made with related taxa, and a key is provided. Se ha descubierto recientemente una nueva subespecie de chamiso en el centro-sur de Colorado dinde es la planta dominante en el arenal y frecuente en dunas bajas. Se ha nombrado como Ericameria nauseosa subsp. ammophila. Se aporta una descripcin detallada. Se hacen comparaciones con otros taxa relacionados, y se aporta una clave.
41969088|Islands are fragile ecosystems, and are especially sensitive to introduced species, particularly large herbivores. In Mexico, there are some dramatic cases. We evaluated the influence of feral goats, as well as the natives black jackrabbit and desert woodrat on the vegetation of Espiritu Santo Island, a land-bridge island in the southern part of the Baja California Peninsula. We found that goats consumed 36 vascular plant species, three times more species than natives jackrabbits and almost seven times more than woodrats. Also, goats consume all plant organs except roots, but reiterate browsing gradually affect vegetative and reproductive plant fitness. Our results support plans for the eradication of goats to spontaneously and progressively restore of the natural vegetation structure and composition. Further, a monitoring plan is recommended. Las islas son consideradas ecosistemas muy frgiles. Estas son sensibles a la introduccin de especies exticas, particularmente herbvoros mayores. En Mxico existen casos dramticos. En este trabajo se evala el efecto sobre la vegetacin en complejo insular Espritu Santo, Baja California Sur, Mxico, de las cabras silvestres contra el causado por las especies nativas, la liebre negra y la rata de campo. Las cabras consumen 36 especies de plantas vasculares, tres veces ms especies que las liebres y casi 7 veces ms que las ratas. Tambin, se encontr que las cabras consumen todo tipo de rganos vegetales excepto races, pero el ramoneo reiterado afecta tanto la aptitud vegetativa y reproductiva de los vegetales. Los resultados apoyan el plan de erradicacin de las cabras con la finalidad de que espontnea y progresivamente se restaure la vegetacin en estructura y composicin. Adicionalmente se requiere de un plan de monitoreo.
41969054|Boltonia montana, a new species from depression wetlands and riverine habitats in the Appalachian Mountains of Virginia, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, is described. This taxon has most often been collected under the name Boltonia asteroides (L.) L'Her. due to its relatively large heads which are usually few in number, and vegetative similarities. Cypselae morphology of the new taxon, however, is dissimilar to that of B. asteroides and most closely resembles Boltonia caroliniana (Walt.) Fern., a species characteristic of coastal plain and piedmont bottomlands of the Carolinas and Virginia. Boltonia montana differs from the latter taxon in terms of inflorescence structure, head dimensions, ray color, phyllary morphology and size, plant stature, and leaf shape. Evidence of its distinctiveness is provided and its wetland habitat is discussed. Se describe Boltonia montana, una nueva especie de las tierras hmedas de depresiones y habitats ribereos de los Apalaches de Virginia, Nueva Jersey, y Pennsylvania. Este taxon se ha colectado la mayora de las veces con el nombre de Boltonia asteroides (L.) L'Her. Debido a sus cabezuelas relativamente grandes que estn usualmente en un nmero pequeo, y similitudes vegetativas. La morfologa de las cipselas del nuevo taxon, sin embargo, es diferente de la de B. asteroides y se parecen mucho ms a Boltonia caroliniana (Walt.) Fern., una especie caracterstica de la llanura costera y base del pie de monte de las Carolinas y Virginia. Boltonia montana difiere de este ltimo taxon en trminos de estructura de la inflorescencia, dimensiones de la cabezuela, color de los radios, morfologa y tamao de los filarios, tamao de la planta, y forma de la hoja. Se aportan pruebas de su diferenciacin y se discute su habitat de zonas hmedas.
41969083|Mature leaves and twigs from thirty red oak species, mostly endemic to Mexico, were examined with SEM to assess trichome morphology. Ten trichome types were identified: two glandular and eight nonglandular. Described for the first time in the oak literature are fasciculate contorted, fasciculate crested, and multiple stellate trichomes. Furthermore, three trichome types are reported for the first time in red oaks: stellate, fused stellate, and glandular branched. The most common types on the twigs examined are fasciculate sessile and multiradiate trichome while the most frequent types on the abaxial leaf surfaces are fasciculate sessile, fasciculate stipitate, and multiradiate trichomes. In contrast to the significant morphological variation found in oak leaf shape, trichome complements within each species are nearly invariable and therefore useful in the identification of most species. In summary, together with vegetative and reproductive characters, trichome morphology provides additional information for the identification and characterization of Mexican oak species. Hojas maduras y ramillas de treinta especies de encinos rojos, principalmente endmicos a Mexico, fueron examinadas con microscopa electrnica de barrido para evaluar la variacin morfolgica de tricomas. En este trabajo se identificaron diez tipos de tricomas: dos glandulares y ocho no glandulares. De estos, se describen por primera vez para encinos los tricomas fasciculado contorto, fasciculado crestado y estrellado multiple. Adems, se reportan por primera vez para encinos rojos tres tipos de trichomes: estrellado, estrellado fusionado y glandular ramificado. Los tipos de trichoma ms comunes en ramillas son el fasciculado ssil y el multiradiado, mientras que en el envs de las hojas los tipos de tricoma ms frecuentes son el fasciculado ssil, fasciculado estipitado y el multiradiado. Aunque los encinos muestran una gran variacin en morfologa foliar, los tipos de tricomas presentes en cada especie son constantes y por lo tanto son muy tiles en la identificacin de la mayora de las especies. En resumen, los caracteres vegetativos y reproductivos junto con la morfologa de trichomes proporcionan informacin valiosa para la identificacin y caracterizacin de las especies Mexicanas de encino.
41969069|Sphagnum mcqueenii, S. kenaiense, S. bergianum, S. beothuk, S. sitchense, and S. talbotianum, are described and illustrated as new species for North America. Se describen se ilustran como especies nuevas de Norte Amrica, Sphagnum mcqueenii, S. kenaiense, S. bergianum, S. beothuk, S. sitchense, y S. talbotianum.
41969075|Amelanchier obovalis and A. canadensis (Rosaceae: Maloideae) are similar taxa with overlapping geographical ranges on the Atlantic Coastal Plain of the United States. Conflicting circumscriptions, polyploidy, hybridization, and agamospermy may have contributed to the taxonomic confusion in these species. In this study I perform a morphometric examination of these two species on the Coastal Plain of Delaware, Maryland and the eastern shore of Virginiacollectively called the Delmarva Peninsula. I developed a dataset of eleven flowering, fruiting and vegetative characters taken from marked individuals. A second dataset contains six minimally correlated characters that were obtainable from the type specimen of Amelanchier obovalis. I use Principal Components Analysis (PCA) to summarize phenetic similarities and dissimilarities between individuals and agglomerative, hierarchical Cluster Analysis to aid in visualization of morphological groups. Selection of groups (putative taxa) to inform a testable group model was performed iteratively using concordance in phenetic methods (PCA and Clustering) and inferential descriptive statistics. Analysis supported a four-group model for which I found a significant overall multivariate effect (Pillai's Trace, F = 7.29, P >; F <; 0.0001) using Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA). Two well-supported groups (1 & 4) corresponded to Amelanchier obovalis and Amelanchier canadensis. The remainders of the sample are intermediate between Amelanchier obovalis and Amelanchier canadensis and may be the product of recurrent hybridization between these taxa. Lack of clearly delimited morphological character space and apparent ecological and genetic exchangeability in these taxa suggests the taxonomic rank of variety under the earliest combination in Amelanchier, e. g., Amelanchier canadensis var. canadensis and Amelanchier canadensis var. obovalis as originally proposed by Michaux (1803). I present a taxonomic treatment and historical analysis of the species taxonomy and a dichotomous key to the varieties. Amelanchier obovalis y A. canadensis (Rosaceae: Maloideae) son taxa similares con reas geogrficas solapadas en la llanura costera atlntica de los Estados Unidos. Las circumscripciones conflictivas, poliploida, hibridacin, y agamospermia pueden haber contribuido a la confusin taxonmica en estas especies. En este estudio realizo un examen morfomtrico de estas dos especies en la llanura costera de Delaware, Maryland y costa este de Virginiallamados colectivamente Pennsula de Delmarva. He desarrollado un conjunto de datos de once caracteres de flores, frutos y vegetativos tomados de individuos marcados. Un segundo conjunto de datos contiene seis caracteres mnimamente correlacionados que se obtuvieron del espcimen tipo de Amelanchier obovalis. Utilizo el Anlisis Componentes Principales (PCA) para resumir las similitudes fenticas y disimilitudes entre individuos y un Anlisis de Clusters jerarquizado para ayudar en la visualizacin de grupos morfolgicos. La seleccin de grupos (taxa putativos) para informar de un modelo de grupo comprobable se realiz iterativamente usando la concordancia en los mtodos fenticos (PCA y Clustering) y estadstica descriptiva inferencial. El anlisis da un modelo de cuatro grupos para el que encontr un efecto multivariante general significativo (Pillai's Trace, F = 7.29, P > F < 0.0001) usando Anlisis de Varianza Multivariante (MANOVA). Dos grupos muy claros (1 & 4) correspondieron a Amelanchier obovalis y Amelanchier canadensis. Los restos de la muestra son intermedios entre Amelanchier obovalis y Amelanchier canadensis y pueden ser el producto de hibridacin recurrente entre estos taxa. La falta un espacio de caracteres morfolgicos claramente delimitados y aparente intercambio ecolgico y gentico en estos taxa sugiere el rango de variedad bajo la combinacin ms antigua en Amelanchier, e. g., Amelanchier canadensis var. canadensis y Amelanchier canadensis war. obovalis como fue propuesto originalmente por Michaux (1803). Presento un tratamiento taxonmico y anlisis histrico de la taxonoma de las especies y una clave dictoma para las variedades.
41969057|Trisetum howellii Hitchc, an endemic species from the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador, and Trisetum pinetorum Swallen, an endemic species from Guatemala, are transferred into Peyritschia [P. howellii (Hitchc.) Finot & P. M. Peterson; P. pinetorum (Swallen) Finot & P.M. Peterson]. Peyritschia is now circumscribed to include seven species with new areas of distribution documented in South America. A key distinguishing the species and table comparing the salient morphological features of all species within Peyritschia are provided. Trisetum howllii Hitchc, especie endmica de las Islas Galpagos, Ecuador, y Trisetum pinetorum Swallen, especie endmica de Guatemala se transfieren a Peyritschia [P. howellii (Hitchc.) Finot & P. M. Peterson; P. pinetorum (Swallen) Finot & P. M. Peterson]. Peyritschia, as circunscrita, incluye siete especies con nuevas reas de distribucin documentadas en Sudamrica. Se proporciona una clave para distinguir las especies y un cuadro donde se comparan las caractersticas morfolgicas sobresalientes de todas las especies de Peyritschia.
41969085|Viola hookeriana and V. grahamii (Violaceae) are closely related species in section Viola, subsection Mexicanae occurring in mountainous habitats across much of central Mexico. In various locations, these species grow sympatrically, and the occurrence of many individuals with intermediate morphological characters has suggested hybridization between these species. Using a combination of morphological, ecological, and molecular evidence we evaluated two mixed populations of V. grahamii and V. hookeriana in mountains surrounding Lake Ptzcuaro in the state of Michoacn to determine the potential of distinct hybrid morphologies, the strength of phenological differences and ecological preferences among the species and putative hybrid, and to evaluate the level of gene flow between the two species. Our results indicate that hybridization is occurring and that hybrids are morphologically distinct from the parental taxa. Pre-mating isolation is weak and has favored extensive hybridization due to largely overlapping blooming times, weak ecological isolation and absence of spatial isolation. Hybrids are morphologically and genetically closer to Viola grahamii, but do show unique alleles as well. Viola hookeriana y V. grahamii (Violaceae) son dos especies pertenecientes a la Subseccin Mexicanae dentro de la Seccin Viola del gnero Viola. Estas especies crecen simptricamente en varias regiones en el centro del Mxico y la presencia de individuos con caractersticas intermedias ha sugerido la existencia de hibridizacin entre las especies. Usando una combinacin de datos morfolgicos, ecolgicos y moleculares evaluamos dos poblaciones mixtas de V. grahamii y V. hookeriana en las montaas cercanas al lago de Ptzcuaro en el estado de Michoacn en Mxico para determinar la presencia de morfologas caractersticas a los hbridos, el grado de diferencias fenolgicas y ecolgicas entre las especies y el nivel de flujo gnico entre ellas. Nuestros resultados indican la presencia de hbridos y que estos son morfolgicamente distintos a los padres. Los mecanismos de aislamiento entre las especies parentales no son muy fuertes y esto ha favorecido la hibridizacin extensa entre ellas debido a tiempos de floracin similares, muy poco aislamiento ecolgico y la ausencia de separacin espacial entre las especies. Los hbridos son morfolgicamente y genticamente mas similares a Viola grahamii, pero muestran aleleos que son nicos a ellos.
41969093|Schoenoplectus hallii (A. Gray) S.G. Smith (Cyperaceae), a rare plant restricted to wetland habitats, is of conservation concern throughout its range. Taxonomy of the species recently has been clarified; however, quantitative descriptions of achene and flower morphology are incomplete and life history information is lacking. Because of its scarcity and the transient nature of populations, any large-scale study of the species will require the recovery of achenes from bulk soil samples and the identification and separation of the dimorphic achenes. The objectives of this study were to separate, identify and photograph the two achene types; to quantify the size and morphological differences that will be useful in separating terminal and basal achenes; and to determine the range of variability in style morphology and achene size within and among 12 populations in four states. Although each achene type varies significantly in size among populations, size differences between terminal and basal achenes are statistically significant, and the range of sizes within each achene type is larger than has been previously reported. Terminal achenes are significantly smaller in length, width, beak length, mass and surface area than basal achenes, and noticeable differences occur in surface ridging. Differences in style morphology are distinct: terminal flower styles are predominantly bifid and consistent in shape, while basal flower styles, which are six times longer than terminal styles, are trifid with a wide variety of branching patterns. Terminal and basal achenes can be separated accurately and conveniently from bulk soil samples using a series of soil sieves. The visual and quantitative descriptions provided in this study will facilitate the collection and identification of terminal and basal achenes of S. hallii from plants, soil and wildlife. Schoenoplectus hallii (A. Gray) S.G. Smith (Cyperaceae), una planta rara restringida a habitats de lugares hmedos, es para ser conservada en toda su rea. La taxonoma de la especie se ha clarificado recientemente; sin embargo, las descripciones cuantitativas del aquenio y la morfologa floral son incompletas y falta informacin de su ciclo vital. Debido a su escasez y a la naturaleza transitoria de sus poblaciones, cualquier estudio a gran escala de la especie requerir la recuperacin de aquenios a partir de grandes muestras de suelo y un mtodo adecuado de identificacin y separacin de los aquenios dimrficos. Por lo tanto, los objetivos de este estudio fueron separar, identificar y fotografiar los dos tipos de aquenio; cuantificar el tamao las diferencias morfolgicas que sern tiles en la separacin de los aquenios terminales y bsales; y determinar el rango de variabilidad en la morfologa del estilo y tamao del aquenio en y entre 12 poblaciones en cuatro estados. Aunque cada tipo de aquenio vara significativamente en tamao entre poblaciones, las diferencias de tamao entre aquenios terminales y basales son significativas estadsticamente, y el rango de tamao para cada tipo de aquenio es mayor de lo que se haba indicado previamente. Los aquenios terminales son significativamente ms pequeos en longitud, anchura, longitud el pico, masa y rea de su superficie que los aquenios bsales, y hay diferencias notables en las costillas de la superficie. Las diferencias en la morfologa del estilo son distintas: los estilos de las flores terminales son predominantemente bfidos y de forma constante, mientras que los estilos de las flores basales, que son seis veces ms largos que los estilos de las flores terminales, son trfidos con una amplia variedad de patrones de ramificacin. Los aquenios terminales y bsales pueden separarse con precisin y de un modo prctico a partir de muestras de suelo voluminosas usando una serie de cribas para suelos. Las descripciones visuales y cuantitativas aportadas en este estudio facilitarn la recoleccin e identificacin de aquenios terminales y basales de S. hallii a partir de plantas, suelo y de la naturaleza.
23909564|Forty-seven new taxa are reported to the Oklahoma flora and specimens of four additional taxa are cited which verifies their present occurrence in the state. The fifty-one taxa are as follows: Lycopodium adpressum, Potamogeton natans, Cenchrus echinatus, Panicum verrucosum, Eleocharis smallii, Eleocharis tortilis, Scirpus supinus, Rhynchospora gracilenta, Rhynchospora rariflora, Scleria muhlenbergii, Scleria verticillata, Carex decomposita, Carex leptalea, Carex Swanii, Wolffia punctata, Eriocaulon decangulare, Juncus capitatus, Melanthium virginicum, Burmannia capitata, Habenaria repens, Spiranthes odorata, Glinus radiatus, Paronychia Drummondii, Tillaea aquatica, Parnassia grandifolia, Aeschynomene indica, Amorpha paniculata, Colutea arborescens, Geranium dissectum, Polygala cruciata, Bowlesia incana, Eryngium integrifolium, Cynoctonum sessilifolium, Lysimachia quadriflora, Phlox paniculata, Scutellaria integrifolia, Linaria canadensis var. canadensis, Bacopa monnieri, Epifagus virginiana, Utricularia inflata, Utricularia subulata, Aster ptarmicoides, Cirsium muticum, Euthamia graminifolia, Euthamia leptocephala, Evax candida, Onopordum acanthium, Solidago arguta var. Boottii, Solidago flexicaulis, Solidago gigantea var. gigantea, Solidago patula var. strictula.
23909567|Corispermum (Chenopodiaceae) is an Eurasian genus of annual herbs containing members which have become established in the North American flora. The taxonomy of the representatives of this genus occurring in North America has not received careful attention for some time. The most recent taxonomic revision of North American Corispermum was actually that of P. C. Standley (1916) in which the following species were recognized: C. hyssopifolium L., C. nitidum Kitaibel ex Schultes, C. emarginatum Rydberg, and C. villosum Rydberg. Standley considered the first two species to be introduced and the latter two native. In the present study, herbarium specimens were examined from 14 different herbaria. On the basis of literature and observations of these herbarium specimens, only three species of Corispermum, all introduced, are recognized in North America: C. hyssopifolium L., C. nitidum Kitaibel ex Schultes, and C. orientale Lamarck. A study of distributional data acquired from herbarium specimens and state floras suggests that the geographic range for all three species has increased with time.
23909563|A reevaluation of nine taxonomic characteristics presently used to identify Juncus roemerianus, in view of recent morphological, populational and distributional information, indicates that existing descriptions are inadequate or incorrect. A new description of the species is given.
41967386|Keys, distribution maps, habitats, nomenclature, and notes are given for the ferns and fern allies known to occur naturally or naturalized in Mississippi.
41967385|In the most recent monograph of Vernonia in North America, this species-group was treated as four species (V. texana, V. greggii, V. schaffneri, and V. ervendbergii). Information from ecological observations, comparative morphology, biochemical systematics, transplant studies, hybridization experiments, and geographical distribution is presented and used to establish a new classification. Two species are now recognized in the group: V. texana, from the south central United States, and V. greggii with four subspecies from the Sierra Madre Oriental in Mexico.
41967383|Kochia in North America as revised includes three species, two native and one introduced. A historical summary of work on the genus in North America is presented, and typification, distribution, and systematics of the species are discussed. Specimens from each county recorded are cited for the native species.
41968988|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Prestonia, y sus relaciones con taxas relacionados son discutidas. Se brinda un total de 13 nuevas citas de Apocynaceae para Bolivia y se proponen nuevas sinonimias en los gneros Himatanthus, Prestonia, y Tabernaemontana. A new species of Prestonia is described and illustrated, and its relationships with related taxa are discussed. In addition, 13 new records of Apocynaceae (subfamily Apocynoideae) are reported for Bolivia and new synonymy on Himatanthus, Prestonia, and Tabernaemontana are proposed.
41968991|Three species of Prenanthes occur in Texas. Prenanthes carrii Singhurst, O'Kennon, & Holmes is described as a new species endemic to the Edwards Plateau vegetational region. Prenanthes altissima is known only from Jasper and Newton counties in extreme southeastern Texas. Prenanthes barbata is more widespread but rare in rich hardwood and pine-oak forests in the Pineywoods of eastern Texas, with one record in the Post Oak Savannah of Lamar County. A key to species, descriptions, distribution map, and lists of exsiccatae are included. En Texas hay tres especies de Prenanthes. Se describe Prenanthes carrii Singhurst, O'Kennon, & Holmes como especie nueva endmica de la regin de vegetacin de Edwards Plateau. Prenanthes altissima se conoce nicamente de los condados de Jasper y Newton en el extremo sureste de Texas. Prenanthes barbata es ms frecuente pero raro en los bosques de madera dura y de pino-roble en los pinares del este de Texas, con una cita en la sabana de Post Oak del condado de Lamar. Se incluye una clave de especies, descripciones, mapas de distribucin, y listas de exsicatas.
41968969|Four taxa of Erigeron art raised from varietal to specific rank: E. breweri var. klamathensis to E. klamathensis (Nesom) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, E. decumbens var. robustior to E. robustior (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, E. engelmannii var. davisii to E. davisii (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, and E. utahensis var. sparsifolius is treated as E. sparsifolius Eastw. The morphological distinctions of these taxa are equivalent to those of other accepted species of Erigeron. Erigeron poliospermus var. disciformis (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, is raised in rank from E. poliospermus forma disciformis. Erigeron dokeyi var. pinzliae Nesom, var. nov, occupies the major portion of the range of the species; the typical variety is restricted to Clark Co., Nevada. Erigeron greenei Nesom, nom. nov, representing a species endemic to California, replaces the later homonym Erigeron angustatus Greene. Erigeron tracyi Greene is an earlier name for E. colomexicanus A. Nels. Taxonomic clarifications are provided for E. acris, E. uncialis and E. cavernensis, and for the interrelated species E. radicatus, E. ochroleucus, E. lackschewitzii, and E. parryi. A lectotype is designated for E. stenophyllus var. tetrapleurus. Cuatro taxa de Erigeron se elevan del rango varietal al especfico: E. breweri var. klamathensis a E. klamathensis (Nesom) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, E. decumbens var. robustior a E. robustior (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, E. engelmannii var. davisii a E. davisii (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, y E. utahensis var. sparsifolius es tratado como E. sparsifolius Eastw. Las diferencias morfolgicas de estos taxa son equivalentes a las de otras especies aceptadas de Erigeron. Erigeron poliospermus var. disciformis (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, et stat. nov, se eleva de rango desde E. poliospermus forma disciformis. Erigeron dokeyi war. pinzliae Nesom, var. nov, ocupa la mayor parte del rea de la especie; la variedad tpica est restringida a Clark Co., Nevada. Erigeron greenei Nesom, nom. nov, que representa una especie endmica de California, reemplaza al homnimo posterior Erigeron angustatus Greene. Erigeron tracyi Greene es un nombre ms antiguo para E. colomexicanus A. Nels. Se ofrecen clarificaciones taxonmicas para E. acris, E. uncialis y E. cavernensis, y para las especies interrelacionadas E. radicatus, E. ochroleucus, E. lackschewitzii, y E. parryi. Se designa un lectotipo para E. stenophyllus var. tetrapleurus.
41968971|Erigeron grandiflorus is restricted to the western U.S.A. and southwestern Canada and is treated here to include widespread diploid populations (E. simplex) as well as triploids (E. grandiflorus sensu stricto). The distinction between E. grandiflorus and E. simplex has been made primarily on the basis of differences in size and ploidal level, but identifications based on morphology often are arbitrary because differences appear to be widely overlapping. Plants previously identified as E. grandiflorus var. arcticus Porsild are here treated as Erigeron porsildii Nesom & Murray, nom. nov. Distinctions are clarified among E. grandiflorus sensu stricto, E. porsildii, E. muirii, E. yuhonensis, and the Asian E. koraginensis. Erigeron hultenii has not been relocated beyond the type collection and is tentatively regarded as an anomalous plant whose relationships are unknown. Erigeron denalii includes E. purpuratus var. dilatatus and E. mexiae and is contrasted with E. pallens (an endemic of southwestern Canada) and E. purpuratus. Recent collections document the occurrence of E. ochroleucus in arctic and boreal Alaska and immediately adjacent Yukon, disjunct more than 2800 kilometers from the closest localities in its main range to the south. Erigeron grandiflorus est restringido al oeste de Estados Unidos y suroeste de Canad y es tratado aqu para incluir las poblaciones diploides extensas (E. simplex) as como a las triploides (E. grandiflorus sensu stricto). La distincin entre E. grandiflorus y E. simplex ha sido hecha en base a las diferencias de tamao y nivel de ploida, pero las identificaciones basadas en la morfologa son a menudo arbitrarias porque las diferencias parecen estar ampliamente solapadas. Plantas identificadas previamente como E. grandiflorus var. arcticus Porsild se tratan aqu como Erigeron porsildii Nesom & Murray, nom. nov. Se clarifican las diferencias entre E. grandiflorus sensu stricto, E. porsildii, E. muirii, E. yukonensis, y la asitica E. koraginensis. Erigeron hultenii no ha sido vuelta a localizar despus de la coleccin tipo y se trata como una planta anmala cuyas relaciones son desconocidas. Erigeron denalii incluye E. purpuratus var. dilatatus y E. mexiae y se contrasta con E. pallens (un endemismo del suroeste de Canad) y E. purpuratus. Recientes colecciones documentan la existencia de E. ochroleucus en Alaska rtica y boreal y en Yukon, con una disyuncin de ms de 2800 kilmetros desde las localidades ms prximas en su rea principal en el sur.
41968974|This paper discusses the circumscription of Crataegusstr. Rotundifoliae and provides identificatory materials (full descriptions, line illustrations and specimen citations where not previously available) for the taxa of the series occurring in western Canada, defined for the purposes of this paper as British Columbia and Alberta. The variable, widespread and common species C. chrysocarpa is reviewed for this area and a local, rather distinct new variety, var. vernonensis, is recognized. In addition, one species new to science, C. sheila-phippsiae is described. Se discute la circunscripcin de Crataegusstr. Rotundifoliae y se ofrecen materiales de identificacin (descripciones completas, ilustraciones y citas de especmenes que no estaban disponibles previamente) para los taxa de la serie que se encuentran en el oeste de Canad, definido a los efectos de este artculo como Columbia Britnica y Alberta. La especie variable, muy difundida y comn C chrysocarpa es revisada para esta rea y se reconoce una nueva variedad local bastante diferente, var. vernonensis. Adems se describe una nueva especie para la ciencia, C. sheila-phippsiae.
41969023|The vegetation around five populations of yellow lady-slipper orchid (Cypripedium kentuckiense Reed) at Fort Polk, Louisiana were sampled using circular nested plots. Measurements included frequency, mean density, mean cover percent, mean dbh, importance value, and diversity (richness). The yellow lady-slippers at Fort Polk were associated with forests composed mainly of American beech (Fagus grandifolia), eastern hophornbeam (Ostrya virginiana), white oak (Quercus alba), horsesugar (Symplocos tinctoria), and witch hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) in the overstory and an abundance of poison ivy (Rhus radicans) and broad beechfern (Thelypteris hexagonoptera) in the understory. Se muestre la vegetacin alrededor de cinco poblaciones de Cypripedium kentuckiense Reed en Fort Polk, Louisiana mediante parcelas anidadas circulares. Las medidas incluyen frecuencia, densidad media, recubrimiento medio, dimetro medio a la altura del pecho, valor de importancia, y diversidad (riqueza). Cypripedium kentuckiense en Fort Polk est asociado a bosques compuestos principalmente por haya americana (Fagusgrandifolia), Ostrya virginiana, roble blanco (Quercus alba), Symplocos tinctoria, y Hamamelis virginiana en el dosel arbreo y abundante zumaque (Rhus radicans) y Thelypteris hexagonoptera en el sotobosque.
41969011|The following new combination in Persicaria is made: Persicaria meisneriana (Cham. & Schltdl.) M. Gmez var. beyrichiana (Cham. & Schltdl.) C.C. Freeman. Se hace la siguiente combinacin nueva en Persicaria: Persicaria meisneriana (Cham. & Schltdl.) M. Gmez var. beyrichiana (Cham. & Schltdl.) C.C. Freeman.
41968980|A new combination, Dendrocalamus stocksii (Munro) M. Kumar, Remesh & Unnikrishnan, is proposed to accommodate a widely occurring economically important bamboo in South and central India which was formerly described under Oxytenanthera Munro and Pseudoxytenanthera Soderstr. & R.P. Ellis. Se propone una nueva combinacin, Dendrocalamus stocksii (Munro) M. Kumar, Remesh & Unnikrishnan, para acomodar un bamb de amplia distribucin e importante econmicamente del sur y centro de la India que fue descrito anteriormente en Oxytenanthera Munro y Pseudoxytenanthera Soderstr. & R.P. Ellis.
41969014|Rhodiola rosea is a widespread species in Norway. It is well known in Norwegian folk tradition, with a variety of vernacular names, of which many reflect its traditional uses. Past use as a cure for scurvy in cattle may explain names with the prefix kalv-("calf"). Its widespread use as a hair wash is also reflected in vernacular names. In the past, Rhodiola was planted on turf roofs to protect them from fire, i.e. as an apotropaic (supposedly averting evil forces); this tradition is documented as early as the 13th century. Rosenrot Rhodiola rosea er en vanlig og vidt utbredt art i Norge. Den er vel kjent i folketradisjonen, med en lang rekke folkelige navn. En god del av disse gjenspeiler artens tradisjonelle bruksomrder. Bruk som et botemiddel mot skjorbuk hos kyr kan forklare de mange navnene p kalv. Den f littige bruken til hrvask gr likeens igjen i mange lokale navn. Tidligere ble rosenrot of te plantet p tovtak for  beskytte dem mot brann, dvs. som er vernerd; denne tradisjonen er dokumentert allerede p 1200-tallet.
41968997|The following new name and new combination are proposed: Solidago caesia var. zedia, Solidago curtisii var. flaccidifolia. Se proponen el siguiente nombre y combinacin nueva: Solidago caesia var. zedia, Solidago curtisii var. flaccidifolia.
41968982|Taxonomic limits of Gonolobus (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) in the southeastern United States have been controversial, with some authors recognizing two species and others only one. Over the past 30 years, most authors have tended toward recognition of a single species. However, the morphological variation within the taxon appears complicated and has not been analyzed using a quantitative approach. We analyzed the morphological variation within southeastern Gonolobus, based on 143 herbarium specimens from 13 southeastern states, using ANOVA, and mapped taxon distributions. Two distinct Gonolobus entities, based on differences in floral character states and geographic tendencies, appear to exist in the southeast, although questions regarding rank recognition remain. Los lmites taxonmicos de Gonolobus (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) en el sureste de los Estados Unidos han sido controvertidos, con unos autores que reconocen dos especies y otros slo una. En los ltimos 30 aos, la mayora de los autores han tendido al reconocimiento de una sola especie. Sin embargo, la variacin morfolgica del taxon parece complicada y no ha sido analizada usando mtodos cuantitativos. Hemos analizado la variacin morfolgica en los Gonolobus del sureste, en base a 143 especmenes de herbario de 13 estados del sureste, usando ANOVA, y distribuciones cartogrficas del taxon. En el sureste parecen existir dos entidades distintas de Gonolobus, basadas en diferencias de los estados de carcter florales y las tendencias geogrficas, aunque an quedan cuestiones acerca del rango que merecen.
41969027|The objective of this study is to fill a f loristic data gap for southwest Oklahoma. Based upon a review of the Atlas of the Flora of Oklahoma database, it was noted that Tillman County was floristically under-documented. This paper reports the results of an inventory of the vascular plants in Tillman County. A total of 371 taxa of vascular plants in 253 genera and 74 families were collected. The most species were collected from the families Asteraceae (65), Poaceae (67), and Fabaceae (25). There were 123 annual and 248 perennial species. Forty-one species of woody plants were present. Forty-two exotic species were collected representing 11% of the flora. A total of 266 previously unreported species were documented. Five species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were located, none of which were Federally listed as threatened or endangered. El objetivo de este estudio es completar los datos f lorsticos del suroeste de Oklahoma. Basados en una revisin de la base de datos del Atlas of the Flora of Oklahoma, se percibi que el Tillman County estaba subdocumentado f loristicamente. En este artculo se publican los resultados de un inventario de las plantas vasculares en Tillman County. Se colectaron un total 371 taxa de plantas vasculares de 253 gneros y 74 familias. La mayora de las especies se colectaron de las familias Asteraceae (65), Poaceae (67), y Fabaceae (25). Haba 123 especies anuales y 248 perennes. Estaban presentes cuarenta y una especies de plantas leosas. Se colectaron cuarenta y dos especies exticas que representan el 11% de la flora. Se documentan un total de 266 especies no citadas previamente. Se localizaron cinco especies con seguimiento por el Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory, ninguna de las cuales estaba listada federalmente como amenazada o en peligro.
41968981|Se describe una nueva especie de Struthanthus (Loranthaceae) para Costa Rica. Adems se adjunta una clave para las especies del genero presentes en el pas, incluyendo taxas no reportados an, pero presentes en zonas cercanas de Nicaragua y Panam. A new species of Struthanthus from Costa Rica is described. A key to the species currently known for the country is given, including two species recorded from Panama and Nicaragua, but not reported from Costa Rica yet.
41969017|We examine the etymology and the first names of Cuscuta, as well as some unexplored aspects in the early history of parasitism concept. The name "Orobanche" was used for the first time by Theophrastus possibly for Cuscuta, however for sure not for the today's broomrapes. The etymology of the generic name is neither Arab nor Greek, as commonly thought, but Aramaic and/or Hebrew. The ideas of parasitism from medieval ages are merely a regression of the Greek ancient concept. Whereas the ancient Greeks view the parasites as originating from their own seeds, during the medieval times and as late as the 17th century, Cuscuta plants were literally believed to arise from their hosts. Several lesser known uses of these plants during ancient and medieval times are explored in the Old as well as in the New World. Se examin la etimologa de los primeros nombres de Cuscuta, as como, aspectos no explorados en la historia del concepto de parasitismo. El nombre "Orobanche," fue utilizado por la primera vez por Teofrasto, posiblemente refirindose a Cuscuta; sin embargo, seguramente no para los actuales "jopos de lobo." La etimologa del nombre genrico no es ni rabe ni griega, como se crea comnmente, aunque puede ser arameo y/o hebreo. El concepto con respecto a las plantas parsitas desde la edad media es solamente una regresin al antiguo concepto griego. Mientras que, el punto de vista de los antiguos griegos era que las plantas parsitas se originaban de sus propias semillas, en la Edad Media, a finales del siglo XVII, las plantas de Cuscuta se consideraron que literalmente surgan de sus hospedadores. Los usos de estas plantas en los tiempos antiguos y en la Edad Media son prcticamente desconocidos, por lo que stos se estn explorando en el Viejo y el Nuevo Mundo.
41969042|The paper evaluates the taxonomic and conservation status of Osmorhiza bipatriata Constance & R.H. Shan. The available phylogenetic data support its recognition as a distinct species. It has a highly restricted distribution on Mt. Livermore of the Trans-Pecos region in Texas, as well as in Coahuila and Nuevo Len, Mexico. Its habitat on Mt. Livermore is highly restricted within the mesic Pinus strobiformis community, where it is associated with several other taxa that are also rare in Texas, such as Polemonium pauciflorum S. Watson subsp. hinckleyi (Standl.) Wherry and Aquilegia longissima A. Gray. The population of O. bipatriata on Mt. Livermore is small (< 20 individuals), although apparently healthy, with a full range of age structure. Application of the IUCN Red List criteria shows that O. bipatriata is an endangered species [B2ab(iv)] We recommend careful monitoring of O. bipatriata and its associated habitat, and restricted access to its only known locality within the United States. En este artculo se evala el estatus taxonmico y de conservacin de Osmorhiza bipatriata Constance & R.H. Shan. Los datos f ilogenticos disponibles apoyan su reconocimiento como una especie independiente. Tiene una distribucin muy restringida en el Mt. Livermore de la regin Trans-Pecos en Texas, as como en Coahuila y Nuevo Len, Mxico. Su habitat en el Mt. Livermore est muy restringido dentro de la comunidad msica de Pinus strobiformis, donde est asociado con otros varios taxa que tambin son raros en Texas, tales como Polemonium pauciflorum S. Watson subsp. hinckleyi (Standl.) Wherry y Aquilegia longissima A. Gray. La poblacin de O. bipatriata en el Mt. Livermore es pequea (< 20 individuos), aunque aparentemente saludable, con una estructura de edad con el rango completo. La aplicacin de los criterios IUCN para la Lista Roja muestran que O. bipatriata es una especie amenazada [B2ab(iv) I Recomendamos un control cuidadoso de O. bipatriata y su habitat asociado, y acceso restringido a su nica localidad conocida en los Estados Unidos.
41969033|The historical presence of Pseudognaphalium luteoalbum in Colorado and Pennsylvania is documented by collections from the 19 th century, and it is first reported from Louisiana by a recent collection. The species is common in the southern half of California and locally common in southern Florida but uncommon or rare in other states. Historical collections from ballast also record its presence in New York, Oregon, and Washington, but it has not persisted in any of those states. La presencia histrica de Pseudognaphalium luteoalbum en Colorado y Pennsylvania est documentada mediante colecciones desde el siglo XIX, y esta es la primera cita de Luisiana mediante una coleccin reciente. La especie es frecuente en la mitad sur de California y localmente en el sur de Florida pero poco frecuente o rara en otros estados. Las colecciones histricas procedentes de lastre tambin sealan su presencia en New York, Oregon, y Washington, pero no ha persistido en ninguno de estos estados.
41968967|Amaranthus acanthobracteatus is described as a new species from the sand dunes at Bilbao near Viesca in southern Coahuila, Mexico. It is a sister species to the dioecious A. acanthochiton, that has been recognized as a distinct genus Acanthochiton. Both species are psammophytic, dioecious annuals with large chartaceous, sharp-pointed pistillate bracts. The new taxon differs from A. acanthochiton in its longer, less cordate, distally recurved pistillate bracts, its larger seeds, larger pistillate inflorescences, and in many minor characteristics. The new species also is larger, with pistillate plants maturing as tumbleweeds. Se describe Amaranthus acanthobracteatus como especie nueva para la ciencia, de las dunas de arena de Bilbao, cerca de Viesca, en el sur de Coahuila, Mxico. Representa una especie hermana de A. acanthochiton, especie dioica que ha sido segregada en un gnero distinto, Acanthochiton. Ambas especies son anuales, dioicas y psamf ilas, y ambas presentan las brcteas pistiladas grandes, cartceas y puntiagudas. El taxon nuevo se distingue de A. acanthochiton por las brcteas pistiladas ms largas, menos cordadas, y recurvadas distalmente, por las semillas ms grandes, por las inflorescencias pistiladas ms grandes y por muchas caractersticas de ndole menor. Adems, las plantas de la especie nueva son ms grandes y, al madurar y secarse, las plantas pistiladas son dispersadas por el viento.
41969020|A pH drift experiment was conducted to determine the HCO uptake potential of Texas wild rice (Zizania texana Hitchc). In 15 separate experimental runs, total inorganic carbon to alkalinity ratio varied between 0.93-0.99 and final pH varied between 8.54-9.21, strongly suggesting Texas wild rice is an obligate CO plant unable to utilize HCO. The estimated CO compensation point for Texas wild rice is 2 mol 1. Data from this study provide physiological evidence for the positive relationship between current velocity and biomass productivity observed in Texas wild rice (Power 1996a, 1996b, 2000; Poole & Bowles 1999; Saunders et al. 2001) and provides water resource managers with information they need to manage and protect the San Marcos River ecosystem. Un experimento de la variacin del pH fue utilizado para determinar el potencial de absorcin de HCO del arroz salvaje de Tejas (Zizania texana Hitchc.). En 15 experimentos separados, la relacin entre el carbono inorgnico y la alcalinidad vari entre 0,93-0,99 y el pH final vari entre 8,54-9,21, sugiriendo que el arroz salvaje de Tejas es una planta CO obligatoria incapaz de utilizar el HCO. El punto estimado de compensacin del CO en el arroz salvaje de Tejas es 2 mol 1. Los datos de este estudio proporcionan la evidencia fisiolgica para la relacin positiva entre la velocidad actual y la produccin de la biomasa observadas en el arroz salvaje de Tejas (Power 1996a, 1996b, 2002; Poole y Bowles 1999; Saunders et al. 2001) y ofrecen a los encargados de los recursos hdricos la informacin que necesitan manejar y proteger el ecosistema del ro San Marcos.
41968965|Leucophyllum coahuilensis is described from a gypsum area in central Coahuila, Mexico. It is characterized by small, sessile leaves, a vestiture of dendritic hairs with long, slender radii, and blue to violet corollas with white on the throat floor with orange maculations. It is unique within the genus in having only 2 ovules per ovary. Recent cytological and molecular data regarding relationships between the Scrophulariaceae and Myoporaceae are discussed. Se describe a Leucophyllum coahuilensis como una especie nueva de suelos yesosos del centro de Coahuila. Se caracteriza por presentar las hojas pequeas y ssiles, un indumento de pelos dendrticos con radios largos y tenues, y las corolas de color violeta con la superficie interna abaxial de la garganta blancuzca o amarillenta con mculas anaranjadas. La nueva especie es la nica del gnero que tiene dos vulos por ovario. Se discuten datos citolgicos recientes, y las relaciones del gnero con las familias Scrophulariaceae y Myoporaceae.
41968999|The following 18 new combinations in Eremogone art proposed: Eremogone capillaris var. americana, E. congesta var. cephaloidea, E. congesta var. charlestonensis, E. congesta var. crassula, E. congesta var. glandulifera, E. congesta var. prolifera, E. congesta var. simulans, E. congesta var. subcongesta, E. congesta var. suffrutescens, E. congesta var. wheelerensis, E. eastwoodiae var. adenophora, E. franklinii, E. franklinii var. thompsonii, E. kingii var. plateauensis, E. kingii var. rosea, E. macradenia var. arcuifolia, E. macradenia varjerrisiae, and E. macradenia var. kuschei. Se proponen las siguientes dieciocho combinaciones nuevas en Eremogone: Eremogone capillaris var. americana, E. congesta var. cephaloidea, E. congesta var. charlestonensis, E. congesta var. crassula, E. congesta var. glandulifera, E. congesta var. prolifera, E. congesta var. simulans, E. congesta var. subcongesta, E. congesta var. suffrutescens, E. congesta var. wheelerensis, E. eastwoodiae var. adenophora, E. franklinii, Ejranklinii var. thompsonii, E. kingii var. plateauensis, E. kingii var. rosea, E. macradenia var. arcuifolia, E. macradenia var. jerrisiae, y E. macradenia var. kuschei.
41969016|A literature search was conducted to determine the medicinal flowering plants found in Pakistan and used as remedies for various disorders or diseases. The taxonomic position, distribution and flowering period of these plants are described to facilitate their collection at blooming. There are 95 species belonging to 85 genera and 43 plant families. Most of the species belong to Fabaceae and Asteraceae (17 and 13 species respectively), followed by Malvaceae (7 species), Lamiaceae (6 species) and Boraginaceae (4 species). Apocynaceae and Rosaceae contained 3 species each. It is important for the sustainability of Pakistani medicinal plant industry to consolidate the plant-resource database and explore the national and international markets for its medicinal flora. It is imperative that large scale cultivation projects be implemented and that priority species of the medicinal plants be salvaged. Pakistan also needs expanded research efforts into cultivation, production and conservation of medicinal plants. Institutional linkages are urgently needed between all the Pakistani research and development organizations dealing with medicinal and aromatic plants. Se realiz una exhaustiva bsqueda bibliogrfica acerca de las angiospermas medicinales de Pakistn utilizadas como remedios contra enfermedades de diversa naturaleza. Se prepar una lista de las especies encontradas con referencia a su posicin taxonmica. Se incluye su distribucin y perodo fenolgico para facilitar su recoleccin en el momento ptimo de la floracin. El listado comprende un total de 85 gneros y 95 especies pertenecientes a 43 familias. La mayora de las especies pertenecen a las familias Fabaceae y Asteraceae (17 y 13 especies respectivamente) seguidas de Malvaceae (7 especies), Lamiaceae (5 especies) y Boraginaceae (4 especies); Apocynaceae y Rosaceae presentan 3 especies cada una. Resulta importante para la industria sostenible pakistan de plantas medicinales consolidar el banco de datos disponibles y explorar los mercados nacionales e internacionales que ataen a su flora medicinal. Es imperativo aumentar los proyectos de cultivos a gran escala y preservar la prioridad de las plantas medicinales. Pakistn necesita tambin extender los esfuerzos de investigacin a los problemas sobre cultivo, produccin y conservacin de plantas medicinales. Destacamos asimismo la imperiosa necesidad de desarrollar un sistema de transferencia institucional entre la investigacin y las organizaciones de desarrollo que intervienen en los procesos industriales de plantas medicinales y aromticas en Pakistn.
41969012|Anthenantia, a small Panicoid grass genus of the southeastern U.S.A. is evaluated morphologically. The two previously known taxa, A. rufa (Elliott) Schultes, and A. villosa (Michx.) Beauv, together with a proposed new species, A. texana, are described, compared, and illustrated, and their relationships are discussed. Se evala morfolgicamente Anthenantia, un pequeo gnero de gramnea panicoide del sureste de Estados Unidos. Los dos taxa conocidos previamente, A. rufa (Elliott) Schultes, y A. villosa (Michx.) Beauv, junto con la nueva especie propuesta, A. texana, se describen, comparan, e ilustran, y se discuten sus relaciones.
41969021|Quantitative methods were used to compare the flora of the Post Oak Savanna and Oak-Pine-Hickory ecoregions of the West Gulf Coastal Plain. The analyses show that the two areas are nearly identical floristically. Se usaron mtodos cuantitativos para comparar la flora de las ecoregiones Post Oak Savanna y Oak-Pine-Hickory de la llanura costera del West Gulf. Los anlisis muestran que las dos reas son casi idnticas f lorsticamente.
41968973|Formal nomenclature and typification are detailed for taxa of the Pluchea odorataPluchea camphorata group. Lectotypes are designated for Plucheaglabrata DC, Conyza marilandica Michx., Gynema viscida Raf., Pluchea petiolata Cass., and Conyza camphorata Pursh. Pluchea (Conyza) marilandica (Michx.) Cass., which is the type of the genus, is based on a Dillenius illustration that shows features anomalous for Pluchea. The identity of several other pertinent taxa also remains ambiguous, but none of them appears to have a bearing on currently accepted nomenclature. Se detalla la nomenclatura formal y la tipificacin de taxa del grupo Pluchea odorataPluchea camphorata. Se designan lectotipos para Pluchea glabrata DC, Conyza marilandica Michx., Gynema viscida Raf., Pluchea petiolata Cass., y Conyza camphorata Pursh. Pluchea (Conyza) marilandica (Michx.) Cass., que es el tipo del gnero, est basada en una ilustracin de Dillenius que muestra caractersticas anmalas para Pluchea. La identidad de otros varios taxa tambin queda ambigua, pero ninguno de ellos parece tener importancia en la nomenclatura normalmente aceptada.
41968993|Microseris laciniata subsp. siskiyouensis and subsp. detlingii are described as endemics of the floristically "central" region of the Siskiyou Mountains of Oregon and adjacent California. These taxa have novel morphological features differentiating them from the related Microseris laciniata subsp. laciniata and subsp. leptosepala also found in this region. The populations are kept separate by allopatry and by adaptation to different edaphic conditions, and thus have different vegetation associations. Intermediate populations occur where pairs of taxa meet and the ecological differences are modified by habitat disturbance. Se describen Microseris laciniata subsp. siskiyouensis y subsp. detlingii como endemismos de la regin florstica "central" de las Montaas Siskiyou de Oregn y la adyacente California. Estos taxa tienen caracterstica morfolgicas que los diferencian de sus parientes Microseris laciniata subsp. laciniata y subsp. leptosepala que tambin se encuentran en esta regin. Las poblaciones se mantienen separadas por alopatria y por adaptacin a condiciones edficas diferentes, y as tienen diferentes asociaciones de vegetacin. Aparecen poblaciones intermedias donde contactan pares de taxa y las diferencias ecolgicas se modifican por alteraciones del habitat.
41969001|New combinations and new genera for species in Xylothamia are provided, reflective of recent phylogenetic data indicating the polyphyletic nature of that genus and the need to revise its taxonomy. Four species of Xylothamia are subsumed under the genus Gundlachia, necessitating the following new combinations: G. diffusa, G. riskindii, G. triantha (the type for Xylothamia), and G. truncata Four new genera are recognized for lineages without available generic names. Neonesomia includes N. johnstonii and N. palmeri. Each of the other three genera are monotypic, Chihuahuana, Medranoa, and Xylovirgata, and they accommodate C. purpusii, M. parrasana, and X. pseudobaccharis, respectively. Las nuevas combinaciones y los nuevos gneros que se ofrecen para las especies en Xylothamia son el reflejo de los datos filogenticos recientes que indican la naturaleza polifiltica de ese gnero y de la necesidad de revisar su taxonoma. Cuatro especies de Xylothamia se incluyen en el gnero Gundlachia que hace necesarias las nuevas combinaciones siguientes: G. diffusa, G. riskindii, G. triantha, (la tipo para Xylothamia), y G. truncata. Se reconocen cuatro nuevos gneros para los linajes sin nombres genricos disponibles. Neonesomia incluye N. johnstonii y N. palmeri. Cada uno de los otros tres gneros es monotpico, Chihuahuana, Medranoa, y Xylovirgata, e incluyen a C. purpusii, M. parrasana, y X. pseudobaccharis, respectivamente.
41969037|Sixteen vascular plant taxa not previously documented for West Virginia are reported with vouchers for each county of occurrence. These comprise of 2 lycophytes, 1 gymnosperm, 6 monocots and 7 dicots. Eleven species are native to the United States while 5 species have been introduced to the United States. Diecisis plantas vasculares que no haban sido previamente documentadas para West Virginia son reportadas con testigos para cada condado en donde estn presentes. Estas incluyen 2 licopodios, una gimnosperma, 6 monocotiledneas y 7 dicotiledneas.
41969034|Two native grasses are reported new to Ohio's flora, Dichanthelium scoparium (Lam.) Gould and Muhlenbergia glabrifloris Scribn. Both species share a similar coastal plain and Mississippi embayment distribution pattern. They were found at localities less than 4.5 km apart and in an area known for southern species reaching their northern limit. Dos gramneas nativas se citan como nuevas para la flora de Ohio, Dichanthelium scoparium (Lam.) Gould and Muhlenbergia glabrifloris Scribn. Ambas especies comparten un patrn de distribucin en una llanura costera y desembocadura del Mississippi. Se encontraron en localidades a menos de 4.5 km y en un rea conocida de especies meridionales que alcanzan all su lmite norte.
41969006|George Engelmann, in his description of Passiflora affinis, never designated a holotype for the species, nor has a lectotype been designated in subsequent literature addressing Engelmann's work or North American Passiflora. A lectoype is designated here and a discussion and clarification of the geographic range of this species in the United States is provided. George Engelmann, en su descripcin de Passiflora affinis, nunca design un holotipo para la especie, ni tampoco se ha designado un lectotipo en la literatura subsiguiente que trata el trabajo de Engelmann o las Passiflora norteamericanas. En este trabajo se designa un lectotipo, y adems se hace una discusin y clarificacin de la distribucin geogrfica de la especie en los Estados Unidos.
41969015|The roasted/ground seeds of the Kentucky coffeetree (Gymnocladus dioicus, Fabaceae) were sparingly used in pioneer times as a substitute for arabica coffee. Preparation of the beverage, opinions on its smell and taste, toxicity of the plant, and history and present-day status of this use of the seeds are discussed. Las semillas del caf de Kentucky {Gymnocladus dioicus, Fabaceae) se usaron en los tiempos de los pioneros como un sustituto del caf. Se discute la preparacin de la bebida, opiniones sobre su olor y sabor, toxicidad de la planta, historia y estatus actual del uso de las semillas.
41968986|Se discute la utilidad taxonmica de los spalos para delimitacin de secciones dentro del gnero Prestonia. Asimismo, se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Ecuador, P. amabilis, muy inusual por su cliz campanulado. The taxonomic use of the sepals features for intergeneric delimitation in Prestonia is discussed. Prestonia amabilis (Apocynaceae, Apocynoideae), a new species from Ecuador, is described and illustrated.
41969032|I am reporting two new records of Eurybia mrita (A. Nelson) G.L. Nesom for California (Siskyou County), and new records of Aster alpinus L.subsp. vierhapperi Onno for Idaho (Lost River Range) and Wyoming (Beartooth Pass). Se hacen dos nuevas citas de Eurybia mrita (A. Nelson) G.L. Nesom de California (Siskyou County), y dos nuevas citas de Aster alpinus L. subsp. vierhapperi Onno de Idaho (Lost River Range) y Wyoming (Beartooth Pass).
41968995|Six new varieties are proposed in North American Cirsium (Asteraceae: Cardueae): C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. tenuisectum D.J. Keil var. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. viperinum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. edule Nutt. var. wenatchense D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. occidentale (Nutt.) Jeps. var. ludanum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. robustum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. toiyabense D.J. Keil, var. nov. Additionally, twenty new combinations are presented: C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. bipinnatum (Eastw.) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. chellyense (R.J. Moore & Frankton) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. rothrockii (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. clavatum (M.E. Jones) Petrak var. americanum (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. clavatum (M.E. Jones) Petrak var. osterhoutii (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. cymosum (Greene) J. T. Howell var. canovirens (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B. L. Rob. var. eiiocephalum (A. Nelson) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. hespeiium (Eastw) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. peckii (L.F. Hend.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. var. clokeyi (S. F. Blake) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. edule Nutt. var. macounii (Greene) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. horridulum Michx. var. megacanthum (Nutt.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. inamoenum (Greene) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. inamoenum (Greene) D.J. Keil var. davisii (Cronquist) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. ochrocentrum A. Gray var. martinii (P. Barlow-Irick) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. pulcherrimum (Rydb.) K. Schum. var. aridum (R.D. Dorn) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. americanum (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. citrinum (Petrak) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. coloradense (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. congdonii (R.J. Moore & Frankton) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov. Lectotypes are designated for several of these taxa. Se proponen seis variedades nuevas en Cirsium (Asteraceae: Cardueae) de Norteamrica: C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. tenuisectum D.J. Keil var. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. viperinum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. edule Nutt. var. wenatchense D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. occidentale (Nutt.) Jeps. var. lucianum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. robustum D.J. Keil, var. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. toiyabense D.J. Keil, var. nov. Se presentan adems veinte combinaciones nuevas: C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. bipinnatum (Eastw) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. chellyense (R. J. Moore & Frankton) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. arizonicum (A. Gray) Petrak var. rothrockii (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. clavatum (M.E. Jones) Petrak var. americanum (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. clavatum (M.E. Jones) Petrak var. osterhoutii (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. cymosum (Greene) J.T. Howell var. canovirens (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. veiiocephalum (A. Nelson) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. hesperium (Eastw.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. peckii (L.F. Hend.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. eatonii (A. Gray) B.L. Rob. var. var. clokeyi (S. F. Blake) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. edule Nutt. var.macounii (Greene) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov., C. horridulum Michx. var. megacanthum (Nutt.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. inamoenum (Greene) D.J. Keil, comb, nov., C. inamoenum (Greene) D.J. Keil var. davisii (Cronquist) DJ. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. ochrocentrum A. Gray var. martinii (P. Barlow-Irick) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. pulcherrimum (Rydb.) K. Schum. var. aridum (R.D. Dorn) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. americanum (A. Gray) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. citrinum (Petrak) D.J. Keil, comb, nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. coloradense (Rydb.) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, C. scariosum Nutt. var. congdonii (R.J. Moore & Frankton) D.J. Keil, comb, et stat. nov, Tambin se designan lecttipos de varios de estos taxa.
41969010|Two new varietal combinations in Packera (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) are made based on work completed for the Flora of North America north of Mexico project. Se hacen dos nuevas combinaciones varietales en Packera (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) en base al trabajo completado para el proyecto Flora of North America north of Mexico.
41968983|A cladistic analysis was performed to test the monophyly of Echues (Apocynaceae: Apocynoideae: Echiteae). For the analysis 40 morphological characters were coded for 42 ingroup taxa (22 genera) and three outgroup species (two genera). The results indicate that Echues as currently circumscribed is polyphyletic. However, species that fall within the original descriptions of the two subgenera described in Echues form monophyletic clades. Se realiz un anlisis cladstico para comprobar la monofilia de Echues (Apocynaceae: Apocynoideae: Echiteae). Para el anlisis se codificaron 40 caracteres morfolgicos de 42 taxa del grupo (22 gneros) y tres especies como outgroup (dos gneros). Los resultados indican que Echues tal como se circunscribe normalmente es polifiltico. Sin embargo, las especies que estn en las descripciones originales de los dos subgneros descritos en Echues forman ciados monofilticos.
41969038|The occurrence of Phalaris arundinacea L., Reed canarygrass, in Texas is reported and a key to the genus Phalaris in Texas is provided. Se reporta la presencia de Phalaris arundinacea L., en Texas y se provee una clave para el genero Phalaris en Texas.
41968989|Stellaria oxyphylla B.L. Rob. has been rediscovered in northern Idaho; a taxon rarely noted in the literature since its original description in 1898. Our study indicates that Stellaria oxyphylla is congeneric with Pseudostellaria, thus the new combination is provided. The three western North American members of Pseudostellaria have six capsular valves that dehisce by rolling back tightly 2 or 3 revolutions, forming a shallow dish, thus exposing the seeds. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla differs from P. sierrae Rabeler & R. L. Hartman and P. jamesiana (Torr.) W.A. Weber & R.L. Hartman in having internodal lines of hairs (0.5-5 mm wide) on the stems and branches of the inflorescences, but like the last taxon, the stems of P. oxyphylla are square in cross section. In general appearance, P. oxyphylla is most similar to P. jamesiana, the congener widely distributed in the western United States. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla and P. sierrae share a reduction in stamen number from 10 to 5 and seeds with elongate, rounded tubercles each with 5 to 12 or more minute stipitate glands or conical projections, respectively. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla is found along stream banks, often under and near conifers. Se ha redescubierto Stellaria oxyphylla B.L. Rob. en el norte de Idaho; un taxon raramente presente en la bibliografa desde que se describi en 1898. Nuestro estudio indica que Stellaria oxyphylla es congenrica con Pseudostellaria, por lo que se hace una nueva combinacin. Los tres miembros del oeste de Estados Unidos de Pseudostellaria tienen seis valvas en su cpsula, que se abre enrollndose hacia atrs 2  3 vueltas, formando un plato plano, exponiendo de este modo las semillas. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla difiere de P. sierrae Rabeler & R.L. Hartman y P. jamesiana (Torr.) W.A. Weber < Sr R. L. Hartman por tener lneas de pelos internodales (0.5-5 mm de ancho) en los tallos y ramas de las inflorescencias, pero como el ltimo taxon, los tallos de P. oxyphylla son cuadrados en seccin transversal. En su aspecto general, P. oxyphylla es ms semejante a P. jamesiana, el congnere ampliamente distribuido en el oeste de los Estados Unidos. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla y P. sierrae comparten una reduccin en el nmero de estambres de 10 a 5, y semillas con tubrculos alargados y redondeados, cada uno con 5 a 12 o ms glndulas estipitadas diminutas o proyecciones cnicas, respectivamente. Pseudostellaria oxyphylla se encuentra a lo largo de los bancos de torrentes, a menudo debajo y cerca de coniferas.
41968976|Croton bigbendensis B.L. Turner, sp. nov., is described from Trans-Pecos, Texas. It is closely related to C.dioicus Cav. and has passed for that species in most treatments of Croton for the Southwestern United States and Mexico. Croton bigbendensis is largely confined to the lower elevations of the Big Bend Region in Brewster, Presidio, and Hudspeth counties where it dominates sandy flats along the Rio Grande. It is readily distinguished in the field by its bushy habit, and elongate upper internodes, the latter having linear-lanceolate leaves. So far as known, it does not co-occur with C. dioicus, nor does it appear to intergrade with the latter in regions of near contact. Se describe Croton bigbendensis B.L. Turner, sp. nov, de Trans-Pecos, Texas. Est muy emparentada con C. dioicus Cav. y ha pasado por tal especie en la mayora de los tratamientos de Croton para el suroeste de los Estados Unidos y Mxico. Crotn bigbendensis est confinado a las pequeas elevaciones de la regin de Big Bend en los condados de Brewster, Presidio y Hudspeth donde domina a lo largo de las llanuras arenosas del Ro Grande. Se distingue fcilmente en el campo por su hbito arbustivo, e internudos superiores elongados, los ltimos con hojas linear-lanceoladas. Por lo conocido hasta ahora no convive con C. dioicus, ni tampoco parece intergradarse con l en las regiones de contacto cercano.
41969003|An unusual form of Calycadenia from north central California was studied in greenhouse culture and confirmed to be self-compatible, a condition rare in Calycadenia. Based on the distinctive morphology and breeding system of this taxon, it is described and illustrated as a new species, Calycadenia micrantha. Although clearly related to G truncata and apparently included in C. truncata DC subsp. microcephala H. M. Hall ex D. D. Keck, this name was rejected as a basionym for the new species because of ambiguities regarding the type, the original description, and specimens cited and/or annotated by Keck. Se estudi una forma inusual de Calycadenia del centro-norte de California en cultivo de invernadero y se confirm que es autocompatible, una caracterstica rara en Calycadenia. Se describe e ilustra como una nueva especie basada en la diferente morfologa y sistema reproductor de este taxon, Calycadenia micrantha. Aunque claramente emparentada con G truncata y aparentemente incluida en G truncata DC subsp. microcephala H. M. Hall ex D.D. Keck, este nombre fue rechazado como basinimo para la nueva especie por algunas ambigedades relacionadas con el tipo, la descripcin original, y los especmenes citados y/o anotados por Keck.
41968985|Allotoonia (Apocynaceae) a new neotropical genus segregated from Echues is described. In addition, a key to species, descriptions, distribution maps, illustrations and specimens examined are provided for all species. Allotoonia (Apocynaceae), un nuevo gnero neotropical segregado de Echues es descrito. Se brinda una clave para todos los taxa, as como descripciones, mapas de distribucin, ilustraciones y especmenes examinados para todas las especies.
41969040|Recent collections of Cyperus drummondii Torr. & Hook, from Texas coastal prairies known as "Nash Prairie" and "Bailey's Prairie" are reported along with ecological notes and a synopsis of its Texas distribution. Se citan colectas recientes de Cyperus drummondii Torr. & Hook, de las praderas costeras de Texas conocidas como "Nash Prairie" y "Bailey's Prairie". Se aaden notas ecolgicas notes y una sinopsis de su distribucin en Texas.
41969018|The genus Amsonia was named for Dr. John Amson, a physician in Williamsburg, Virginia, in the mid-nineteenth century. El genero Amsonia fue nombrado por Dr. John Amson, un mdico de Williamsburg, Virginia, en la mitad del siglo diez y nueve.
41968998|The new combination Krigia cespitosa (Raf.) K.L. Chambers var. gracilis, based on Apogon gracilis DC, is proposed, and a lectotypification of the basionym is given. A neotype is created for Serinia cespitosa Raf. The hexaploid hybrid Krigia  shinnersiana is described from the Blue Ridge Parkway, North Carolina, representing an allopolyploid of the cross Krigia biflora (Walter) S. F. Blake  Krigia montana (Michx.) Nutt. Se propone la nueva combinacin Krigia cespitosa (Raf.) K.L. Chambers var. gracilis, basada en Apogon gracilis DC, y se hace una lectotipificacin del basinimo. Se crea un neotipo para Serinia cespitosa Raf. El hbrido hexaploide Krigia  shinnersiana se describe del Blue Ridge Parkway, North Carolina, y representa un alopoliploide del cruce Krigia biflora (Walter) S. F. Blake  Krigia montana (Michx.) Nutt.
41969005|Agoseris grandiflora var. leptophylla occurs predominately west of the Cascade Mountains from southwestern British Columbia to western Oregon and is morphologically and geographically distinct from A. grandiflora var. grandiflora. The two varieties are parapatric and intermediate forms are found where they occur together.Agoseris heterophylla var. quentinii is known from Sonoran Desert regions of Arizona and New Mexico and is geographically isolated and morphologically distinct. Agoseris grandiflora var. leptophylla est predominantemente al oeste de las Montaas de las Cascadas desde el suroeste de la Columbia Britnica hasta el oeste de Oregon y es morfolgica y geogrficamente distinta de A. grandiflora var. grandiflora. Las dos variedades son paraptricas y se encuentran formas intermedias all donde conviven. Agoseris heterophylla var. quentinii es conocida de las regiones del desierto de Sonora en Arizona y Nuevo Mxico, est aislada geogrficamente y es diferente morfolgicamente.
41969029|Sawtooth oak (Quercus acutissima Carruth.), native to eastern Asia, is widely planted in the eastern United States as a source of food for wildlife (especially turkeys) and as a landscape tree in developed areas. Spontaneous reproduction of sawtooth oak outside of cultivation has now been confirmed for Alabama, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and the District of Columbia. A complete description and an illustration are provided. Feral populations of sawtooth oak are mostly confined to open, often disturbed areas, and it spreads very slowly, apparently due to limited dispersal of the acorns. Planting of large stands of Quercus acutissima in natural areas or revegetating areas for wildlife food is likely to result in the establishment of this exotic species and its spread into adjacent habitats, but the use of sawtooth oak as a landscape tree in developed areas usually poses much less danger of escape. Quercus acutissima Carruth., nativo del este de Asia, est ampliamente cultivado en el este de los Estados Unidos como fuente de alimento para la fauna salvaje (especialmente pavos) y como rbol de paisaje en reas desarrolladas. Su reproduccin espontnea fuera de cultivo se ha confirmado ahora en Alabama, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, y el Distrito de Columbia. Se aporta una descripcin completa y una ilustracin. Las poblaciones silvestres de Quercus acutissima estn mayormente confinadas a reas abiertas alteradas, y se expande muy lentamente, debido aparentemente a la dispersin limitada de sus bellotas. El establecimiento de grandes plantaciones de Quercus acutissima en reas naturales o reas de revegetacin para alimento de la fauna salvaje es probablemente la causa del establecimiento de esta especie extica y su expansin en los habitats adyacentes, pero el uso de Quercus acutissima como rbol de paisaje en reas desarrolladas tiene mucho menos peligro de escape.
41968978|Centaurium blumbergianum B.L. Turner, sp. nov., is described from near Ruidosa, Presidio Co., Texas. It is a perennial species with broad open, cymes having no obvious close relatives among the North American taxa described to date. It occurs only along saline streams and in seeps at the base of limestone walls in dead-end canyons where it grows with or near a number of other rare taxa such as the recently described localized endemic, Arida mattturneri and the equally rare A. gypsitherma (cf. Sida 20 [4]). Photographs of type material are presented, along with an account of its possible relationships to other taxa. Se describe Centaurium blumbergianum B.L. Turner, sp. nov., de cerca de Ruidosa, Presidio Co., Texas. Es una especie perenne con cimas abiertas anchas, que no tiene parientes prximos entre los taxa norteamericanos descritos hasta ahora. Ocurre solamente a lo largo de torrentes salinos y en filtrados de la base de paredones calcreos de los finales ciegos de caones donde crece junto o cerca de cierto nmero de otros taxa raros tales como el endemismo descrito recientemente, Arida mattturneri y la igualmente rara A. gypsitherma (cf. Sida 20 [4]). Se presentan fotografas del material tipo, junto con una relacin de su posible parentesco con otros taxa.
41969013|Calamagrostis coahuilensis P.M. Peterson, Soreng & Valds-Reyna, sp. nov, and Calamagrostis divaricata P.M. Peterson & Soreng, sp. nov., from Mxico are described and illustrated. Calamagrostis coahuilensis occurs on calcareous slopes in the mountains of southeastern Coahuila and southwestern Nuevo Len; and C. divaricata occurs on moist slopes and mossy cliffs of southwestern Durango. Calamagrostis coahuilensis is morphologically similar to C. purpurascens but differs by having shorter anthers (1-1.2 mm long), nearly smooth ligules, scaberulous rachises, glabrous or minutely antrorsely scabrous sheath summits, and somewhat dense but not spikelike, greenish panicles. Calamagrostis divaricata seems morphologically allied to C pringlei but differs by having wider panicles (4-10 cm) with branches ref lexed spreading and divaricate, shorter spikelets (3.4-4.3 mm long), shorter glumes (3.4-4.3 mm long) that are both 1-veined, and shorter lemmas (3.8-4.3 mm long) with an awn inserted on upper 1/4 to 1/3. Se describen y se ilustran para Mxico Calamagrostis coahuilensis P.M. Peterson, Soreng & Valds-Reyna, sp. nov., y Calamagrostis divaricata P.M. Peterson & Soreng, sp. nov. Calamagrostis coahuilensis se encuentra en laderas calcreas en las montaas del sureste del estado de Coahuila y suroeste del estado Nuevo Len; y C divaricata se encuentra en laderas hmedas y riscos musgosos del suroeste del estado de Durango. Calamagrostis coahuilensis es morfologicamente similar a G purpurascens pero difiere en poseer anteras ms cortas (1-1.2 mm largo), lgulas casi lisas, raquis escaberuloso, pices de las vainas glabros o escasamente con escabrosidad antrosa, y panculas densas pero no espigadas, de color verdusco. Calamagrostis divaricata parece morfologicamente relacionado a C. pringlei pero difiere en poseer panculas mas amplias (4-10 cm) con ramificaciones reflexas, extendidas y divaricadas, espiguillas mas cortas (3.4-4.3 mm largo), glumas ms cortas (3.4-4.3 mm largo) ambas uninervadas, y lemas mas cortas (3.8-4.3 mm largo) con una arista insertada desde 1/4 hasta 1/3 arriba de la mitad.
41969025|Baygalls are a plant community associated with small streams in west central Louisiana. Plots from a 1986 study on the effects of sedimentation on baygall vegetation were resampled in 2001. Nested subsamples were used and the same areas were sampled during each time period. Importance values were calculated using frequency, individual density, stem density, and dbh. In 1986, the sedimented and control baygalls were significantly different in all variables except for woody individual density and woody stem density. In 2001, dbh was the only variable not significantly different between the control and sedimented baygalls. In the sedimented area between 1986 and 2001, the woody plant variables increased while herbaceous plant variables decreased. Woody species, Liquidambar styraciflua and Alnus serrulata showed a large decrease, however, Toxicodendron radicans, Smilax rotundifolia, and Ligustrum sinense increased. In the control baygalls, four fern species increased in importance value. Los "Baygalls" son una comunidad vegetal asociada a pequeos torrentes en el centro-oeste de Luisiana. Las parcelas de un estudio en 1986 sobre los efectos de la sedimentacin en la vegetacin baygall se volvieron a muestrear en 2001. Se usaron submuestras anidadas y se muestrearon en cada periodo las mismas reas. Los valores de importancia se calcularon usando frecuencia, densidad individual, densidad de tallos, y dimetro a la altura del pecho. En 1986, los baygalls sedimentados y de control fueron significativamente diferentes en todas las variables excepto para la densidad individual de leosas y densidad de tallos leosos. En 2001, el dimetro a la altura del pecho fue la nica variable no significativamente diferente entre el control y los baygalls sedimentados. En el rea sedimentada entre 1986 y 2001, las variables de plantas leosas aumentaron mientras que las variables de plantas herbceas disminuyeron. Las especies leosas Liquidambar styraciflua y Alnus serrulata mostraron una gran disminucin, sin embargo, Toxicodendron radicans, Smilax rotundifolia, y Ligustrum sinense aumentaron. En los baygalls de control, cuatro especies de helchos incrementaron su valor de importancia.
41969036|Schoenoplectus saximontanus and S. hallii (Cyperaceae) are rare in North America and of conservation concern in every state in which they occur. Although the distribution of S. saximontanus extends farther west than that of S. hallii, they are thought to be sympatric in five states in the central portion of their range in the U.S. The two species are indistinguishable vegetatively, but style morphology and achene characteristics are distinctive. In this paper, we report the collection of a putative hybrid from a mixed population of the two species in the Wichita Mountains Wildlife Refuge in OK, describe achenes of S. saximontanus, S. hallii and Ss  Sh that were collected from the site in 2002, and discuss the potential effects of hybridization on the two species. Schoenoplectus saximontanus y S. hallii (Cyperaceae) son raros en Norte Amrica y con preocupaciones por su conservacin en los estados en que aparecen of. Aunque la distribucin de S. saximontanus se extiende ms al oeste que la de S. hallii, son simptricos en cinco estados en la parte central de su rango en los Estados Unidos. Las dos especies son indiferenciables vegetativamente, pero la morfologa del estilo y las caractersticas del aquenio son diferenciables. En este artculo, se cita la coleccin de un hbrido putativo en una poblacin mixta de las dos especies en la Wichita Mountain Wildlife Refuge de Oklahoma, se describen los aquenios de S. saximontanus, S. hallii y Ss x Sh que fueron colectados en dicho lugar en 2002, y se discuten los efectos potenciales de la hibridacin de las dos especies.
41968372|Schoenoplectus hallii (A. Gray) S. Galen Smith, Hall's bulrush, has been discovered in the Lyndon B. Johnson National Grasslands, Wise County, Texas. Previous reports of this species in Texas were based on misidentif ied specimens, and the current report apparently represents the first record for the state. Schoenoplectus hallii (A. Gray) S. Galen Smith, ha sido descubierto en los Lyndon B. Johnson National Grasslands, Wise County, Texas. Las citas Previas de esta especie en Texas estaban basadas en especmenes mal identificados, y la presente cita es aparentemente la primera para el estado.
41968352|A literature search was conducted to determine the medicinal legume trees found in Pakistan and used as remedies for various human disorders or diseases. The taxonomic position of these trees is discussed and their distribution is described to facilitate their collection. There are 40 medicinal, legume tree species belonging to 25 genera of Fabaceae (Leguminosae). Most of these medicinal legume trees belong to Caesalpinioideae (10 genera and 16 species) followed by Mimosoideae (7 genera and 14 species) and Papilionoideae (8 genera and 10 species). This constitutes about half of the Pakistani legume trees possessing medicinal properties used for various ailments. The plant parts used for medicinal purposes included bark, roots, stem, leaves, flowers, fruits and seeds. These medicinal trees have good vegetative growth under cultivated conditions and are in ample supply for commercial exploitation. There is potential for growing medicinal plants in Pakistan as an income generating activity and for sustainable utilization of these medicinal legume trees. However, there is a need for systematic cultivation, commercial extraction using scientific methods and sustainable conservation of endemic medicinal legume trees for substantial utilization through community participation. Se realiz una bsqueda bibliogrfica para identificar los rboles medicinales de las leguminosas que se encuentran en Pakistn y se usan como medicina para varias enfermedades humanas. Se discute la posicin taxonmica de estos rboles y se describe su distribucin para facilitar su recoleccin. Hay 40 especies medicinales de leguminosas arbreas, pertenecientes a 25 gneros de Fabaceae (Leguminosae). La mayora de estas leguminosas arbreas medicinales pertenecen a las Caesalpinioideae (10 gneros y 16 especies) seguidas de Mimosoideae (7 gneros y 14 especies) y Papilionoideae (8 gneros y 10 especies). Esto constituye cerca de la mitad de las leguminosas arbreas Pakistanis que tienen propiedades medicinales usadas para varios remedios. Las partes de la planta usadas con propsitos medicinales incluyen la corteza, races, tallos, hojas, flores, frutos y semillas. Estos rboles medicinales tienen buen crecimiento vegetativo en condiciones de cultivo y tienen amplio abastecimiento para la explotacin comercial. En Pakistn hay potencial para el incremento de las plantas medicinales como actividad generadora de recursos econmicos y para uso medicinal sostenible de estas leguminosas arbreas. Pero, se necesita un cultivo sistemtico, extraccin comercial mediante mtodos cientficos y conservacin sostenible de leguminosas arbreas medicinales endmicas para una utilizacin importante mediante participacin de la comunidad.
41968291|The infrageneric classification of Gilia is reviewed and revised on the basis of numerous phenetic and some molecular characters and by using a taxonomic approach. The result is a broadly defined multisection genus Gilia composed of two subgenera and seven sections (sects. Gilia, Arachnion, Saltugilia, Giliastrum, Giliandra, Gilmania, Campanulastrum), and a monotypic segregate genus (Lathrocasis). This system is compared with that of Porter and Johnson (2000) based primarily on molecular evidence and a cladistic approach. The two systems agree in some dispositions; in fact, the present system follows Porter and Johnson in recognizing Lathrocasis; but in other respects the two systems differ greatly. For example, the core genus Gilia is divided into six smaller genera in addition to Lathrocasis by Porter and Johnson. Basic differences between taxonomic and molecular cladistic approaches lead to the incongruences between alternative systems found here and elsewhere in the Polemoniaceae and in other plant families. These differences are discussed. A weakness of molecular cladistics is the attempt to classify groups by using DNA evidence primarily or exclusively. Better results can be obtained by combining the molecular characters with phenetic characters. There is a continuing need for new taxonomic revisions in the Polemoniaceae and other families that do this. Se revisa la clasificacin infragenrica de Gilia en base a numerosos caracteres fenticos y algunos moleculares, usando una aproximacin taxonmica. El resultado es el gnero multiseccin ampliamente definido Gilia compuesto de dos subgneros y siete secciones (sects. Gilia, Arachnion, Saltugilia, Giliastrum, Giliandra, Gilmania, Campanulastrum), y un gnero monotpico segregado (Lathrocasis). Este sistema se compara con el de Porter y Johnson (2000) basado primariamente en pruebas moleculares y una aproximacin cladistica. Los dos sistemas concuerdan en algunas disposiciones; de hecho, el presente sistema sigue a Porter y Johnson en el reconocimiento de Lathrocasis; pero en otros aspectos los dos sistemas difieren enormemente. Por ejemplo, el ncleo del gnero Gilia se divide en seis gneros ms pequeos en adicin a Lathrocasis segn Porter y Johnson. Las diferencias bsicas entre la aproximacin taxonmica y la cladistica molecular dan lugar a incongruencias entre sistemas alternativos como se encuentra aqui y en otros estudios sobre Polemoniaceae as como en otras familias. Se discuten estas diferencias. Un punto dbil de la cladistica molecular es el intento de clasificar grupos usando primaria o exclusivamente DNA. Se pueden obtener mejores resultados combinando caracteres moleculares con caracteres fenticos. Hay una necesidad creciente de nuevas revisiones taxonmicas en las Polemoniaceae y otras familias de igual comportamiento.
41968351|Sedum wrightii A. Gray, a west Texas native succulent, is one of a growing number of species known to reproduce by vegetative means. Detached leaves of S. wrightii produce plantlets on the basal portion of the adult leaf in association with callus tissue from what appears to be thinned-walled parenchyma and epidermal cells of the petiole. Shoot primordia appear first, emerging over lateral regions of the callus tissue by about day 5, with the roots emerging several days later. Sedum wrightii A. Gray, planta suculenta nativa de Texas, pertenece al creciente grupo de especies conocidas que se reproducen vegetativamente. Las hojas arrancadas de S. wrightii producen plntulas en la porcin basai de la hoja adulta, en asociacin con callo de lo que parece ser parnquima de paredes finas y clulas epidrmicas del pecolo. Primero aparecen los primordios del vastago, emergiendo de las regiones laterales del callo sobre el quinto da, y las races emergen varios das ms tarde.
41968302|Oenothera pennellii Munz (Oenothera sect. Oenothera subsect. Nutantigemma) was recently placed in synonymy with the widespread and variable O. pubescens Willd. ex Spreng. A series of recent collections from Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, Tamaulipas, and Zacatecas, Mexico, show that O. pennellii is a distinctive, subacaulescent, apparently perennial species restricted to northeastern Mexico at relatively high elevations. It is largely allopatric from the widespread, caulescent, annual or biennial O. pubescens. Like O. pubescens, O. pennellii is a permanent translocation heterozygote species. Oenothera pennellii Munz (perteneciente a Oenothera subsect. Nutantigemma) fue colocada recientemente en la sinonimia de O. pubescens Willd. ex Spreng., una especie muy variable y de amplia distribucin. Las colecciones procedentes de Coahuila, Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas, y Zacatecas en Mxico, muestran que O. pennellii es una especie distinguible por su hbito sub-acaulescente y que aparentemente est restringida al noreste de Mxico en elevaciones relativamente altas, donde es ampliamente aloptrica con O. pubescens, especie caulescente, anual y de amplia distribucin.
41968332|The taxonomy of Eriophorum russeolumE. scheuchzeri complex in North America is reviewed, including the northwestern North American related species E. chamissonis. A key to the taxa including new characters of the medial fertile scales and achenes is presented. The new nothosubspecies Eriophorum  medium subsp. album J. Cayouette is described; it represents the hybrid between E. russeolum subsp. leiocarpum and E. scheuchzeri subsp. scheuchzeri from northeastern Canada (northern Quebec and Nunavut), based on intermediate characters observed in herbarium specimens. The typical hybrid subspecies, E.  medium subsp. medium (E. russeolum subsp. russeolum  E. scheuchzeri subsp. scheuchzeri) is also characterized and added to the flora of North America (Quebec and Labrador). The two hybrid subspecies are compared to their parental subspecies. Another related taxon, E. scheuchzeri subsp. arcticum, poorly known in North America, is compared to the typical subspecies and its range is established in northeastern North America. Lectotypes of E. russeolum Fries and E. russeolum var. majus Sommier are here designated. Une rvision taxonomique du groupe des Eriophorum russeolumE. scheuchzeri en Amrique du Nord est propose, incluant l'espce voisine E. chamissonis du nord-ouest de l'Amrique. Une clef des taxons base sur des caractres indits des cailles fertiles mdianes et des aknes est prsente. Une nouvelle notho-sous-espce, l'Eriophorum  medium subsp. album J. Cayouette, est dcrite, reprsentant l'hybride entre l'Eriophorum russeolum subsp. leiocarpum et l'E. scheuchzeri subsp. scheuchzeri, et localise dans le nord-est du Canada (nord du Qubec et Nunavut),  partir d'observations de caractres intermdiaires sur des spcimens d'herbier. La sous-espce typique de l'hybride, l'E.  medium subsp. medium (E. russeolum subsp. russeolum  E. scheuchzeri subsp. scheuchzeri), est galement caractrise et rapporte comme nouvelle pour l'Amrique du Nord (Qubec et Labrador). Les deux sous-espces de l'hybride sont compares  leurs sous-espces parentales respectives. Un autre taxon voisin, l'E. scheuchzeri subsp. arcticum, peu connu en Amrique du Nord, est compar  la sous-espce typique, et son aire de rpartition est prcise dans le nord-est de l'Amrique. Les lectotypes de l'E. russeolum Fries et de l'E. russeolum var. majus Sommier sont dsigns.
41968324|Antennaria pulcherrima subsp. eucosma (Fernald & Wiegand) R.J. Bayer, comb, nov., is based on Antennaria eucosma (Fernald & Wiegand) from North America. The new combination is essential as a result of the expansion of the circumscription of A. pulcherrima to include A. eucosma. Antennaria pulcherrima subsp. eucosma (Fernald & Wiegand) R.J. Bayer, comb, nov., se basa en Antennaria eucosma (Fernald & Wiegand) de Norteamrica. La nueva combinacin es esencial como resultado de la extensin de la circunscripcin de A. pulcherrima para incluir A. eucosma.
41968347|Seed and capsule characters of several species of Arcytophyllum, Bouvardia, and Manettia (Hedyotideae; Rubiaceae) are described and compared. Seed characters are illustrated by scanning electron microscopy. Morphological similarities and differences are emphasized and outlined by a descriptive key. All characters of Arcytophyllum serpyllaceum and A. muticum were compared in tabular format, and a strong similarity was noted. These results support previous work that considered A. serpyllaceum a member of the genus Arcytophyllum. Las semillas y frutos de algunas especies de Arcytophyllum, Bouvardia y Manettia (Hedyotideae; Rubiaceae) son descritas y comparadas. Los caracteres de las semillas son representados mediante imgenes producidas por un microscopio electrnico de barrido. Las semejanzas y diferencias morfolgicas de estos gneros son enfatizadas y esquematizadas por medio de una clave descriptiva. Todos los caracteres de Arcytophyllum serpyllaceum y A. muticum fueron comparados en una tabla, mostrando stos un alto grado de similitud. Los resultados obtenidos, apoyan la nocin sugerida por estudios previos, de que Arcytophyllum serpyllaceum es en realidad un miembro del genero Arcytophyllum.
41968374|An unknown plant collected in 1998 at Fort Pulaski, Chatham County, Georgia has been identified as Hybanthus parviflorus (Violaceae), a South American native. The Georgia collection represents only the third report of this species in North America, and the first since the 1880s, when it was collected on ship's ballast at two port cities in New Jersey. It is possible that the introduction of the species to Georgia was also via ship's ballast, as Fort Pulaski would have been a port of call for ships going to and from Savannah, a major seaport in the 18th and 19th centuries; if the Georgia plant was introduced on ballast, it is apparently established. It is also possible that it is a more recent introduction; if so, however, the means of introduction of this species is obscure, as it is not typically an agricultural weed, nor of horticultural interest. The use of digital imagery and electronic mail facilitated the rapid and accurate identification of this alien species, which should now be considered an established, though rare, component of the North American flora. Una planta desconocida colectada en 1998 en Fort Pulaski, Chatham County, Georgia ha sido identificada como Hybanthus parviflorus (Violaceae), nativa de Sur Amrica. La coleccin de Georgia es la tercera cita de esta especie en Norte Amrica, y la primera desde los 1880s, cuando fue colectada en lastre de barcos en dos ciudades portuarias de New Jersey. Es posible que la introduccin de la especie en Georgia haya sido tambin mediante lastre de barco, ya que Fort Pulaski podra haber sido un Puerto de llamada para barcos que van o regresan de Savannah, un gran puerto en los siglos XVIII y XIX; si la planta de Georgia fue introducida en el lastre, est aparentemente establecida. Es tambin posible que sea una introduccin ms reciente; en este caso, sin embargo, el sistema de introduccin de esta especie no est claro, ya que tpicamente no es una mala hierba agrcola, ni de inters hortcola. El uso de imgenes digitales y correo electrnico facilit la identificacin rpida y precisa de esta especie invasora, que podra ahora ser considerada como un componente establecido, aunque raro, de la flora de Norte Amrica.
41968373|Pseudognaphalium jaliscense is first reported from Nebraska, documented here from twelve counties; an earlier report of this species from California was based on collections of a form of P. stramineum. Pseudognaphalium roseum is first documented as occurring in the U.S.A., where it has been collected in southern California. Pseudognaphalium jaliscense se cita por primera vez de Nebraska, se documenta aqu de doce condados; una cita previa de esta especies de California estaba basada en colecciones de una forma de P. stramineum. Pseudognaphalium roseum se documenta por primera vez de U.S.A., donde ha sido colectado en el Sur de California.
41968308|A new species, Scutellaria petersonaie B.L. Turner & J.L. Reveal is described from the state of Guerrero, Mexico. It is closely related to S. hintoniana of the section Crassipedes, but amply distinct. Se describe una nueva especie, Scutellaria petersonaie B.L. Turner & J. L. Reveal del estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Est muy relacionada con S. hintoniana de la seccin Crassipedes, pero es muy diferente.
41968369|Gamochaeta stagnalis is reported for the first time for the United States (Arizona and New Mexico). In Arizona these plants have previously been identified as Gamochaeta purpurea and Gamochaeta falcata. The species is common in Mexico and apparently is at the northern limit of its distribution in Cochise, Pima, and Santa Cruz cos., Arizona, and Hidalgo Co., New Mexico. Gamochaeta purpurea sensu stricto also occurs in Arizona, disjunct from its main range in the eastern U.S.A. Plants of the southeastern U.S.A. previously identified in some treatments as Gamochaeta falcata are separated into two species: Gamochaeta calviceps and Gamochaeta antillana. A lectotype is chosen for G. antillana. Gamochaeta calviceps is known primarily from the southeastern U.S.A. but is reported from two collections in California. Gamochaeta coarctata is first reported for Arkansas and Virginia and further documented for California. Gamochaeta stachydifolia, a South American native, is reported from two counties in California. For each of the 12 Gamochaeta species recorded for the U.S.A., a hypothesis of nativity is given, with a brief rationale. Se cita Gamochaeta stagnalis por primera vez para los Estados Unidos (Arizona y Nuevo Mxico). En Arizona estas plantas han sido identificadas previamente como Gamochaeta purpurea y Gamochaeta falcata. La especie es comn en Mxico y aparentemente tiene su lmite Norte de distribucin en los condados de Cochise, Pima, y Santa Cruz, en Arizona, y condado de Hidalgo, en Nuevo Mxico. Gamochaeta purpurea sensu stricto aparece tambin en Arizona, disyunta de su rea principal en el Este de U.S.A. Las plantas del Sureste de U.S.A. a veces identificadas previamente como Gamochaeta falcata se separan en dos especies: Gamochaeta calviceps y Gamochaeta antillana. Se escoge un lectotipo para G. antillana. Gamochaeta calviceps se conoce primariamente del Sureste de U.S.A. pero se citan dos colecciones en California. Gamochaeta coarctata se cita por primera vez de Arkansas y Virginia, y se documentan otras citas para California. Gamochaeta stachydifolia, nativa de Sur Amrica, se cita de dos condados de California. Para cada una de las 12 especies de Gamochaeta citadas para U.S.A., se ofrece una hiptesis de la posibilidad de ser nativas, con un informe razonado.
41968300|This, the fourth part of our series discussing typification and nomenclature in the lichenized ascomycete genus Usnea attempts to clarify the application of the names Usnea stuppea (Rsnen) Motyka and U. substerilis Motyka. Both names are lectotypified and the differences between the two taxa are discussed. Esta, que es la cuarta parte de nuestra serie que discute la tipificacin y nomenclatura en el gnero de ascomycete liquenizado Usnea intenta clarificar la aplicacin de los nombre Usnea stuppea (Rsnen) Motyka y U. substerilis Motyka. Ambos nombres son lectotipificados y se discuten las diferencias entre los dos taxa.
41968314|Gamochaeta spicata "(Lam.) Cabr." is based on an illegitimate later homonym (Gnaphalium spicatum Lam. 1788, non P. Miller 1768) and is to be attributed as Gamochaeta spicata Cabr., nom. nov. Cabrera's "nomen novum," however, also is illegitimate because Gnaphalium coarctatum Willd., a replacement name for Gnaphalium spicatum Lam., is the first legitimate name for Lamarck's plant. Details in the publication and specimen citations are clarified for the typification of Gamochaeta coarctata (Willd.) Kerg., the correct name in Gamochaeta for this species. Gnaphalium spicatum P. Miller is a synonym of Pterocaulon virgatum (L.) DC. Gnaphalium spicatum (Forssk.) Vahl is a synonym of Ifloga spicata (Forssk.) Sch. Bip. Gamochaeta spicata "(Lam.) Cabr." est basado en un homnimo posterior ilegtimo (Gnaphalium spicatum Lam. 1788, non P. Miller 1768) y debe consignarse como Gamochaeta spicata Cabr., nom. nov. El "nomen novum" de Cabrera, sin embargo, es tambin ilegtimo ya que Gnaphalium coarctatum Willd., un nombre reemplazo de Gnaphalium spicatum Lam., es el primer nombre legtimo para la planta de Lamarck. Para la clarificacin de la tipificacin de Gamochaeta coarctata (Willd.) Kerg., el nombre correcto en Gamochaeta de esta especie, se brindan detalles acerca de la publicacin y citacin de los especmenes. Gnaphalium spicatum P. Miller es un sinnimo de Pterocaulon virgatum (L.) DC Gnaphalium spicatum (Forssk.) Vahl es sinnimo de Ifloga spicata (Forssk.) Sch. Bip.
41968362|For the past five years, the Woodlot Forestry Research and Development Program at North Carolina State University has been assisting with the implementation of the Land Condition Trend Analysis (LCTA) program at Camp Butner. A plant inventory has been an ongoing aspect of associated research. This checklist represents a preliminary inventory of the flora of the site, comprising 78 families, 178 genera, and 241 species. En los cinco aos anteriores, el Woodlot Forestry Research and Development Program de la Universidad del Estado de Carolina del Norte ha estado ayudando con la implementacin del programa Land Condition Trend Analysis (LCTA) en Camp Butner. El inventario vegetal ha sido un aspecto de la investigacin asociada. Este listado representa un inventario preliminar de la flora local, que comprende 78 familias, 178 gneros, y 241 especies.
41968356|Laboratory experiments were carried out in England to test the specificity and environmental requirements of a Peruvian isolate of the fungus Puccinia lantanae Farlow, known to attack the invasive plant Lantana camara L. a serious problem in Galapagos. Eight species of plants representing five families were inoculated with the fungus and kept in a dew chamber for 48 hours. Lantana peduncularis Andersson and Lantana camara were sourced from Galapagos; other species related to Lantana were sourced from other places. Dew periods of 5,8,11,14, and 20 hours were tested to determine the period necessary for basidiospore formation and host infection. Only Lantana camara from Galapagos and Peru developed visible symptoms 6 days after inoculation and after 15 days sori were fully developed. No non-target species developed macroscopic symptoms. Most importantly the rust did not attack the closest host relative from Galapagos, the endemic Lantana peduncularis. Eight hours in the dew chamber was enough to induce basidiospore formation and host infection, but times up to 20 hours induced progressively more sori. Although we have not completed yet the experiments to determine the host range specificity, P. lantanae shows promise as a biocontrol agent for Lantana cmara in Galapagos. Se realizaron experimentos de laboratorio en Inglaterra para determinar el nivel de especificidad y requerimientos ambientales del hongo Puccinia lantanae Farlow como potencial agente de control biolgico de la especie invasora Lantana cmara L. en Galpagos. Ocho especies de plantas pertenecientes a cinco familias relacionadas a L. camara, fueron inoculadas con pstulas del hongo y mantenidas durante 48 horas en la cmara de roci. Lantana peduncularis Andersson y Lantana camara fueron colectadas en Galpagos, las otras especies relacionadas con Lantana se obtuvieron en otros lugares. Para determinar el periodo de roci necesario para la produccin de basidioesporas, las plantas de L. camara fueron inoculadas y sometidas a diferentes periodos de rocio (5,8,11,14,20 horas). Puccinia lantanae se desarrollo y afect nicamente a L. camara proveniente de Galapagos y Per. Los sntomas aparecieron seis das despus de la inoculacin y a los 15 das las pstulas estuvieron completamente desarrolladas. No se detectaron sntomas macroscopicos en las otras especies, principalmente en la endmica L. peduncularis que es la especie mas cercana. Puccinia lantanae fue capaz de esporular e infectar L. camara luego de ocho horas de roci; el mayor grado de infeccin y desarrollo de pstulas se obtuvo dentro de las 20 horas de roci. No se han realizado todas las pruebas necesarias para determinar si el nivel de especificidad es adecuado para liberar el agente, sin embargo hasta el momento, P. lantanae se muestra como un potencial agente de control biolgico de L. camara para Galpagos.
41968376|Panphalea heterophylla (Compositae) is a new genus and species for the United States. This also is the first known occurrence of the genus from outside of its native range in southern South America. Panphalea heterophylla (Compositae) es un gnero y especie nueva para los Estados Unidos. Este es tambin el primer reporte del gnero fuera de su rea de ocurrencia nativa en Sur Amrica.
41968366|Cunila origanoides has been rediscovered in Texas based on recent herbarium and field studies. Cunila origanoides ha sido redescubierta en Texas mediante estudios recientes de herbario y campo.
41968357|Fifty-seven species of fungi belonging to 23 genera were isolated and identified from the rhizosphere and rhizoplane of 65 plant species, belonging to 58 genera and 19 families from Sindh and Baluchistan, (Pakistan). A greater number of fungi were isolated from the rhizosphere than from the rhizoplane. In the rhizosphere, fusarium solani and Aspergillus spp. were dominant followed by Drechslera australiensis. In the rhizoplane, Fusarium solani was also dominant. Biocontrol agents like Trichoderma harzianum, T. koningii, T. viride, V. chlamydosporium, and Stachybotrys aira were isolated in low frequency suggesting their poor competence in the rhizosphere. Memnoniella echinata from Zea mays and Sorghum bicolor and Stachybotrys parvispora from Zea mays were reported for the first time from Pakistan. Microorganisms in agricultural soils are known to exert profound influences on the soil fertility status as well as on the suppression of soil-borne plant diseases. Multiple microbial interactions involving bacteria and fungi in the rhizosphere are shown to provide enhanced biocontrol in many cases in comparison with biocontrol agents used singly. Importantly, a soil that is suppressive to one pathogen is not necessarily suppressive to another, and so specificity in soil-plant-microbe interactions for disease suppression exists. Modern methods for analyzing microbial community structures may prove particularly valuable to help define the key organisms or groups of organisms responsible for such natural suppression as well as for monitoring the spread and impact of introduction of specific biocontrol agents or other management practices on natural microbial populations. Cincuenta y cinco especies de hongos pertenecientes a 23 gneros, fueron aisladas e identificadas en la rizosfera y rizoplana de 65 especies vegetales, pertenecientes a 58 gneros y 19 familias de Sindh y Baluchistan, (Pakistn). Fue aislado un nmero mayor de hongos en la rizosfera que en el rizoplana. En la rizosfera, Fusarium solani y Aspergillus spp. fueron los dominantes seguidos de Drechslera australiensis. En el rizoplana, Fusarium solani fue dominante tambin. Agentes de biocontrol como Trichoderma harzianum, T. koningii, T. viride, V. chlamydosporium, y Stachybotrys se aislaron en baja frecuencia lo que sugiere una competencia pobre en la rizosfera. Memnoniella echinata de Zea mays y Sorghum bicolour, y Stachybotrys parvispora de Zea mays se citan por primera vez de Pakistn. Los microorganismos de los suelos agrcolas ejercen profundas influencias en la fertilidad del suelo as como en la supresin de enfermedades de las plantas originadas en el suelo. Las interacciones microbianas mltiples que implican bacterias y hongos en la rizosfera se ve que ejercen un biocontrol incrementado en muchos casos en comparacin con los agentes de biocontrol usados aisladamente. Es importante, que un suelo que es supresivo para un patgeno no es necesariamente supresivo para otro, y as la especificidad en las interacciones suelo-planta-microbio para la supresin de la enfermedad existe. Los mtodos modernos para analizar la estructuras de la comunidad microbiana pueden ser muy valiosos para ayudar a definir los organismos clave o grupos de organismos responsables de tal supresin natural as como para la supervisin de la extensin y el impacto de la introduccin de agentes de biocontrol especficos u otras prcticas de gestin de poblaciones microbianas naturales.
41968311|Four species of Nototriche are recognized for Ecuador, all are endemic. N. hartwegii is re-established. A key, descriptions, and illustrations of the species are provided. Se reconocen cuatro especies de Nototriche para el Ecuador, todas endmicas. Se restablece N. hartwegii. Se presentan clave, descripciones e ilustraciones de las especies.
41968292|A new species of Verbenaceae, Citharexylum danirae Len de la Luz et Chiang, is described and illustrated. It is known only from the type collection at the north face of Evermann volcano in the remote Socorro Island, the largest of the Revillagigedo Archipelago, in the tropical Mexican Pacific Ocean. Its relationship to C. caudatum L. and C. affine D. Don is discussed. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de la familia de las Verbenceas, Citharexylum danirae Len de la Luz et Chiang. Hasta hoy es slo conocida del ejemplar tipo, procedente de la vertiente norte del volcn Evermann, en la remota Isla Socorro, en el archipilago de las Islas Revillagigedo, ubicada en el Pacfico tropical de Mxico. Se discute su relacin con C. caudatum L y con C. affine D. Don.
41968361|Short's goldenrod (Solidago shortii Torr. & A. Gray) is an endemic species with a highly restricted distribution, the Kentucky populations occurring in and around the vicinity of Blue Licks in the northeastern portion of the state. The general occurrence of the species was first mapped in 1987, with several similar maps being published from 1989-2000. Due to changes in local land use practices the status of the populations has rapidly changed rendering these maps obsolete. A census of all populations was conducted and the precise topographic location and physical boundaries of each extant population was mapped using field reconnaissance techniques and GIS mapping technology. Between 1989 and 2003 four of the original populations were extirpated, eight declined in number of stems present, and one increased in both number of stems and area coverage. La "Espiga de oro de Short" (Solidago shortii Torr. & A. Gray) es una especie con poblaciones altamente restringidas en y a los alrededores de Blue Licks, al norteste de Kentucky. La distribucin general de las poblaciones de esta especie fue cartografiada por primera vez en 1987 y varios mapas han sido publicados entre 1989-2000. Debido a cambios locales en el uso de tierra para cultivo, la distribucin original de las poblaciones de la especie se han modificado en gran medida, y en consecuencia los mapas existentes estn obsoletos. Un censo de todas las poblaciones, observaciones de campo, y tcnicas del Sistema de Informacin Geogrfica (SIG) han permitido la ubicacin topogrfica precisa y la delimitacin fsica de cada poblacin. De 1989 a 2003 cuatro de las poblaciones originales han desaparecido, ocho disminuyeron en nmero de tallos y una poblacin aument en nmero de tallos y en rea de cobertura.
41968367|Geocarpon minimum, a federally threatened species, is documented for the flora of Texas for the first time. Approximately 200 plants were found in an extensive saline prairie near the floodplain of the Neches River in Anderson County, Texas. Included is a general description of the habitat, known distribution of the species, and associated flora in Texas. Geocarpon minimum, una especie de la lista federal de plantas amenazadas de extincin se documenta para la flora de Texas por primera vez. Se encontraron aproximadamente 200 plantas en una llanura salada cerca de la llanura de inundacin del Neches River (o Ro Neches) en el condado de Anderson, Texas. Se incluye una descripcin general del habitat, la distribucin conocida de la especie, y la flora asociada en Texas.
41968349|The transfer of Chaptalia hintonii to the genus Gerbera was rejected by Nesom (this issue), who retains the species in Chaptalia sect. Chaptalia. Chaptalia and Gerbera belong to the Gerbera-complex, a group of scapose genera whose circumscriptions are still in flux and whose largest genera still lack complete revisions. Important morphological characters of the corollas, staminodes, and cypsela hairs are discussed, and a key to genera of the Gerbera-complex is provided. The short, filiform corollas of the inner ray florets and the lack of staminodes are characters that allow the circumscription of Chaptalia. Certain species must be excluded from this genus and the sections within it must be redefined. Staminodes and inner ray florets with bilabiate corollas that are longer than the style are two characters that confirm the transfer of Chaptalia hintonii into the genus Gerbera. La transferencia de Chaptalia hintonii al gnero Gerbera fue rechazada por Nesom (este volumen), quien retiene esta especie en Chaptalia sect. Chaptalia. Chaptalia y Gerbera pertenecen al complejo Gerbera, un grupo de gneros de hbito herbceo escaposo, cuya circumscripcin no est definida y cuyos gneros ms numerosos an carecen de revisiones taxonmicas. Se discuten los caracteres morfolgicos ms importantes de corola, estaminodios y pelos de la cipsela, y se provee una clave de los gneros del complejo Gerbera. Las corolas cortas y filiformes de las flores ms internas del radio y la ausencia de estaminodios son caracteres que permiten la circumscripcin de Chaptalia. Ciertas especies deben ser excluidas de Chaptalia, y las secciones de este gnero deben ser redefinidas. La presencia de estaminodios y de flores internas del radio con corola bilabiada ms larga que el estilo constituyen dos caracteres que confirman la transferencia de Chaptalia hintonii al gnero Gerbera.
41968310|A new native subspecies of Phragmites australis subsp. americanus Saltonstall, P.M. Peterson & Soreng is described. The new subspecies can be separated from the introduced and Gulf Coast North American lineages of P. australis by having caducous leaf sheaths, ligules 1.0-1.7 mm long, lower glumes 3.0-6.5 mm long, upper glumes 5.5-11.0 mm long, lemmas 8.0-13.5 mm long, and by possessing chloroplast DNA haplotypes of A-H, S, Z, AA. The new subspecies is clearly distinguished in a PCA analysis and when bivariate plots of the morphological features are compared. Additional work is needed to morphologically distinguish the introduced from Gulf Coast lineages. Phragmites berlandieri is lectotypified. A key and distribution maps to the three lineages are included. Se describe una nueva subespecie nativa Phragmites australis subsp. americanus Saltonstall, P.M. Peterson & Soreng. La nueva subespecie puede separarse de los linajes introducidos en la Gulf Coast de Norte Amrica de P. australis por tener vainas caducas, lgulas de 1.0-1.7 mm, glumas inferiores de 3.0-6.5 mm, glumas superiores de 5.5-11.0 mm long, lemas de 8.0-13.5 mm, y por tener haplotipos del DNA plastidial A-H, S, Z, AA. La nueva subespecie queda claramente diferenciada en un anlisis de PCA y cuando se comparan grficos bivariantes de las caractersticas morfolgicas. Se necesita trabajo adicional para diferenciar morfolgicamente los linajes introducidos de la Gulf Coast. Se lectotipif ica Phragmites berlandieri. Se incluyen una clave y mapas de distribucin de los tres linajes.
41968358|The flora of 18 xeric limestone prairies in the Interior Low Plateaus physiographic province in Kentucky was surveyed and a checklist of vascular plants prepared for each site. Nine of the 18 sites are in the Knobstone Escarpment and Knobs, four in the Mammoth Cave Plateau, two in the Pennyroyal Plain and three in the Outer Blue Grass. Life form, photosynthetic pathway, geographic affinity, conservation status and presence were determined for each taxon. Community coefficients were calculated from site floristic lists, and the physiography, geology and soils associated with each site were documented. The flora of xeric limestone prairies in Kentucky was compared to that of limestone cedar glades of the southeastern United States and of deep-soil barrens of the southwestern Pennyroyal Plain in Kentucky and Tennessee. Three hundred and thirty-five taxa were identified in this plant community type, of which 20 are nonnative and 24 state-listed. Families with the highest number of taxa were Asteraceae (70), Poaceae (32) and Fabaceae (29); genera with the highest number of taxa were Symphyotrichum (15), Panicum sensu lato (= Panicum + Dichanthelium) (10), Carex (7), Solidago (7) and Hypericum (6). Intraneous C 3 hemicryptophytes make up the majority of the flora. Community coefficients indicate high similarity among all sites except those in the eastern outer Blue Grass, which belong to a second association or community type. Endemic species, a higher percentage of therophytes (i.e. annuals, especially winter annuals) and a higher number of taxa with western and northwestern geographic affinities distinguish the limestone cedar glade flora from those of xeric limestone prairies and deep-soil barrens. La flora de 18 praderas calcreas xricas en la provincia fisiogrfica Interior Low Plateaus en Kentucky fue estudiada y se prepar un catlogo de plantas vasculares en cada lugar. Nueve de los 18 puntos estn en el Knobstone Escarpment y Knobs, cuatro en el Mammoth Cave Plateau, dos en la Pennyroyal Plain, y tries en el Outer Blue Grass. Se determin el tipo biolgico, ruta fotosinttica, afinidad geogrfica, estado de conservacin y presencia de cada taxon. Se calcularon los coeficientes de comunidad a partir de las listas florsticas del punto, y se document la fisiografa, geologa y suelos asociados con cada punto. La flora de las praderas calcreas xricas en Kentucky se compara con la de los claros calcreos de cedro del Sureste de los Estados Unidos y con la de los eriales de suelos profundos del Suroeste de la Pennyroyal Plain en Kentucky y Tennessee. Se identificaron trescientos treinta y cinco taxa en este tipo de comunidad vegetal, de los que 20 no son nativos y 24 estn listados en el estado. Las familias con el mayor nmero de taxa fueron Asteraceae (70), Poaceae (32) y Fabaceae (29); los gneros con el mayor nmero de taxa fueron Symphyotrichum (15), Panicum sensu lato (= Panicum + Dichanthelium) (10), Carex (7), Solidago (7) e Hypericum (6). Los hemicriptfitos C 3 caractersticos de la comunidad forman la mayor parte de la flora. Los coeficientes de comunidad indican alta similitud entre todos los puntos excepto los de Northeastern Blue Grass, que pertenecen a una segunda asociacin o tipo de comunidad. Las especies endmicas, un alto porcentaje de terfitos (ej. anuales, especialmente anuales de invierno) y un alto nmero de taxa con afinidades geogrficas occidentales y noroccidentales diferencian la flora de los claros calcreos de cedro de la de las praderas calcreas xricas y eriales de suelos profundos.
41968320|Within the treatment of Solidago, Torrey and Gray (1842), there are no textual indicators of the ranks intended for subdivision of the genus, and all of the Torrey and Gray names for subdivisions of Solidago are rankless. The new combination Solidago sect. Ptarmicoidei is made. En el tratamiento de Solidago, Torrey y Gray (1842), no hay indicadores textuales de los rangos que se hacen para la subdivisin del gnero, y todos los nombres de Torrey y Gray para las subdivisiones de Solidago no tienen rango. Se hace la nueva combinacin Solidago sect. Ptarmicoidei.
41968322|The following new name and combinations are proposed: Heterotheca subaxlaris subsp. latifolia, Solidago subsect. Multiradiatae, and Symphyotrichum concolor var. devestitum. Se proponen un nombre nuevo y varias combinaciones: Heterotheca subaxillaris subsp. latifolia, Solidago subsect. Multiradiatae, y Symphyotrichum concolor var. devestitum.
41968334|Symphyotrichum rhiannon Weakley & Govus, sp. nov, is described from the Buck Creek ultramafic barren (over serpentinized dunite and olivine) in the Blue Ridge province of southwestern North Carolina. It is similar to Symphyotrichum puniceum but different in its smaller stature, thinner rhizomes, subspatulate cauline leaves, narrower and fewer-headed capitulescence, phyllaries with shorter, rhombic-lanceolate apical green zones, and shorter ray corollas. Its geographic range is imbedded within that of typical S. puniceum but morphological intergrades have not been observed, despite the co-occurrence of the two taxa within several meters of one another at the type locality. The Buck Creek site is within the Nantahala National Forest; 42 hectares of the site are managed by the United States Forest Service as a Special Interest Area and registered as a heritage area with the North Carolina Natural Heritage Program. Symphyotrichum rhiannon Weakley & Govus, sp. nov, se describe del Buck Creek ultrabsico (sobre dunita y olivino serpentinizados) en la provincia Blue Ridge del Suroeste de Carolina del Norte. Es similar a Symphyotrichum puniceum pero diferente por su talla ms baja, rizomas ms finos, hojas caulinares subespatuladas, capitulescencia ms estrecha y con menos captulos, filaras con zonas verdes apicales rmbico-lanceoladas ms cortas, y radios de las corolas ms cortos. Su rango geogrfico est incluido en el de S. puniceum tpico pero no se ha observado intergradacin morfolgica, a pesar de la co-ocurrencia de los dos taxa a unos pocos metros en la localidad tipo. El Buck Creek est en el Nantahala National Forest; 42 hectreas estn gestionadas por el Servicio Forestal de los Estados Unidos como un rea de Especial Inters y registrado como un rea del Natural Heritage Program de Carolina del Norte.
41968301|This paper, the third in a series presenting cases of confusion of nomenclature and typification in the genus Usnea, discusses two names of pendent, apotheciate, angulose Usnea species from South America. The first, Usnea alata Motyka, was not correctly typified by Motyka (1937) at the time of description and is lectotypified here. The second, Usnea sulcata Motyka, has been misapplied due to a lectotypification that is in conflict with the protologue; the species is thus re-lectotypified here. A lectotype is also selected for the name U. angulata f. ferruginea Krempelhuber, which is considered a synonym of U. sulcata var. sulcata. Este artculo, el tercero de una serie que presenta casos de confusin en la nomenclatura y tipificacin en el gnero Usnea, discute dos nombres de especies de Usnea colgantes, con apotecios, angulosas de Sur Amrica. El primero, Usnea alata Motyka, no fue tipificado correctamente por Motyka (1937) en el momento de su descripcin y se lectotipifica aqu. El segundo, Usnea sulcata Motyka, ha sido mal aplicado debido a una lectotipificacin que est en conflicto con el protlogo; La especie es pues relectotipificada aqu. Tambin se selecciona un lectotipo para el nombre U. angulata f. ferruginea Krempelhuber, que es considerado un sinnimo de U. sulcata var. sulcata.
41968289|The genus Dirca consists of three disjunct species of shrubs. Dirca palustris is found in the eastern United States and adjacent Canada; D. occidentalis is limited to six counties near the San Francisco Bay in California; and the recently discovered D. mexicana is known from one isolated population in northeastern Mexico. The three species have been described and classified according to morphological characters, but the morphological evidence does not provide a clear assessment of the relationships among the species. Morphologically, D. mexicana most closely resembles D. occidentalis, but known biogeographical trends raise doubt regarding how the three species are interrelated. We used molecular techniques to examine and clarify phylogenetic relationships among the three species of Dirca. Evidence from Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) sequences and Inter-Simple Sequence Repeats (ISSR) polymorphisms confirms the species-level divergence of Dirca mexicana and reveals that, despite their morphological similarity, D. mexicana and D. occidentalis are the most divergent of the three species genetically, while D. mexicana and D. palustris are the most closely related. The molecular evidence also demonstrates that Dirca occidentalis was the first of the three species to diverge and has undergone the greatest degree of differentiation since divergence. El gnero Dirca consta de tres especies de arbustos separadas geogrficamente. Dirca palustris se encuentra en la parte Este de los Estados Unidos y la parte contigua de Canad; D. occidentalis se limita a seis condados alrededor de la baha de San Francisco en California, EE.UU.; y la recin descubierta D. mexicana se conoce solamente de una poblacin aislada en la parte noreste de Mxico. Las tres especies han sido descritas y clasificadas segn sus caractersticas morfolgicas, pero las pruebas morfolgicas han sido consideradas como no concluyentes para hacer una evaluacin clara de las relaciones entre las especies. Morfolgicamente, D. mexicana se parece ms a D. occidentalis, pero las tendencias biogeogrficas establecidas crean dudas sobre el grado de parentesco entre las dos especies. Hemos usado tcnicas moleculares para examinar y clarificar las relaciones filogenticas entre las tres especies de Dirca. Por las pruebas que encontramos en las secuencias del Espaciador Transcrito Interno (ETI) [Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS)] y polimorfismos de Repeticiones de Secuencias Intra-Simple (RSIS) [Inter-Simple Sequence Repeats (ISSR)], llegamos a las siguientes conclusiones: 1. Dirca mexicana merece ser catalogada como especie; 2. Dirca occidentalis fue la primera de las especies en evolucionar, y ha experimentado el mayor grado de diferenciacin desde su divergencia; y 3. Contrario a sus morfologas, D. mexicana tiene un grado de parentesco ms alto, en trminos genticos, con D. palustris que con D. occidentalis.
41968337|The genus Otostylis (Orchidaceae) is one of the lesser known genera in the Zygopetalum alliance, which has had a problematic taxonomic history. Otostylis consists of four species distributed in South America and Trinidad. The purpose of this paper is to provide a synopsis of the genus, with descriptions of the four species and keys for their identification. Otostylis paludosa is resurrected from previous synonomy under O. lepida and reported as a new record for the genus in Peru, occurring as a dominant herb in bog wetlands of the Department of Madre de Dios. El gnero Otostylis (Orchidaceae) es uno de los gneros poco conocidos en la alianza de Zygopetalum, que ha tenido una historia taxonmica problemtica. Otostylis consiste en cuatro especies distribuidas en Amrica del sur y Trinidad. El objetivo este articulo es proveer de una sinopsis del gnero, con descripciones de las cuatro especies y claves para su identificacin. Otostylis paludosa dejo de ser sinnimo de O. lepida y esta reportado como un record nuevo para el Per, siendo una hierba dominante en los pantanos del Departamento de Madre de Dios.
41968315|A brief review of Agoseris apargioides is presented. The species is redefined to exclude A. hirsuta, a grassland species found along the Coast Ranges of California. Agoseris apargioides occurs on coastal dunes along the Pacific coast from central California to Washington. Three varieties are recognized: var. apargioides, var. eastwoodiae, and var. martima (E. Sheld.) G.I. Baird, comb, et stat. nov. Se presenta una breve revisin de Agoseris apargioides. La especie se redefine para excluir A. hirsuta, una especie que se encentra en los pastos a lo largo de las cordilleras costeras de California. Agoseris apargioides aparece en las dunas costeras a lo largo de la costa del Pacifico desde el centro de California hasta Washington. Se reconocen tres variedades: var. apargioides, var. eastwoodiae, y var. martima (E. Sheld.) G.I. Baird, comb, et stat. nov.
41968370|This article reports the results of a vascular plant inventory of the Washita Battlefield National Historic Site in western Oklahoma. Two hundred and seventy-two species of vascular plants were collected from 201 genera and 62 families. The most specious families were the Poaceae (53), Asteraceae (48), Fabaceae (22) and Euphorbiaceae (22). One hundred and seventy-five species were perennials, ninety-five annuals, and 2 biennials. Twenty-eight woody plant species were present. Twenty-one species exotic to North America were collected representing 7.7% of the flora. Five species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were found. This study reports 205 species previously not documented in Roger Mills County. Este artculo presenta los resultados de un inventario de flora vascular del Washita Battlefield National Historie Site en el Oeste de Oklahoma. Se colectaron doscientas setenta y dos especies de plantas vasculares pertenecientes a 201 gneros y 62 familias. Las familias con ms especies fueron Poaceae (53), Asteraceae (48), Fabaceae (22) y Euphorbiaceae (22). Ciento setenta y cinco especies eran perennes, noventa y cinco anuales, y 2 bianuales. Estaban presentes veintiocho especies leosas. Se colectaron veintiuna especies exticas para Norte Amrica que representan el 7.7% de la flora. Se encontraron cinco especies seguidas por el Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory. Este estudio cita 205 especies no documentadas previamente en el condado de Roger Mills.
41968326|Mertensia virginica (L.) Pers. ex Link is the correct name for the Virginia-bluebell. It should not be replaced by M. pulmonarioides Roth. Mertensia virginica (L.) Pers. ex Link es el nombre correcto para la especie usualmente as conocida. No debe reemplazarse por M. pulmonarioides Roth.
41968319|The following new combinations in the Caryophyllaceae are proposed: Arenaria lanuginosa var. saxosa, Eremogoneferrisiae, Minuartia nuttallii vars. fragilis. gracilis, and gregaria, and Paronychia chartacea var. minima. Se proponen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas en Caryophyllaceae: Arenaria lanuginosa var. saxosa, Eremogone fer risiae, Minuartia nuttallii vars. fragi lis, gracilis, y gregaria, y Paronychia chartacea var. minima.
41968346|Five new combinations in Symphyotrichum tenuifolium and S. subulatum, of subgenus Astropolium (Nutt.) Semple are presented. A selection of synonyms are listed for each taxon. Geographical ranges of each variety is presented and the characteristics and distributions of intermediate populations are discussed. Symphyotrichum subgenus Astropolium (Nutt.) Semple ha sido tpicamente circunscrita usando los nombres de Aster subg. Oxytripolium (DC.) Torr. & A. Gray o S. sect. Oxytripolium (DC) G.L. Nesom (Jones 1980; Semple & Brouillet 1980; Sundberg 1986; Nesom 1994). Todas las interpretaciones recientes han incluido un grupo central de taxa norteamericanos y se han incluido otros taxa principalmente en base a una morfologa compartida o nmero cromosomtico base.
41968328|Gnaphalium saxcola is treated at specific rank as Pseudognaphalium saxcola (Fassett) H.E. Ballard & Feller, comb. nov. It is likely an evolutionary derivative of Pseudognaphalium obtusifolium but is consistently different in a number of mophological characters. No intermediates between P. saxcola and any other taxon have been observed. Gnaphalium saxcola se trata a nivel especfico como Pseudognaphalium saxcola (Fassett) H.E. Ballard & Feller, comb. nov. Es aparentemente un derivado evolutivo de Pseudognaphalium obtusifolium pero es bastante diferente en un nmero de caracteres morfolgicos. No se han observado intermedios entre P. saxcola y cualquier otro taxon.
41968365|Eleocharis mutata (L.) Roem. & Schult, is reported new to the flora of North America north of Mxico based on recent collections from Brazoria Co., Texas, U.S.A. A key to separate E. mutata from other species of Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa in North America north of Mxico as well as a technical description and ecological notes are provided. Se cita Eleocharis mutata (L.) Roem. & Schult. Nueva para la flora de Norte Amrica al norte de Mxico en base a recientes colecciones de Brazoria Co., Texas, U.S.A. Se ofrece una clave para separar E. mutata de otras especies de Eleocharis subg. Limnochloa en Norte Amrica al norte de Mxico as como una descripcin tcnica y notas ecolgicas.
41968304|A taxonomic treatment is presented for Hymenoxys subg. Macdougalia, which includes a single species, Hymenoxys bigelovii. The treatment includes a discussion of the original circumscription of Hymenoxys bigelovii (as Actinella bigelovii), the later description of the genus Macdougalia to accommodate this taxon, and the eventual placement, based on chemical, cytological, and morphological evidence, of Macdougalia within Hymenoxys as a monotypic subgenus. The treatment also includes synonymies of Hymenoxys subg. Macdougalia and Hymenoxys bigelovii, lectotypification of Actinella bigelovii, and a description and range map for Hymenoxys bigelovii. Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico de Hymenoxys subg. Macdougalia, que incluye una sola especie, Hymenoxys bigelovii. El tratamiento incluye una discusin de la circunscripcin original de H. bigelovii (como Actinella bigelovii), la descripcin del gnero Macdougalia para acomodar este taxon, y la colocacin eventual, basada en pruebas qumicas, citolgicas, y morfolgicas, de Macdougalia en Hymenoxys como un subgnero monotpico. El tratamiento incluye tambin sinonimias de Hymenoxys subg. Macdougalia y Hymenoxys bigelovii, lectotipificacin de Actinella bigelovii, y una descripcin y mapa de distribucin de Hymenoxys bigelovii.
41968363|Tributaries flowing into Kisatchie Bayou in southwestern Natchitoches Parish, Louisiana are characterized by clear flowing water and white sand bottoms. In places, sandstone or siltstone creek beds emerge during normal water levels but quickly become inundated during periods of rain. These emergent creek beds provide a unique microhabitat that hosts a distinctive flora. A total of 70 species representing 30 families and 52 genera were discovered in this base-line vascular plant survey of these emergent creek beds. With few exceptions, the plant species here appear to be well-adapted for life in this challenging microhabitat. Los afluentes que discurren por Kisatchie Bayou en el sudoeste de Natchitoches Parish, Luisiana se caracterizan por el agua clara que fluye y los fondos de arena blanca. En algunos lugares, los bancos de arenisca o aluviones emergen con niveles de agua normales pero se inundan rpidamente durante los perodos de lluvia. Estos bancos inesperados proporcionan un microhbitat nico que alberga una flora distinta. Un total de 70 especies que representan a 30 familias y 52 gneros se descubrieron en un muestreo de la flora vascular de estos bancos inesperados, con pocas excepciones, estas especies parecen estar bien adaptadas para la vida en este microhbitat desafiante.
41968354|The Coker Arboretum at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill celebrated its centennial anniversary in the spring of 2003. The festivities began with a talk on botanist William C. Coker, which highlighted his humanistic traits. This paper briefly describes the events of the centennial celebration and provides the full text of the biographical presentation on Professor Coker. El Coker Arboretum en la Universidad de Carolina del Norte en Chapel Hill celebr su centenario en la primavera de 2003. Las festividades comenzaron con una charla sobre el botnico William C. Coker, que subray sus rasgos humanos. Este artculo describe brevemente los eventos de la celebracin del centenario y aporta el texto completo de la presentacin biogrfica del Profesor Coker.
41968368|Solarium viarum, Tropical Soda-Apple (Solanaceae), is an aggressive weed from South America. Since it is known from the southern U.S., including Louisiana, it has been watched for in Texas. A population has now been confirmed and vouchered from Jasper County, Texas. Other populations probably exist. Solarium viarum, manzana de soda tropical (Solanaceae), es una mala hierba agresiva de Sur Amrica. Desde que es conocida del Sur de Estados Unidos, incluyendo Louisiana, ha sido buscada en Texas. Se ha confirmado ahora una poblacin y se han tomado testigos del condado de Jasper, Texas.
41968340|Based on a survey of the literature and a representative sampling of herbarium material, it appears that the approximately 70 published binomials for Clematis in sub-Saharan Africa can be reduced to 10-13 distinct species or species complexes. A key to these species, along with a commentary on each, is provided as a preliminary guide for further floristic and taxonomic studies. Basado en una revisin de la literatura y una prueba representativa del material herbario, parece que los aproximadamente 70 binmenes publicados para las clemtides del frica sub-Sahariana pueden ser reducidos a 10-13 complejos de especies, o especies distintas. Se proporciona una clave para estas especies, junto con un comentario para cada una, como una gua preliminar para estudios adicionales florsticos y taxonmicos.
41968294|A taxonomic treatment of Sporoholus R. Br. for northeastern Mxico (Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas), is given. Seventeen species and one subspecies of Sporoholus art recognized in the study area. Sporoholus airoides subsp. regis is endemic to Coahuila, and S. atrovirens and S. spiciformis art endemic to Mxico. Keys for determining the species, descriptions, distributions, specimens examined, illustrations, synonymies, and a brief discussion indicating relationships among all native and adventive species of Sporoholus in northeastern Mxico are provided. Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de Sporoholus R. Br. para el noreste de Mxico (Coahuila, Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas). Se reconocen diecisiete especies y una subespecie de Sporoholus para el rea de estudio. Sporoholus airoides subsp. regis es endmica para Coahuila, y S. atrovirens y S. spiciformis son endmicas para Mxico. Se incluyen claves para determinar las especies, descripciones, distribuciones, especmenes examinados, ilustraciones, sinonimias, y una discusin breve indicando las relaciones entre todas las especies nativas y adventicias de Sporoholus para el noreste de Mxico.
41968348|Chaptalia hintonii, of south-central Mexico, was recently transferred to the otherwise essentially Old World genus Gerbera on the basis of the occurrence of staminodes in the pistillate flowers. No clear position within Gerbera was determined for the species. In contrast, C. hintonii also has been placed among the eight species of sect. Chaptalia, based on its similarity in a set of features including scape morphology, head behavior, ray corolla morphology, cypselar vestiture, flower biology, and geography. Other species of South American and Mexican Chaptalia, including one other from sect. Chaptalia, also are known to produce staminodes, a feature interpreted here as plesiomorphic, either as vestigial occurrence or as the result of developmental intermediacy between bisexual disc florets and outer, pistillate ray florets. The hypothesis that C. hintonii belongs with Chaptalia is stronger than that for positioning C. hintonii in Gerbera. Chaptalia hintonii, del centro-sur de Mxico, fue transferida recientemente al gnero esencialmente del Viejo Mundo Gerbera en base a la presencia de estaminodios en las flores pistiladas. No se determin una posicin clara en Gerbera para la especie. Por contra, C. hintonii ha sido colocada entre las ocho especies de la sect. Chaptalia, en base a su similitud en un conjunto de caractersticas que incluyen la morfologa del escapo, comportamiento del captulo, morfologa de los radios de la corola, indumento de las cipselas, biologa floral, y geografa. Otras especies de Chaptalia de Sur Amrica y Mxico, incluida otra de la sect. Chaptalia, tambin se sabe que producen estaminodios, una caracterstica interpretada aqu como plesiomrfica, tanto como ocurrencia vestigial o como resultado de desarrollo intermedio entre flsculos bisexuales del disco y flores radiadas pistiladas. La hiptesis que C. hintonii pertenece a Chaptalia es ms fuerte que la que posiciona a C. hintonii en Gerbera.
41968371|This paper reports the occurrence of two species previously unknown to the flora of Oklahoma. Alternanthera paronichyoides St. Hil., which occurs in Texas, was discovered in Pushmataha County in southeastern Oklahoma. Rumex maritimus L., a species found in all states adjoining Oklahoma, was collected in Washita County in western Oklahoma. Este artculo cita la ocurrencia de dos especies previamente desconocidas de la flora de Oklahoma. Alternanthera paronichyoides St. Hil., que vive en Texas, fue descubierta en el condado de Pushmataha en el Sureste de Oklahoma. Rumex maritimus L., una especie que se encuentra en todos los estados adyacentes de Oklahoma, se colect en el condado de Washita en el Oeste de Oklahoma.
41968298|Three new species of the genus Eriocaulon L., two species viz., E. anshiense & E. kanarense from Karnataka and one species E. konkanense from Maharashtra are described and illustrated. A distribution map has been provided. A key to distinguish these three species from their allied species is also given. Tres especies nuevas del gnero Eriocaulon L. son aqu descritas e ilustradas, dos de ellas., E. anshiense y E. kanarense encontradas en Karnataka y la tercera E. kankanense en Maharashtra. Se proporciona un mapa de distribucin de las mismas. As mismo, se ofrece una clave de identificacin para distinguirlas, en la que se incluyen tambin especies prximas.
41968338|Platanthera chapmanii (Small) Luer emend. Folsom is a rare orchid endemic to the southern coastal plain of the southeastern United States. Since its original description by Small in 1902 as Blephariglottis chapmanii, Platanthera chapmanii has been recognized at various taxonomic levels. Folsom (1984) clarified this problem by once again recognizing it at the species level and also provided evidence for the hybrid origin of the species and a new contemporary hybrid, P.channellii. Because Folsom's work was not widely available, much misunderstanding still persists as to the correct identity and rank of Platanthera chapmanii. Several species and hybrids are involved in this complex and all have contributed to the confusion. Those misunderstandings and relationships are clarified here. Platanthera chapmanii (Small) Luer emend. Folsom es una orqudea rara endmica de la llanura costera del Sur de los Estados Unidos. Desde su descripcin original por Small en 1902 como Blephariglottis chapmanii, Platanthera chapmanii ha sido reconocida en varios niveles taxonmicos. Folsom (1984) clarific este problema reconocindola una vez ms a nivel especfico y tambin aport pruebas del origen hbrido de la especie y un nuevo hbrido contemporneo, P._channellii. Debido a que el trabajo de Folsom no estuvo ampliamente disponible, todava persiste mucho malentendido para la correcta identidad y rango de Platanthera chapmanii. Varias especies e hbridos estn implicados en este complejo y todos han contribuido a la confusin. Se clarifican estos errores y relaciones.
41968353|In 1806 Peter Custis, botanist on the Red River Expedition, collected 26 plants mainly in the prairies in what is today Caddo and Bossier parishes, Louisiana. These were sent to Benjamin Smith Barton in Philadelphia. Two of the specimens are still in the Barton Herbarium. They are very unusual for the region today. We have looked for the other 24 specimens but without success. Those 24 specimens would certainly aid in understanding the ecology of the Red River area in 1806. En 1806 Peter Custis, botnico en la expedicin del Red River, colect 26 plantas principalmente el lo que hoy son los municipios de Caddo y Bossier, Louisiana. Fueron enviadas a Benjamin Smith Barton en Filadelfia. Dos de los especmenes estn an en el Barton Herbarium. Estas son muy raras en la regin actualmente. Hemos buscado los otros 24 especmenes pero no hemos tenido xito. Estos 24 especmenes ayudaran ciertamente a comprender la ecologa del rea del Red River en 1806.
41968307|Erigeron maniopotamicus G.L. Nesom & T. W Nelson, sp. nov., a member of the E. eatonii alliance, apparently is endemic to east-central Humboldt County and immediately adjacent Trinity County, California. It is sympatric with E. robustiorbut it perhaps is more closely related to E. eatonii or E. lassenianus. Erigeron maniopotamicus G.L. Nesom & T.W. Nelson, sp. nov., un miembro del grupo E. eatonii, aparentemente es endmico del Este-centro del condado de Humboldt y el inmediatamente adyacente condado de Trinity, California. Es simptrico con E. robustior pero quizs est ms cercanamente relacionado con E. eatonii o E. lassenianus.
41968296|Lobelia L. sect. Homochilus A. DC. comprises six species, two of which are divided into pairs of geographic subspecies. All are robust polycarpic (iteroparous) perennial herbs or shrubs with relatively large more-or-less racemose flowers on ebracteolate or minutely bibracteolate pedicels; hemispheric or depressed hemispheric hypanthia; bilabiate or subbilabiate (unilabiate in one species) red, orange, yellow, pink, or purple-hued corollas with a straight cylindrical or apically tapering tube equaling or longer than the monomorphic lobes; ventral anthers with tufts of white or yellow trichomes at apex; and oblong or ellipsoid seeds with a faintly striate or minutely reticulate testa (Murata Type D); the three taxa that have been studied cytologically are diploid with n = 7. Lobelia aguana, L. ghiesbreghtii, L. guererrensis, and L. laxiflora have pedicels longer than the red, orange, or yellow typically bicolored flowers, and are distributed primarily in Mexico and/or Central America; L. decurrens and L. heteroclita, in contrast, have pedicels shorter than the monochromatic pink or purple-hued flowers, and are confined to the Andes of South America. Lobelia L. sect. Homochilus A. DC comprende seis especies, dos de las cuales estn divididas en pares de subespecies geogrficas. Todas son hierbas perennes robustas policrpicas o arbustos con flores relativamente grandes ms o menos racemosas sobre pedicelos ebracteolados o diminutamente bibracteolados; hipantos hemisfricos o hemisfrico deprimidos; bilabiados o subbilabiados (unilabiados en una especie) corolas rojas, anaranjadas, amarillas, rosas, o tonos prpura con un tubo cilindrico o estrechado apicalmente tan largo o ms que los lbulos monomrficos; anteras ventrales con mechones apicales de tricomas blancos o amarillos; y semillas oblongas o elipsoides con una testa dbilmente estriada o diminutamente reticulada (Murata Tipo D); los tres taxa que han sido estudiados citolgicamente son diploides con n = 7. Lobelia aguana, L. ghiesbreghtii, L. guererrensis, y L. laxiflora tienen pedicelos ms largos que las flores tpicamente bicolores rojas, anaranjadas, o amarillas, y estn distribuidas primariamente en Mxico y/o Amrica Central; L. decurrens y L. heteroclita, por contra, tiene pedicelos ms cortos que las flores monocromticas rosa o tonos prpura, y estn confinadas a los Andes de Sur Amrica.
41968344|Phylogenetic analysis of nrDNA (ETS and ITS) sequence data for 50 species of Astereae (Asteraceae) belonging to the Eurybia-Machaerantherinae clade show that Tonestus kingii and T. aberrans belong to this group. The genus Herrickia is reinstated and expanded to include H. kingii as well as members of Eurybia section Herrickia sensu Nesom (1994). A new genus, Triniteurybia, is established for T. aberrans, which is sister to the Machaerantherinae. El anlisis filogentico de secuencia de bases de nrDNA (ETS y ITS) de 50 especies de Astereae (Asteraceae) pertenecientes al ciado Eurybia-Machaerantherinae muestra que Tonestus kingii y T. aberrans pertenecen a este grupo. El gnero Herrickia se reinstaura y expande para incluir a H. kingii as como a miembros de Eurybia seccin Herrickia sensu Nesom (1994). Se establece un nuevo gnero, Triniteurybia, para T. aberrans, que es "sister group" de Machaerantherinae.
41968345|The following new combinations are proposed: Eutrochium dubium, Eutrochium fistulosum, Eutrochium maculatum, Eutrochium maculatum var. bruneri, Eutrochium maculatum var. foliosum, Eutrochium purpureum, Eutrochium purpureum var. holzingeri, and Eutrochium steelei. Se proponen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Eutrochium dubium, Eutrochium fistulosum, Eutrochium maculatum, Eutrochium maculatum var. bruneri, Eutrochium maculatum var. foliosum, Eutrochium purpureum, Eutrochium purpureum var. holzingeri, y Eutrochium steelei.
41968378|A recent collection of mosses from the Department of Madre de Dios in the lowlands of southeastern Peru contains 58 different species. Fifty-four taxa are new to the district and four species are reported new to Peru. Previous collections from the district are listed which brings the total species known from the area to 74. This is the first major study of mosses from Madre de Dios, Peru, and it provides a foundation for continued work and production of a field guide for the region. Una coleccin reciente de musgos del Departamento de Madre de Dios en la zona baja del Sureste de Per contiene 58 especies diferentes. Cincuenta y cuatro taxa son nuevos para el distrito y se citan cuatro especies nuevas para Per. Se listan las colecciones previas del distrito que elevan el total de especies conocidas del rea a 74. Este es el primer estudio amplio de musgos de Madre de Dios, Per, y aporta un inicio para la continuacin del trabajo y la produccin de una gua de campo para la regin.
41968342|As part of a search for DNA regions suitable for phylogenetic analysis in the genus Clematis (Ranunculaceae), the nuclear-encoded Actin I intron was employed in a preliminary sampling of a small number of species selected to represent the major subdivisions of the genus. This DNA region was found to be more informative and to provide a more robust phylogenetic tree than chloroplast DNA regions. Trees generated were consistent with phylogenetic hypotheses based on morphology and with published molecular analyses. Moreover, three species of the section Crispae (subgenus Viorna) native to Florida, considered closely related on morphological grounds, formed a well-supported clade, and were distinguishable from one another. This suggests that this DNA region might be a useful tool for distinguishing groups of closely-related species, individual species, and possibly hybrids. Como parte de una bsqueda de regiones de DNA apropiadas para anlisis filogenticos en el gnero Clematis (Ranunculaceae), se emple el intrn Actin I nuclear en un muestreo preliminar de un pequeo nmero de especies seleccionadas para representar las grandes subdivisiones del gnero. Esta regin de DNA se encontr que era ms informativa y daba un rbol filogentico ms consistente que las regiones de DNA plastidial. Los rboles generados eran consistentes con la hiptesis filogentica basada en la morfologa y con los anlisis moleculares publicados. Adems, tres especies de la seccin Crispae (subgnero Viorna) nativas de Florida, consideradas fuertemente emparentadas en aspectos morfolgicos, formaron un ciado muy coherente, y eran distinguibles una de otra. Esto sugiere que esta regin del DNA puede ser un instrumento til para diferenciar grupos de especies muy emparentadas, especies individuales, y posiblemente hbridos.
41968316|Gamochaeta argyrinea Nesom, sp. nov., is documented from 19 states, primarily in the southeastern U.S.A., and from Puerto Rico. It is a common and abundant species of ruderal habitats and has usually been identified within a broad concept of Gamochaeta purpurea, which has a similar but broader geographic range. Gamochaeta argyrinea apparently is most closely similar to G. ustulata, another species commonly identified as G. purpurea but native to the Pacific coast region of the U.S.A. and adjacent Canada. Gamochaeta chionesthes Nesom, sp. nov, is described from localities in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina, and North Carolinathese plants also have been identified previously primarily as G. purpurea. A key and distribution maps are provided for the six species of Gamochaeta in the U.S.A. with strongly bicolored leaves: G. argyrinea, G. ustulata, G. chionesthes, G. purpurea, G. simplicicaulis, and G. coarctata. The name Gamochaeta americana has been misapplied to G. coarctata, but G. americana sensu stricto has not been documented for the U.S.A.; it occurs in the Antilles, Central America, Mexico, and South America and is reported to occur elsewhere as an adventive. In order to further clarify its identity, a technical description and commentary are provided for G. americana. Se documenta Gamochaeta argyrinea Nesom, sp. nov., de 19 estados, principalmente del Sureste de USA, y de Puerto Rico. Es una especie comn y abundante en habitats ruderales y ha sido identificada usualmente dentreo del concepto amplio de Gamochaeta purpurea, que tiene un rango geogrfico similar pero ms amplio. Gamochaeta argyrinea es aparentemente ms parecida a G. ustulata, otra especie identificada comnmente como G. purpurea pero nativa de la regin costera del Pacifico de U.S.A. y Canad adyacente. Gamochaeta chionesthes Nesom, sp. nov, se describe de localidades de Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, Carolina del Sur, y Carolina del Norteestas plantas tambin han sido identificadas previamente como G. purpurea. Se ofrece una clave y mapas de distribucin de las seis especies de Gamochaeta de U.S.A. con hojas bicolores: G. argyrinea, G. ustulata, G. chionesthes, G. purpurea, G. simplicicaulis, y G. coarctata. El nombre Gamochaeta americana ha sido mal aplicado a G. coarctata, pero G. americana sensu stricto no se ha documentado para U.S.A.; est en las Antillas, Amrica Central, Mxico, y Amrica del Sur y se cita de otros lugares como adventicia. Se ofrece una descripcin tcnica y comentarios sobre G. americana para clarificar su identidad.
41968313|After analyzing protologues and types, Baccharis subsculpta Hochr, a supposedly Peruvian endemic, is considered a synonym of the more widespread B. pulchella Sch. Bip. ex Griseb. A lectotype is selected for the name of the new synonym. Despus del anlisis de los tipos y protlogos, Baccharis subsculpta Hochr., una especie peruana supuestamente endmica, es considerada un sinnimo de B. pulchella Sch. Bip. ex Griseb. de ms amplia distribucin. Se selecciona un lectotipo para el nombre del nuevo sinnimo.
41968330|Pseudognaphalium canescens, Pseudognaphalium microcephalum Pseudognaphalium beneolens, and Pseudognaphalium thermale (E.E. Nelson) Nesom, comb, nov., are treated as separate species. A recent treatment of the California flora combined these taxa as subspecies within a single species (P. canescens) but earlier f loristicians have viewed them as distinct species. The current study also concludes that they are distinct and appropriately treated at specific rank. A nomenclatural and ecological summary and a distribution map are provided for each species and the four are morphologically distinguished in a key. A lectotype is designated for Gnaphalium wrightii. Pseudognaphalium canescens, Pseudognaphalium microcephalum, Pseudognaphalium beneolens, y Pseudognaphalium thermale (E.E. Nelson) Nesom, comb, nov, se tratan como especies independientes. Un reciente tratamiento de la flora de California combinaba estos taxa como subespecies dentro de una nica especie (P. canescens) pero los floristas previos las han visto como especies distintas. El presente estudio tambin concluye que son distintas y que lo apropiado es tratarlas a nivel especfico. Se ofrece un resumen nomenclatural y ecolgico, as como un mapa de distribucin de cada especie, y se distinguen morfolgicamente las cuatro en una clave. Se designa un lectotipo para Gnaphalium wrightii.
41968343|The following new combinations are proposed. Cerastium velutinum Raf. var. villosissimum (Pennell) J.K. Morton, Silene drummondii Hook, subsp. striata (Rydb.) J.K. Morton, Silene laciniata Cav. subsp. californica (Durand) J.K. Morton, Silene ostenfeldii (A.E. Porsild) J.K. Morton and Stellaria cuspidata Willd. ex Schlecht, subsp. prostrata (Baldw. ex Ell.) J.K. Morton. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones. Cerastium velutinum Raf. var. villosissimum (Pennell) J.K. Morton, Silene drummondii Hook, subsp. striata (Rydb.) J.K. Morton, Silene laciniata Cav. subsp. californica (Durand) J.K. Morton, Silene ostenfeldii (A.E. Porsild) J.K. Morton y Stellaria cuspidata Willd. ex Schlecht, subsp. prostrata (Baldw. ex Ell.) J.K. Morton.
41968355|The widespread Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. et Maxim.) Maxim, is threatened because of overharvesting of its root bark for medicinal uses. The geographically restricted E. brachypus becomes endangered due to habitat loss in the Loess Plateau of China. To facilitate the development of conservation strategies, genetic diversity of both species was measured at 26 isozyme loci (12 enzymes). Eleutherococcus brachypus had a low proportion of polymorphic loci (Ps= 19.2%; Pp= 13.1%) and low genetic diversity (Hes= 0.063; Hep= 0.031). The genetic variability of the widespread E. senticosus was higher (Ps= 26.9%; Pp= 20.76%; Hes= 0.094; Hep= 0.059) than that of the restricted E. brachypus. Population differentiation of E. brachypus (Gst= 0.531) was greater than that of E. senticosus (Gst= 0.383). Cluster analysis showed that populations of E. senticosus in Northeast or North China are genetically closer within each region than between the two regions. Populations of E. senticosus in Northeast China have a higher level of genetic diversity, and these populations need to be conserved with greater priority. Populations of E. brachypus in the Loess Plateau have been highly fragmented, and all populations of the species should be protected to maximize its genetic diversity.  (Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. et Maxim.) Maxim.)    5197  122619. 2 13. 1% ; 0. 063,  0.03126. 9%,  20. 76%0. 094,0.059 (Gst=0. 531)  (Gst=0.383)   , 
41968290|The new combinations Gentianopsis detonsa subsp. nesophila and G. virgata subsp. macounii are published, bringing infraspecific classification into accord with the currently accepted names for the respective species. Las nuevas combinaciones Gentianopsis detonsa subsp. nesophila y G. virgata subsp. macounii, son publicadas trayendo la clasificacin infraspecific de acuerdo con los nombres actualmente aceptados para las respectivas especies.
41968375|Documentation is given for 73 taxa of Asteraceae collected in 1957-1960 from wool mill sites in Berkeley County and Florence County, South Carolina. Twenty-eight (28) of these taxa are first reports for the flora of South Carolina; seventeen (17) others represent the first documentation for earlier reports for the state. Six (6) are first reports for North America: Chevreulia sarmentosa, Gamochaeta argentina, and Panphalea heterophylla (native to South America), and Peripleura arida, Stuartina hamata, and Vittadinia sulcata (native to Australia). Calotis cuneifolia (native to Australia) is reported for North America for the second time. Fifty-nine (59) of the 73 taxa are not native to South Carolina; of these, 29 are native to continents other than North America, while 30 are native to North America but from regions outside of the state. Se ofrece documentacin de 73 taxa de Asteraceae colectados en el intervalo 1957-1960 en los condados de Berkeley y Florence County, Carolina del Sur. Veintiocho (28) de estos taxa son primeras citas para la flora de Carolina del Sur; otros diez y siete (17) representan los primeros testigos para citas previas en el estado. Seis (6) son primeras citas para Norte Amrica: Chevreulia sarmentosa, Gamochaeta argentina, and Panphalea heterophylla (nativa de Sur Amrica), y Peripleura arida, Stuartina hamata, y Vittadinia sulcata (nativa de Australia). Calotis cuneifolia (nativa de Australia) se cita para Norte Amrica por segunda vez. Cincuenta y nueve (59) de los 73 taxa no son nativos de Carolina del Sur; de estos, 29 son nativos de otros continentes diferentes de Norte Amrica, mientras que 30 son nativos de Norte Amrica pero de regiones fuera del estado.
41968318|Ptilimnium ahlesii Weakley & Nesom, sp. nov., is described from localities in eight counties of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia in tidal freshwater marshes within 20 miles of the Atlantic coast. The species has been previously identified as P. capillaceum but differs from the latter in its conspicuously large ovaries and fruits, which at maturity are 2.7-4.2 mm long and 1.8-2.2 mm wide (vs 1.4-2.5 mm long and 0.8-1.2 mm wide in P. capillaceum), in its less-divided leaves, and in its inflorescences with fewer umbellets per umbel and fewer flowers per umbellet. The new species also flowers and fruits earlier than P. capillaceum (May-early June, late May-July, vs. mid June-early August, July-September, respectively). Ptilimnium ahlesii is rare and restricted to freshwater or slightly brackish marshes, while P. capillaceum has a wider geographic range and ecological tolerance, but the two species grow in close proximity in their area of sympatry. Se describe Ptilimnium ahlesii Weakley & Nesom, sp. nov, de varias localidades en ocho condados de Carolina del norte, Carolina del Sur y Georgia en bordes de charcas de agua dulce en una banda de 20 millas en la costa atlntica. La especie ha sido previamente identificada como P. capillaceum pero difiere de sta por los ovarios y frutos claramente ms grandes, que en la madurez tienen 2.7-4.2 mm de longitud y 1.8-2.2 mm de anchura (contra 1.4-2.5 mm de longitud y 0.8-1.2 mm de anchura en P. capillaceum), por sus hojas menos divididas, y por sus inflorescencias con menos umblulas por umbela y menos flores por umblula. La nueva especie tambin florece antes que P. capillaceum (principios de mayo-junio, finales de mayo-julio, vs. mediados de junio-principios de agosto, julioseptiembre, respectivamente). Ptilimnium ahlesii es rara y restringida a charcas de agua dulce o ligeramente salobres, mientras que  capillaceum tiene un rango geogrfico y tolerancia ecolgica ms amplia, pero las dos especies crecen muy prximas en su rea de simpatra.
41968360|Despite the abundance of Juniperus ashei Buchholz in Texas, mature, intact stands are relatively rare. This study compares structural patterns and growth dynamics among three mature stands on the Edwards Plateau and documents relationships between structural changes and temporal development of these forests. Each stand has varied physiognomic characteristics and age-related structure. By identifying and comparing these properties, this study provides information relevant to conservation and management decisions relating to J. ashei. A pesar de la abundancia de Juniperus ashei Buchholz en Texas, las agrupaciones maduras e intactas son relativamente raras. Este estudio compara los modelos estructurales y la dinmica de crecimiento entre tres agrupaciones maduras en el altiplano Edwards y se documentan las relaciones entre los cambios estructurales y el desarrollo temporal de estos bosques. Cada agrupacin tiene diversas caractersticas fisonmicas y una estructura relacionada con su edad. Al identificar y comparar estas propiedades, este estudio provee informacin pertinente para la conservacin y decisiones de supervisin relacionadas con J. ashei.
41968306|Erigeronglacialis (Nutt.) A. Nels. (= E. callianthemus Greene) is recognized as a species separate from E. peregrinus (Banks ex Pursh) Greene. It has most recently been treated as E. peregrinus subsp. callianthemus. Intermediates between E. glacialis and E. peregrinus do occur but the two species are mostly distinct even where in close contact in Washington and British Columbia; intermediates are uncommon or absent as E. glacialis at the western edge of its range is contiguous or perhaps intermittently sympatric with E. peregrinus northward into Alaska. Erigeron glacialis var. hirsutus (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, nov., is proposed in order to complete the alternate taxonomy. If Cronquist's recognition of two subspecies within E. peregrinus is to be followed, the name E. peregrinus subsp. callianthemus (1943) is incorrect, the precedent for a name at that rank set by E. salsuginosus subsp. angustifolius (1906). Erigeron glacialis (Nutt.) A. Nels. (= E. callianthemus Greene) se reconoce como una especie diferente de E. peregrinus (Banks ex Pursh) Greene. Ha sido tratada recientemente como E. peregrinus subsp. callianthemus. Se encuentran intermedios entre E. glacialis y E. peregrinus pero las dos especies son muy distintas incluso cuando estn en contacto en Washington y en Columbia Britnica; los intermedios son raros o ausentes ya que E. glacialis en el lmite Oeste de su rea vive contiguo o quizs intermitentemente simptrico con E. peregrinus hacia el Norte hasta Alaska. Se propone Erigeron glacialis var. hirsutus (Cronq.) Nesom, comb, nov, para completar la taxonoma alternativa. Si se sigue el reconocimiento de Cronquist de dos subespecies en E. peregrinus, el nombre E. peregrinus subsp. callianthemus (1943) es incorrecto, el precedente de un nombre en ese rango est establecido por E. salsuginosus subsp. angustifolius (1906).
41968359|Fort Matanzas National Monument, administered by the National Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, comprises 127 ha (313 acres) that includes portions of two barrier islands in St. Johns County, Florida: northern Rattlesnake Island, where the historic Fort Matanzas is located, and southern Anastasia Island. A floristic survey was conducted to procide Park Service personnel with a vouchered checklist of vascular plant species, supplemented with salient information such as relative abundance, locality data, and community type. Four intensive collecting trips conducted in 2003-2004 yielded 237 species of vascular plants in 189 genera of 73 families. The four largest families are Poaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Amaranthaceae, and Euphorbiaceae. A map, descriptions, and photographs of the various plant communities are also provided. El Monumento Nacional Fuerte Matanzas, administrado por el Servicio de Parques Nacionales del Departamento del Interior, tiene una extensin de 127 ha e incluye dos islas de barrera localizadas en el condado de St. Johns, Florida: al Norte la Isla Rattlesnake donde se encuentra el Fuerte Matansas, y Nacionales, utilizando una lista de especies testigo, que presenta informacin sobre la descripcin, abundancia relativa, localidad y el tipo de comunidad florstica de las especies de plantas vasculares de la zona. Se realizaron cuatro viajes de colecta intensiva entre 2003 y 2004, de los cuales se obtuvieron un total de 237 especies de plantas vasculares, pertenecientes a 189 gneros y 75 familias, Las cinco familias ms representadas son Poaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae, Amaranthaceae y Euphorbiaceae. Se presentan mapas, descripciones y fotografas de varias de las comunidades de plantas muestreadas.
41968333|Liatrisgraminifolia Willd. is the name generally used for the grass-leaved gayfeather of the south-eastern United States. Gray (1884), Gaiser (1946), and Wilbur (1962) observed that the name Liatris pilosa (Aiton) Willd. apparently applies to this species and has priority; Fernald and Griscom (1938) dissented, but the present study concurs that L. pilosa should replace L. graminifolia as the correct name. A lectotype from BM is designated for Liatris (Serratula) pilosa. This specimen probably was collected in New Jersey or Delaware and apparently represents a particularly hairy populational variant of the species that occurs in the area but that intergrades there with plants more characteristic of the species in the broader Atlantic coast region. Two taxa that have been identified as varieties of L. graminifolia are here treated at specific rank: Liatris elegantula (Greene) K. Schum. occurs on the Gulf coastal plain in Mississippi (rare), Alabama, Florida, and Georgia; Liatris virgata Nutt. (= Liatris regimontis, Lacinaria smallii) occupies an intermediate geographic position, ranging in South Carolina and Georgia northward through western North Carolina into Virginia. These three taxa differ consistently in involucral morphology and the range of L. virgata is geographically juxtaposed between L. pilosa and L. elegantula. Intermediates have not been observed in areas of sympatry at the range margins. Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky is a fourth member of this group, possibly most closely related to L. virgata. A taxonomic summary is provided, including nomenclature, distribution maps, ecological summaries, and a key. Liatris graminifolia Willd. es el nombre que se usa generalmente para la planta del Sureste de los Estados Unidos. Gray (1884), Gaiser (1946), y Wilbur (1962) observaron que el nombre Liatris pilosa (Aiton) Willd. aparentemente se aplica a esta especie y tiene prioridad; Fernald and Griscom (1938) disintieron, pero en el presente estudio se concluye que L. pilosa debe remplazar a L. graminifolia como nombre correcto. Se designa un lectotipo de BM para Liatris (Serratula) pilosa. Este espcimen probablemente fue colectado en Nueva Jersey o Delaware y aparentemente representa una variante poblacional particularmente pelosa de la especie que se encuentra en el rea pero que se intergrada con plantas ms caractersticas de la especie en la regin Atlntica costera ms amplia. Dos taxa que han sido identificados como variedades de L. graminifolia se tratan aqu con rango especfico: Liatris elegantula (Greene) K. Schum. vive en la llanura costera del Golfo en Mississippi (rara), Alabama, Florida, y Georgia; Liatris virgata Nutt. (= Liatris regimontis, Lacinaria smallii) ocupa una posicin geogrfica intermedia, yendo desde Carolina del Sur y Georgia por el Oeste de Carolina del Norte hasta Virginia. Estos tres taxa difieren consistentemente en la morfologa involucral y el rango de L. virgata est yuxtapuesto geogrficamente entre L. pilosa y L. elegantula. No se han observado intermedios en reas de simpatra en los extremos de rea. Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky es un cuarto miembro de este grupo, posiblemente ms relacionado con L. virgata. Se ofrece un resumen taxonmico que incluye nomenclatura, mapas de distribucin, resmenes ecolgicos, y una clave.
41968521|The following 66 chromosome numbers and vouchers for 24 species of Poa L. are reported from Canada, Mexico, and the U.S.A.: P. abbreviata subsp. pattersonii, 2n = 42, 2n = 42, 2n = 42; P. alpina, 2n = 28+II, 2n = 32+I (2), 2n = 40+I, 2n = 42, 2n = 56; P. arctica subsp. aperta, 2n = 98+I; subsp. arctica, 2n = 56; subsp. rctica (longipila form), 2n = 56-59, 2n = 80, 2n = 88; P. atropurpurea, 2n = 28; P. bigelovii, 2n = 28+I; P. cusichii subsp. pallida, 2n = 56+II; P. fendleriana subsp. albescens, 2n = 28+II, 2n = 56; subsp. fend leriana, 2n = 56 (4), 2n = 59, 2n = 58-60, 2n = 58-64; subsp. longiligula, 2n = 56,2n ca. 56; P. glauca subsp. glauca, 2n = 56, 2n = 56-58; subsp. rupicola, 2n = 48, 2n = 48-50, 2n = 54-56, 2n ca. 100; P. interior, 2n = 42; P. laxa subsp. banffiana, 2n = 84; P. leptocoma 2n = 42 (2); P. lettermanii, 2n = 14; P. napensis, 2n = 42; P. nervosa, 2n = 28; P. occidental, 2n = 14 (2), 2n = 28; P. paucispicula, 2n = 42; P. piperi, 2n = 28; P. pratensis subsp. alpigena, 2n = 56+III; P. reflexa, 2n = 28 (4); P. secunda subsp. juncifolia, 2n = 63; subsp. secunda, 2n = 84-88+II; P. sierrae, 2n ca. 58; P. strictiramea, 2n = 28-29,2n = 29+II; P. supina c. v. SUPERNOVA, 2n = 14; P. tracyi, 2n = 28 (5), 2n = 28+I; P. unilateralis subsp. pachyphohs, 2n = 42; and P. unilateralis subsp. unilateralis, 2n = 84. Se citan 66 nmeros cromosomticos y testigos de 24 especies de Poa L. de Canad, Mxico, y E.E.U.U.: P. abbreviata subsp. pattersonii, 2n = 42; P. alpina, 2n = 28+II, 2n = 32+I (2), 2n = 40+I, 2n = 42, 2n = 56; P. arctica subsp. aperta, 2n = 98+I; subsp. arctica, 2n = 56; subsp. arctica (forma longipila), 2n = 56-59, 2n = 80, 2n = 88; P. atropurpurea, 2n -28; P. bigelovii, 2n = 28+I; P. cusickii subsp. pallida, 2n = 56+II; P. fendleriana subsp. albescens, 2n = 28+II, 2n = 56; subsp. fendleriana, 2n = 56 (4), 2n = 59, 2n = 58-60, 2n = 58-64; subsp. longiligula, 2n =56, 2n ca. 56; P. glauca subsp. glauca, 2n = 56, 2n = 56-58; subsp. rupicola, 2n = 48, 2n = 48-50, 2n = 54-56, 2n ca. 100; P. interior, 2n = 42; P. laxa subsp. banffiana, 2n = 84; P. leptocoma 2n = 42 (2); P. lettermanii, 2n = 14; P. napensis, 2n = 42; P. nervosa, 2n = 28; P. occidentalis, 2n = 14 (2); P paucispicula, 2n = 42; P. piperi, 2n = 28; P. pratensis subsp. alpigena, 2n = 56+ III; P. reflexa, 2n = 28 (4); P. secunda subsp. juncifolia, 2n = 63; subsp. secunda, 2n = 84-88+II; P. sierrae, 2n ca. 58; P. strictiramea, 2n = 28-29, 2n = 29+II; P. supina c.v. SUPERNOVA, 2n = 14; P. tracyi, 2n = 28 (5), 2n = 28+I; P. unilateralis subsp. pachypholis, 2n = 42; y P. unilateralis subsp. unilateralis, 2n = 84.
41968517|The current (2000) International Code of Botanical Nomenclature is open to divergent interpretation regarding the use of ranks. Article 4.1 outlines secondary ranks to be used between the principal ranks of family and species and below species. Article 4.2 states that ranks prefixed by "sub-" (termed here as "tertiary" rank, immediately subsidiary in sequence and relative order to principal or secondary ranks) are used to increase the number of ranks to a "greater number" than formed in 4.1. Some taxonomists, in contrast, apparently interpret these Articles such that tertiary ranks may be used without reference to secondary ranks (e.g., subgenus in a genus without sections or series; subspecies in species without varieties or forms). Alternate formulations are offered for Articles 4 and 5 that may more clearly express the intent of the Code: Formulation 1 if the intent is to mandate that tertiary ranks between family and species, and below species, be used only in conjunction with secondary ranks; Formulation 2 if the intent is that tertiary ranks may be used without reference to secondary ranks. El actual Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica (2000) est abierto a interpretaciones diversas respecto al uso de los rangos. El Artculo 4.1 esboza los rangos secundarios para usar entre los rangos principales de familia y especie, y especie e inferiores. El Artculo 4.2 establece que los rangos con el prefijo "sub-" (llamados aqu rango "terciario", inmediatamente siguientes en secuencia y orden relativo a los rangos principales o secundarios) se usan para incrementar el nmero de rangos a un "numero ms grande" que los formados en 4.1. Algunos taxnomos, por el contrario, interpretan aparentemente estos Artculos de modo que los rangos terciarios pueden usarse sin referencia a los rangos secundarios (ej. subgnero en un gnero sin secciones o series; subespecies en especies sin variedades o formas). Se ofrecen formulaciones alternativas para los Artculos 4 y 5 que pueden expresar ms claramente la intencin del Cdigo: Formulacin 1 si la intencin es de exigir que los rangos terciarios entre familia y especie, y por debajo de especie, se usen slo en conjuncin con rangos secundarios; Formulacin 2 si la intencin es que los rangos terciarios puedan usarse sin referencia a los rangos secundarios.
41968508|In the absence of possible holotype material, a lectotype is designated for Stachysfloridana Shuttlew. ex Benth. in DC. (1848) from material not clearly cited by Bentham but probably in his possession at time of publication. Aufgrund des Fehlens von Originalmaterial wird fr Stachysfloridana Shuttlew. ex Benth. in DC (1848) ein Lektotyp aus Belegen ausgewhlt, die Bentham zwar nicht zitiert hat, die aber wahrscheinlich zur Zeit des Publikation in seinem Besitz waren.
41968531|A survey of the vascular flora of Giles County, Tennessee was conducted between July 1998 and September 2004. A total of 1208 species and infraspecific taxa, representing 138 families and 553 genera, were documented from 30 qualitatively defined habitats, resulting in 912 county records. Several rare taxa were discovered, including two federally threatened species: Apios priceana and Helianthus eggertii. Other noteworthy rare species found were Cimicifuga rubifolia, Perideridia americana, Stellariafontinalis, and Xyris laxifolia var. iridifolia. Arenaria lanuginosa, a Tennessee endangered species thought extirpated from the state, was rediscovered after not having been collected since 1948. In addition, three state records, Achyranthes japonica, Euonymus kiautschovicus, and Eupato rium  pinnatifidum, were found. Other noteworthy collections include Baccharis halimifolia and Amaranthus powellii, each representing second reports from Tennessee. Se realiz un estudio de la flora vascular de Giles County, Tennessee entre Julio de 1998 y Septiembre de 2004. Se documentaron un total de 1208 especies y taxa infraspecificos, que representan 138 familias y 553 gneros, procedentes de 30 habitats definidos cualitativamente, que aportaron 912 citas para el condado. Se descubrieron varios taxa raros, incluyendo dos especies amenazadas federalmente: Apiospriceana y Helianthus eggertii. Otras especies notables raras encontradas fueron Cimicifuga rubifolia, Perideridia americana, Stellaria fontinalis, y Xyris laxifolia var. iridifolia. Arenaria lanuginosa, una especie amenazada de Tennessee que se crea eliminada del estado, se redescubri despus de no haber sido colectada desde 1948. Adems, se encontraron tres citas para el estado Achyranthes japnica, Euonymus kiautschovicus, y Eupatorium _ pinnatifidum. Otras colecciones notables incluyen Baccharis halimifolia y Amaranthus powellii, ambas representan segundas citas para Tennessee.
41968532|A floristic inventory in Montgomery County, Arkansas, documented 1,110 vascular plant taxa. Fiftynine taxa (5% of county total) in Montgomery County are considered to be of conservation concern and are tracked by the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission. One hundred and thirty-four taxa (12% of county total) were introduced, 21 (2% of county total) of which are considered invasive. The families with the most taxa represented in the flora are Asteraceae (144), Poaceae (120), Cyperaceae (82), Fabaceae (75), and Rosaceae (38). Elatine triandra Schkuhr represents a species never before collected in Arkansas. A single federally endangered species, Ptilimnium nodosum (Rose) Mathias, was noted. Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle, a federally listed noxious weed was collected. Montgomery County has one of the highest proportions of sensitive species in Arkansas, but has fewer than 20% of the State's known alien species, probably due to its high diversity of rare habitats and a relatively intact landscape. With 1,110 taxa, Montgomery County is the sixth best-collected county in Arkansas. However, since most Arkansas counties have fewer than 800 documented taxa, there is a clear need for increased floristic work if the species that grow in Arkansas are to be known. Se llev a cabo un inventario floristico en el condado de Montgomery, Arkansas, que proporcion una lista de 1.110 taxa de plantas vasculares. Cincuenta y nueve taxa (5% del total) del condado de Montgomery son considerados raros y estn siendo monitoreados por la Comisin Herencia Natural de Arkansas (Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission). Ciento treinta y cuatro taxa (12% del total del condado) son introducidos y 21 (2% del total del condado) son considerados especies invasoras. Las familias con un mayor nmero de taxa representados en la flora son Asteraceae (144), Poaceae (120), Cyperaceae (82), Fabaceae (75), y Rosaceae (38). Elatine triandra Schkuhr es una especie que fue colectada por primera vez en Arkansas. Fue encontrada una sola especie federal en peligro, Ptilimnium nodosum (Rose) Mathias. Se colect Hydrilla verticillata (L. f.) Royle, una especie nociva federal mencionada. El condado de Montgomery tiene una de las ms elevadas proporciones de especies sensibles de Arkansas, pero tiene menos del 20% de las especies introducidas en el estado, probablemente debido al gran nmero de habitats raros y un paisaje relativamente intacto. Con 1.110 taxa, el condado de Montgomery es el sexto condado muestreado de Arkansas. Sin embargo, puesto que la mayora de los condados de Arkansas tienen menos de 800 taxa documentados, hay una necesidad de ms estudios florsticos con el fin de conocer las especies que crecen en Arkansas.
41968496|The new combination Staurochilus leytensis (Ames) E.A. Christenson (Orchidaceae) is made. Se hace la nueva combinacin Staurochilus leytensis (Ames) E.A. Christenson (Orchidaceae).
41968541|Hydrocotyle sibthorpioides (Apiaceae) is reported as new to the Texas flora. Introduced species in the East Texas flora, as well as noxious plants and invasive exotics (including four particularly problematic species (Cuscuta japonica, Orobanche ramosa, Solanum viarum, and Triadica sebifera) are discussed. Hydrocotyle sibthorpioides (Apiaceae) se cita como nueva para la flora de Texas. Se discuten especies introducidas en la flora del Este de Texas, as como plantas nocivas y exticas invasoras (incluyendo cuatro especies particularmente problemticas (Cuscuta japonica, Orobanche ramosa, Solanum viarum, y Triadica sebifera).
41968507|The original descriptions and prologues, type specimens, and available material of Aristida hitchcockiana Henrard and A. appressa Vasey were compared. Based on morphology, distribution, and habitat, there seems to be no reason to recognize A. hitchcockiana as a valid species, and it is synonymized within A. appressa. Se compararon las descripciones y protlogos originales, ejemplares tipo, y dems material disponible de Aristida hitchcockina Henrard y A. appressa Vasey. Basndose en la morfologa, la distribucin geogrfica, y el habitat, parece no haber indicios suficientes para reconocer como especie valida a A. hitchcockiana. Por lo tanto, se la sinonimiza a A. appressa.
41968483|Calyptranthes glandulosa and Calyptranthes ishoaquinicca, two new species from Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Se describen y se ilustran dos especies nuevas de Myrtaceae del Ecuador, Calyptranthes glandulosa y Calyptranthes ishoaquinicca.
41968510|The pappus traits of 84 taxa of Canadanthus, Ampelaster, Psilactis, and Symphyotrichum (subtribe Symphyotrichinae) and 14 other species of asters were examined. Most species of Symphyotrichinae had a pappus consisting of three whorls; 1) a secondary inner whorl of a few bristles 40-85% the length of the inner primary whorl, 2) a primary outer whorl of many bristles with tapering ends about 90-95% the length of the inner primary whorl, and 3) a primary inner whorl of many bristles with very weakly to strongly clvate ends. In addition, a few species of Symphyotrichum have a vestigial secondary outer whorl of a single short bristle only about 10-30% the length of the primary inner whorl. In some species of Symphyotrichum the secondary inner whorl was difficult to distinguish from the primary outer whorl or possibly was absent. In a small sample of species of Aster, Doellingeria, Eurybia, Eucephalus, Galatella, Herrickia, lonactis, Oclemena, and Oreostemma, the pappus was either triple or quadruple. The short secondary outer whorl was present in most species examined but was sometimes reduced to very few bristles or absent on some fruits. In some cases, the secondary inner whorl of mid length tapering bristles was present in some individuals in a species but not in others. The quadruple pappus with strongly clvate inner bristles appears to be plesiomorphic for the North American Clade of the tribe Astereae. In single species samples of Crinitaria, Linosyris, and Felicia the pappus differed from that of other species examined. Se examinaron las caractersticas de los vilanos de 84 taxa de Canadanthus, Ampelaster, Psilactis, y Symphyotrichum (subtribu Symphyotrichinae) y otras 14 especies de compuestas. La mayora de las especies de Symphyotrichinae tienen un vilano de tres verticilos; 1) un verticilo secundario interno de pocas sedas con el 40-85% de la longitud del verticilo interno primario, 2) un verticilo externo primario con muchas sedas de extremos estrechados de aproximadamente el 90-95% de la longitud del verticilo interno primario, y 3) un verticilo interno primario de muchas sedas con extremos desde dbilmente a fuertemente clavados. Adems, algunas especies de Symphyotrichum tienen un verticilo secundario externo vestigial de una sola seda aproximadamente del 10-30% de la longitud del verticilo interno primario. En algunas especies de Symphyotrichum el verticilo secundario interno fue difcil de diferenciar del primario externo o posiblemente estaba ausente. En una pequea muestra de especies de Aster, Doellingeria, Eurybia, Eucephalus, Galatella, Herrickia, lonactis, Oclemena, y Oreostemma, el vilano era triple o cudruple. El verticilo secundario externo corto estaba presente en la mayora de las especies examinadas pero estaba reducido algunas veces a unas pocas sedas o ausente en algunos frutos. En algunos casos, el verticilo interno secundario de sedas de tamao mediano estaba presente en algunos individuos de una especie pero no en otros. El vilano cudruple con las sedas interiores fuertemente clavadas parece ser plesiomrfico para el ciado Norte Americano de la tribu Astereae. En una sola muestra de especies de Crinitaria, Linosyris, y Felicia el vilano difera de las otras especies examinadas.
41968515|Within the genus Echinochloa (Gramineae) the epithet of the grass familiarly known as Jungle Rice has been spelled either "colono" or "colonum." Linnaeus, in his original recognition of the species as a member of the neuter genus Panicum, chose "colonum" as the epithet. This word, from the Latin "colonus" is a noun. As such, under the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature it must retain its original spelling whatever the gender of the genus to which it may be assigned. The grass is thus correctly known as Echinochloa colonum (L.) Link. Dentro del gnero Echinochloa (Gramineae), el epteto de la especie conocida comnmente como Arroz Salvaje ha sido escrito tanto "colono," como "colonum" Linnaeus, en su reconocimiento original de la especie como miembro del gnero neutro Panicum, escogi "colonum" como epteto. Esta palabra, del latn "colonus" es un sustantivo. En s, bajo el Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica, debe conservar su ortografa original, cualquiera que sea el gnero (masculino, femenino, o neutro) del gnero al que sea asignado. As pues, el nombre correcto de la especie es Echinochloa colonum (L.) Link.
41968495|A new species of black zapote from tropical Mexico is described, and photos of the holotype are provided. Diospyros torresii M.C. Provance & A.C. Sanders is based on collections from two localities in north and central Oaxaca. This species appears to belong to a group of closely related American Diospyros with fruits that are dark-colored and sweet at maturity. Se describe una nueva especie del Mxico tropical y se presentan fotos del holotipo. La descripcin de Diospyros torresii M.C. Provance & A.C. Sanders se basa en colecciones de dos localidades en el norte y centro de Oaxaca. Se cree que esta especie pertenece a un grupo cercanamente relacionado de Diospyros de Amrica que tienen frutos de color oscuro y que son dulces cuando maduran.
41968523|The National Cancer Institute's (NCI) record of plants that have shown significant inhibitory effect in experimental tumor systems (active plants), 1960-1974, was compared with species and genera in references on medicinal folklore, including poisonous plants, to determine whether their percentages of active plants were significantly greater than those screened at random (10.4%). The percent active species in medicinal and/or poisonous references in general were found to be 1.4 to 2.6 times greater, while the number and different kinds of medicinal uses appear related to geographical data of species that also indicate medicinal plants were screened more thoroughly because of their widespread occurrence. The best correlation is seen with poisonous plants, including medicinal plants that suggest a moderate to strong therapeutic effect; their percentages of active species were nearly three (29.3%, anthelmintics) to four times (45.7%, arrow and homicidal poisons) greater than plants screened at random. Selection of plants based strictly on use in folk medicine would probably benefit new (start-up) screening programs, whereas in the long-term, it appears more cost effective to systematically screen the broadest diversity of plants readily available since the common medicinal species would be collected irregardless. A systematic collection strategy could give emphasis to genera that have not been exhaustively studied, especially to species with medicinal uses that indicate toxicity or are considered poisonous. El registro de plantas del National Cancer Institute (NCI) 1960-1974, que han mostrado un efecto inhibidor significativo en sistemas tumorales experimentales (plantas activas), se compararon con gneros y especies que aparecen en referencias de medicina popular, incluyendo plantas venenosas, para determinar en que medida los porcentajes de plantas activas eran significativamente ms altas que las investigadas al azar (10.4%). El porcentaje de especies activas referenciadas como medicinales y/o venenosas en general se encontr que era de 1.4 a 2.6 veces mayor, mientras que el nmero y diferentes tipos de usos medicinales parecen relacionados con datos geogrficos de especies que tambin indican que las plantas medicinales fueron investigadas ms minuciosamente debido a su amplia distribucin. La mejor correlacin se aprecia con las plantas venenosas, incluyendo las plantas medicinales que parecen tener un efecto teraputico de moderado a fuerte; los porcentajes de especies activas fue de cerca de tres (29.3%, antihelmnticos) a cuatro veces (45.7%, venenos para flechas y homicidios) mayor que las plantas investigadas al azar. La seleccin de plantas basada estrictamente en el uso en medicina popular probablemente sera beneficiosa para los nuevos programas de investigacin, mientras que a largo trmino, parece tener un costo efectivo mayor la investigacin sistemtica de una diversidad de plantas fcilmente disponibles ya que las especies medicinales comunes pueden colectarse en cualquier parte. Una estrategia de colecta sistemtica pondra nfasis en gneros que no hayan sido estudiados exhaustivamente, y especialmente en especies con usos medicinales que indiquen toxicidad o que se consideren venenosas.
41968530|We document 137 species of pteridophytes new to the flora of Peru since the publication of the previous flora by Tryon and Stolze, in 1994. Some of these are recently described species (but no new species are described herein), while many are range extensions of known species from adjacent countries; a few are species that have been elevated in status from lesser rank, or species that have a new name, not mentioned by Tryon and Stolze. Most of these additions are the result of new collections, unknown at the time of the previous flora, and most are from montane rain forests and cloud forests, on the eastern slope of the Andes, from Dept. Amazonas to Dept. Cuzco. This area is known to be the richest for ferns, in Peru. These additions bring the known total of pteridophyte species for Peru to about 1200, making it one of the richest countries in the world for ferns and lycophytes. Se registra 137 especies de pteridofitas nuevas para la flora del Per desde la publicacin previa en 1994 del trabajo de Tryon y Stolze. Algunas son especies recientemente descritas, mientras que la mayora son registros de extensin de distribucin desde paises vecinos y unas pocas han sido elevadas en categora desde rangos menores o tienen un nombre nuevo no mencionado por Tryon y Stolze. La mayora de estas adiciones son el resultado de recolectas nuevas, desconocidas entonces para la flora previa. Estas adiciones incrementan a cerca de 1200 el total de especies conocidas para el Per, haciendo de ste uno de los paises ms ricos en el mundo en helchos y licofitas.
41968535|Populations of the expanding exotic Ranunculusficaria L. (Ranunculaceae) are reported escaped in North Carolina. Voucher specimens are cited and an updated key to Ranunculus L. in the Carolinas is presented. Poblaciones de la extica en expansin Ranunculusficaria L. (Ranunculaceae), se citan escapadas en Carolina del Norte. Se citan los especmenes y se presenta una clave actualizada de Ranunculus L. en las Carolinas.
41968538|The first Texas record of Nymphoides indica (L.) Kuntze (Menyanthaceae) is reported new for Texas. Se cita por primera vez para Texas Nymphoides indica (L.) Kuntze (Menyanthaceae).
41968534|Mikania buchtienii B.L. Rob. (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) is first reported as occurring in Argentina, where it has been collected in the Yungas region of the northwestern part of the country (Salta and Jujuy provinces). The species, which was known only from Bolivia, is described and illustrated and a key shows the differences between M. buchtienii and M. euryanthela, a closely related species. Mikania buchtienii B.L. Rob. (Asteraceae, Eupatorieae) se cita por primera vez para Argentina, donde ha sido colectada en las Yungas de la regin noroccidental del pas (provincias de Salta y Jujuy). La especie, que vive en Bolivia, es descripta e ilustrada, y una clave muestra las diferencias entre M. buchtienii y M. euryanthela, una especie muy afn.
41968486|A revision of the neotropical genus Fevillea with keys, descriptions, and distribution is provided. Two subgenera are recognized: subgenus Fevillea with six species and subgenus Anisosperma with one species. Fevillea bahiensis G. Robinson & Wunderlin from Brazil is described as new and subgenus Anisosperma (Silva Manso) G. Robinson & Wunderlin is proposed. Se aporta una revisin del gnero neotropical Fevillea con claves, descripciones, y distribucin. Se reconocen dos subgneros: subgnero Fevillea con seis especies y subgnero Anisosperma con una especie. Se describe como nueva Fevillea bahiensis G. Robinson & Wunderlin de Brasil y se propone el subgnero Anisosperma (Silva Manso) G. Robinson & Wunderlin.
41968504|A grass spikelet with a cylindrical, sigmoidal, uncinate floret in Dominican amber is described as the new species Pharus primuncinatus Judz & Poinar (Poaceae: Pharoideae: Phareae). The fossil can be distinguished from all extant members of the genus by the small (9.9 mm long), curved female floret; relatively short glumes; and the uncinate portion of the floret extending downwards to the middle or slightly below the middle of the lemma. The closest extant relative may be the Mesoamerican P. mezii. This is the earliest record of a fossil grass that can be assigned to an extant genus; the earliest record of a member of the basal subfamily Pharoideae; and the only known fossil Pharus spikelet. En base a una espiguilla fsil con un flsculo cilindrico, sigmoide y uncinado se describe una nueva especie, Pharus primuncinatus Judz. & Poinar (Poaceae: Pharoideae: Phareae), del mbar de la Repblica Dominicana. Se diferencia de todas las especies del genero existentes por su espiguilla pistilada pequena (9.9 mm de largo); flsculo pistilado curvado; glumas relativamente cortas; y la porcin uncinada del lema extendida de la mitad hasta el pice. La especie existente ms relacionada es posiblemente P.mezii de Amrica Central. Este es el registro ms antiguo de una gramnea fsil que puede asignarse a un gnero existente; el registro ms antiguo del miembro de la subfamilia Pharoideae; y el nico fsil de una espiguilla de Pharus.
41968499|A new combination in Matelea is proposed: Matelea domingensis Se propone una nueva combinctin in Matelea: Matelea domingensis.
41968528|The Wild Orchids of North America, North of Mexico (Paul Martin Brown and Stan Folsom, University Press of Florida, 2003 ISBN 0-8130-2572-9) has served as an illustrated and annotated checklist of the orchids of that region. In the few years since research was completed for that work many new taxa have been described, other pertinent facts have been published, and six corrections of fact need to be added to the original manuscript. Those additions and corrections, including literature references and photographs, are presented here to enable the reader to update this volume to the close of 2005. The Wild Orchids of North America, North of Mexico (Paul Martin Brown y Stan Folsom, University Press of Florida, 2003 ISBN 0-8130-2572-9) ha servido como catlogo anotado e ilustrado de las orqudeas de esa regin. En los pocos aos desde que se finaliz la investigacin del trabajo se han descrito muchos taxa nuevos, se han publicado otros hechos importantes, y se han hecho seis correcciones que necesitan aadirse al manuscrito original. Estas adiciones y correcciones, que incluyen referencias bibliogrficas y fotografas, se presentan aqu para posibilitar al lector poner al da en 2005 este volumen.
41968512|Dahlia dissecta var. sublignosa was recognized in 1969 based on available herbarium specimens. Here we present molecular evidence to demonstrate that var. sublignosa is not the sister taxon to D. dissecta var. dissecta, nor is it conspecific with either of its two closest allies, D. linearis and D. foeniculifolia. Therefore, we elevate Dahlia dissecta var. sublignosa to the rank of species, as D. sublignosa (P.D. Srensen) D.E. Saar & P.D. Sorensen comb. & stat. nov. Dahlia dissecta var. sublignosa se reconoci en 1969 basndose en los especmenes de herbario disponibles. Presentamos aqu una prueba molecular para demostrar que var. sublignosa no es el taxon hermano de D. dissecta var. dissecta, ni es conspecfico con ninguno de sus dos semejantes ms prximos, D. linearis y D. foeniculifolia. Por ello, elevamos Dahlia dissecta var. sublignosa al rango de especie, as como D. sublignosa (P.D. Srensen) D.E. Saar & P.D. Sorensen comb. & stat. nov.
41968506|Comparison of collections of Liberna colombiana (Foster 1939) from Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru show that the Bolivian L boliviana (Foster 1946) cannot be upheld as a separate species. We provide an expanded description of L colombiana and establish its range across the Andean paramo as far south as Bolivia, noting the first collections for Ecuador and Peru. We also provide a key to the South American species of Libertia, which also occurs in New Guinea, New Zealand, and eastern Australia where there are some six species currently recognized, and possibly three more awaiting description, making a total for the genus of 13 species. Mediante comparaciones de ejemplares de Libertia boliviana (Foster 1946) y L colombiana (Foster 1939) de Colombia, Ecuador y Per se propone que L boliviana no puede ser considerada como una especie aparte. Presentamos una descripcin ampliada de L colombiana y determinamos su rango de distribucin en los pramos andinos hasta el sur de Bolivia, al igual que las primeras colecciones para Ecuador y Per. As mismo, incluimos una clave para las especies suramericanas de Libertia que tambin se distribuyen en Nueva Guinea, Nueva Zelanda y el este de Australia, en donde se reconocen cerca de seis especies y posiblemente tres adicionales que estn en proceso de descripcin para un total de 13 especies para el gnero.
41968497|Las especies del gnero Galactophora Woodson (Apocynaceae: Apocynoideae), son tratadas en una monografa. Seis especies son aceptadas, incluyendo una nueva especie, G. angustifolia y se proponen dos nuevos sinnimos. Se brindan claves, descripciones, ilustraciones y especmenes examinados. The species of the genus Galactophora Woodson (Apocynaceae: Apocynoideae) are treated in a monograph. Six species are accepted, including a new species, G. angustifolia, and two new synonyms are proposed. Keys, descriptions, illustrations and specimens examined are provided.
41968525|Ethnobotany deals with the study of the natural and traditional interrelationships between man and plants. Mangroves are one of the primary features of coastal areas and play a significant role in coastal development. Mangrove areas are economically exploited, especially for timber and fishery products. A comprehensive knowledge about other aspects, such as active substances obtained from mangroves, is less freely available. This paper reviews the utilization of the mangroves as source of medicinal products for the Pichavaram coastal people. A floristic survey was undertaken and 11 ethnomedicinal plant species belonging to 8 families were recorded from the Pichavaram mangroves. A list of plant species along with the plant part/s used and their mode of application reported to be efficacious for different ailments is provided. La Etnobotnica trata del estudio de las interrelaciones naturales y tradicionales entre el hombre y las plantas. Los manglares son una de las caractersticas primarias de las reas costeras y juegan un papel importante en el desarrollo costero. Las reas de manglar son explotadas econmicamente, especialmente para madera y productos pesqueros. Un conocimiento exhaustivo de otros aspectos, tales como principios activos que se obtienen de los manglares, est menos disponible. Este artculo revisa el uso de los manglares como fuente de productos medicinales por los habitantes costeros de Pichavaram. Se realiz un estudio f lorstico y se encontraron 11 especies vegetales etnomedicinales de 8 familias en los manglares de Pichavaram. Se aporta una lista de especies vegetales junto con la parte o partes usadas y su modo de uso para que sean eficaces en diferentes enfermedades.
41968526|Pinguicula vulgaris is a common species in Norway, and well known in folk tradition, not least for its reputed use to curdle milk. Most vernacular names recorded so far, e.g. the widespread tettegras or tettegress ("rennet grass" or "thickening grass") reflect this use. The fat leaves have also found some uses in folk medicine, e. g. to treat wounds and ringworms, and in folk veterinary medicine, mainly to treat sore teat. There are also a few records of P. vulgaris being used as an apotropaic, in magic, and in children's games. Pinguicula vulgaris er vanlig i Norge, og godt kjent i folketradisjonen, ikke minst for sin virkning som tette i melk. De f leste folkelige navn p arten gjenspeiler denne egenskapen, f.eks.det vidt utbredte tettegras eller tettegress. Bladene har ogs funnet en viss anvendelse i folkemedisinen, bl. a. til  behandle sr og ringorm, og i folkelig veterinaermedisin, saerlig som en kur for sre spener. I noen f tilfeller har P. vulgaris ogs tjent som vernerd, i magi og i barnelek.
41968484|A treatment of the neotropical genus Siolmatra is presented. Two species are recognized with descriptions, illustrations, distribution data, and a key to the species provided. Se presenta un tratamiento del gnero neotropical Siolmatra. Se reconocen dos especies con descripciones, ilustraciones, datos de distribucin, y se aporta una clave de identificacin de especies.
41968489|Astranthium integrifolium (Michx.) Nutt. has been treated as comprising two taxa (var./subsp.integrifolium and var.triflorum/subsp.ciliatum) or simply as a single species without formal infraspecific designation. The two taxa are completely allopatric and separated by features of vegetative, floral, and cypselar morphology. Consistent with taxonomic ranking of other Astranthium species pairs, these two taxa are treated here at specific rank: Astranthium integrifolium sensu stricto and Astranthium ciliatum (Raf.) Nesom, comb. nov. A neotype is selected for Bellis ciliata var. triflora Raf. (=A.ciliatum). Astranthium integrifolium (Michx.) Nutt. se ha tratado comprendiendo dos taxa (var./subsp.integrifolium y var.triflorum/subsp.ciliatum) o simplemente como una sola especie sin designacin formal infraespecfica. Los dos taxa son completamente aloptricos y se separan por la morfologa vegetativa, floral, y de la cipsela. De acuerdo con el rango taxonmico de otros pares de especies de Astranthium, estos dos taxa se tratan aqu con rango especfico: Astranthium integrifolium sensu stricto y Astranthium ciliatum (Raf.) Nesom, comb. nov. Se selecciona un neotipo para Bellis ciliata var. triflora Raf. (= A. ciliatum).
41968501|Palaeoanthella huangii gen. & sp. nov., is described from an Early Cretaceous staminate flower in Burmese amber. The genus is characterized by small, staminate flowers composed of a cup-shaped perianth of 8 fused lobes (tepals) arranged in one series with 8 equal subsessile, unappendaged stamens in a single whorl, more or less alternating with the tepals, and having 2 lobed, 4-locular anthers opening by longitudinal slits. Adjacent pollen considered to have originated from the anthers is inaperturate with finely ridged and grooved exines. The fossil shows possible affinities with the eumagnoliid angiosperm family Monimiaceae. Paleoanthella huangii gen. et sp. nov., est dcrit  partir d'une fleur du Crtac infrieur de l'ambre de Birmanie. Le genre est caractris par ses fleurs petites, stamines, composes d'un prianthe en forme de cupule, form de huit tpales fusionns en une srie simple et alternant plus ou moins avec huit tamines sans appendice. Les anthres possdent deux lobes et quatre locules s'ouvrant par des fentes longitudinales marginales. Le pollen trouv  ct des anthres est considr comme provenant de ceux-ci ; il est inaperturate, avec des exines finement carnes et rainures. Ce fossile montre des affinits possibles avec les Angiospermes Eumagnolides de la famille Monimiaceae.
41968540|Muscari comosum (L.) Mill. (Liliaceae) is reported as a non-cultivated persisting population in Parker County, Weatherford, Texas. This species, non-cultivated, is a new record for the state of Texas. Muscari comosum (L.) Mill. (Liliaceae) se cita como una poblacin persistente no cultivada en Parker County, Weatherford, Texas. Esta especie, no cultivada, es una nueva cita para el estado de Texas.
41968491|The combinations Calea mediterrnea (Veil.) Pruski (syn.: Calea platylepis) and Calea triantha (Veil.) Pruski, (syn.: Calea hispida) (Heliantheae) are proposed for two species lectotypified herein by Velloso illustrations. A lectotype of Meyeria hispida DC. is designated. A key to the species centering about Calea myrtifolia is given. Clibadium arriagadae Pruski (Heliantheae) from Ecuador is named as a new segregate of Clibadium pentaneuron. Clibadium arriagadae is the same taxon as represented by the invalid Clibadium zakii. Clibadium arriagadae differs from G pentaneuron by leaf blades palmately 3-or 5-veined from or near base (vs. subpalmately or plinerved from above blade base) and hirsute (vs. strigose) abaxially. A lectotype (BM-CLIFF folio page 405, Conyza 3) is designated for Conyza bifrons L. (= nula bifrons L, Inuleae), and this name, once misapplied to an American species of Pluchea, is excluded from the flora of the New World. The combination Conyza popayanensis (Hieron.) Pruski (Astereae), replacing the illegitimate Conyza uliginosa (Benth.) Cuatr., non. Pers., is proposed. The combination Llerasia macrocephala (Rusby) Pruski (Astereae) is validated for a Bolivian species originally described in tribe Mutisieae, and Llerasia lucidula is treated as a synonym of L. macrocephala. Philip Miller's Conyza baccharis is lectotypified and is an earlier name for Pluchea rosea. The combination Pluchea baccharis (Mill.) Pruski (Plucheeae) is made for this coastal plain species, which occurs from eastern North America southward into Nicaragua. Se proponen las combinaciones Calea mediterranea (Vell.) Pruski (syn.: Calea platylepis) y Calea triantha (Vell.) Pruski, (sin.: Calea hispida) (Heliantheae) para dos especies que se lectotipifican aqu mediante ilustraciones de Velloso. Se designa un lectotipo para Meyeria hispida DC Se ofrece una clave para las especies prximas a Calea myrtifolia. Clibadium arriagadae Pruski (Heliantheae) de Ecuador se nombra como un nuevo segregado de Clibadium pentaneuron. Clibadium arriagadae es el mismo taxon representado por el nombre invlido Clibadium zakii. Clibadium arriagadae difiere de G pentaneuron por los limbos de las hojas palmatinervias con 3  5 nervios desde de la base o cerca (vs. subpalmatinervias o triplinervias desde ms arriba de la base) e hirsutas (vs. estrigosas) abaxialmente. Se designa un lectotipo (BM-CLIFF folio pgina 405, Conyza 3) para Conyza bifrons L. (= nula bifrons L, Inuleae), y este nombre, por haberse aplicado a una especie americana de Pluchea, se excluye de la flora del Nuevo Mundo. Se propone la combinacin Conyza popayanensis (Hieron.) Pruski (Astereae), para reemplazar a la ilegtima Conyza uliginosa (Benth.) Cuatr., non. Pers. Se valida la combinacin Llerasia macrocephala (Rusby) Pruski (Astereae) para una especie de Bolivia descrita originalmente en la tribu Mutisieae, y Llerasia lucidula se trata como un sinnimo de L macrocephala. Conyza baccharis de Philip Miller se lectotipifica y es un nombre anterior para Pluchea rosea. Se hace la combinacin Pluchea baccharis (Mili.) Pruski (Plucheeae) para esta especie de la llanura costera, que aparece desde el Este de Norte Amrica hasta Nicaragua en el Sur.
41968494|Se describe e ilustra Guarea subsessilifolia, una nueva especie endmica del cerro Turrubares en el pacfico central de Costa Rica, adems, se comenta su relacin con otras especies del gnero. Guarea subsessilifolia, a new and endemic species from cerro Turrubares in the central pacific of Costa Rica, is described and illustrated and relationships with related taxa are discussed.
41968487|Herbarium study of Bromusgrandis, B. orcuttianus, and B. orcuttianus var. hallii from western North America has indicated that these taxa are morphologically and geographically distinct, and best treated as species. A new combination Bromus hallii (Hitchc.) Saarela & P.M. Peterson is made. Bromus hallii differs from B. orcuttianus by having densely pubescent blades (verses glabrous in B. orcuttianus), lower sheaths with dense short stiff hairs 1 mm long or less (vs. long soft hairs 2-4 mm long), and 1-2(-3) culm nodes (vs. 2-4). Bromus hallii differs from B. grandis by having blades that are 7.5-16.5 cm long [vs. (13-) 18-38 cm long in B. grandis], 1-2(-3) culm nodes (vs. 3-7), and lower glumes that are 1(-3)-nerved [vs. 3(1)-nerved]. We provide the first report of differences in the type of pubescence on the lower sheaths between B. orcuttianus and B. hallii. We confirm the diploid chromosome number of 2n = 14 for B. grandis. We include descriptions, synonymies, and representative specimens examined for B. grandis, B. hallii, and B. orcuttianus, a key to all sections of Bromus in California, and a key to Bromus sect. Bromopsis in California. El estudio de Bromus grandis, B. orcuttianus y B. orcuttianus var. hallii de Norteamrica occidental ha indicado que estos taxa son morfolgica y geogrficamente diferentes, y estn tratados mejor como especies distintas. Se hace una nueva combinacin Bromus hallii (Hitchc.) Saarela y P.M. Peterson. Bromus hallii se diferencia de B. orcuttianus por tener lminas densamente pubescentes (contra glabras en B. orcuttianus), vainas inferiores con los pelos rgidos cortos de 1 mm largo o menos (contra los pelos suaves largos de 2-4 mm), y 1  2(-3) nudos en el culmen (contra 2-4). Bromus hallii se diferencia de Bromus grandis por tener las lminas de 7.5-16.5 cm de largo (contra 18-38 cm en B. grandis), 1  2 nudos en el culmen (contra 3-6), y glumas inferiores 1(-3)-nervadas [contra 3(1)-nervadas]. Proporcionamos el primer informe de diferencias en el tipo de pubescencia en las vainas inferiores entre B. orcuttianus y B. hallii. Confirmamos el nmero diploide de cromosomas de 2n = 14 para B. grandis. Incluimos descripciones, sinonimias, y especmenes representativos examinados de B grandis, B. hallii y . orcuttianus, una clave de todas las secciones de Bromus en California, y una clave de Bromus sect. Bromopsis en California.
41968537|Cerastium pumilum (Caryophyllaceae) was recently reported for Oklahoma without documentation. This paper documents the occurrence of Cerastium pumilum W. Curtis in Oklahoma. The first collection from Oklahoma was made in 1981 from Hughes County but no additional collections were made until 2003. Since that time, C. pumilum has been documented in eight additional counties. Thus, G pumilum is currently known from a total of 11 Oklahoma counties. Cerastium pumilum (Caryophyllaceae) se cit recientemente de Oklahoma sin documentacin. Este artculo documenta la presencia de Cerastium pumilum W. Curtis en Oklahoma. La primera coleccin de Oklahoma se hizo en 1981 en Hughes County pero no se hicieron colecciones adicionales hasta 2003. Desde entonces, C. pumilum se ha documentado en otros ocho condados. As pues, G pumilum se conoce actualmente de un total de 11 condados de Oklahoma..
41968509|North American and Central American taxa of Symphyotrichum sect. Oxytripolium (S. subulatum sensu lato and S. tenuifolium sensu lato) have been treated at both specific and varietal rank. As interpreted here, morphological discontinuities and reproductive isolation indicate that specific rank is appropriate for the five annual taxa, including the South American native S. squamatum, which is recorded primarily as a waif in the U.S.A. A key is provided to the annual taxa under consideration and summaries of synonymy are given for each. State distribution records are documented for the following: S. subulatumArkansas, Nebraska; S. divaricatumNew Mexico; S. bahamenseGeorgia; S. expansumFlorida, Oklahoma; S. squamatumAlabama, California, Florida, Louisiana, Texas. Los taxa de Norte Amrica y Amrica Central de Symphyotrichum sect. Oxytripolium (S. subulatum sensu lato y S. tenuifolium sensu lato) se han tratado tanto con rango especfico como varietal. Tal como se interpreta aqu, las discontinuidades morfolgicas y aislamiento reproductor indican que el rango especfico es el apropiado para los cinco taxa anuales, incluyendo la nativa Sur Americana S. squamatum, que se cita principalmente como una planta abandonada en U. S. A. Se ofrece una clave para los taxa anuales en consideracin y se hacen resmenes de las sinonimias para cada uno de ellos. Se documenta la distribucin en estados de los siguientes: S. subulatumArkansas, Nebraska; S. divaricatumNuevo Mxico; S. bahamenseGeorgia; S. expansumFlorida, Oklahoma; S. squamatumAlabama, California, Florida, Texas.
41968403|A taxonomic treatment of Trisetum Pers. and Graphephorum Desv. in North America north of Mxico is given. Eight species of Trisetum are recognized. Two species are endemic to the United States: T. orthochaetum (Montana) and I projectum (California, Montana, and Nevada); Trisetum cernuum subsp. cernuum, T. cernuum subsp. canescens, T. montanum, T. sibiricum, T. spicatum var. spicatum, and T. spicatum var. pilosiglume are found in Canada and the United States; and T. spicatum var. spicatum and T. spicatum var. pilosiglume are found in Greenland. Two species, T. aureum and T. flavescens, are introduced. Trisetum floribundum Pilg. is chosen as a lectotype for Trisetum sect. Aulacoa Louis-Marie. The genus Graphephorum comprises only two species: G. melicoides ranging from Canada to the United States and G. wolfii endemic to the United States. En el presente articulo se presenta un tratamiento taxonmica para Trisetum Pers. y Graphephorum Desv. en Norteamrica norte de Mxico. Se reconocen ocho especies de Trisetum. Dos de estas especies son endmicas de los Estados Unidos: T. orthochaetum (Montana) y T. projectum (California, Montana y Nevada). Trisetum cernuum subsp. cernuum, T. cernuum subsp. canescens, T. montanum, T. sibiricum, T. spicatum var. spicatum y T. spicatum var. pilosiglume se encuentran en Canad y los Estados Unidos; y T. spicatum var. spicatum y T. spicatum var. pilosiglume se encuentran en Groenlandia. Dos especies, T. aureum y T. flavescens, han sido introducidas. Trisetum floribundum Pilg. se elige como lectotipo para Trisetum secc. Aulacoa Louis-Marie. El gnero Graphephorum comprende slo dos especies: G. melicoides, que se encuentra desde Canad hasta los Estados Unidos y G. wolfii, endmico de los Estados Unidos.
41968465|Dichanthium annulatum has become locally established in southern Arizona and is a new generic record for the state. This tenacious perennial grass is a potentially invasive species of concern and we offer specimen-vouchered documentation for its entrada into Arizona. There are three, simultaneous, and independent routes for its spread. Dichanthium annulatum se ha establecido localmente en el Sur de Arizona y es una cita de un nuevo gnero para el estado. Esta gramnea perenne y tenaz, es una especie potencialmente invasora y of recemos documentacin con especimenes testigo de su entrada en Arizona. Hay tres rutas simultneas e independientes para su dispersin.
41968446|Sixty-four chromosome counts are reported for 27 taxa, mostly of western Texas, and most of them are opuntioid cacti (51 counts) of the Trans-Pecos region. Meiotic configurations suggest that Jeff Davis and Presidio county populations of O. davisii are triploid. Among the Opuntia reports are 11 diploid and two tetraploid counts attributed to O. macrocentra, and seven counts documenting a tetraploid taxon here referred to O. mackensenii var. minor. Three meiotic and two pollen stainability observations indicate that at least some plants of O. schottii var. schottii are partially or completely sterile. Se publican sesenta y cuatro recuentos cromosomticos de 27 taxa, la mayora del Oeste de Texas, y la mayora de ellos son cactus opuntioides (51 recuentos) de la regin de Trans-Pecos. Las configuraciones meioticas sugieren que las poblaciones de los condados de Jeff Davis y Presidio de O. davisii son triploides. Entre los recuentos de Opuntia 11 son diploides y dos tetraploides atribuidos a O. macrocentra, y siete recuentos que documentan un taxon tetraploide los referimos aqu a O. mackensenii var. minor. Tres observaciones meioticas y dos tinciones de polen indican que al menos algunas plantas de O. schottii var. schottii son parcial o completamente estriles.
41968467|The rediscovery of Ponthieva brittoniae is reported. The two populations found in Everglades National Park, Miami-Dade County, Florida, represent the only plants currently known from the United States. Se cita el redescubrimiento de Ponthieva brittoniae. Las dos poblaciones encontradas en el Parque Nacional de los Everglades, en el condado de Miami-Dade, estado de Florida, representan actualmente las nicas plantas conocidas de los Estados Unidos.
41968391|Ipomoea seaania is described as a new species from the vicinity of Guaymas, Sonora. These plants are confined to the Sierra El Aguaje, although they perhaps grow in other nearby unexplored mountains. The relationships of this species to the other members of Ipomoea series Arborescentes are discussed, and all taxa in the group are listed and ranges given. Ipomoea seaania brings the total number of taxa in the series to 13 species, with I. arborescens having two varieties and I. pauciflora and I. wolcottiana each having two disjunct subspecies. Se describe Ipomoea seaania de las cercanas de Guaymas, Sonora, como una especie nueva. Estas plantas se encuentran restringidas a la Sierra El Aguaje, aunque quizs se encuentren en otras sierras cercanas sin explorar. Se discuten las relaciones de esta especie con otros miembros de Ipomoea serie Arborescentes; del mismo modo se listan todos los taxa del grupo y se proporcionan sus rangos de distribucin. Con el reconocimiento de Ipomoea seaania como nueva especie, se reconocen un total de 13 especies en el grupo, de las cuales Ipomoea arborescens presenta dos variedades e I. pauciflora e I. wolcottiana dos subespecies.
41968400|The Psidium grandifolium complex is revised with keys, descriptions, maps, and illustrations and is considered to consist of P. grandifolium, P. missionum, and P. australe, the last with three varieties. The complex is mainly confined to eastern interior South America, ranging from Venezuela to Argentina. Lectotypes for the following taxa are chosen: Psidium argenteum O. Berg, Psidium argenteum var. purpureum O. Berg, Psidium cinereum var. grandifolium O. Berg, Psidium cinereum var. intermedium O. Berg, Psidium grandijolium var. intermedium O. Berg, Psidium mucronatum Barb. Rodr. ex Chodat et Hassl., Psidium sericeum O. Berg, Psidium suffruticosum O. Berg, Psidium incanescens var. rotundifolium O. Berg. Two new combinations are made: Psidium australe var. argenteum (O. Berg) Landrum and Psidium australe var. suffruticosum (O. Berg) Landrum Se hace una revisin del complejo Psidium grandifolium con claves, descripciones, mapas, e ilustraciones. El complejo incluye P. grandifolium, P. missionum, y P. australe, la ltima con tres variedades. El complejo crece principalmente en el interior del este de Sud Amrica, desde Venezuela hasta Argentina. Se seleccionan lectotipos para los siguientes taxa: Psidium argenteum O. Berg, Psidium argenteum var. purpureum O. Berg, Psidium cinereum var. grandifolium O. Berg, Psidium cinereum var. intermedium O. Berg, Psidium grandifolium var. intermedium O. Berg, Psidium mucronatum Barb. Rodr. ex Chodat et Hassl., Psidium sericeum O. Berg, Psidium suffruticosum O. Berg, Psidium incanescens var. rotundifolium O. Berg. Se hacen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Psidium australe var. argenteum (O. Berg) Landrum y Psidium australe var. suffruticosum (O. Berg) Landrum.
41968443|Meiotic chromosome counts for 66 populations of the genus Glandularia (sensu Umber 1979) are reported, all from the state of Texas. These include counts for the following taxa: G. bipinnatifida var. bipinnatifida (n = 15 pairs); G. bipinnatifida var. brevispicata (n = 15 pairs); G. pumila (n = 10 pairs); G. quadrangulata (n = 10 pairs); G. racemosa (n = 10 pairs); G verecunda (n = 10 pairs); and G. wrightii (n = 10 pairs). The taxonomic import of these data is discussed. Se publican los recuentos cromosomticos en meiosis de 66 poblaciones del gnero Glandularia (sensu Umber 1979), todos del estado de Texas. Se incluyen recuentos de los siguientes taxa: G. bipinnatifida var. bipinnatifida (n = 15); G. bipinnatifida var. brevispicata (n = 15); G. pumila (n = 10); G. quadrangulata (n = 10); G. racemosa (n = 10); G verecunda (n = 10); y G. wrightii (n = 10). Se discute la importancia taxonmica de estos datos.
41968418|A new species of Matelea is described from Hispaniola, resulting from study of subtribe Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) in the West Indies. Se describe una especie nueva de Matelea de la Espaola como resultado del estudio de la subtribu Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae: Asclepiaoideae) en las Indias Occidentales.
41968461|Soil and ecological features of the orchid genus Hexalectris were examined to obtain a more accurate description of the factors influencing its distribution and to direct future conservation efforts. Data on canopy and ground cover, tree species diversity, and soil series were obtained for Hexalectris in Dallas County, and overlaid with historic data on Hexalectris in Texas. We determined that Hexalectris does associate with oak and juniper, but the amount of cover at Hexalectris sites did not exceed 60%. Ground cover, tree species diversity, and percent oak/juniper did not differ between sites with and without Hexalectris. The soil series associated with Hexalectris in this region were Eddy-Brackett entisols of 8-20% slope. Soil type was an accurate predictor of areas in which Hexalectris could be found. Hexalectris appear to be strongly dependent on soil series, a factor which can aid in predicting areas in which Hexalectris is likely to be found but has not yet been located, as well as in conservation of this less well-studied genus. Se examinaron las caractersticas ecolgicas y del suelo de la especie de orqudea Hexalectris para obtener una descripcin ms precisa de los factores que influyen su distribucin y para futuros esfuerzos de conservacin. Se obtuvieron datos de la canopia y el recubrimiento, diversidad de especies arbreas, y series de suelo de Hexalectris en el condado de Dallas, y sobrepuestos con datos histricos sobre Hexalectris en Texas. Determinamos que Hexalectris s se asocia con roble y enebro, pero la cantidad de los sitios de Hexalectris no excedieron el 60% y adems el rea cubierta, la diversidad de especies arbreas, y el porcentaje roble/enebro no cambi entre sitios observados con o sin Hexalectris. Las series del suelo asociadas a Hexalectris en esta regin eran suelo Eddy-Brackett con 8 al 20 por ciento de inclinacin. El tipo de suelo fue un indicador preciso para poder predecir el rea en que se encontrara Hexalectris. Hexalectris parece depender fuertemente en la clase de suelos, un factor que puede ayudar a predecir reas en las que pueda encontrarse Hexalectris pero todava no pueden ser descritas, al igual que la conservacin de este gnero mucho menos estudiado.
41968425|El estudio de los tipos de Mandevilla lasiocarpa y de los nombres asociados a este taxn como sinnimos, revela que todos son sinnimos de M. hirsuta y que el taxn para el que Woodson emple este nombre en su monografa necesita un nombre nuevo. Por lo tanto, se propone Mandevilla matogrossana, se describe e ilustra detalladamente, discutindose su relacin con M. hirsuta. Adicionalmente, se propone una nueva lectotipificacin para Echites hirsuta var. angustifolia Stadelm. y se cita por primera vez la presencia de M. hirsuta en Paraguay. The study of the types of Mandevilla lasiocarpa and related synonymy has revealed that all of them are synonyms of M. hirsuta and the concept of the species M. lasiocarpa used by Woodson in his monograph don't has a name. Therefore, a new name is proposed and this taxon is described and illustrated. The relations with M. hirsuta are discussed. Echites hirsuta var. angustifolia Stadelm. is lectotypified and M. hirsuta is reported for first time from Paraguay.
41968394|The 37 currently recognized species of Liatris are placed in formal positions within an infrageneric taxonomic system modified from one proposed by Gaiser in 1946. Five sections are recognized: (1) sect. Liatris (including ser. Liatris, ser. Punctatae, and ser. Elegantes), (2) sect. Vorago Nesom, sect, nov., (3) sect. Suprago (Gaertner) DC., (4) sect. Pilifilis Nesom, sect, nov., and (5) sect. Graminifolium Nesom, sect. nov. (including ser. Garberae, ser. Pauciflorae, ser. Virgatae, ser. Graminifoliae, and ser. Scariosae). Las 37 especies usualmente reconocidas de Liatris se colocan en posiciones formales en un sistema taxonmico infragenrico modificado a partir del propuesto por Gaiser en 1946. Se reconocen cinco secciones: (1) sect. Liatris (que incluye las ser. Liatris, ser. Punctatae, y ser. Elegantes), (2) sect. Vorago Nesom, sect, nov., (3) sect. Suprago (Gaertner) DC, (4) sect. Pilifilis Nesom, sect, nov., y (5) sect. Graminifolium Nesom, sect. nov. (including ser. Garberae, ser. Pauciflorae, ser. Virgatae, ser. Graminifoliae, y ser. Scariosae).
41968428|A taxonomic revision of Erithalis, genus of perennial trees and shrubs, is presented utilizing morphological data. Principal Component Analysis involving 14 vegetative and floral characters provided support for four morphologically distinct taxa (E. angustifolia, E. harrisii, E. odorifera, and E. quadrangularis) and a fifth poorly defined complex (E. diffusa, E. fruticosa, E. salmeoides and E. vacciniifolia). A few qualitative characters, as well as geographic distributions of the taxa, however, can distinguish the latter group. Erithalis insularis grouped within the fifth group, and is here placed in synonymy with E. fruticosa. Thus, in this study are recognized E. angustifolia, E. diffusa, E. fruticosa, E. harrisii, E. odorifera, E. quadrangularis, E. salmeoides, and E. vacciniifolia based on differences in inflorescence, flower, leaf, and growth habit characteristics. Phylogenetic relationships among the species, morphological description of their inflorescences and flowers, and the breeding system of E. fruticosa are presented. A key to the species, synonymies, typifications, descriptions, uses, and list of representative specimens is provided. Se presenta una revisin taxonmica de Erithalis, un gnero de rboles y arbustos de hoja perenne, utilizando anlisis morfolgicos. Anlisis de Componentes Principales basados en 14 caractersticas vegetativas y florales confirman cuatro taxones (E. angustifolia, E. harrisii, E. odorifera, y E. quadrangularis) y un quinto complejo (E. diffusa, E. fruticosa, E. salmeoides y E. vacciniifolia). Este ltimo grupo, sin embargo, puede distinguirse por varios caracteres cualitativos, adems de la distribucin geogrfica de estos taxones. Erithalis insularis se agrup con ste ltimo grupo, y se coloca aqu como sinnimo de E. fruticosa. Por lo tanto, en este estudio son reconocidos E. angustifolia, E. diffusa, E. fruticosa, E. harrisii, E. odorifera, E. quadrangularis, E. salmeoides, y E. vacciniifolia, basndonos en diferencias de la inflorescencia, flor, hoja, y hbito de crecimiento. Se presentan las relaciones de filogenia entre las especies, descripcin morfolgica de sus inflorescencias y flores, y el sistema reproductor de E. fruticosa. Se provee una clave para las especies, sinnimos, tipificacin, descripciones, usos y especmenes representativos.
41968470|A second population of the rare Agalinis navasotensis Dubrule & Canne-Hilliker (Navasota False Foxglove) has been confirmed from a Catahoula Barren in Tyler County, Texas. Previously, the only known locality was an Oakville formation sandstone outcrop in Grimes County, Texas, some 100 miles to the west. Se ha confirmado una segunda poblacin de la rara Agalinis navasotensis Dubrule & Canne-Hilliker (Navasota False Foxglove) de Catahoula Barren en el condado de Tyler, Texas. Previamente, la nica localidad conocida era un afloramiento de arenisca en Oakville en el condado de Grimes, Texas, unas 100 millas al Oeste.
41968397|Liatris helleri T.C. Porter (1891) previously has been regarded as a rare, narrowly distributed endemic of North Carolina. The present investigation, in the context of a study of the whole genus, presents a broadened concept of L. helleri, including plants in West Virginia, Virginia, and North Carolina previously identified as L. turgida Gaiser (1946) and many from the same region misidentified as L. graminifolia var. smallii. A lectotype (NY) is selected for L. helleri. The diagnostic feature of L helleri sensu stricto, a shortened pappus, has been the primary distinction between it and L. turgida, but pappus length varies among populations in the small region of L. helleri sensu stricto and a short pappus also occurs in some populations of L. turgida. If this broadened concept is followed, it may have the effect of lessening legal protections for L. helleri, but some of the North Carolina populations occur with other rare species in a rare natural community, and the species and habitat are a focus of continuing conservation concerns. Liatris helleri T.C. Porter (1891) ha sido vista previamente como un endemismo raro escasamente distribuido en Carolina del Norte. En la presente investigacin, en el contexto de un estudio de todo el gnero, se presenta un concepto ms amplio de L. helleri, incluyendo plantas del Oeste de Virginia, Virginia, y Carolina del Norte identificadas previamente como L. turgida Gaiser (1946) y muchas de la misma regin identificadas incorrectamente como L. graminifolia var. smallii. Se ha seleccionado un lectotipo (NY) para L. helleri. El carcter diagnstico de L. helleri sensu stricto, un vilano corto, ha sido la diferencia principal entre ste y L. turgida, pero la longitud el vilano vara entre poblaciones de la pequea regin de L helleri sensu stricto y un vilano corto se da tambin en algunas poblaciones de L. turgida. Si se sigue este concepto ampliado, puede tener como efecto la prdida de protecciones legales de L. helleri, pero algunas de las poblaciones de Carolina del Norte conviven con otras especies en una comunidad natural rara, y tanto las especies como el habitat tienen implicaciones permanentes en la conservacin.
41968402|A taxonomic treatment of Eragrostis Wolf for northeastern Mxico (Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas), is given. Twenty-six species and four varieties or subspecies of Eragrostis are recognized in the study area. Twenty of these species are native to the Flora region and six are introduced and adventive. Keys for determining the species, descriptions, distributions, specimens examined, illustrations, synonymies, and a brief discussion indicating relationships among all native and adventive species of Eragrostis in northeastern Mxico are provided. Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de Eragrostis Wolf para el noreste de Mxico (Coahuila, Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas). Un total de veintisis especies y cuatro variedades o subespecies de Eragrostis se reconocen en el rea del estudio. Veinte de estas especies son nativas de la flora de la regin y seis son introducidas y adventicias. Se incluyen claves para determinar las especies, descripciones, distribuciones, especimenes examinados, ilustraciones, sinonimias, y una discusin breve indicando las relaciones entre todas las especies nativas y adventicias de Eragrostis para el noreste de Mxico.
41968411|Sericocarpus is a genus of five species of white-rayed asters native to North America. Three species are found in eastern North America (S. asteroides, S. tortifolius, S. linifolius) and two are found in western North America (S. oregonensis, S. rigidus). Sericocarpus oregonensis has been divided into two subspecies based on pubescence and geography (subsp.californiens and subsp.oregonensis). Over 2300 herbarium specimens were examined to determine the distribution and morphological ranges of variation in traits of each species. Multivariate morphometric analyses of 111 specimens were undertaken to determine which of the 44 vegetative and 19 floral characteristics examined were diagnostic for the species and which species were most similar. The results of cluster and discriminant analyses indicated that all five species were distinct. The species were distinguished on the basis of stem, leaf and floral traits and to a lesser degree on geographic distribution and habitat data. In order to explore the validity of the division of S. oregonensis into two infraspecific taxa, stem and leaf pubescence traits were examined on 125 specimens of S. oregonensis. The results indicated that S. oregonensis can be divided into two subspecies based on pubescence and geography. The statistical results and morphometric measurements were used to construct comprehensive descriptions and an identification key to all taxa of Sericocarpus. The pappus was found to be triple or rarely quadruple in all species. Sericocarpus es un gnero norteamericano con cinco especies que tienen los radios blancos. Tres especies se encuentran en el Este (S. asteroides, S. tortifolius, S. linifolius) y dos en el Oeste (S. oregonensis, S. rigidus). Sericocarpus oregonensis ha sido dividido en dos subespecies basadas en la pubescencia y la geografa (subsp. californicus y subsp. oregonensis). Se han examinado ms de 2300 especimenes de herbario para determinar la distribucin y los rangos morfolgicos de variacin en caracteres de todas las especies. Se realiz un anlisis morfomtrico multivariante de 111 especimenes para determinar cuales de los 44 caracteres vegetativos y 19 florales examinados eran diagnsticos para las especies y que especies eran las ms semejantes. Los resultados de los anlisis discriminantes y de agrupamiento indican que las cinco especies son diferentes. Las especies se diferencian por caracteres de tallos, hojas y flores, y en menor medida por su distribucin geogrfica y datos del hbitat. Para comprobar la validez de la divisin de S. oregonensis en dos taxa infraspecficos, se examin la pubescencia de tallos y hojas en 125 especimenes de S. oregonensis. Los resultados indican que S. oregonensis puede dividirse en dos subespecies basadas en la pubescencia y la geografa. Los resultados estadsticos y las medidas morfomtricas se usaron para realizar descripciones detalladas y una clave de identificacin de todos los taxa de Sericocarpus. Se encontr que el vilano era triple o raramente cudruple en todas las especies.
41968463|Trillium texanum Buckley, a member of the Trillium pusillum Michx. complex, is rare over its range, occurring in scattered populations in baygalls, streamsides, and wooded seeps. We collected information on the habitat, phenology, population, and soils of Trillium texanum on the Angelina National Forest in southeast Texas. Trillium texanum Buckley, miembro del complejo Trillium pusillum Michx., es raro en todo su areal, apareciendo en poblaciones dispersas en arroyos e infiltraciones boscosas. Hemos colectado informacin sobre su habitat, fenologa, poblacin, y suelos de Trillium texanum en el Angelina National Forest en el Sureste de Texas.
41968429|Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Arecaceae (Aiphanes stergiosii M. Nio, Dorr, & F.W. Stauffer), y se presenta una clave para distinguir entre la nueva especie con especies relacionadas. As mismo, se mencionan aspectos ecolgicos y geogrficos de su distribucin. A new species of palm (Aiphanes stergiosii M. Nio, Dorr, & F.W. Stauffer) is described and illustrated, and a key is given to distinguish this new species from related ones. In addition, information is provided on the ecology and geographical distribution of this new species.
41968432|Morphology and molecular phylogenetic data show that Eurybia pygmaea is not a member of Eurybia but belongs in Symphyotrichum, close to S. yukonense of subg. Virgulus section Grandiflori. Therefore, we transfer the species to that genus, as Symphyotrichum pygmaeum (Lindl.) Brouillet & S. Selliah. Los datos filogenticos morfolgicos y moleculares muestran que Eurybia pygmaea no es un miembro de Eurybia sino que pertenece a Symphyotrichum, prximo a S. yukonense del subg. Virgulus section Grandiflori. Por ello, transferimos la especie a ese gnero como Symphyotrichum pygmaeum (Lindl.) Brouillet & S. Selliah.
41968445|Twenty-seven meiotic chromosome counts are reported for 20 species in nine families of plants from western Texas, mostly the Trans-Pecos region. The counts for Packera texensis, Chamaesyce stictospora, Astragalus argillophilus, A. bigelovii, and A. marcidus are first reports. Se publican veintisiete recuentos cromosomticos en meiosis de 20 especies de nueve familias de plantas del Oeste de Texas, la mayora de la regin de Trans-Pecos. Los recuentos de Packera texensis, Chamaesyce strictospora, Astragalus argillophilus, A. bigelovii, y A. marcidus son los primeros realizados.
41968420|As a component of a larger study of the West Indian Matelea subgenus Ptycanthera, this study sought to critically examine patterns of morphological variation within the embedded M. bayatensiscorrellii-tigrina complex. Resolution of species-level circumscriptions are necessary before larger issues of subgeneric and generic circumscription can be adequately addressed. Morphological characters were analyzed using parsimony analysis, neighbor-joining, and ANOVA. Results show that Matelea hayatensis, M. correllii, and M. tigrina are very closely related morphologically. The three species appear to differ only in pubescence and relatively minor floral character states, some of which overlap. At present, none of the observed variation appears important enough to warrant the continued recognition of three distinct species. Este estudio es un componente de otro ms amplio de Matelea subgenus Ptycanthera delas Indias Occidentales, y est dedicado a examinar crticamente los patrones de variacin morfolgica en el complejo M. bayatensis-correllii-tigrina. Se necesita la resolucin de las circunscripciones a nivel especifico antes de abordar las circunscripciones de los gneros y subgneros adecuadamente. Los caracteres morfolgicos se analizaron usando anlisis de parsimonia, del vecino ms prximo, y ANOVA. Los resultados muestran que Matelea bayatensis, M. correllii, y M. tigrina estn muy relacionados morfolgicamente. Las tres especies parecen diferir slo en la pubescencia y estados de carcter florales relativamente menores, algunos de los cuales se solapan. Actualmente, ninguna de las variaciones observadas parece lo suficiente importante como para justificar el reconocimiento de tres especies diferentes.
41968408|Eugenia inversa, a new species from coastal rainforests of the Brazilian state of Esprito Santo, is described and illustrated. The new species is apparently related to the central Brazilian Eugenia mikanioides, from which it is distinguished by pilose leaves and flowers, shorter pedicels and triangular, acute calyx lobes. Eugenia inversa, urna nova espcie da floresta pluvial costeira do estado do Esprito Santo, Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. Esta espcie  aparentemente prxima a Eugenia mikanioides, coletada no Brasil central, da qual se distingue pelas folhas e flores pilosas, pedicelos curtos e lobos do clice triangulares.
41968447|Chromosome numbers are reported for 44 collections of Silene and 74 collections of Stellaria (Caryophyllaceae) from continental North America. First published reports include those for Silene drummondii Hook, subsp. striata (Rydberg) J.K. Morton 2n = 72, S. hitchguirei Bocquet 2n = 24, S. uralensis (Rupr.) Bocquet subsp. ogilviensis (A.E. Porsild) D.F. Brunton 2n = 48, Stellaria fontinalis (Short & Peter) B.L. Robinson 2n = 26, S. nitens Nuttall 2n = 20 & 40 and S. parva Pederson 2n = 34. First published reports for material of North American origin include Silene dichotoma Ehrhart 2n = 24, S. dioica (L.) Clairville 2n = 24, S. flos-cuculi (L.) Clairville 2n = 24, Stellaria alsine Grimm 2n = 24, S. cuspidata Willd. ex Schltdl. subsp. prostrata J. K. Morton 2n = 26, S. neglecta Weihe 2n = 20 & 22 and S. palustris Retz. 2n = ca. 198. Se publican los nmeros cromosomticos de 44 colecciones de Silne y 74 colecciones de Stellaria (Caryophyllaceae) de Norte Amrica continental. Entre los primeros recuentos publicados se encuentran los de Silene drummondii Hook, subsp. striata (Rydberg) J.K. Morton 2n = 72, S. hitchguirei Bocquet 2n = 24, S. uralensis (Rupr.) Bocquet subsp. ogilviensis (A.E. Porsild) D.F. Brunton 2n = 48, Stellaria fontinalis (Short & Peter) B.L. Robinson 2n = 26, S. nitens Nuttall 2n = 20 & 40 y S. parva Pederson 2n = 34. Los primeros recuentos en material originario de Norte Amrica son Silene dichotoma Ehrhart 2n = 24, S. dioica (L.) Clairville 2n = 24, S. flos-cuculi (L.) Clairville 2n = 24, Stellaria alsine Grimm 2n = 24, S. cuspidata Willd. ex Schltdl. subsp. prostrata J.K. Morton 2n = 26, S. neglecta Weihe 2n = 20 & 22 y S. palustris Retz. 2n = ca. 198.
41968466|Twenty-four species or varieties of vascular plants, all native to or naturalized in the southeastern U.S.A., are reported as new or noteworthy for Kentucky. Fourteen of these are native and ten are nonnative. Fifteen of the taxa are reported as state records, and the accounts for the other nine taxa provide clarifications or updates on their status in the state. Taxa reported as state records are: Acanthopanax sieboldianus, Callicarpa dichotoma, Castanea sativa, Cladium mariscoides, Hydrocotyle ranunculoides, Ilex cornuta, Ipomoea quamoclit, Ipomoea turbinata, Lonicera  minutiflora, Lonicera xylosteum, Magnolia grandiflora, Quercus texana, Ribes americanum, Salix cinerea subsp. oleifolia, and Symphyotrichum divaricatum. Se citan veinticuatro especies o variedades de plantas vasculares, todas nativas o naturalizadas en el Sureste de U.S.A., como nuevas o notables para Kentucky. Catorce de ellas son nativas y diez son introducidas. Quince de los taxa son citados como nuevos para el estado, y de otros nueve se hacen aclaraciones o puestas al da de su estatus en el estado. Los taxa citados como nuevos para el estado son: Acanthopanax sieboldianus, Callicarpa dichotoma, Castanea sativa, Cladium mariscoides, Hydrocotyle ranunculoides, Ilex cornuta, Ipomoea quamoclit, Ipomoea turbinata, Lonicera  minutiflora, Lonicera xylosteum, Magnolia grandiflora, Quercus texana, Ribes americanum, Salix cinrea subsp. oleifolia, y Symphyotrichum divaricatum.
41968449|Herbaria with significant historical collections are critical to tracking floristic changes such as the introduction and spread of non-native plant species. To explore the importance of herbarium specimen data for understanding floristic changes in the central Great Plains, we utilized the Kansas State University Herbarium (KSC), known for its rich historical collections dating from the late 1800s. A list of all angiosperm plant taxa introduced to Kansas was obtained, and collection data (collector, number, year and county) were recorded for all in-state specimens (excluding cultivated material). A total of 6,565 specimens were recorded, comprising 314 species, 201 genera and 50 families, and dating from 1869. Of the recognized introduced species, 153 are represented by KSC collections made in Kansas prior to 1900, and 243 prior to 1940. All Kansas counties are well-represented by the early KSC material (1890s), bolstering our ability to infer floristic changes since that time. While 988 different collectors are represented, 14 collectors account for 52% of the specimens of introduced species. Peak collecting at KSC occurred in the 1890s and 1930s, and assessment of biases suggest that our data are a reasonably accurate representation of the presence and distribution of introduced species in Kansas at those times. Species not represented by pre-1900 KSC material were likely not established or even introduced in the state at the time; if a species was not documented prior to 1940 it was likely still not well established by then. This study demonstrates the utility of data housed at KSC, and by extension in other historical collections, for the study of regional floristic changes. Los herbarios con colecciones histricas significativas son crticos para rastrear los cambios florsticos tales como la introduccin y la extensin de las especies de plantas que no son nativas. Para explorar la importancia de datos de especmenes de herbario para entender los cambios florsticos en las llanuras centrales de Norteamrica, nosotros utilizamos el Herbario de Kansas State University (KSC), conocido por sus colecciones histricas ricas en datos desde el final de los 1800. Se obtuvo una lista de todas las angiospermas introducidas en Kansas, y los datos de la coleccin (el coleccionista, nmero, ao y condado) fueron registrados para todos los especmenes del estado (excluyendo el material cultivado). Se registr un total de 6565 especmenes, que se incluyen en 314 especies, 201 gneros y 50 familias, que datan desde 1869. De las especies introducidas que se reconocieron, 153 son representadas por colecciones de KSC hechas en Kansas antes de 1900, y 243 antes de 1940. Todos los condados de Kansas estn bien representados por el material inicial de KSC (1890s), reforzando nuestra habilidad de inferir los cambios florsticos desde ese tiempo. De los 988 colectores diferentes existentes, 14 de ellos son responsables del 52% de los especmenes de especies introducidas. Los puntos mximos de recoleccin en KSC ocurrieron en los 1890 y los 1930, y la evaluacin de los sesgos sugiere que nuestros datos son una representacin razonablemente precisa de la presencia y la distribucin de las especies introducidas en Kansas en esos tiempos. Las especies no representadas en el material de KSC antes de 1900 probablemente no estaban establecidas ni haban sido introducidas an en el estado en ese tiempo; si una especie no se document antes de 1940, es probable que todava no estuviese bien establecida. Este estudio demuestra la utilidad de los datos de KSC, y por extensin de otras colecciones histricas, para el estudio de cambios florsticos regionales.
41968416|A new combination in Matelea (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) for an endemic Jamaican vine is proposed. Se propone una combinacin nueva en Matelea (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) para una trepadora endmica de Jamaica.
41968436|Conoclinium betonicifolium (P. Miller) King & H. Robinson var. integrifolium (A. Gray) T.F. Patterson is an inland taxon that has mostly oblanceolate to ovate leaf blades. Conoclinium betonicifolium (P. Miller) King & H. Robinson var. integrifolium (A. Gray) T.F. Patterson es un taxon del interior que usualmente tiene limbos foliares de oblanceolados a ovados.
41968423|El estudio del tipo de Mandevilla leptophylla (A. DC.) K. Schum. ha revelado que el concepto de esa especie ha sido mal interpretado desde la ltima monografa del gnero. Por otro lado, el tipo de Echites gracilis Kunth, taxn incorrectamente tratado como un sinnimo de M. subsagittata (Ruiz & Pav.) Woodson, es coespecfico con el material referido hasta ahora como M. leptophylla. Por lo tanto, una nueva combinacin, M. gracilis (Kunth) J.F. Morales es establecida, comentndose las relaciones entre este taxn y el verdadero concepto de M. leptophylla, incluyendose descripciones, ilustraciones y especmenes examinados de ambos taxones. Mandevilla linearis N.E. Br. es a su vez lectotipificado y reducido a la sinonimia de M. gracilis. Adicionalmente, dos nuevas especies de Mandevilla subgnero Exothostemon, M. amazonica y M. colombiana, ambas relacionadas con M. gracilis, son descritas e ilustradas, discutiendose sus afinidades taxonmicas. A study of the type collection of Mandevilla leptophylla (A. DC.) K. Schum. has revealed that the concept of this species has been misinterpreted since the last monograph of the genus. However, Echites gracilis Kunth, erroneously placed in synonymy of M. subsagittata (Ruiz & Pav.) Woodson, is conspecific with the material traditionally treated as M. leptophylla. Therefore, the new combination M. gracilis (Kunth) J.F. Morales is here proposed and the relationship with M. leptophylla is discussed. Clarifying descriptions, illustrations and specimen citations are included for both taxa. Mandevilla linearis N.E. Br. is lectotypified and relegated to the synonymy of M. gracilis. Two new species of Mandevilla subgenus Exothostemon (M. amazonica and M. colombiana) are also described and illustrated; their taxonomic affinities with M. gracilis are discussed.
41968455|We studied the presettlement woody vegetation of the Red River floodplain and adjacent upland in Caddo Parish, Louisiana, by analyzing the 1830s Government Land Office surveyors' records. We looked for evidence of monospecific pine savanna/forest in the uplands as historical accounts relate and compared the woody vegetation of the floodplain with that of the upland. We found that the upland was a mixed hardwood-pine forest with some areas almost exclusively hardwood, that there were no areas that were monospecific pine forest, and that the upland and floodplain are floristically different. Oak was rare on the floodplain but occurred near prairies lying within the floodplain. Hemos estudiado la vegetacin leosa previa a la colonizacin de la llanura de inundacin del Red River y las tierras adyacentes en Caddo Parish, Louisiana, analizando los registros de los supervisores del Government Land Office en los aos1830. Hemos buscado pruebas de los bosque/sabana monoespecficos de pinos en las tierras altas tal como lo relatan las crnicas histricas y se compara la vegetacin leosa de la llanura de inundacin con la de las tierras altas. Hemos encontrado que en las tierras altas haba un bosque mixto de pino y rboles de madera dura con algunas reas que casi tienen exclusivamente rboles de madera dura, que all no haba reas en las que hubiese bosques monoespecficos de pinos, y que las tierras altas y las llanuras de inundacin son florsticamente diferentes. Los robles son raros en la llanura de inundacin pero se dan el las praderas prximas a estas llanuras.
41968472|Gibasis pellucida (Commelinaceae) is reported as a new naturalized weed in Texas. A description of the species and key to Texas genera of Commelinaceae are provided. Gibasis pellucida (Commelinaceae) se cita como una nueva mala hierba naturalizada en Texas. Se aporta una descripcin de la especie y una clave de los gneros de Commelinaceae de Texas.
41968390|Ipomoea arborescens (tree morning glory) has two varieties in the state of Sonora, Mexico. Author citation of I. arborescens var. glabrata (a nomenclatural synonym of I. arborescens var. arborescens) is corrected. The second taxon, I. arborescens var. pachylutea, was named by Howard Scott Gentry from the Ro Mayo region. These plants differ considerably from I. arborescens var. arborescens in having different bark morphology and corolla tube colors. En el estado de Sonora, Mxico, Ipomoea arborescens (palo santo) tiene nombres para dos variedades. Se corrige la citacin del autor de Ipomoea arborescens var. glabrata, sinnimo de Ipomoea arborescens var. arborescens. Howard Scott Gentry nombr I. arborescens var. pachylutea de la regin del Ro Mayo, la cual se distingue principalmente de la var. arborescens por su corteza amarillenta y corolas con tubos morados.
41968458|Although Greene County, located in the southwest corner of Pennsylvania, has been botanized since the early 1800s, a checklist of its vascular flora has not previously been compiled. A search of herbaria augmented by targeted fieldwork has resulted in a list of 890 taxa of native and naturalized plants comprising 438 genera and 118 families. The five largest families, by number of species, were Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Rosaceae, and Fabaceae. The six largest genera were Carex, Solidago, Galium, Rubus, Polygonum, and Viola. El Condado de Greene, se localiza en la esquina suroeste del estado de Pennsylvania. Este condado es considerado una de las reas ms diversas y de impacto en el estado, sin embargo hasta ahora no ha sido completada una lista de verificacin. Esta lista de verificacin contiene familias, gneros, y taxa especficos estn ordenados alfabticamente dentro de los grupos de plantas vasculares tales como Pteridfitas, Gimnospermas y Angiospermas. Esta lista incluye los nombres de especies nativas y naturalizadas conocidas que ocurren en el Condado de Greene. Un total de al menos 118 familias, 438 gneros, y 890 especies fueron encontradas. Las cinco familias ms grandes, por el nmero de especies, fueron Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Rosaceae, y Fabaceae. Los seis gneros ms grandes, por el nmero de especies, fueron Carex, Solidago, Galium, Rubus, Polygonum y Viola.
41968460|American Beech Woods Nature Preserve is located on Illinoian till in the Wabash Border Division of eastern Illinois. The plant life of this 8 ha site was examined during the 1999-2001 growing seasons. We documented a total of 207 vascular plant species in 148 genera of 71 families (10 pteridophytes, 1 gymnosperm, 49 monocots, and 147 dicots). We also sampled the vegetation using a stratified-random line-strip method. Tree density averaged 249 trees/ha with a basal area of 22.91 m/ha. Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (American beech) was the dominant tree species with 63 trees/ha, a basal area of 7.34 m/ha, and an importance value 26.1 (possible 100). Acer saccharum Marsh. (sugar maple) ranked second in importance value (IV = 15.7) with most individuals in the 10-19.9 cm diameter class. Quercus velutina Lam. (black oak) and Carya glabra (Mill.) Sweet (pignut hickory) were the only other overstory trees with an importance value greater than 10. In comparison with an earlier study in 1973, the site has experienced a decrease in both tree density (399 trees/ha vs. 249 trees/ha) and basal area (33.35 m/ha vs. 22.91 m/ha). La Reserva Natural de Haya Americana esta ubicada en terreno Illinois en la frontera del Ro Wabash en Illinois oriental. La flora del bosque que mide 8 hectreas fue examinada durante la temporada de crecimiento en los aos 1999-2001. Hemos identificado 207 especies de plantas vasculares que incluyen 148 gneros de 71 familias distintas: 10 pteridfitas, una gimnosperma, 49 monocotitedneas, y 147 dicotiledneas. Muestreamos la vegetacin usando el mtodo de lnea-franja aleatoria. La densidad promedia era 249 rboles por hectrea con una rea basai de 22.91 m2/ha. Fagus grandifolia Ehrh. (haya) era la especie de rbol dominante. Haba 63 rboles por hectrea con una rea basai de 7.32 m/ha y un valor de importancia de 26.1 (posibilidad de 100). Acer saccharum (arce de azcar) tena una importancia secundaria con un valor de importancia de 15.7. La mayora de los individuos pertenecan a la clase de tamao entre 10-19.9 cm. Quercus velutina Lam. (roble negro) y Caryaglabra Mili, (nuez de cerdo) eran los nicos rboles que tenian un valor de importancia de ms de 10. En comparacin con el estudio de 1973 el bosque ha sufrido una perdida de densidad (399 rboles por ha v. 249 rboles por ha) y rea basal (33.35 m/ha v. 22.91 m/ha.)
41968476|A first report of a rare operculate discomycete, the devil's cigar, Chorioactisgeaster, from near McKinney, Collin County, Texas. Ha sido confirmada ahora una poblacin del devil's cigar, de Chorioactis geaster, un discomicete operculado raro, y se han tomado testigos en Collin County, Texas.
41968405|The Festuca californica Vasey complex is examined. Considerable morphological variation exists within and between populations which range from western Oregon to southern California. The characters of sheath pubescence, sclerenchyma distribution in the blades of vegetative shoots and ligule length are of use in distinguishing three taxa in the complex. Analysis of character variation and geographic distribution suggests that these taxa are best treated at the rank of subspecies; the new combinations Festuca californica subsp. hitchcockiana and F. californica subsp. parishii are provided. Se examina el complejo Festuca californica Vasey. Existe una variacin morfolgica considerable en y entre poblaciones que van desde el Oeste de Oregn hasta el Sur de California. Los caracteres pubescencia de la vaina, distribucin de esclernquima en las lminas de los tallos vegetativos y longitud de la lgula se usan para diferenciar los tres taxa del complejo. El anlisis de la variacin del carcter y distribucin geogrfica sugieren que estos taxa deben tratarse en el rango de subespecies; Se hacen las nuevas combinaciones Festuca californica subsp. hitchcockiana y F. californica subsp. parishii.
41968456|An annotated, vouchered checklist is provided of the vascular plant taxa of the 3150 hectare Turkey Creek Unit, Big Thicket National Preserve, Tyler and Hardin counties, southeastern Texas. Six hundred ninety one (691) native taxa and 47 exotic taxa are documented for the unit. The communities of the Turkey Creek Unit are provided. Se aporta un listado comentado de los taxa de plantas vasculares junto con los testigos, de las 3150 hectreas de la unidad Turkey Creek, Big Thicket National Preserve, en los condados de Tyler y Hardin, Sureste de Texas. Se documentan seiscientos noventa y un (691) taxa nativos y 47 taxa exticos en esta unidad. Se aportan las comunidades de la unidad Turkey Creek.
41968401|Ptilagrostis luquensis P.M. Peterson, Soreng & Z.L. Wu from the People's Republic of China is described and illustrated. The new species was found in dense thatch, mollisol soils on nearly level grassy plains surrounded by low hills in Gansu Province. Ptilagrostis luquensis is morphologically similar to P. dichotoma but differs by having glabrous anthers (1-1.4 mm long), shorter spikelets (2.6-3.5 mm long), shorter glumes (2.6-3.5 mm long), shorter lemmas (2.2-2.7 mm long), shorter and narrower panicles (2-5.2  1-3 cm), and lower nodes with 1 or 2 sheathing lanceolate hyaline bracts (1-5 mm long) on the culm inserted immediately below the lowest branches. A key to the species of Ptilagrostis in China is provided.  Ptilagrostis luquensis P.M. Peterson, Soreng & Z.L. Wu Ptilagrostis luquensis  P. dichotoma  1-1.4  2.6-3.5  2.6-3.5   2.2-2.72-5.2 1-3 1 2 1-5
41968427|One new species of Ericameria is described and two new combinations are proposed. Using morphological and molecular evidence we describe Ericameria arizonica Roberts, Urbatsch, & Anderson, presently known only from the Grand Canyon, Arizona, and propose the elevation of E. discoidea var. linearis and E. discoidea var. winwardii to species rank as E. linearis (Rydb.) Roberts & Urbatsch and E. winwardii (Dorn & Delmatier) Roberts & Urbatsch, respectively. Se describe una nueva especie de Ericameria y se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones. Usando datos morfolgicos y moleculares, describimos Ericameria arizonica Roberts, Urbatsch, y Anderson, conocida solamente de El Gran Can, Arizona, y proponemos la elevacin de E. discoidea var. linearis y E. discoidea var. winwardii a nivel de especie como E. linearis y E. winwardii, respectivamente.
41968468|Quercus montana (Fagaceae) is a new species for Missouri, extending the western edge of the range for the species in North America. Quercus montana (Fagaceae) es una nueva especie para Missouri, que extiende el extremo occidental de su rea en Norte Amrica.
41968430|Three new species of Vaccinium (Ericaceae) are described from Costa Rica and Panama: Vaccinium almedae Wilbur & Luteyn, V. furfuraceum Wilbur & Luteyn, and V. luteynii Wilbur. Se describen tres nuevas especies de Vaccinium (Ericaceae) de Costa Rica y Panam: Vaccinium almedae Wilbur & Luteyn, V. furfuraceum Wilbur & Luteyn, y V. luteynii Wilbur.
41968389|Four new species of endemic blueberries from montane Ecuador, Ceratostema oyacachiensis, Ceratostema pendens, Ceratostema pubescens, and Disterigma bracteatum, are described, illustrated, and their relationships discussed. Se describen y se discuten cuatro especies nuevas endemicas de mortios de la sierra del Ecuador, Ceratostema oyacachiensis, Ceratostema pendens, Ceratostema pubescens, y Disterigma bracteatum, con sus ilustraciones y relaciones.
41968413|Ceropegia palustris Pursh and Lyonia maritima Elliott (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) are currently recognized as synonyms of Funastrum angustifolium (Pers.) Liede & Meve. The diminutive vine, one of the most readily recognizable taxa among a number of taxonomically difficult climbing milkweeds in the southeastern United States, occurs primarily in swamps, hammocks, and salt marshes. A neotype is proposed here for C. palustris, which will automatically also serve as the type of L. maritima, as Elliot was well-aware that the two were synonymous. Additional relevant historical specimens of interest housed at BM, CHARL, and PH are also discussed. Ceropegia palustris Pursh y Lyonia maritima Elliott (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) se reconocen usualmente como sinnimos de Funastrum angustifolium (Pers.) Liede & Meve. Esta pequea trepadora, que es uno de los taxa ms fcilmente reconocibles entre un grupo taxonmicamente difcil de trepadoras del Sureste de los Estados Unidos, aparece primariamente en pantanos y lagunas saladas. Se propone aqu un neotipo para C. palustris, que servir tambin automticamente como tipo de L. maritima, porque Elliot estaba muy convencido de que los dos eran sinnimos. Se discuten tambin especimenes adicionales de relevancia histrica que se encuentran en BM, CHARL, y PH.
41968431|Cuniculotinus is described as a new monotypic genus from California and Nevada to accommodate Chrysothamnus gramineus, resulting in the new combination Cuniculotinus gramineus. Sequencebased phylogenetic investigations clearly demonstrate its remoteness from Chrysothamnus and place it nearer Sericocarpus. Four additional species regarded as Chrysothamnus are likewise shown to be phyletically distinct and are accomodated in the proposed new genus Lorandersonia. Lorandersonia also includes one species previously recognized in Hesperodoria, H. salicina, and two species previously treated as Tonestus, T. microcephalus and T. peirsonii. New combinations in Lorandersonia are L. baileyi, L. linifolia, L. microcephala, L. peirsonii, L. pulchella, L. salicina, and L. spathulata. Chrysothamnus is further modified by the inclusion of Hesperodoria scopulorum and Vanclevea stylosa, necessitating the new specific combinations C. scopulorum and C. stylosus and the varietal combination C. scopulorum var. canonis. Se describe el gnero Cuniculotinus, como un gnero nuevo monotpico de California y Nevada para ubicar a Chrysothamnus gramineus H.M. Hall. Por lo tanto se realiza una nueva combinacin, C. gramineus. Investigaciones filogenticas basadas en secuenciacin de ADN demuestran claramente su lejana con Chrysothamnus y la ubica cerca de Sericocarpus. Del mismo modo, cuatro especies adicionales consideradas como Chrysothamnus muestran ser filogenticamente distintas, por lo cual se propone el gnero nuevo Lorandersonia. Este nuevo gnero tambin incluye especies reconocidas previamente en Hesperodoria, H. salicina, y dos especies tratadas generalmente como Tonestus, T. microcephalus (Cronquist) G.L. Nesom & D.R. Morgan y T. peirsonii (D.D. Keck) G.L. Nesom & D.R. Morgan. Las combinaciones nuevas en Lorandersonia son: L. baileyi, L. linifolia, L. microcephala, L. peirsonii, L. pulchella L. salicina, L. spathulata. Adems, se modifica Chrysothamnus con la inclusin de Hesperodoria scopulorum (M.E. Jones) Greene y Vanclevea stylosa (Eastwood) Greene lo cual hace necesarias las nuevas combinaciones especficas, C. scopulorum y C. stylosa, y la combinacin de variedad C. scopulorum var. canonis.
41968451|The Serra do Teimoso, in southern Bahia, Brazil, is a mountain reaching 850 m at the transition from tropical moist forest to tropical semideciduous forest. A floristic survey of a 200 ha reserve established on the mountain was carried out and a checklist of the vascular flora produced. The survey was conducted by random collecting efforts and the sampling of all specimens 5 cm diameter within a one hectare plot. The flora of the Serra do Teimoso Reserve (STR) comprised 727 species in 400 genera and 119 families. The angiosperms comprised 667 species in 363 genera and 100 families and the pteridophytes included 60 species in 37 genera and 19 families. Floristic relationships of the STR flora were discussed with regard to some florest types of eastern Brazil, especially those found at southern Bahia. La Serra do Teimoso, en el sur de Bahia, Brasil, es una montaa alcanzando 850 m en la transicin de los bosques tropicales hmedos hacia los bosques tropicales semideciduales. Un inventario floristico de una reserva forestal con ca. 200 ha establecida en la montaa fue hecho y un checklist producido. El levantamiento fue conducido por medio de esfuerzos de coleta aleatorios y el muestro de todos los espcimens 5 cm DAP dentro de urn plot de urna hectrea. La flora de plantas vasculares da la Reserva Serra do Teimoso (STR) inclui 727 especies en 400 gneros y 119 familias. Las angiospermas incluiron 667 especies en 363 gneros y 100 familias, y las pteridofitas incluiron 60 especies en 37 gneros y 19 familias. Relacciones floristicas de la flora de STR fueran discutidos con base en algunos tipos de bosques del este de Brasil, en especial aquellos localizados en el sur de Bahia.
41968385|Sabatia arkansana, a new species from shale and igneous glades in central Arkansas, is described. It differs from S. campestris in its narrower leaves and narrower, more deeply colored corolla lobes rounded at the apex. Se describe Sabatia arkansana, especie nueva de claros de esquistos y de rocas gneas en Arkansas central. Se diferencia de S. campestris por las hojas ms angostas y por los lbulos de la corola ms angostos, coloreados ms intensamente, y redondeados en el pice.
41968434|Two combinations are proposed: Artemisia arbuscula subsp. longiloba (Osterhout) Shultz and Artemisia globularia subsp. lutea (Hultn) Shultz. Artemisia globularia subsp. lutea is lectotypified. Se proponen dos combinaciones (Artemisia arbuscula subsp. longiloba y Artemisia globularia subsp. lutea) y se lectotipifica Artemisia globularia subsp. lutea.
41968469|Sporobolus heterolepis (Poaceae) is reported as a new addition to the flora of Tennessee. This species is a very rare component of limestone cedar glades and barrens in the central portion of the state. The Tennessee Natural Heritage Program is currently tracking it as a species of special concern. Se cita Sporobolus heterolepis (Poaceae) como una nueva adicin a la flora de Tennessee. Esta especie es un componente muy raro de los claros en los bosques de cedros sobre calizas y lugares ridos en la porcin central del estado. El Tennessee Natural Heritage Program est hacindole actualmente un seguimiento como especie de especial preocupacin.
41968386|A new species, Aulonemia nitida Judz., is described from the Pakaraima Mountains of Guyana, South America. It is a large-leaved species that differs from the Mesoamerican species A. laxa and A. patriae in its smooth, shining, non-striate, non-maculate foliage leaf sheaths. An illustration of the new species and a key to the species of Aulonemia from the Guayana Highlands are provided. Se describe una especie nueva, Aulonemia nitida Judz., de las montaas de Pakaraima, Guyana, Amrica del Sur. Es una especie con lminas foliares grandes y anchas parecida a las especies Mesoamericanas A. laxa y A. patriae, pero se distingue por sus vainas foliares lisas y lustrosas, sin estriaciones o manchitas. Se incluyen una ilustracin de la nueva especie y una clave de las especies de Aulonemia de las montaas de Guayana.
41968448|Se caracteriz la morfologa cualitativa y cuantitativa de tricomas foliares en S. acerifolium Dun., S. agrarium Sendtn., S. capsicoides All. y S. mammosum L. (seccin Acanthophora Dun.). Se seleccionaron 5-10 hojas frescas en mxima expansin foliar, procedentes de 3-5 individuos, que luego fueron preservadas en FAA 70%; tambin se utiliz a razn de 4-5 hojas rehidratas en lactofenol por cada espcimen de herbario. Se hicieron montajes microscpicos, utilizando la porcin media de la lmina foliar y del pecolo; adems se hicieron montajes de lmina foliar aclarada. La diversidad morfolgica de tricomas permiti separarlos en tres tipos bsicos: simples, estrellados y glandulares, con varios subtipos. Se describen 11 subtipos en S. agrarium y 7 en la restantes especies. A cada subtipo se le determin su ubicacin en las distintas partes de la hoja. Se presenta una clave basada en rasgos tricomticos y las ilustraciones de los tricomas descritos. La diversidad de los tricomas en las especies estudiadas, prueba ser un criterio taxonmico de alto valor para distincin de miembros del gnero Solanum. The qualitative and quantitative morphology of foliar trichomes in S. acerifolium Dun., S. agrarium Sendtn., S. capsicoides All. and S. mammosum L. (section Acanthophora Dun.) where characterized. Five to ten fresh, fully expanded leaves from 3-5 individuals, were preserved in FAA 70%. Herbarium specimens were also used (4-5 leaves from each specimen). Fragments of fresh material (middle portion of leaf and petiole) and herbarium material for microscope examination. The diversity of the morphological trichomes studied separate into three basic types: simple, glandular, and estellate, with several subtypes. Eleven subtypes are described in S. agrarium and seven in the other species. A key fixed on trichomatic features and the illustrations of the described trichomes is presented. The diversity of trichome types and morphology of trichomes are useful characters in identifying species of the genus Solanum.
41968452|Rattlesnake Falls is located in the dissected Western Highland Rim Escarpment of Maury County, Tennessee. The central feature of this site is the largest known waterfall on the escarpment which falls 18 m over two ledges into a large splash pool at the head of a narrow, wooded gorge. The waterfall is surrounded by a 62.5 ha tract of rugged, mostly forested land, in which a botanical survey was conducted from February 2000 to August 2001. Six hundred twenty-seven taxa representing 348 genera and 107 families were found; 81 taxa (13%) were introduced. Families with the largest numbers of species were Asteraceae, Poaceae, and Fabaceae. County records (294) increased the number of plant taxa of Maury County to 915. Rare taxa included the federally threatened species Helianthus eggertii and tentatively, Apios priceana. Species listed at the state level as threatened were Lilium michiganense and Juglans cinrea, and as special concern were Castanea dentata, Parnassia grandifolia, Phlox pilosa ssp. ozarkana, and Symphyotrichum oolentangiense. Compared to 13 other floristic studies in various physiographic regions of Tennessee, Rattlesnake Falls had the second highest numbers of native and rare taxa per ha but also the second highest number of nonnative taxa per ha. Las Rattlesnake Falls se localizan en el Western Highland Rim Escarpment del condado de Maury, Tennessee. La caracterstica principal de este lugar es la gran cascada que cae 18 m por dos repisas en un gran estanque de salpicadura en la cabecera de una garganta boscosa estrecha. La cascada est rodeada por una extensin de tierra accidentada de 62.5 ha en su mayora forestal, en la que se realiz un estudio botnico desde febrero de 2000 hasta agosto 2001. Se encontraron seiscientos veintisiete taxa de 348 gneros y 107 familias; 81 taxa (13%) eran introducidos. Las familias con mayor nmero de especies fueron Asteraceae, Poaceae, y Fabaceae. Las citas del condado (294) incrementaron el nmero de taxa vegetales del condado de Maury a 915. Los taxa raros incluidos en las especies federalmente amenazadas son Helianthus eggertii y tentativamente, Apios priceana. Las especies listadas a nivel estatal como amenazadas son Lilium michiganense y Juglans cinrea, y con especial preocupacin Castaneadentata, Parnassiagrandifolia, Phloxpilosassp. ozarkana, y Symphyotrichum oolentangiense. Comparado con otros 13 estudios florsticos en varias regiones fisiogrficas de Tennessee, las Rattlesnake Falls tienen el segundo mayor nmero de taxa nativos y raros por hectrea, pero slo el segundo nmero ms alto de taxa no nativos por hectrea.
41968453|We evaluate the 36 endemic vascular plants of the Interior Highlands of Arkansas, Illinois, Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. Most of the endemic flora of the region are herbaceous perennials, although nearly a quarter of the endemic plant taxa are annuals. An analysis of the community affiliations of the region's endemic flora reveals that most endemic taxa are associated with glade habitats maintained by edaphic conditions and fire. Riparian habitats and fire-maintained pine-oak woodlands are other habitat associations with significant endemic flora. The Ouachita Mountains region of the Interior Highlands contains a disproportionate representation of the endemic taxa relative to its area, although there is also a smaller cohort of endemics restricted to the Ozark portion of the Interior Highlands. Hemos evaluado las 36 plantas vasculares endmicas de las Interior Highlands de Arkansas, Illinois, Kansas, Missouri, y Oklahoma. La mayor parte de la flora endmica de la regin son herbceas perennes, aunque casi la cuarta parte de las plantas endmicas son taxa anuales. Un anlisis de las preferencias de las comunidades de la flora endmica de la regin revela que la mayora de los taxa endmicos estn asociados con habitats pantanosos que se mantienen por las condiciones edficas y el fuego. Los habitats riparios y bosques de pino-roble mantenidos por el fuego son los otros habitats con elementos de flora endmica significativos. La regin de las Montaas de Ouachita del Interior Highlands contiene una representacin desproporcionada de taxa endmicos de esta rea, aunque hay tambin una pequea cohorte de endemismos restringidos a la parte de Ozark de las Interior Highlands.
41968437|The following new combination in Packera is made: Packera musiniensis (S.L. Welsh) Trock. Se hace la siguiente nueva combinacin en Packera: Packera musiniensis (S.L. Welsh) Trock.
41968441|Nestotus is described as a new ditypic genus from the western United States and the Yukon Territory, Canada, to accommodate Stenotus macleanii (Brandegee) A. Heller and Stenotus stenophyllus (A. Gray) Greene, resulting in two new combinations N. macleanii and N. stenophyllus. Sequence-based phylogenetic investigations consistently demonstrate and robustly support the relatedness of these two taxa and their distinctiveness from the type species, S. acaulis (Nutt.) Nutt., and other taxa placed in Stenotus. Toiyabea is described as a monotypic genus from Nevada to accommodate Tonestus alpinus (L. C. Anderson & S. Goodrich) G.L. Nesom & D.R. Morgan, resulting in the new combination Toiyabea alpina. This species, Petradoria, plus S. acaulis and S. armerioides Nutt. constitute a well-supported polytomy sister to Solidago and related taxa in our molecular-based phylogeny. Se describe Nestotus como un gnero ditpico nuevo del oeste de los Estados Unidos y del territorio de Yukn en Canad para ubicar a Stenotus macleanii (Brandegee) A. Heller y a Stenotus stenophyllus (A.Gray) Greene con las consecuentes combinaciones nuevas N. macleanii y N. stenophyllus. La relacin entre estas dos especies y las diferencias entre ellas, y la especie tipo, S. acaulis (Nutt.) Nutt., y otras especies de Stenotus es demostrada consistentemente con un alto apoyo en las investigaciones basadas en secuencias de ADN. Adicionalmente se describe Toiyabea como un gnero monotpico de Nevada para ubicar a Tonestus alpinus (L.C. Anderson & S. Goodrich) G.L. Nesom & D.R. Morgan con la consecuente nueva combination Toiyabea alpina. Esta especie, Petradoria, junto con S. acaulis y S. armeroides Nutt. constituyen en nuestra filogenia molecular una politoma con alto apoyo, la cual es hermana de Solidago y los txones emparentados.
41967277|In order to validate names for various checklists and florulas now in press, new combinations for some species previously placed in Oedematopus, Havetia, and Pilosperma are made.The new names Clusia engleriana Pipoly, C. hylaeae Pipoly, and C. colombiana Pipoly are provided for Oedematopus congest iflorus, O. weberbaueri, and Havetia laurifolia respectively. Clusia polyandra, Clusia sect. Pilosperma, and Clusia sect. Havetia are new combinations based on Oedematopus polyandrus, and the genera Pilosperma, and Havetia respectively. Para validar los nombres de varios catlogos y flrulas ahora en prensa, algunas especies previamente ubicadas en los gneros Oedematopus, Havetia, y Pilosperma se transfieren al gnero Clusia. Se proponen los nombres nuevos Clusia engleriana Pipoly, C. hylaeae Pipoly, colombiana Pipoly para los binmenes Oedematopus congestiflorus, O. weberbaueri y Havetia laurifolia respectivamente. Clusia polyandra, Clusia sect. Pilosperma, y Clusia sect. Havetia son nuevas combinaciones, basadas en Oedematopus polyandrus, y los gneros Pilosperma y Havetia.
41967276|Eucrosia calendulina is described as new from northern Peru. The species is related to E. aurantiaca, an Ecuadorean endemic, but differs by its smaller stature, fewer flowers, nonsynchronized anthesis, orange perigone, and elevational range. Eucrosia calendulina se describe como nueva del norte de Per. Esta especie est relacionada con E. aurantiaca, endmica de Ecuador, de la cual se diferencia por su menor estatura, por tener menos flores, su antesis no sincronizada, el perigonio anaranjado, y su rango de distribucin altitudinal.
41967265|Spacial autocorrelation analysis of 12 quantitative characters among 30 populations of Hemerocallis hakuunensis was conducted to understand better their geographic variation patterns. There are two types of relationships between the mean values of the characters measured and their spatial autocorrelations: (1) significant heterogeneity of means with significant autocorrelation (mostly floral characters); and (2) significant heterogeneity of means with no significant autocorrelation (mostly vegetative characters). Perianth size shows significant north-south clinal variation and width of inner and outer perianth show a typical monotonie decline from significant positive autocorrelation at interpopulation distance of 67 to 107 km to significant negative autocorrelation at distances of 221 to 357 km. The results might result from the combinations of gene flow, genetic drift, and/or selective forces operated in populations of H. hakuunensis. Se realiz un anlisis de correlacin espacial de 12 caracteres cuantitativos en 30 poblaciones de Hemerocallis hakuunensis para comprender mejor sus patrones de variacin geogrfica. Hay dos tipos de relaciones entre los valores medios de los caracteres medidos y sus autocorrelaciones espaciales: (1) heterogeneidad significativa de las medias con autocorrelacin significativa (la mayora en caracteres florales); y (2) heterogeneidad significativa de las medias sin autocorrelacin significativa (la mayora en caracteres vegetativos). El tamao del perianto muestra una variacin clinal norte-sur significativa y la anchura del perianto interno y externo muestra una disminucin monotnica tpica desde una autocorrelacin positiva significativa en distancias interpoblacionales de 67 a 107 km hasta una autocorrelacin negativa significativa en distancias de 221 a 357 km. Los resultados podran derivarse de las combinaciones de flujo gentico, deriva gentica y/o fuerzas selectivas que operan en las poblaciones de H. hakuunensis.
41967273|The new species Psychotria cauligera, P. fusiformis, P. hypochlorina, and P. paeonia are described and illustrated. These are all shrubs or small trees found in wet forests in Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, and Peru. Se describen e ilustran las especies nuevas Psychotria cauligera, P. fusiformis, P. hypochlorina, y P. paeonia. Todas son arbustos o arbolitos que crecen en bosques hmedos en Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador y Per.
41967280|La Laguna de Babcora es una cuenca endorreica. Se localiza en la porcin noroeste del estado de Chihuahua enclavada en la Subprovincia Fisiogrfica Sierras y Llanuras Tarahumaras en la Provincia Fisiogrfica de la Sierra Madre Occidental. El clima es semifro subhmedo. La altitud es de 2150 m.s.n.m. en los valles y 2500-2700 m.s.n.m. en los picos, con suelos aluviales y litosoles respectivemente. Las rocas predominantes son gneas. Se presentan 2 tipos de vegetacin: Bosque de Pino-Encino y Pastizal Halfito. La flora est constituida por aproximadamente 69 familias, 247 gneros y 489 especies, incluyendo a los taxa infraespecficos. Las familias ms diveras son Asteraceae, Poaceae y Fabaceae. los gneros con mayor nmero de especies son Muhienbergia, Cyperus, Euphorbia, Dalea y Desmodium. La Laguna de Babcora es una cuenca endorreica. Se localiza en la porcin noroeste del estado de Chihuahua enclavada en la Subprovincia Fisiogrfica Sierras y Llanuras Tarahumaras en la Provincia Fisiogrfica de la Sierra Madre Occidental. El clima es semifro subhmedo. La altitud es de 2150 m.s.n.m. en los valles y 25002700 m.s.n.m. en los picos, con suelos aluviales y litosoles respectivamente. Las rocas predominantes son gneas. Se presentan 2 tipos de vegetacin: Bosque de Pino-Encino y Pastizal Halfito. La flora est constituida por aproximadamente 69 familias, 247 gneros y 489 especies, adems de los taxa infraespecficos. Las familias ms diversas son Asteraceae, Poaceae y Fabaceae. los gneros con mayor nmero de especies son Muhlenbergia, Cyperus, Euphorbia, Dalea y Desmodium.
41967271|An updated description of the genus Gentlea and its taxonomic synonyms is provided, along with a key and a nomenclatural summary for its nine species. Nine binomials are newly relegated to synonymy, and three taxa are excluded. Heberdenia Banks, once thought to occur in the Neotropics, is shown to be monotypic, and known only from the Canary Islands, necessitating the new combination Gentleapenduliflora (A. DC.) Ricketson & Pipoly. To facilitate identification of members of the genus Gentlea, a key to the genera of Mesoamerican Myrsinaceae is also provided. Se aporta un resumen nomenclatural para las nueve especies del gnero Gentlea. Se incluye una descripcin actualizada del gnero con una clave para separar las especies. Se comprob que el gnero Heberdenia es monotpico, y restringido a las Islas Canarias, resultando la nueva combinacin Gentlea penduliflora (A. DC.) Ricketson & Pipoly. Para facilitar la identificacin del gnero, se ofrece una clave para separar los gneros mesoamericanos de la familia Myrsinaceae. Tambin se ofrece una clave para todos los taxa del gnero Gentlea, se enumeran sinnimos tanto nomenclaturales como taxonmicos. Se relegan nueve binomios a la sinonimia, y se excluyen tres taxa del gnero.
41967274|Cucphuong National Park, situated about 120 km south from Hanoi, northern Vietnam, is the first National Park of Vietnam. It is occupies approximately 22,220 hectares. The flora is rich containing 1,924 species in 990 genera and 229 families. It is characterised by the following: Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Rubiaceae, Asteraceae, Lauraceae, Moraceae, Anacardiaceae, Combretaceae and Juglandaceae. The dominant genera of the flora are of Shorea, Terminalia, Dracontomelum, Cinnamomum, Hiretiera, Anamocarya, Tetrameles. The life forms of the flora are diverse and shown the following: SB = 60.44 Ph + 9.77 Ch + 11.57 H + 7.82 Cr. + 10.29 Th, in which Ph = 13.37 MM + 13.32 Mi + 10.08 Na + 11.42 Lp + 1137 Ep + 0.67 Pp + 0.33 Hp. El Parque Nacional de Cucphuong, situado unos 120 km al sur de Hanoi, Vietnam del Norte, es el primer Parque Nacional de Vietnam. Ocupa aproximadamente 22,220 hectreas. La flora es rica, ya que contiene 1,924 especies pertenecientes a 990 gneros y 229 familias. Se caracteriza por las siguientes: Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Rubiaceae, Asteraceae, Lauraceae, Moraceae, Anacardiaceae, Combretaceae y Juglandaceae. Los gneros dominantes de la flora son Shorea, Terminalia, Dracontomelum, Cinnamomum, Hiretiera, Anamocarya, Tetrameles. Las formas vitales de la flora son diversas y muestran lo siguiente: SB = 60.44 Ph + 9.77 Ch + 11.57 H + 7.82 Cr. + 10.29 Th, donde Ph = 13.37 MM + 1332 Mi + 10.08 Na + 11.42 Lp + 11.37 Ep + 0.67 Pp + 033 Hp.
41967281|Original reports of chromosome numbers should reflect actual observations. To facilitate comparisons among taxa, reports of chromosome numbers in floras and other taxonomic works should be uniform. Los recuentos originales de nmeros cromosmicos debern reflejar las observaciones verdaderas. Con el fin de facilitar las comparaciones entre taxa, las citas de los nmeros cromosmicos en floras y otros trabajos taxonmicos deberan ser uniformes.
41967279|Emanuel D. Rudolph (1927-1992), polar lichenologist and historian of botany, held academic positions at Wellesley College (1955-1961) and The Ohio State University (19611992). This paper outlines the history o Choice, a book review serial, and Emanuel Rudolph's role as a reviewer beginning the year that Choice was established (1964). Important factors influencing his decision to write book reviews were: a commitment to serve colleges, an avid interest in book collecting, and sharing a similar philosophy with science historian George Sarton, who stated that those qualified should review books "because it was their professional duty to do so" (Choice 26:1093. 1989). For 28 publications Rudolph wrote 195 book reviews. Of these 79 appeared in Choice in the disciplines of botany (58), polar science (9), history of science (6), and other biological sciences (5). His book reviews demonstrate analytical and descriptive writing skills as well as a breadth of knowledge in these subject areas. Through his book reviews Rudolph provided collection development and teaching enrichment assistance for college librarians and faculty. Emanuel D. Rudolph (1927-1992), liquenlogo polar e historiador de botnica, ocup cargos acadmicos en Wellesley College (1955-1961) y la Universidad Estatal de Ohio (1961-1992). Este artculo bosqueja la historia de Choice, una serie de revisiones de libros, y el papel de Emanuel Rudolph como revisor empezando en el ao en que se estableci Choice (1964). Fueron factores importantes que influenciaron su decisin de escribir revisiones de libros: el compromiso de servir a las universidades, su gran inters en la coleccin de libros, y compartir una filosofa similar con el historiador de la ciencia George Sarton, quien manifest que las personas cualificadas deberan revisar libros "porque era su deber profesional hacerlo" (Choice 26:1093. 1989)  Rudolph escribi 195 revisiones de libros para 28 publicaciones. De ellas 79 aparecieron en Choice en las disciplinas de botnica (58), ciencia polar (9), historia de la ciencia (6), y otras ciencias biolgicas (5). Sus revisiones de libros demuestran unas habilidades analticas y descriptivas as como un amplio conocimiento en los temas de estas reas. Mediante sus revisiones de libros Rudolph promovi el desarrollo de la coleccin y el apoyo enriquecedor a la docencia para sus compaeros bibliotecarios y la facultad.
41967269|Calculations of the stomata index have resulted in wide variances in indices both single and between plants. Modification of the formula is suggested, including a met! of more accurately estimating stomata and subsidiary cells, with accuracy capable of bej checked by the use of an identity involving adaxial and abaxial leaf surfaces. Los clculos del ndice estomtico dieron variaciones amplias, tanto en un indivic como entre diferentes plantas. Se sugiere la modificacin de la frmula, para incluir mtodo de clculo ms seguro de estimacin de estomas y clulas subsidiarias, con  precisin capaz de ser comprobada por el uso de una identidad que abarque las superfic del haz y el envs de las hojas.
41967264|A taxonomic treatment of the New World genera, Erioneuron and Dasyochloa^ is presented. Materials for morphological, electrophoretic and anatomical studies were collected from naturally occurring populations, and from herbarium specimens throughout the range of the species. A morphological analysis of specimens from 60 populations of Erioneuron and Dasyochloa is given. Phenetic and basic biostatistical techniques were used to delineate and define taxa. Based on these results four species were defined. An electrophoretic survey was conducted on seedlings representing 33 natural populations. Individuals were assayed for five enzyme systems: PGI, GOT, IDH, PGM, and MDH. The results show that variation at the molecular level is concordant with the morphological characters for the separation of taxa. Based on these studies and anatomical data three species of Erioneuron are recognized and a lectotype is designated for E. pilosum. This research supports the recognition of Dasyochloa (D. pulchella) as a monotypic North American genus. Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de los gneros del Nuevo Mundo Erioneuron y Dasyochloa. Los materiales para los estudios morfolgicos, electroforticos y anatmicos fueron tomados de poblaciones naturales y de ejemplares de herbario en todo el rango de distribucin de las especies de estos dos gneros. Fue realizado un anlisis morfolgico de muestras de 60 poblaciones. Fueron usadas tcnicas fenticas y bioestadsticas bsicas para delimitar y definir los taxa. Basados en los resultados fueron definidos cuatro grupos. Fue realizado un muestreo electrofortico en plntulas que representan 33 poblaciones naturales. En los individuos fueron analizados cinco sistemas enzimticos: PGI, GOT, IDH, PGM, y MDH. Los resultados muestran que la variacin al nivel molecular es concordante con los caracteres morfolgicos para la separacin de los taxa. Basados en estos estudios se reconocen tres especies de Erioneuron, se designa el lectotipo de E. pilosum. Esta investigacin apoya el reconocimiento de Dasyochloa (D. pulchella) como un gnero monotpico para Norteamrica.
41967268|Because the taxonomy of Stanhopea (Orchidaceae) has been established exclusively on analyses of the flower, field identification is complicated by the fugacious habit. As an aid to species confirmation, a system is offered that is ecologically friendly, economical, and statistically based. Clinical use of this system suggests it may also have value in determining the degree to which natural and man-made hybrids are related to each species-parent. Debido a que la taxonoma de Stanhopea (Orchidaceae) ha sido establecida exclusivamente en base al anlisis de la flor, la identificacin en el campo es complicada debido a su fugacidad. Como ayuda para la identificacin de esta especie, se ofrece un sistema que es respetuoso ecolgicamente, econmico, y con base estadstica. El uso clnico de este sistema sugiere que posiblemente tenga valor en la determinacin del grado en el que los hbridos naturales y los obtenidos por el hombre estn relacionados con cada parental.
41967267|Two new species of RhamnaceaeSageretia gongshanensis G.S. Fan and L.L. Deng from Gaoligongshan Mountain, Yunnan, China and Rhamnus daliensis G.S. Fan & L.L. Deng from Dali City, Yunnan, China are described and illustrated. Se describen e ilustran dos especies nuevas de RhamnaceaeSageretia gongshanensis G.S. Fan and L.L. Deng de la Montaa Gaoligongshan, Yunnan, China y Rhamnus daliensis G.S. Fan & L.L. Deng de Dali, Yunnan, China.
41967278|Asa Gray (18101888) authored 11 different editions of his textbooks of botany during the second half of the nineteenth century. His books were considered by his contemporaries as models, the best ones written from the views of current botanical knowledge and for covering the entire scope of the subject as known in his day. This paper describes Gray's textbooks by using information from Gray himself as taken from (1) the books' prefaces and his correspondence with botanical friends, and from (2) commentaries from other writers in published reviews of his textbooks. Based on their titles, contents, and purposes, Gray's textbooks may be placed into three categories: those that (1) discuss the basic elements or provide the essential elements, written for beginning students in schools, published in 1836, 1857, and 1887; (2) have the word "textbook" in the title, written for students at the collegiate and secondary levels, published in six rewritten editions, 1842, 1845, 1850, 1853, 1858, and 1879; and (3) have a morphological-physiological orientation written for use in elementary schools, published in 1858 and 1872. Gray's textbooks were original contributions that organized botany into a more useful science and fulfilled the educational needs of the time. They were in demand for use in schools and the public in general, but after Gray's death, no one continued preparing revisions, and thus both their use and usefulness ceased. Asa Gray (18101888) fue el autor de 11 ediciones diferentes de libros de texto de botnica durante la segunda mitad del siglo diecinueve. Fueron considerados por sus contemporneos como modelos de libros bien escritos desde los puntos de vista del conocimiento botnico de su tiempo y de cubrir el espectro completo de materias conocidas en la poca. Este artculo describe los libros de Gray mediante informaciones procedentes del mismo Gray tomadas de (1) los prlogos de los libros y de su correspondencia con amigos botnicos, y (2) de comentarios de otros autores en revisiones publicadas de sus libros. Basndonos en sus ttulos, contenidos e intencionalidad, los libros de Gray pueden agruparse en tres categoras: (1) los que discuten elementos bsicos u ofrecen estos elementos bsicos, escritos para estudiantes principiantes en las escuelas, publicados en 1836, 1857, y 1887; (2) los que llevan la palabra "textbook" (libro de texto) en el ttulo, escritos para estudiantes de segundo nivel y universitarios, publicados en seis ediciones revisadas, 1842, 1845, 1850, 1853, 1858, y 1879; y (3) los que tienen una orientacin morfolgica-fsiolgica escritos para ser usados en escuelas elementales, publicados en 1858 y 1872. Los libros de Gray fueron contribuciones originales que estructuraron la botnica en una ciencia ms til y satisficieron las necesidades educativas de la poca. Tuvieron demanda para ser usados en escuelas y por el pblico en general, pero despus de la muerte de Gray, nadie continu haciendo las revisiones, y por ello cesaron tanto su uso como utilidad.
41967253|A study of beech-magnolia forests and adjacent habitats in southern Rankin County, Mississippi, in 1995, resulted in the documentation of twelve species of angiosperms considered rare or imperiled in Mississippi. In addition, populations of several vascular plant species previously known only from localities considerably farther south, either in the southern Longleaf Pine Belt or Coastal Pine Meadows physiographic regions, were discovered during the course of field surveys. The rare or unusual species reported herein from the extreme northern edge of the Longleaf Pine Belt in central Mississippi are Aster adnatus, Hyperkum galioides, H. setosum, Hyptis alata, lllicium floridanum, Ludwigia linearis, Melanthium virginicum, Mikania cordifolia, Panax quinquefolium, Persea palustris, Platanthera cristata, Pluchea foetida, Polygala boykinii, Rhapidophyllum hystrix, Sabatia campanulata, Schisandra glabra, Stewartia malacodendron, Triphora trianthophora, and Verbesina walteri. Iris cristata is reported as occurring at the southern periphery of its range in Rankin County. The associated plant communities of these taxa are also discussed. Un estudio de los bosques de Fagus grandifolia-Magnolia grandiflora y hbitats adyacentes en el sur del Condado de Rankin, Mississippi, en 1995, dio como resultado la documentacin de doce especies de of angiospermas consideradas raras o en peligro en Mississippi. Adems, fueron descubiertas poblaciones de varias especies de plantas vasculares previamente conocidas slo en localidades mucho ms al sur, tanto en el sur de las regiones de Longleaf Pine Belt o de Coastal Pine Meadows, durante los muestreos de campo. Las especies raras o poco frecuentes que se citan aqu del extremo norte del Longleaf Pine Belt en Mississippi central son Aster adnatus, Hypericum galioides, H. setosum, Hyptis alata, lllicium floridanum, Ludwigia linearis, Melanthium virginicum, Mikania cordifolia, Panax quinquefolium, Persea palustris, Platanthera cristata, Pluchea fotida, Polygala boykinii, Rhapidophyllum hystrix, Sabatia campanulata, Schisandra glabra, Stewartia malacodendron, Triphora trianthophora, y Verbesina walteri. Iris cristata es citado en el extremo sur de su rea en el Condado de Rankin. Se discuten tambin las comunidades vegetales asociadas de estos taxa.
41967248|A nomenclatural summary is provided for the species of the genus Myrsine occurring in Mesoamerica. An updated description of the genus and its taxonomic synonyms is provided, along with a key to the species. Seven taxa are recognized, including the new combination Myrsine coriacea (Sw.) R. Br. ex Roem. et Schult, subsp. nigrescens (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly. All taxa are enumerated, nomenclatural and taxonomic synonyms provided, and two species, Myrsine juerguensenii and M. pellucidopunctata, are lectotypified. Sixteen binomials are newly relegated to synonymy. Se ofrece un resumen de las especies mesoamericanas pertenecientes al gnero Myrsine. Se incluye una descripcin actualizada del gnero y sus sinnimos taxonmicos, junto con una clave para identificar las especies. Se reconocen siete taxa, incluyendo la nueva combinacin Myrsine coricea (Sw.) R. Br. ex Roem. et Schult, subsp. nigrescens (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly. Se enumeran los taxa, se ofrecen sinnimos tanto nomenclaturales como taxonmicos, y se lectotipifican dos especies, Myrsine juerguensenii and M. pellucidopunctata. Se relegan diecisis binmenes como nuevos sinnimos taxonmicos.
41967247|The identity o Berbers replicata var. dispar and B. griffithiana var. pallida is supported on the basis of pollen morphology. Phylogenetically B. replicata was found to be a primitive, and B. griffithiana an advanced taxa. La identidad de Berberis replicata var. dispar y B. griffithiana var. pallida se mantiene en base a la morfologa polnica. Filogenticamente B. replicata es un taxon primitivo, y B. griffithiana uno derivado.
41967242|Passiflora cerasina, sp. nov., is newly described and placed in Passiflora subgenus Passiflora. This species has been found in northeastern French Guiana on Montagne de Kaw, and in Surinam on Mt. Brownsberg. Passiflora cerasina belongs in the P. laurifolia group, more precisely among the few species that have the first row of corona filaments shorter than the second row. Passiflora cerasina, esp. nouv., est dcrite et place dans Passiflora sous-genre Passiflora. Cette espce a t trouve dans le nord-est de la Guyane franaise sur la Montagne de Kaw, et au Surinam sur le Mont Brownsberg. Passiflora cerasina appartient au groupe de P. laurifolia, o elle est proche des espces dont la courone a les filaments du rang externe plus courts que ceux du second rang.
41967254|Chromosome numbers from 18 populations, which represent 14 species (1 represented by 2 varieties) from 11 genera, 4 tribes, of Compositae, confirm reports for the plants. Los nmeros cromosmicos de 18 poblaciones, que representan 14 especies (1 con 2 variedades) de 11 gneros, 4 tribus, de Compositae, confirman lo registros para estas plantas.
41967252|The wetlands in the Baja California peninsula can be thought of as biological islands because they are surrounded by an arid environment. Also, because of the small area and regular exposure of the wetlands to catastrophic floods, endemic species are rare. The oasis of San Jos del Cabo is close to the ocean, but the water has relatively low levels of salinity. This oasis is the remnant of a small river that existed at the beginning of this century but which dried up from anthropogenic causes and increasing aridity in the region. Since this oasis is in one of the major tourist developments in Mexico, the aquifer will be affected in the future because of unregulated use to satisfy needs of tourism and of the increasing population. The objective of our study is to document the floristic composition of the wetland to serve as future reference. Our checklist contains 109 taxa of vascular plants. Of these, 78 (71%) are herbs (annuals and perennials). Only 4 (3%) of the taxa are uniformly distributed in the 30 hectares of this study (16 hectares of which are water). Los humedales de Baja California Sur pueden considerarse islas biolgicas debido a que con sus relativamente elevados niveles de humedad se encuentran rodeados de territorios ridos; sin embargo, debido a la baja superficie que presentan y la exposicin a inundaciones catastrficas, su composicin florstica es pobre en endemismos. El oasis de San Jos del Cabo se encuentra prximo al mar, pero la intrusin de agua salobre es baja. Este oasis es el ltimo vestigio de un ro existente todava a principios de este siglo, que se sec debido a causas antropgenas e incremento de la aridez en esta regin. Debido a que ste se encuentra dentro de uno zona de los grandes desarrollo turstico de Mxico, el acufero que lo abastece ser afectado en los aos prximos debido a la sobreextraccin de agua para satisfacer las demandas del turismo y de la poblacin en expansin. El objetivo del presente estudio es documentar la composicin florstica actual en este oasis de modo que sirva como referencia para el futuro. El listado anexo comprende 109 taxa de plantas vasculares, de stas el 78 (71%) son herbceas (anuales y perennes), pero slo el 4 (3%) estn uniformemente distribuidos en las 30 hectreas consideradas en este estudio (16 de ellas son de agua).
41967243|The case is presented for the recognition of two genera of spurred lobelioids, Heterotoma and Calcaratolobelia, both presumably derived from the genus Lobelia. Formerly both genera were included in the genus Heterotoma Zucc. by most authors. Ayers (1990) concluded, however, that the spurred, blue-or pink-flowered lobelioids ought instead to be included within Lobelia section Hemipogon Benth. & Hook. A key and descriptions distinguishing the two spurred genera derived from the genus Lobelia, i.e. Heterotoma Zucc, and Calearatolobelia Wilbur gen. nov., are provided together with the needed combinations with the synonymy of the twelve species and one variety that form the genus Calcaratolobelia'.C. aurita (Brandegee) Wilbur, C. cordifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Wilbur, C. flexuosa (C. Presl) Wilbur, C. flexuosa var. intermedia (Hemsley) Wilbur, C. gibbosa (S. Watson) Wilbur, C. goldmanii (Fern.) Wilbur, C. knoblochii (Ayers) Wilbur, C. macrocentron (Benth.) Wilbur, C. mcvaughii (Ayers) Wilbur, C. margarita (F. Wimmer) Wilbur, C. pringlei (B. L. Robinson) Wilbur, C. tenella (Turcz.) Wilbur, and C. villaregalis (Ayers) Wilbur. The synonymy of each taxa forming the genus Heterotoma is also provided. Se pretenden reconocer dos gneros lobeioides con flores espolonadas, Heterotoma y Calcaratolobelia, ambos probablemente derivados del gnero Lobelia. Anteriormente la mayora de los autores incluan ambos gneros en Heterotoma Zucc. Ayers (1990) concluy, sin embargo, que las lobeioides, de flores espolonadas azules o rosadas deberan incluirse en Lobelia seccin Hemipogon Benth. & Hook. Se ofrecen una clave y descripciones para distinguir los dos gneros de flores espolonadas derivados del gnero Lobelia: Heterotoma Zucc, y Calcaratolobelia Wilbur gen. nov., junto con las combinaciones necesarias con las sinonimias de las doce especies y una variedad que forman el gnero Calcaratolobelia'. C. aurita (Brandegee) Wilbur, C. cordifolia (Hook. & Arn.) Wilbur, C. flexuosa (C. Presl) Wilbur, C. flexuosa var. intermedia (Hemsley) Wilbur, C. gibbosa (S. Watson) Wilbur, C. goldmanii (Fern.) Wilbur, C. knoblochii (Ayers) Wilbur, C. macrocentron (Benth.) Wilbur, C. mcvaughii (Ayers) Wilbur, C. margarita (F. Wimmer) Wilbur, C. pringlei (B. L. Robinson) Wilbur, C. tenella (Turcz.) Wilbur, y C. villaregalis (Ayers) Wilbur. Tambin se ofrece la sinonimia de los taxa que forman el gnero Heterotoma.
41967246|A new species of Crataegus, C. nananixonii, is described from Texas and illustrated. The new taxon is a small plant endemic to sand hills near Nacogdoches. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Crataegus, C. nananixonii, procedente de Texas. El nuevo taxon es una pequea planta endmica de las colinas arenosas cerca de Nacogdoches.
41967250|A nomenclatural summary is provided for the species of the genus Stylogyne occurring in Mesoamerica. An updated description of the genus, along with a key to the species is provided. A key to distinguish Ardisia, and Geissanthus from Stylogyne is also provided. Five taxa are recognized, including the new combination Stylogyne turbacensis subsp. laevis (Oersted) Ricketson & Pipoly. All taxa are enumerated, nomenclatural and taxonomic synonyms provided, and six binomials are newly relegated to synonymy. Se ofrece un resumen de las especies mesoamericanas pertenecientes al gnero Stylogyne. Se incluye una descripcin actualizada del gnero, acompaada de una clave para identificar las especies. Se ofrece tambin una clave para distinguir Ardisia y Geissanthus de Stylogyne. Se reconocen cinco taxa, incluyendo la nueva combinacin Stylogyne turbacensis subsp. laevis (Oersted) Ricketson & Pipoly. Se enumeran los taxa, se ofrecen sinnimos tanto nomenclaturales como taxonmicos, y se relegan seis binmenes como nuevos sinnimos taxonmicos.
41967240|The grass genus Zizania (Poaceae: Oryzeae) is defined to include four species, three of temperate North America and one of eastern Asia. Keys, descriptions, distributions, and synonymies are provided for the North American entities: Z. aquatica, Z. palustris and Z. texana. We discuss recent literature and the possible origin of Z. palustris var. interior. El gnero de gramneas Zizania (Poaceae: Oryzeae) se define como un gnero con cuatro especies: tres de la parte templada de Norteamrica y una de Asia oriental. Se incluyen claves, descripciones, distribuciones y sinonomias para las entidades norteamericanas: Z. aquatica, Z. palustris y Z. texana. Examinamos la bibliografa reciente y el origen posible de Z. palustris var. interior.
41967244|Bumelia anomala is transferred to the genus Sideroxylon, where the species must be given a new name because the former specific epithet is preoccupied in the latter genus. Additional (new) morphological data are added to the species description, and the species salient features and rarity are evaluated. Bumelia anomala se transfiere al gnero Sideroxylon, donde la especie debe recibir un nombre nuevo porque el epteto especfico est ocupado en este gnero. Se aaden nuevos datos morfolgicos a la descripcin de la especie, y se evalan las caractersticas ms sobresalientes y raras.
41967085|The compelling case for recognizing three genera of North American Myricaceae (Comptonia, Morella, and Myrica) is presented. Keys and descriptions are provided for the recognized supraspecific taxa. The nomenclatural basis of each of these genera, subgenera, and series is outlined and discussed if at all controversial. Morella Lour., the largest genus, is here treated as comprising two subgenera of which subg. Cerothamnus (Tidestr.) Wilbur is found in the Americas and Africa and subg. Morella is restricted to eastern and southeastern Asia. There are at least four species o Morella in the United States and Canada and perhaps as many as six: M. cerfera (L.) Small, M. caroliniensis (Mill.) Small, M. inodora (W Bartram) Small, and M. californica (Cham. & Schltdl.) Wilbur. Those about which there is some question do not have binomials in the genus Morella but are known as Myrica pensylvanica Mirbel (= Cerothamnuspensylvanicus (Mirbel) Moldenke) and Myricapusilla Raf. (= Cerothamnus pusilla (Raf.) Small). Myrica L. is represented by the circumboreal M. gale L. and the Californian M. hartweqii S. Watson. Comptonia L'Hr. ex Aitn with its only species, peregrina (L.) J.M. Coulter, is restricted largely to the northeastern United States and adjacent Canada. New combinations and/or rankings are provided for the following taxa: Morella subg. Cerothamnus (Tidestr.) Wilbur and series Fay a (Webb & Berthel.) Wilbur, Morella californica (Cham. & Schltdl.) Wilbur, and for the Azorean M. faya (Aiton) Wilbur. Se presenta un estudio convincente para reconocer tres gneros de Myricaceae de Norte Amrica (Comptonia, Morella, y Myrica). Se ofrecen claves y descripciones de los taxa supraspecficos reconocidos. Se bosqueja y discute la base nomenclatural de todos los gneros, subgneros y series, aunque sea controvertida. Morella Lour., el gnero ms amplio, se trata aqu dividido en dos subgneros de los cuales Cerothamnus (Tidestr.) Wilbur se encuentra tanto en Amrica del Norte como del Sur y en Africa, y Morella que est restringido al este y sureste de Asia. Hay al menos cuatro especies de Morella en los Estados Unidos y Canad, que quizs puedan llegar a seis: M. cerfera (L.) Small, M. caroliniensis (Mill.) Small, M. inodora (W. Bartam) Small, y M. californica (Cham. & Schltdl.) Wilbur. Las especies sobre las que hay dudas, no tienen ningn binomen en el gnero Morella, pero se conocen como Myrica pensylvanica Mirbel (= Cerothamnus pensylvanicus (Mirbel) Moldenke) y Myrica pusilla Raf. (= Cerothamnus pusilla (Raf.) Small). Myrica L. est representado por M. gale L., circumboreal, y M. hartwegii S. Watson, de California. Comptonia L'Hr. ex Aiton con su nica especie C. peregrina (L.) J. M. Coulter est restringida al noreste de los Estados Unidos y zonas adyacentes de Canad. Se dan nuevas combinaciones y/o rangos para los siguientes taxa: Morella subgen. Certhamnus (Tidestr.) Wilbur y serie Faya (Webb & Berthel.) Wilbur, Morella californica (Cham. & Schltdl.) Wilbur y para M. faya (Aiton) Wilbur, de las Isla Azores.
41967084|We report a statistical analysis of leaf form for a sample of 481 collected from five yaupon trees at Ponchatoula, Louisiana. Considerable variation exists within these "sun" leaves. Across the 5 trees, surface area varies 24-fold (22.1-533 mm), leaf specific mass 22-fold (7.67-167.83 gm), leaf length 5-fold (6-31 mm), leaf width 4.5-fold (4-18 mm), and crenations 4.7-fold (733 per leaf). Leaf complexity (LC) varies from 1 to 6 Fourier frequencies, and the leaf dissection index (DI) varies from a nearly circular 1.036 to a high of 1.349. Trees in this population are statistically significantly different from each other in average leaf size, leaf mass, leaf specific mass, and in number of crenations per leaf. In logistic regression, the probability that a leaf will develop more crenations, increases with leaf size. As leaf size changes, shape remains relatively constant within this population; amount of leaf dissection does not correlate with other morphological variables. Leaf surface area is strongly related to nodal position on the shoot, middle nodes generally produce the largest leaves. Se realiza un anlisis estadstico de la forma de la hoja sobre una muestra de 481 hojas colectadas en cinco rboles en Ponchatoula, Louisiana. Existe una variacin considerable entre esta hojas de "sol." En cinco rboles, el rea de la superficie vara en 24 veces (de 22.1-533 mm), la masa especfica de la hoja en 22 veces (de 7.67-167.83 gm), la longitud foliar en cinco veces (de 6-31 mm), la anchura de la hoja en 4.5 veces (de 4-18 mm), y las crenaciones en 4.7 veces (de 7-33 por hoja). La complejidad de la hoja (LC) vara de 1 a 6 frecuencias de Fourier, y el ndice de diseccin foliar (DI) vara desde casi circular 1.036 hasta 1.349. Los rboles de esta poblacin muestran diferencias significativas estadsticamente en el tamao foliar medio, masa foliar, la masa foliar especfica, y en el nmero de crenaciones por hoja. En regresin logstica, la probabilidad de que una hoja desarrolle ms crenaciones aumenta con el tama de la hoja. Cuando vara el tamao de la hoja, su forma permanece relativamente constante en esta poblacin; la diseccin de la hoja no se correlaciona con otras variable morfolgicas. El rea de la superficie foliar est fuertemente relacionada con la posicin nodal en la rama, los nudos medios producen generalmente las hojas ms grandes.
41967087|La Sierra de la Paila, ubicada en el sureste del estado mexicano de Coahuila, es parte de la continuacin interrumpida de la Sierra Madre Oriental hacia en norte del estado. El clima es seco. Se eleva desde los 1200 m hasta los 2350 m. Las rocas que la forman son fundamentalmente calizas y los suelos litosoles. No presenta escurrimentos permanentes de agua. La vegetacin es clasificada en cuatro tipos: El Matorral Desrtico Chihuahuense, Matorral Submontano, Bosque de Encino-pino y Zacatal. La flora esta compuesta por aproximadamente 87 familias con 387 gneros, 703 especies, con 712 taxa incluyendo a los taxa infraespecficos. Las familias ms diversas son Asteraceae, Poaceae y Fabaceae, los gneros Muhlenbergia, Dalea, Notholaena y Polygala presentan el mayor nmero de especies. Es la localidad tipo de 21 especies y 9 de ellas son endmicas. The Sierra de la Paila located in the southern portion of the mexican state of Coahuila, is an element of the discontinuous part of the Sierra Madre Oriental. The sierra ranges from the 1200 m to 2350 m in elevation, and the climate is dry. Limestones are the principal substrate and lithosoles the principal soils. There are no permanent water flows on the sierra. The vegetation is divided in four types: Chihuahuan Desert Scrub, Submontane Scrub, Oakpine Woodland and Grassland. The flora comprises approximately 87 families with 387 genera, 703 species, 712 taxa with the inclusion of the infraspecific taxa. The most diverse families are Asteraceae, Poaceae and Fabaceae. The genera Muhlenbergia, Dalea, Notholaena and Polygala are the higher in number of species. It is the type locality of 21 species and about 9 of them are endemic.
41967072|Aconitum columbianum Nutt. is a large and morphologically variable complex of populations extending from southern Canada to northern Mexico, and from California to New York. Bulbiferous populations have a restricted distribution, occurring in the Cascade Range from northern to southern Oregon, in the Klamath Mountains of northern California, and with a small, disjunct group in the California Sierra Nevada south of Lake Tahoe. These bulbiferous aconites are probably the most distinctive group within the A. columbianum complex, and they are treated herein as a subspecies. Aconitum columbianum Nutt. es un complejo grande y variable morfolgicamente de poblaciones que se extienden desde el sur de Canad hasta el norte de Mxico, y desde California hasta Nueva York. Las poblaciones bulbferas tienen una distribucin restringida, encontrndose en la Cordillera de la Cascada desde el norte al sur de Oregon, en las Montaas Klamath del norte de California, y un pequeo grupo disyunto en al sur del Lago Tahoe en la Sierra Nevada de California. Estos acnitos bulbferos son probablemente el grupo ms distintivo dentro del complejo A. columbinum, y aqu son tratados como una subespecie.
41967071|Dugaldia Cass. and Plummera A. Gray are herein recognized as subgenera of Hymenoxys Cass. Morphologic, cytologie, and chemical data are all consistent with this treatment. The appropriate new combinations and a new name are presented. Se reconocen Dugaldia Cass. y Plummera A. Gray como subgeneros de Hymenoxys Cass. Los datos morfolicos, citolgicos y qumicos son consistentes con este tratamiento. Se presentan combinacions nuevas y un nombre nuevo.
41967083|The Sida rhombifolia complex in India is revised. Sida rhomboidea and S. scabrida are reinstated as distinct species; S. retusa, also reinstated as a distinct species, is treated under the older name S. alnifolia. An artificial key for identification, amended synonymy, descriptions, and illustrations are provided. Se revisa el complejo Sida rombifolia en la India. S. rhomboidea y S. scabrida son restablecidas como especies diferentes; S. retusa, tambin restablecida como especie diferente, se trata bajo el nombre ms antiguo de S. alnifolia. Se ofrecen una clave artifical para la identificacin, sinonimias corregidas, descripciones e ilustraciones.
41967076|Principal components analysis shows that the type of Hemerocallis micrantha Nakai is included in the continuous range of morphological variation of populations of H. hakuunensis Nakai (southern, central, and northwestern Korea). Hemerocallis hakuunensis has priority and is the correct name for this taxon. Also, the result shows that H. middendorffii (central and northeastern Korea) is distinct from H. hakuunensis by having a capitate-type inflorescence, large inflorescence bracts, short perianth tube and a different flowering period. Synonymy, descriptions, and distribution pattern of H. hakuunensis are included. El anlisis de componentes principales muestra que el tipo de Hemerocallis micrantha Nakai est incluido en el rango continuo de variacin morfolgica de las poblaciones de H. hakuunenis Nakai (sur, central y noroeste de Korea). Hemerocallis hakuunensis tiene prioridad y es el nombre correcto para este taxon. Los resultados muestran tambin que H. middendorffii (centro y noreste de Korea) se diferencia de H. hakuunensis por tener inflorescencias de tipo capitado, brcteas de la inflorescencia grandes, tubo del perianto corto y un periodo de floracin diferente. Se incluyen sinonimias, descripciones y patrones de distribucin de H. hakuuensis.
41967092|Field and herbaria explorations have yielded the following as new to Mississippi, U.S.A.: Carex bicknellii var. opaca, fissa war. fissa, Cyperus drummondii, C. elegans, entrerianus, C. eragrostis, C. louisianensis, and Kyllinga brevifolioides. Two of these, C. entrerianus and K. brevifolioides, have the potential to become threats as pernicious agricultural and lawn weeds, respectively, in the southeastern United States. Additional range extensions are presented for C. aggregates, difformis, C. flavicomus, C. lancastrensis, C. ovatus, and C. pilosus in Mississippi. Locality and habitat data are presented for all species reported. Exploraciones de campo y de herbario han dado los siguientes taxa como nuevos para Mississippi, U.S.A.: Carex bicknellii var. opaca, C. fissa var. fissa, Cyperus drummondii, elegans, C. entrerianus, C. eragrostis, C. louisianensis y Kyllinga brevifolioides. Dos de stos, entrerianus y K. brevifoioides, tienen potencial para llegar a ser una amenaza como malas hierbas para la agricultura y los cspedes, respectivamente, en el sudeste de los Estados unidos. Se presentan ampliaciones de rea para aggregates, difformis, flavicomus, lancastrensis, ovatus, y C. pilosus en Mississippi. Se presentan datos de localidad y hbitar de todas las especies citadas.
41967074|The identity of two taxa of Berberis, replicata var. dispar and B. griffithiana var. pallida is discussed. Se discute la identidad de dos taxa del gnero Berbers, B. replicata var. dispar y B. griffithiana var. pallida.
41967078|A new species of Poaceae, Saccharum stewartii Rajeshwari, R.R. Rao & Garg from Jammu & Kashmir, northwest Himalaya, India, is described and illustrated. Palynology of the new species is analyzed and compared with its closely allied S. griffithii Munro ex Boiss. Se describe e inconografa una especie nueva de Poaceae, Saccharum stewartii Rajeshwari, R. R. Rao & Garg, de Jammu y Cachemira, noroeste del Himalaya, India. Se analiza y compara la palinologia de esta especie con la de su pariente cercana S. griffithii Munro ex Boiss.
41967079|A disjunct population of Croton alabamensis E. A. Smith ex Chapman, a Category 2 Candidate species being considered for addition to the List of Endangered and Threatened Plants, was discovered over 1000 km from any previously known population. This paper describes the extent and status of this disjunct population. The Croton population is situated along canyon bottoms and appears healthy and self-sustaining. Croton occurrence exhibits no association with overstory gaps, disturbance, or particular fluvial geomorphic features. The species appears to be restricted to canyon bottoms characterized only by mesic conditions provided by the presence of overstory cover and deep soils. Differences between the ecology of this newly discovered population and those of the heretofore considered endemic Alabama populations are discussed. Una poblacin aloptrica de Crotn alabamensis E. A. Smith ex Chapman, Categora 2 de Especie Candidata, que est siendo considerada para ser agregada a la Lista de Plantas en Peligro de Extincin, fue descubierta a una distancia de 1000 km de la poblacin previamente conocida. En este trabajo se describe la extensin y estado de la poblacin aloptrica. La poblacin de Crotn esta situada a lo largo del fondo de un can aparentando poder sobrevivir y crecer en buenas condiciones. La ocurrencia de Crotn no parece tener asociacin con espacios desnudos, perturbaciones o caractersticas fluviales geomrficas particulares. La especie parece estar restringida al fondo del caon caracterizado solamente por condiciones mesomrficas debidas a la presencia de cobertura y suelos profundos. Las diferencias entre las caractersticas de esta poblacin recientemente descubierta y las de poblacin heteroftica en Alabama, antes considerada endmica, son discutidas.
41967081|Recent collections from Ecuador have uncovered the presence of a species, Eriochloa weberbaueri Mez, for which little comparative taxonomic information is available. Previously reported only from Peru, this species is characterized by features unique within the genus. A complete morphological description is presented and based on studies of all available specimens. Relationships with other species are discussed and based on the presence of shared taxonomically important characters. Diagnostic features of E. weberbaueri include a muticous and smooth upper floret, perennial habit, paired spikelets, spikelets 3.1-3.9 mm long, and the absence of a first glume. Recolecciones recientes en Ecuador han descubierto la presencia de una especie, Eriochloa weberbaueri Mez, de la que hay disponible muy poca informacin taxonmica comparativa. Citada previamente slo de Per, esta expecie presenta unas caractersticas nicas dentro del gnero. Se presenta una descripcin morfolgica completa en base a estudios de todos los especmenes disponibles. Se discuten las relaciones con otras especies en base a la presencia de caracteres compartidos taxonmicamente importantes. Los caracteres diagnsticos de E. weberbaueri incluyen una flor superior mtica y lisa, hbito perenne, espiguillas pareadas, espiguillas 3.13-9 mm de largas y la ausencia de la primera gluma.
41967090|Carex lutea (section Ceratocystis) is described from the outer coastal plain of southern North Carolina. It is the only species of this section to occur south of New Jersey along the Atlantic Coast, and appears to be a localized endemic of wet savannas underlain by limestone deposits. From all other species of this section, C. lutea is distinguished by its pale scales, tall ((40) 65-110(125) cm), slender culms, and elongate inflorescences (4.5)5.4-25(41) cm long with usually only one or two widely separated pistillate spikes below the  long peduncled ((0.3)1-6(10.2) mm) staminate spike. Carex lutea se distinque de todas las dems especies de esta seccin por sus escamas plidas, altura ((40-) 65-110 (-125) cm), tallos delgados, inflorescencias alargadas de (4.5-) 5.4-25(-41) cm que usualmente llevan debajo de las espigas estaminadas  largamente pedunculadas ((0.3-)1-6(-10.2) mm) una o dos espigas pistiladas ampliamente separadas.
41967095|A somatic chromosome count of the recently described Jaimehintonia gypsophila B.L. Turner (Amaryllidaceae) is presented, along with a photograph showing its karyotype. It has a diploid count of 2n=20 and is comprised of three pairs of large submetacentric chromosomes, three pairs of medium metacentric chromosomes and four pairs of small chromosomes, three of these metacentric and one acrocentric. Se presenta un recuento cromosmico somtico de la recientemente descrita Jaimehintonia gypsophila B.L. Turner (Amaryllidaceae) junto con una fotografa que muestra su cariotipo. Presenta un recuento diploide de 2n=20 formado por tres pares de cromosomas grandes submetacntricos, tres pares de cromosomas de tamao medio metacntricos y cuatro pares de cromosomas pequeos, tres de los cuales son metacntricos y uno acrocntrico.
41967094|Five species of Anemone with tuberous rootstocks occur in Texas: Anemone caroliniana Walter, A. berlandieri Pritzel, A. tuberosa Rydberg, A. edwardsiana Tharp, and a new species, A. okennonii Keener & Dutton, endemic mainly to the Edwards Plateau in west-central Texas. Existen en Texas cinco especies de Anemone con rizomas tuberosos: Anemone berlandieri Pritzel, A. caroliniana Walter, A. edwardsiana Tharp, A. tuberosa Rydberg, y una nueva especie A. okennonii Keener & Dutton endmica principalmente de la Meseta Edwards en el centro-oeste de Texas
41967091|Sporobolus potosiensis is a new rhizomatous species from San Luis Potos, Mxico that differs from its closest putative relative, S. airoides, by 1.) having conspicuous and slender rhizomes, 2.) lacking trichomes behind the ligule, and 3.) generally smaller in stature. A new combination is proposed at the subspecific rank: S. airoides subsp. rgis. A key to the rhizomatous species of Mexican Sporobolus, as well as S. nealleyi and S. airoides, is provided. Sporolobus potosiensis es una nueva especie rizomatosa de San Luis Potos, Mxico, que difiere de su pariente putativo ms prximo S. airoides por 1.) tener rizomas conspicuos y ms delgados, 2.) ausencia de tricomas detrs de la lgula, y 3.) tamao ms pequeo generalmente. Se propone una nueva combinacin de rango subespecfico: S. airoides subsp. regs. Se ofrece una clave para las especies rizomatosas mexicanas de Sorolobus, as como para S. nealleyi y S. airoides.
41967093|This paper describes two new conifers found in boreal China, namely, Larix gmelini (Rupr.) Rupr. genhensis S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair and Pinus sylvestris L. var. manguiensis S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair. Also, it presents two new combinations, Polemonium hingganicum (P.H. Huang & S.Y. Li) S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair and Penthorum sedoides L. subsp. chinense (Pursh) S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair. En este artculo se describen dos conferas nuevas que se encuentran en el norte de China, Larix gmelini (Rupr.) Rupr. subsp./var.genhensis S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair y Pinus sylvestris L. var. manguiensis S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair. Tambin se presentan dos combinaciones nuevas Polemonium hingganicum (P.H. Huang & S.Y. Li) S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair y Penthorum sedoides L. subsp. chnense (Pursh) S.Y. Li & K.T. Adair.
41967088|The University of Georgia Herbarium contains 162 vascular plant specimens that have been designated as types, and for which some form of documentation has been found. These types are catalogued here with label data (locality, date, collector), the kind of type, and a citation of the original publication. El Herbario de la Universidad de Georgia contiene 162 especmenes de plantas vasculares que han sido designados como tipos y de los cuales se ha encontrado alguna documentacin. Estos tipos estn catalogados aqu con datos de etiqueta (localidad, fecha, colector), especificacin concreta del tipo, y una cita de la publicacin original.
41967123|Field explorations have yielded Carex godfreyi new to Alabama and C. communis and C. scoparia new to Mississippi, U.S.A. Additional range extensions are presented for C. bicknellii var. opaca and C. oklahomensis in Mississippi. Locality and habitat data are presented for all species reported. Las exploraciones de campo han dado como resultado Carex godfreyi nuevo para Alabama, y C. communis y C. scoparia nuevos para Mississippi, U.S.A. Se presentan extensiones de areal para C. bicknellii var. opaca y C. oklahomenis en Mississippi. Se indican la localidad y el hbitat de todas las especies citadas.
41967116|New taxa of paleotropical Myrsinaceae are described from the Philippines and New Guinea in the genera Ardisia, Fittingia, and Tapeinosperma. Ardisia anceps var. borneensis is shown to be a species of Theaceae, probably Adinandra, which is not a myrsinaceous plant. The subgeneric position of Ardisia mystica is established. Ardisia brassii Stone (non Sleumer) is renamed A. brassiella. Se describen nuevos taxa de Myrsinaceae paleotropicales, que pertenecen a los gneros Ardisia, Fitingia, y Tapeinosperma, procedentes de las Filipinas y Nueva Guinea. Se descubre que Ardisia anceps var. borneensis es en realidad, una especie de la familia Theaceae, posiblemente un miembro del gnero Ardinandra. Se ubica Ardisia mystica en el subgnero Pimelandra. Ardisia brassi Stone (non Sleumer) se renombra como A. brassiella.
41967114|Millerocaulis Erasmus ex Tidwell was established as a new genus for Miller's "Osmundacaulis herbstii group." Australosmunda Hill, Forsyth & Green was proposed subsequently for osmundaceous stems anatomically similar to Millerocaulis, but without leaf gaps. However, a few species of Millerocaulis, including its type, M. dunlopii, lack or have occasional leaf gaps. Therefore, Australosmunda is placed in the synonymy of Millerocaulis. Millerocaulis is emended to include those osmundaceous species without or having only an occasional leaf gap. Under the new arrangement, Millerocaulis includes four species M. dunlopii, M. indica, M. indentata, and M. chubutensis. A new genus, Ashicaulis, is proposed for species formerly in Millerocaulis having numerous leaf gaps. It contains 22 species, all of which are recognized nomenclaturally by new combinations. Millerocaulis Erasmus ex Tidwell se estableci como un nuevo gnero para el grupo de Miller "Osmundacaulis herbstii". Se propuso por ello Australosmunda Hill, Forsyth & Green para los tallos osmunceos anatmicamente similares a Millerocaulis, pero sin lagunas foliares. Sin embargo, unas pocas especies de Millerocaulis, incluyendo su tipo, M. dunlopii, carecen de o tienen ocasionalmente lagunas foliares. Por ello, Australosmunda se pasa a la sinonimia de Millerocaulis. Se enmienda Millerocaulis para incluir aquellas especies osmundceas que no tienen laguna foliar o que la tienen slo ocasionalmente. En la clasificacion nueva, Millerocaulis incluye cuatro especies M. dunlopii, M. indica, M. indentata, y M. chubutensis. Se propone un gnero nuevo, Ashicaulis, para las especies con numerosas lagunas foliares que se incluan anteriormente en Millerocaulis. Contiene 22 especies que se reconocen nomenclaturalmente con nuevas combinaciones.
41967110|Miconia skeaniana, which occurs in moist montane forests, cloud forests, and thickets from ca 7501974 m in the Sierra Maestra, is described and illustrated. It is compared with the closely related M. alternifolia, of the mountains of northern "Oriente," a species with which it has been consistently confused. Se describe e ilustra Miconia skeniana que vive en los bosques montanos humedos, bosques de nubes y matorrales entre los 750 y 1974 m en Sierra Maestra. Se compara con la cercanamente emparentada M. alternifolia de las montaas del norte de "Oriente," una especie con la que ha sido confundida frecuentemente.
41967122|Carex perdentata, is described from Palo Pinto County, Texas. A key to the species of section Phaestoglochin occurring in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Texas is included. Carex, section Phaestoglochin is here with lecto-typified with C. muricata. The South American section Bracteosae, often considered synonymous with section Phaestoglochin, is considered distinct. Se describe Carexperdentata, seccin Phaestoglochin del condado de Palo Alto, Texas. Se incluye una clave para las especies de la seccin Phaestoglochin que viven en Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma y Texas. Se lectotipifica la seccin Phaestoglochin del gnero Carex con C. muricata. La seccin sudamericana Bracteosae, considerada a menudo como sinnima de la seccin Phaestoglochin se considera distinta.
41967117|Recent studies of Mexican and Central American Symphoricarpos have revealed the existence of a new species, described and illustrated below, from the Cuchumatanes Highlands of Guatemala. In addition, keys and distribution maps for the species of Symphoricarpos from Mexico and Guatemala are provided. Recientes estudios de los Symphoricarpos mexicanos y centroamericanos han revelado la existencia de una nueva especie, que se describe e ilustra a continuacin, procedente de los Cuchumatanes de Guatemala. Adems, se ofrecen claves y mapas de distribucin de las especies de Symphoricarpos de Mxico y Guatemala.
41967125|The first collections of Hygrophila polysperma, a species with the potential to become a noxious aquatic weed, are reported from the Comal and San Marcos rivers of central Texas, and a description and illustrations of the species are provided. Se citan las primeras recolecciones de Hygrophila polysperma, una especie que tiene el potencial de convertirse en una mala hierba acutica, de los ros Comal y San Marcos de Tejas central, y se ofrecen una descripcin e ilustraciones de la especie.
41967113|Populations of Phacelia patuliflora, a species of the southeastern United States and closely adjacent Mexico, were investigated in Texas. The species was formerly treated as having two varieties, P. patulifora var. patuliflora and P. patuliflora var. teucriifolia. The present investigation suggests that an additional regional variety from south Texas be recognized for which the name P. patuliflora var. austrotexana J.A. Mover, var. nov. is proposed. A key to the varieties of this complex along with a map showing their distribution is included. Se investigaron en Texas poblaciones Phacelia patuliflora, una especie del sureste de los Estados Unidos y partes adyacentes de Mexico. Se reconocian anteriormente dos variedades, P. patulifora var. patuliflora y P. patuliflora var. teucriifolia. La presente investigacin sugiere que puede ser reconocida una variedad regional adicional del sur de Texas, para la que se propone el nombre P. patuliflora var. austrotexana J.A. Moyer, var. nov. Se incluye una clave para las variedades de este complejo junto con un mapa que muestra su distribucin.
41967120|Species of the East Asian genus Lycoris are easily hybridized; diverse morphological features occur frequently among them in nature and in cultivation. This has caused much difficulty in identifications. Based on taxonomic and karyological investigations and crossing tests, 20 species are recognized of which four are regarded as hybrids: Lycoris haywardii, L. albiflora, L. houdyshelii, and L. rosea. Lycoris aurea var. angustitepala is proposed as new. Keys, descriptions, synonymies, typifications, and karyotypes are included. Las especies del este asitico del gnero Lycoris se hibridan fcilmente y diversas caractersticas morfolgicas se dan frecuentemente tanto en la naturaleza como en cultivo. Esto ha causado mucha dificultad en las identificaciones taxonmicas. En base a investigaciones taxnomicas y cariolgicas, as como pruebas de cruzamiento, se han reconocido veinte especies de las que cuatro son consideradas como hbridos. Lycoris haywardii, L. albiflora, L. houyshelii y L. rosea. Por otro lado, L. aurea var. angustitepala se propone aqui como nueva. Se incluyen claves, descripciones, sinonimias, tipificaciones y cariotipos.
41967112|Cytology of the Saccharum L. (including Erianthus Michx.) species native to North America has not been well characterized. Our objectives were to determine chromosome numbers of 60 clones representative of the eight native species and varieties and attempt crosses with elite sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrids). Counts are reported for the first time for S. brevibarbe var. brevibarbe (2n = 60), S. coarctatum (2n = 60), and S. giganteum (2n = 30, 60, and 90). The latter represents the first report of a polyploid series within S. giganteum and the first count of 2n = 90 for the Erianthus group. Counts also were made for S. alopecuroideum (2n = 30), S. baldwinii (2n = 30), and S. brevibarbe var. contortum (2n = 60). Five putative crosses were made between sugarcane hybrids and native Saccharum, yielding 4 to 448 seeds per cross. La citologa de las especies de Saccharum L. (incluyendo Erianthus Michx.) nativas de Norte Amrica no ha sido bien caracterizada. Nuestros objetivos fueron determinar el nmero cromosmico de 60 clones representativos de ocho especies y variedades nativas e intentar cruces con caa de azcar de lite (hbridos de Saccharum spp.). Se ofrecen por primera vez recuentos de S. brevibarbe var. brevibarbe (2n = 60), y S. coarctatum (2n = 60), y S. giganteum (2n = 30,60, y 90). Este ltimo representa la primera cita de una serie poliploide en S. giganteum y el primer recuento de 2n = 90 para el grupo Erianthus. Se hicieron tambin recuentos de S. alopecuroideum (2n = 30), S. baldwinii (2n = 30), y S. brevibarbe var. contortum (2n = 60). Se hicieron cinco cruces putativos entre hbridos de caa de azcar y Saccharum silvestres, produciendo de 4a448 semillas por cruce.
41967118|A species pool refers to the total species in a defined region at a given time. The species pool in eastern Asia is the product of a long history with low speciation rates, while the species pool in northwestern North America is largely due to recent rapid speciation. Data fail to support the theoretical dominancy of ecological determinism in the development of regional species diversity. A species pool is the product of evolution, immigration, and extinction and thus postulates extant species richness to be an historical artifact rather than an ecologically determinate reality. La gran riqueza de especies en el este de Asia es el efecto de una historia larga con unas tasas de extincin y especiacion bajas, mientras que la gran riqueza en el noroeste de Norte America es debida a especiacin reciente rpida. Los datos no explican la dominancia terica del determinismo ecologico en favor de la historia geofsica regional especfica como base para explicar la diversidad regional de especies. Se propone un "pool" de especies como resultado de la evolucin, inmigracin y extincin, y por ello se postula que la riqueza en especies vivientes es un artefacto histrico en vez de una realidad ecolgicamente determinada.
41967121|Studies of Myrsinaceae in Colombian Amazonia have revealed two new species in the genus Cybianthus subgenus Cybianthus: C. barbosae Pipoly and C. ruforamulus Pipoly. They are described and illustrated herein, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Al estudiar las Myrsinaceae de la amazona colombiana, se descubrieron dos especies nuevas, pertenecientes al genero Cybianthus subgnero Cybianthus. Se describen Cybianthus barbosae Pipoly y C. ruforamulus Pipoly, as mismo se ilustran y se discute su parentesco.
41967124|Ardisia capuronii Pipoly is described and illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Placement of Ardisia capuronii in subgenus Akosmos Mez is justified. A key to the species of Ardisia Sw. in Madagascar is presented. Ardisia capuronii es una nueva especie de Madagascar. La especie se describe, se ilustra y se discute su parentesco. Se justifica la ubicacin de la especie dentro del subgnero Akosomos. Se presenta una clave para identificar las especies del gnero Ardisia procedentes del Madagascar.
41966340|A new diploid species from Texas is described, Galium correllii (Rubiaceae), with figures showing some morphological details.
41966568|The plant known as Habranthus texanus (Herb.) Steud. is considered synonymous with H. tubispathus (L'Her.) Traub. Its distribution includes warm temperate South America and southeast Texas and northwest Louisiana. It is proposed that this species is native to South America and was introduced into the United States in the late seventeenth or early eighteenth centuries possibly by Spanish missionaries.
41967933|Eleven taxa associated with the Dichotoma group of Dichanthelium are recognized, including eight species and three varieties. A summary of recent taxonomic treatment of the group is provided, along with a key to the species and varieties, plus synonymy, typification, discussion, distribution, and ecology. Six new combinations are made: Dichanthelium annulum (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum (L.) Gould var. nitidum (Lam.) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum var. ramulosum (Torr.) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum var. roanokense (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, D. lucidum (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, and D. sphagnicola (Nash) R.J. LeBlond. Se reconocen once taxa asociados con el grupo Dichotoma de Dichanthelium, que incluyen ocho especies y tres variedades. Se of rece un resumen del reciente tratamiento taxonmico del grupo, junto con una clave para las especies y variedades, junto con sinonimias, tipificacin, discusin, distribucin y ecologa. Se hacen seis combinaciones nuevas: Dichanthelium annulum (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum (L.) Gould var. nitidum (Lam.) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum var. ramulosum (Torr.) R.J. LeBlond, D. dichotomum var. roanokense (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, D. lucidum (Ashe) R.J. LeBlond, y D. sphagnicola (Nash) R.J. LeBlond.
41967976|Fourteen species of vascular plants are reported new to the state of Kentucky, U.S.A. Five of these are European weeds: Anthoxanthum aristatum, Aphanes microcarpa, Erysimum hieraciifolium, Lathyrus tuberosus, and Vicia tetrasperma. The other nine are native species known from adjacent states and were, thus, not entirely unexpected: Acalypha deamii, Carex austrocaroliniana, Centunculus minimus, Elymus wiegandii, Equisetum  ferrissii, Leucothoe fontanesiana, Lupinus perennis, Polygonum cilinode, and Silene nivea. Se presentan 14 especies de plantas vasculares que fueron descubiertas como nuevas para el estado de Kentucky, EE.UU. Cinco de stas son malezas de Europa: Anthoxanthum aristatum, Aphanes microcarpa, Erysimum hieraciifolium, Lathyrus tuberosus, y Vicia tetrasperma. Las otras nueve son especies nativas ya conocidas de los estados de alrededor y, por eso, no fueron totalmente inesperadas: Acalypha deamii, Carex austrocaroliniana, Centunculus minimus, Elymus wiegandii, Equisetum  ferrissii, Leucothoe fontanesiana, Lupinus perennis, Polygonum cilinode, y Silene nivea.
41967947|The present study is a review of the Amaranthus hybridus complex based on new morphological and anatomical characters. Two new combinations are proposedA. hybridus subsp. quitensis and A. powellii subsp. bouchonii. Based on characters such as phyllotaxy leaf traces and other morphological characters the division of the genus into subgenera is also discussed. El presente estudio es una revisin del complejo Amaranthus hybridus basado en caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos. Se proponen dos nuevas combinacionesA. hybridus subsp. quitensis y A. powellii subsp. bouchonii. Tambin se analiza la divisin del gnero en subgneros en base a la filotaxis, los rastros foliares y otros caracteres morfolgicos.
41967950|An annotated list and county-by-county distribution maps are presented for the 32 species of ferns and fern allies native to Nebraska, based upon field and herbarium studies and critical evaluation of the literature. Native to the state are Isotes melanopoda, Selaginella rupestris, five species of Equisetum, and 25 species in 18 genera of ferns. Three native species are here verified for the first time, based upon recent collections: Matteuccia struthiopteris var. pensylvanica, Ophioglossum engelmannii, and Pellaeaglabella ssp. glabella. Isotes melanopoda was rediscovered in 2000, the first record since 1941. Rejected are published reports of Lycopodium annotinum, Selaginella densa, Equisetum litorale, E. palustre, E. pratense, E. variegatum, Asplenium trichomanes, Azolla caroliniana, Botrychium dissectum, B. matricariifolium, B. multifidum, B. neglectum, Cryptogramma acrostichoides, Ophioglossum vulgatum, Osmunda cinnamomea, O. claytoniana, O. regalis, and Woodsia scopulina. Some erroneous reports have been published repeatedly for more than a century, but others are recent. Se presentan un lista anotada y mapas de distribucin por condados, de las 32 especies de helechos y otras pteridfitas nativas del estado de Nebraska (EE.UU), basados en estudios de campo, examen de herbarios, y evaluacin crtica de la literatura. Como nativas para este estado se cuentan Isotes melanopoda, Selaginella rupestris, cinco especies de Equisetum, y 25 especies de helchos distribuidas en 18 gneros. Se citan tres especies como nativas por primera vez, basndose en recolecciones recientes: Matteuccia struthiopteris var pensylvanica, Ophioglossum engelmannii, y Pellaea glabella. Isotes melanopoda fue redescubierta en el ao 2000, siendo el primer registro de esta especie desde 1941. Se rechazan como errneas las citas publicadas de la presencia de Lycopodium annotinum, Selaginalla densa, Equisetum  litorale, E. palustre, E. pratense, E. variegatum, Asplenium trichomanes, Azolla caroliniana, Botrychium dissectum, B. matricariifolium, B. multifidum, B. neglectum, Cryptogramma acrostichoides, Ophioglossum vulgatum, Osmunda cinnamomea, O. claytoniana, O. regalis, y Woodsia scopulina. Algunas de estas citas errneas han sido publicadas en repetidas ocasiones desde hace ms de un siglo, mientras que otras son recientes.
41967955|The oak hybrids Quercus  leana Nutt. (Q. imbricaria  Q. velutina) and Q.  runcinata (A. DC.) Engelm. (Q. imbricaria  Q. rubra) are occasionally encountered as scattered individuals throughout Illinois. Populations consisting of many individuals of these two hybrid taxa are not known in Illinois, and only rarely have suspected backcross individuals been found. A Principal Components Analysis (PCA) involving the parent taxa and the supposed hybrids indicates that little introgression occurs, each taxon appearing as a distinct cluster on the PCA graph. A study involving hybrid specimens encountered in the herbaria of the state indicates that Q.  leana is the most common taxon, being found in 31 counties, Q.  runcinata being known from only 11 counties. Los robles hbridos Quercus  leana Nutt. (Q. imbricaria  Q. velutina) y Q.  runcinata (A. DC.) Engelm. (Q. imbricaria Q. rubra) se encuentran ocasionalmente como individuos esparcidos por todo Illinois. Se conocen en Illinois poblaciones que se componen de muchos individuos de estos dos taxa hbridos, y slo raramente se han encontrado individuos que se sospeche que son retrocruzamientos. Un Anlisis de Componentes Principales (PCA) de los taxa parentales y los supuestos hbridos indica que ocurre poca introgresin, ya que cada taxon aparece como un cluster diferente en el grfico del PCA. Un estudio de los especmenes hbridos encontrados en los herbarios del estado indica que Q.  leana es el taxon mas frecuente, encontrndose en 31 condados, mientras que Q.  runcinata se conoce slo de 11 condados.
41967937|Five nomenclatural combinations complete the transfer of Mexican and Central American species from Gnaphaliothamnus to Chionolaena: Chionolaena costaricensis, Chionolaena cryptocephala, Chionolaena durangensis, Chionolaena macdonaldii, and Chionolaena salicifolia. In this view, Chionolaena is a genus spread across northeastern and northern South America, Central America, and south-central to southwestern Mexico. Cinco combinaciones nomenclaturales completan la transferencia de especies mexicanas y Centroamericanas de Gnaphaliothamnus a Chionolaena: Chionolaena costaricensis, Chionolaena cryptocephala, Chionolaena durangensis, Chionolaena macdonaldii, y Chionolaena salicifolia. Desde este punto de vista, Chionolaena es un gnero distribuido por el noreste y norte de Sur Amrica, Amrica Central, y del sur-centro al suroeste de Mxico.
41967939|The Carex jamesii complex is composed of three species: C. jamesii, C. juniperorum, and C. timida. Despite the morphological similarity of C. jamesii and C. tmida, these two taxaare not closely linked in a cluster analysis using genetic identity values. Rather, C. timida is grouped with G juniperorum. The close genetic similarity between these two species confirms the findings of a previous phylogenetic study that showed that G juniperorum and G tmida are sister species. Carex tmida populations from the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas are genetically unique and blur the distinctiveness between the latter species and C. juniperorum. Such a finding could be a sampling artifact. Alternatively, the plants found in the Ouachita Mountains may be closest to the ancestor that gave rise to G juniperorum and G tmida. A comparison of genetic, phylogenetic, and phenetic relationships provides insights into the delineation of infraspecific taxa and justification for the recognition of G tmida at the species level. El complejo Carex jamesii est compuesto por tres especies: C. jamesii, C. juniperorum, y C. timida. A pesar de la semejanza morfolgica de C. jamesii y C. timida, estos dos taxa no estn fuertemente unidos en un anlisis cluster usando valores de identidad gentica. En su lugar, C. timida est agrupado con C. juniperorum. La fuerte similitud gentica de estas dos especies confirma los hallazgos de un estudio filogentico previo que mostr que C. juniperorum y C. timida son especies hermanas. Las poblaciones de Carex timida de la montaas Ouachita de Arkansas son genticamente singulares y enturbia la distincin entre la ltima especie y C. juniperorum. Tal hallazgo puede ser un artefacto de muestreo. Alternativamente, las plantas que se encuentran en las montaas Ouachita pueden ser ms cercanas al ancestro que dio lugar a C. juniperorum y C. timida. Una comparacin de las relaciones genticas, filogenticas, y fenticas proporcionan una mejor comprensin de la delincacin de los taxa infraespecficos y la justificacin para el reconocimiento de C. timida a nivel especfico.
41967926|Laennecia turnerorum sp. nov, from Brewster County, Texas, is similar to other species of Laennecia sect. Sophiifolium (L. coulteri, L. sophiifolia, and L. mapimiana) in its annual duration, hirsute-pilose vestiture, acuminate phyllary apices, elaminate ray florets, and small, strigose cypselae with a uniseriate, caducous pappus. It differs from those three species in its stems, leaves, and phyllaries sparsely (vs. densely) glandular, basal leaves persistent at flowering (vs. senescent and usually absent by flowering), reduced vestiture of the phyllaries, and non-accrescent pappus (vs. accrescent). Plants of L. turnerorum are spring ephemerals and grow with plants of L. coulteri. Laennecia turnerorum sp. nov., del condado de Brewster, Texas, es similar a otras especies de Laennecia sect. Sophiifolium (L. coulteri, L. sophiifolia, y L. mapimiana) en su duracin anual, indumento hirsuto piloso, pices de los filarios acuminados, flsculos no laminados, y cipselas pequeas, estrigosas con un vilano caduco uniseriado. Difiere de las otras tres especies en sus tallos, hojas, y filarios esparsamente (vs. densamente) glandulares, hojas basales persistentes en la floracin (vs. senescentes y usualmente ausentes en la floracin), indumento de los filarios reducido, y vilano no acrescente (vs. acrescente). Las plantas de L. turnerorum son efmeras primaverales y crecen con plantas de L. coulteri.
41967948|Amaranthus blitum L. and its infraspecific variability in the United States are analyzed using classical morphological and some new Scanning Electron Microscope characters. Two new combinations within A. blitum are proposed, A. blitum subsp. oleraceus and A. blitum subsp. emarginatus var. pseudogracilis. For the first time, Agraecizans L. is confirmed as occurring in North America. Some nomenclatural issues involving A. blitum L. and A. graecizans L. are also discussed. Se analiza Amaranthus blitum L y su variabilidad intraespecfica en los Estados Unidos, utilizando los caracteres clsicos y algunos nuevos observados con el Microscopio Electrnico de Barrido. Se proponen dos combinaciones nuevas para Amaranthus blitum, A. blitum subsp. oleraceus y A blitum subsp. emarginatus var. pseudogracilis. Por primera vez se confirma la presencia de Amaranthus graecizans en Norte Amrica. Se analizan tambin algunos problemas de nomenclatura de Amaranthus blitum y Amaranthus graecizans.
41967938|Analyses of morphologic, geographic, and cologie data indicate three species comprise the Carex jamesii complex: C. jamesii, C. juniperorum, and C. timida, sp. nov. Carexjamesii has shoot bases lacking red-purple, relatively tall culms, relatively long staminate portions of spikes, and relatively long perigynium beaks. It is common and widespread in mesic deciduous forests in much of the eastern U.S.A. and in southwestern Ontario. Carex juniperorum has red-purple shoot bases, short culms, short staminate portions of spikes, and short perigynium beaks. It is rare and has a disjunct distribution in mesic deciduous and deciduous-juniper forests and forest edges in the eastern U.S.A. and southeastern Ontario. Carex timida has red-purple shoot bases, tall culms, short staminate portions of spikes, and short perigynium beaks. It is rare and has a disjunct distribution in mesic deciduous forests of the eastern U.S.A. Phylogenetic analysis of morphologic data indicates the complex is monophyletic and C. juniperorum is the sister species of G timida. The correct name and authorship of the section to which the C. jamesii complex belongs is determined to be Carex section Phyllostachyae Tuck, ex Kk. Synonymies, typif ications, descriptions, and citations of representative specimens are provided for each species, along with an identification key. Los anlisis de datos morfolgicos, geogrficos, y ecolgicos indican que el complejo Carex jamesii comprende tres especies: C. jamesii, C. juniperorum, y C. timida, sp. nov. Carex jamesii tiene las bases de los renuevos que no son rojo-prpura, clmenes relativamente altos, parte estaminada de las espigas relativamente largas, y picos del utrculo relativamente largos. Es comn y est distribuido en los bosques deciduos mesfilos en gran parte del este de U.S.A. y en el suroeste de Ontario. Carex juniperorum tiene las bases de los renuevos rojo-prpura, clmenes cortos, parte estaminada de las espigas corta, y picos del utrculo cortos. Es raro y tiene una distribucin disyunta en los bosques deciduos mesfilos y enebrales, y bordes de bosques en el este de U.S.A. y sureste de Ontario. Carex timida tiene las bases de los renuevos rojo-prpura, clmenes altos, parte estaminada de las espigas corta, y picos del utrculo cortos. Es raro y tiene una distribucin disyunta en los bosques deciduos mesfilos del este de U.S.A. El anlisis filogentico de datos morfolgicos indica que el complejo es monofiltico y que C. juniperorum es la especie hermana de G timida. El nombre correcto y autora de la seccin a la que pertenece el complejo G jamesii se determina que es Carex seccin Phyllostachyae Tuck, ex Kk. Se ofrecen sinonimias, tipificaciones, descripciones, y citaciones de especmenes representativos de cada especie, junto con una clave de identificacin.
41967949|Carex cumberlandensis is described as new from mesic forests in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. Previously, specimens of C. cumberlandensis had been confused with C. digitalis and C. abscondita. Carex cumberlandensis has vegetative shoots much taller than the culms, very narrow staminate spikes, short staminate scales, and obtuse staminate scales, all of which distinguish it from C. digitalis. Unlike C. abscondita, C. cumberlandensis has the lower spikes on long and drooping or nodding peduncles, distichously imbricate perigynia, the bract blade of the distalmost lateral spike (12-)17-51 times as long as wide, and always densely caespitose habit. The chromosome number of C. cumberlandensis is 2n = 23 II. Se describe como nuevo Carex cumberlandensis de los bosques mesfilos de Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Carolina del Norte, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Carolina del Sur, Tennessee, Virginia, y West Virginia. Previamente, se haban confundido especmenes de C. cumberlandensis con C. digitalis y C. abscondita. Carex cumberlandensis tiene renuevos vegetativos mucho ms altos que los clmenes, espigas estaminadas muy estrechas, escamas estaminadas cortas y obtusas, todo lo cual lo distingue de C. digitalis. Al contrario que C. abscondita, C. cumberlandensis tiene las espigas inferiores nutantes o colgantes en largos pednculos, utrculos imbricados dsticamente, la lmina de la brctea de la espiga lateral ms distal (12-)17-51 veces ms larga que ancha, y siempre un hbito densamente cespitoso. El nmero cromosmico de C. cumberlandensis es 2n = 23 II.
41967957|A survey of the vascular flora of Madison County, Texas, was conducted from May 1996 to April 2000. The flora consists of 985 species in 488 genera and 136 families. The largest families in the flora are the Asteraceae (127 species), Poaceae (123 spp.), Fabaceae (76 spp.), Cyperaceae (63 spp.), and Euphorbiaceae (32 spp.). The species are compiled in an annotated list that includes for each species the common name, collection citations, and a designation as to whether that species is considered native or introduced. Habitat types where each species occurs are included in the list. Unusual habitats, introduced species, and rare and endemic taxa are discussed. Una investigacin de la flora vascular de Madison County, Texas, fue realizada desde mayo de 1996 a abril de 2000. La flora est formada por 985 especies pertenecientes a 488 gneros y 136 familias. Las familias mayores son las Asteraceae (127 especies), Poaceae (123 esp.), Fabaceae (76 esp.), Cyperaceae (63 esp.), y Euphorbiaceae (32 esp.). Las especies se han compilado en una lista comentada que incluye para cada especie el nombre vernculo, citas de las recolecciones, y una designacin de si se considera nativa o introducida. Se incluyen en la lista los tipos de los habitats en que vive cada especie. Estn comentados los habitats inusuales, especies introducidas, as como txones raros y endmicos.
41967932|Three allopatric varieties are recognized within Chrysogonum virginianum: the northern var. virginianum, with non-stoloniferous plants and mostly leafy aerial stems; the southern (Gulf coastal plain) var. australe, with flagellate stolons and only leafless aerial stems; and the geographically intermediate var. brevistolon, var. nov., with stolons of intermediate length and mostly leafy aerial stems. These three taxa are separated by other minor and overlapping differences. Intermediates apparently occur, but uncommonly, between var. virginianum and var. brevistolon. Variety australe is more strongly separated in geographic range and more distinct in morphology. Se reconocen tres variedades aloptricas en Chrysogonum virginianum: la nortea var. virginianum, con ejemplares no estoloniferos y la mayora de los tallos areos con hojas; la surea (llanura costera del Golfo) var. australe, con estolones flagelados y nicamente tallos areos sin hojas; y la intermedia geogrficamente var. brevistolon, var. nov., con estolones de longitud intermedia y con la mayora de los tallos areos con hojas. Estos tres taxa se separan por otras diferencias menores que se solapan. Se encuentran intermedios aparentemente, pero raramente, entre var. virginianum y var. brevistolon. La variedad australe se separa ms en el rango geogrfico y tiene una morfologa ms distinta.
41967954|The study of species-area relationships in protected natural areas (PNAs) is an effective tool for designing nature reserves and managing biological diversity. Ten North Central Texas PNAs were studied to understand how plant species richness is related to PNA size. The species-area model was applied to total plant species, native plant species, selected native speciose plant families and invasive plant species. Results indicate that area is a significant predictor of species richness (r = 0.60) for both total species and native species in North Central Texas PNAs. Habitat diversity as measured by topographic relief and topographic abruptness is also shown to be a significant predictor of plant species richness in North Central Texas PNAs. Introduced species richness could not be predicted from area alone but was explained by perimeter and perimeter/area ratio and one proxy measure of habitat diversity. The estimates of z values range from 0.15 to 0.30, while c ranges from 0.60 to 1.42 for species-area relationships, both of which fall within the range of values estimated by previous research. Such estimates allowed us to evaluate effective management schemes for North Central Texas PNAs plant diversity. The results of this research permit us to examine the invasion of exotic flora in Texas PNAs and to predict how such invasions will reduce native species richness if conservation management practices are not implemented. El estudio de las relaciones entre el rea y el nmero de especies en reas naturales protegidas es una herramienta efectiva para el diseo de reservas y el manejo de la diversidad biolgica. Diez reas naturales protegidas del norte del estado de Tejas fueron estudiadas para entender como la riqueza de especies vegetales est relacionada con el tamao del rea. El modelo especies-rea fue aplicado al nmero total de especies vegetales, las especies nativas, ciertas familias de plantas con muchas especies, y especies exticas invasoras. Los resultados indican que el rea es un predictor significativo de la riqueza de especies (r  0.60) para el nmero total de especies y el nmero de especies nativas dentro de estas reas naturales protegidas. La diversidad del habitat que se midi por medio del total de relieve topogrfico y lo accidentado de la topografa tambin es un predictor significativo de la riqueza vegetal en estas reas. El nmero de especies exticas no se pudo predecir por el rea nicamente, sino que se pudo por medio del permetro del rea y la proporcin permetro por rea, y uno de los dos estimadores topogrficos de diversidad de habitat. Las estimaciones del valor de z del modelo de MacArthur y Wilson son de 0.15 a 0.30, mientras que la c vara desde 0.60 a 1.42 para las relaciones de especies-rea. Tales estimaciones nos permiten evaluar los esquemas de manejo de la diversidad vegetal de las reas naturales protegidas del norte de Texas. Los resultados de esta investigacin nos permiten examinar las razones por las cuales las especies exticas invasoras han colonizado las reas naturales protegidas y predecir como tales invasiones reducirn la riqueza de especies nativas si no se implementan pautas de manejo para su conservacin.
41967951|Cryptocoryne beckettii Thw. ex R. Trim, is an exotic aquatic plant recently found in the San Marcos River, Texas. The species is currently expanding rapidly within the lower portions of the upper San Marcos River. The distribution and areal extent of the species was quantified on three occasions between April 1998 and August 2000. During this 28-month period, the number of individual colonies increased from 11 to 63, and the total areal coverage increased from 171 to 646 m. The average rate of areal expansion during this period was 80% per year. Most colonies of C. beckettii were found to be small (<5 m), although in August 2000 three colonies were greater than 50 m in size. All colonies were found at water depths between 30 and 120 cm and appeared to favor more rapidly flowing water. This preference for shallow, rapidly flowing areas of the river makes C. beckettii a potentially serious threat to Zizania texana Hitchc., an endangered plant endemic to the San Marcos River, that occupies a similar river zone. All known colonies of C. beckettii are currently downstream from the remaining stands of Z. texana. Cryptocoryne beckettii Thw. ex R. Trim, es una planta acutica extica encontrada recientemente en el ro San Marcos, Texas. La especie est actualmente expandindose rpidamente por las partes bajas de la cuenca alta del San Marcos. La distribucin y rea de extensin de la especie fue cuantificada en tres ocasiones entre abril de 1998 y agosto de 2000. Durante este periodo de 28 meses, en nmero de colonias individuales se increment de 11 a 63, y el rea total de recubrimiento se increment de 171 a 646 m. La tasa media de expansin del rea durante este periodo fue del 80% por ao. La mayora de las colonias de C. beckettii son pequeas (<5 m), aunque en agosto de 2000 tres colonias eran mayores de 50 m. Todas las colonias se encontraron en profundidades de agua entre 30 y 120 cm y parecan favorecer un flujo de agua ms rpido. Esta preferencia por las reas del ro poco profundas y con flujo rpido hace de C. beckettii una amenaza potencial seria para Zizania texana Hitchc., una planta endmica amenazada del ro San Marcos, que ocupa una zona fluvial similar. Todas las colonias conocidas de C. beckettii estn actualmente aguas abajo de las posiciones restantes de Z. texana.
41967935|The genus Hesperoyucca (Agavaceae), consisting of three species, is recognized as distinct from Yucca based on distinct morphological, phenological and pollinator characteristics, biogeographic considerations and recent DNA analyses. Hesperoyucca whipplei is recognized and new combinations for two species are made: H. newberryi and H. peninsularis. A key that distinguishes Yucca from Hesperoyucca and the three species of Hesperoyucca is included. Se reconoce a Hesperoyucca (Agavaceae) como gnero distinto de Yucca en base a caracteres morfolgicos, fenolgicos y del polinizador, a consideraciones biogeogrficas y anlisis recientes de ADN. Hesperoyucca consta de tres especies. Se reconoce Hesperoyucca whipplei y se proponen dos combinaciones nuevas para las otras dos especies, H. newberryi y H. peninsularis. Se presenta una clave para distinguir Yucca de Hesperoyucca y para identificar las tres especies de Hesperoyucca.
41967959|Se efectu un estudio del origen de la flora arvense y ruderal presente en el estado de Quertaro, Mxico. Una de las principales causas de la distribucin es la ubicacin geogrfica del estado, paso obligado hacia las regiones norte y sur del pas. Otro factor implicado fueron las actividades agropecuarias practicadas por los grupos nativos (chichimecas y otomes), modificadas posteriormente por la inmigracin europea, con la introduccin de cultivos y de diversas especies de maleza. Se registraron 347 especies, 211 gneros y 47 familias de las regiones agrcolas del estado; destacan por el nmero de taxa las familias Compositae (81 spp.), Gramineae (61 spp.), Euphorbiaceae (22 spp.), Leguminosae (17 spp.), Solanaceae (16 spp.), Malvaceae (12 spp.), Cruciferae (12 spp.) y Convolvulaceae (10 spp.) de las que el 66% fueron recolectadas en terrenos de cultivo y el 14% en la vegetacin ruderal. Se listan 125 especies consideradas nativas, la mayora de las cuales pertenecen a las familias: Compositae, Gramineae, Solanaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Caryophylllaceae y Cucurbitaceae; adems de las 57 de origen norteamericano, hay 57 de Amrica tropical, 29 europeas, 23 sudamericanas, 20 euroasiticas, 16 asiticas, 8 caribeas, 8 africanas, 2 de la regin de Oceana y 2 de Centroamrica. The origin of weeds and ruderal species from Queretaro, Mexico was studied. One of the principal causes for the distribution of weeds of diverse origin is the location of the state, through which much north-south travel was focused. Another factor was the agricultural practices of native people (chichimecas y otomes), later modified by European immigrants, with the introduction of new crops and diverse weedy associates. We recorded 347 species, 211 genera, and 47 families. The families with largest number of taxa are Compositae (81 spp), Gramineae (61 spp.), Euphorbiaceae (22 spp.), Leguminosae (17 spp.), Solanaceae (16 spp.), Malvaceae (12 spp.), Cruciferae (12 spp.) and Convolvulaceae (10 spp.) of which 66% were collected in field crops and 14% in ruderal vegetation. There are 125 species considered native, most of them belong to the families: Compositae, Gramineae, Solanaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Caryophyllaceae and Cucurbitaceae. In addition to 57 from North America, there were 57 from Tropical America, 29 from Europe, 23 from South America, 23 from European-Asiatic, 16 from Asia, 8 from Caribbean, 8 from Africa, 2 from Oceania, and 2 from Central America.
41967928|Two species of Impatiens viz., I. sholayarensis and I. violacea are described from Kerala, India. Se describen dos especies de Impatiens viz., I. sholayarensis e I. violacea de Kerala, India.
41967930|A new species of Poaceae, Tripogon ravianus Sunil & Pradeep from the Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu, India is described and illustrated Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Poaceae, Tripogon ravianus Sunil & Pradeep de los Western Ghats de Tamil Nadu, India.
41967943|Generic relationships among Houstonia, Oldenlandia, and Hedyotis are discussed. Seed and other morphological characters, chromosome numbers, and limited DNA data support the division of Hedyotis into smaller genera. The taxonomy and nomenclature of Houstonia acerosa and H. palmeri are revised to accommodate two recently described varieties, H. acerosa var. tamaulipana and H. palmeri var. muzquizana. Se analizan las relaciones genricas entre Houstonia, Oldenlandia y Hedyotis. Datos de la semilla, otros caracteres morfolgicos, nmero de cromosomas, y datos limitados del ADN apoyan la divisin de Hedyotis en gneros ms pequeos. Se revis la taxonoma y la nomenclatura de Houstonia acerosa y H. palmeri para acomodar dos variedades recientemente descritas, H. acerosa var. tamaulipana y H. palmeri var. muzquizana.
41967969|Houstonia longifolia Gaertn. (Rubiaceae) is reported as new to Texas. Houstonia longifolia Gaertn. (Rubiaceae) se cita como nueva de Texas.
41967941|Seven former Hedyotis (Rubiaceae) species native to Baja California, Mexico, are revised and placed in a new genus, Stenotis, on the basis of seed and other morphological characters, chromosome number, and recent DNA evidence. Keys, descriptions, distributions, and synonyms are provided. Two of the species are annual herbs (Stenotis arenaria, S. asperuloides), and five are perennial woody herbs or shrublets (S. australis, S. brevipes, S. gracilenta, S. mucronata, and S. peninsularis). Two varieties are recognized in S. asperuloides. Se revisan siete especies de Hedyotis (Rubiaceae) originarias de Baja California, Mxico, y se colocan en un nuevo gnero, Stenotis. La ubicacin en este gnero se basa en caracteres de la semilla y en otros caracteres morfolgicos, en el nmero de cromosomas, y en evidencias recientes derivadas del ADN. Se presentan claves taxonmicas, descripciones, distribuciones y sinnimos. Dos de estas especies son hierbas anuales (Stenotis arenaria y S. asperuloides), y cinco son plantas perennes de tallo leoso o pequeos arbustos (S. australis, S. brevipes, S. gracilenta, S. mucronata, y S. peninsularis). Se reconocen dos variedades dentro de la especie S. asperuloides.
41967961|Over the past decades, there has been a steady effort to contribute to our knowledge of herbaceous and woody vines (lianas)a habit previously largely neglected in both botanical and ecological studies. This study sought to evaluate to what extent progress has been made in our f loristic understanding of lianas and vines in a state hosting the highest number of herbarium specimens per square mile in the southeastern United StatesNorth Carolina. To analyze the state of our floristic understanding, baseline and updated county species lists of lianas and vines were developed based on literature review and herbarium survey. To compare liana and vine species richness by ecophysiological province, an index of species similarity was calculated. The Piedmont and Coastal Plain host the largest absolute number of vine taxa in North Carolina, as well as the largest mean richness per county The higher Piedmont mean richness may be due in part to geographic position and overlapping distributions from adjacent provinces. However, reasons for the particularly high species richness of individual counties and the significant variation in county to county species richness remain unclear. Macro-climate, as well as diversity in topography and associated microclimate may be factors. However, the three most species rich counties also happen to host the three largest herbaria in the state, suggesting the potential influence of historically larger collecting programs. Other non-biological factors potentially involved include distance to site and accessibility. En las dcadas pasadas, ha habido un esfuerzo constante para contribuir a nuestro conocimiento de las lianas herbceas y leosasun hbito previamente muy descuidado tanto en los estudios botnicos como ecolgicos. Este estudio pretendi evaluar en que medida se ha progresado en nuestro conocimiento florstico de las lianas en un estado que alberga el mayor nmero de especmenes de herbario por milla cuadrada del sureste de Estados UnidosCarolina del Norte. Para analizar el estado de nuestro conocimiento florstico, se desarrollaron listados de especies por condado, bsicos y puestos al da, de lianas basados en revisiones bibliogrficas y de herbarios. Para comparar la riqueza de especies de lianas por provincia ecof isiolgica, se calcul un ndice de similitud de especies. El pie de monte y la llanura costera tienen el mayor nmero absoluto de lianas de Carolina del Norte, as como la mayor riqueza media por condado. La alta riqueza media del pie de monte puede deberse en parte a la posicin geogrfica y a las distribuciones solapadas de las provincias adyacentes. Sin embargo, las razones para la riqueza en especies particularmente alta de condados individuales y la variacin significativa de condado a condado no quedan claras. El macroclima, as como la diversidad en topografa y el microclima asociado pueden ser factores. Sin embargo, los tres condados ms ricos en especies tienen tambin los tres herbarios mayores del estado, lo que sugiere la influencia potencial de los programas de colecta histricamente ms amplios. Otros factores no biolgicos potencialmente implicados incluyen la distancia al lugar y la accesibilidad.
41967966|Although previously reported from scattered localities, studies of the habitats and distribution in the United States of the South American native Scutellaria racemosa Pers. are lacking. To analyze trends in the spread of S. racemosa throughout the southeast we studied 82 specimens from 16 herbaria. Collections taken from roadsides, lawns or golf courses, and nurseries or horticultural plantings accounted for about 76% of specimens examined. Establishment is facilitated by vegetative reproduction via rhizomes and a capacity to produce flowers and fruits throughout the year. Patterns of distribution are likely a result of human activity such as transport of contaminated nursery stock or sod, as well as seed spread on right-of-way mowing equipment. Aunque citada de varias localidades, no hay estudios de los habitats y la distribucin en los Estados Unidos de la especie suramericana Scutellaria racemosa Pers. Para analizar tendencias en el movimiento de S. racemosa en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos, estudiamos 82 especmenes de 16 herbarios. Recolecciones de bordes de carreteras, cspedes o campos de golf, y viveros o plantaciones horticulturales, justifican el 76% de los especmenes examinados. El establecimiento est facilitado por la reproduccin vegetativa por rizomas y la capacidad para producir flores y frutos durante todo el ao. La distribucin es probablemente el resultado de actividades humanas, incluyendo el transporte de plantas de vivero o suelo contaminado, as como semillas diseminadas por cortacspedes.
41967945|Recent taxonomic advances are supportive of recognition of various climbing milkweed genera previously submerged in Cynanchum L. Although caution regarding resurrection of unispecific Ampelamus Raf. has been suggested, recent acceptance has been implicit through a listing of the genus in a synopsis of the subtribes and genera of the tribe Asclepiadeae. As the name is currently in "standardized" use among weed scientist and has additionally appeared in recent drafts, a note regarding the correct nomenclature is warranted. This paper addresses the typification and synonymy of the entity variously known as Gonolobus laevis Michx., Cynanchum laeve (Michx.) Pers., Vincetoxicum gonocarpus Walt. var. laevis (Michx.) Britton, Enslenia albida Nutt., and Ampelamus albidus (Nutt.) Britton. Los avances taxonmicos recientes apoyan el reconocimiento de varios gneros de algodoncillos trepadores incluidos previamente en Cynanchum L. Aunque se ha pedido precaucin con respecto a la resurreccin del gnero monotpico Ampelamus Raf., ha sido implcita la aceptacin reciente mediante un listado del gnero en una sinopsis de las subtribus y gneros de la tribu Asclepiadeae. Como el nombre est actualmente en uso "estandarizado" entre especialistas en malas hierbas y adems ha aparecido en recientes borradores, est justificada una nota que trate de la nomenclatura correcta. Este artculo trata de la tipificacin y sinonimia de la entidad conocida como Gonolobus laevis Michx., Cynanchum laeve (Michx.) Pers., Vincetoxicum gonocarpus Walt. var. laevis (Michx.) Britton, Enslenia albida Nutt., y Ampelamus albidus (Nutt.) Britton.
41967963|The identity of Eragrostis ancashensis P.M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar, a Peruvian endemic, is discussed; the name is considered to be a synonym of Eragrostis pilgeri Fedde. Lectotypes are also designated for the names of some synonyms of E. pilgeri, whose holotypes at B were destroyed in 1943. Further remarks about the identity of two paratypes of E. ancashensis (Ferreyra 14577 and 14594) are included. Se discute la identidad de Eragrostis ancashensis P.M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar, una especie endmica de Per. El nombre se considera sinnimo de Eragrostispilgeri Fedde. Se designan tambin lectotipos para los nombres de algunos sinnimos de E. pilgeri, cuyos holotipos depositados en B fueron destruidos en 1943. Se hace un comentario adicional sobre la identidad de dos paratipos de E. ancashensis (Ferreyra 14577 y 14594).
41967970|State and national distribution records are reported for species of Pseudognaphalium. New for the U.S.A. are P. jaliscense (Arizona, California, Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas) and P. attenuatum (Hawaii). Pseudognaphalium arizonicum is first reported for Texas, and the nearly cosmopolitan weed P. luteoalbum is reported for Texas and New Mexico. An early collection for P. stramineum in New York, apparently as a waif in Manhattan, is cited. A brief characterization is provided for each species, specimens are cited, and a lectotype is chosen for P. jaliscense. A record of the occurrence of P. helleri in Indiana is incorrect, based on a collection of P. macounii. Se citan los registros de distribucin estatal y nacional de las especies de Pseudognaphalium. Son nuevas para U.S.A.P. jaliscense (Arizona, California, Colorado, Nuevo Mxico, y Texas) y P. attenuatum (Hawaii). Pseudognaphalium arizonicum es citado por primera vez para Texas, y la mala hierba casi cosmopolita P. luteoalbum se cita para Texas y Nuevo Mxico. Se cita una coleccin previa de P. stramineum en Nueva York, aparentemente como abandonada en Manhattan. Se ofrece una breve caracterizacin de cada especie, se citan especmenes, y se escoge un lectotipo para P. jaliscense. Una cita de la presencia de P. helleri en Indiana es incorrecta, y est basada en una colecta de P. macounii.
41967965|A non-native species of Scleria, S. lacustris is reported from six counties and three major hydrologie regions in Florida. Biogeography and habitat in Florida are addressed. A description, key features and illustration are presented. Se presenta aqu la presencia de una especie extica del gnero Scleria, S. lacustris, de seis condados y de tres regiones hidrolgicas de Florida. Se hacen anotaciones sobre su biogeografa y habitat en Florida. Se presenta una descripcin con caractersticas clave junto con una ilustracin.
41967971|Arthraxon hispidus, native to the Old World and adventive in Hawaii, North America, Central America, and the Caribbean, is reported for the first time from South America. The records are from the Andes of Venezuela. Information also is provided on the earliest dates that this species is documented to have appeared in different countries in the New World. Arthraxon hispidus, nativa del viejo mundo y adventicia en Hawaii, Norte Amrica, Centro Amrica y el Caribe, se cita por primera vez en Sur Amrica. Los registros son de los Andes de Venezuela. Adems se suministra informacin adicional documentada sobre las fechas ms remotas de aparicin de esta especie en diferentes pases del nuevo mundo.
41967924|Liatris aestivalis, sp. nov., is recognized from Texas and Oklahoma as a species separate from L. mucronata DC. and L. punctata Hook., although it has been synonymized with both of the latter as L. angustifolia (Bush) Gaiser. The type of L. angustifolia is a plant best identified as L. mucronata, perhaps showing some influence of hybridization with L. aestivalis. Latris aestivalis produces subglobose corms and has mostly been identified as L. mucronata but differs from it in foliar and capitular features as well as phenology. The new species is known from 16 counties primarily along a north-south band from central counties of Texas into south-central Oklahoma; it is sympatric with L. mucronata and the two sometimes grow in close association, but they are completely separated to barely overlapping in flowering period. Putative intermediates are identified from several counties in the region of their distributional overlap. Liatris glandulosa, sp. nov, has been collected from five localities in Dallas County but is known to be extant at only a single site there; it also has been collected in three other Texas counties southward. It is similar to L. aestivalis in its subglobose corms and narrowly triangular, weakly graduate phyllaries but differs from all species of the genus in its vestiture of stipitate-glandular hairs. Liatrisglandulosa also is early-flowering, nearly completely separated in phenology from L. mucronata, which grows in close sympatry at the Dallas County site. A description, illustration, distribution map, and key contrast with L. mucronata are provided here for each of the new species. Liatris aestivalis, sp. nov, se reconoce de Texas y Oklahoma como una especie separada de L. mucronata DC. y L. punctata Hook., aunque ha sido sinonimizada con estas dos ltimas como L. angustifolia (Bush) Gaiser. El tipo de L. angustifolia es una planta que debe identificarse como L. mucronata, quizs muestre algo de influencia de hibridacin con L. aestivalis. Liatris aestivalis produce bulbos subglobosos y ha sido identificada la mayora de las veces como L. mucronata pero difiere de ella por las caractersticas foliares y del captulo as como en la fenologa. La nueva especie se conoce de 16 condados situados a lo largo de una banda norte-sur desde los condados centrales de Texas hasta el sur-centro de Oklahoma; es simptrica con L. mucronata y ambas viven a menudo en ntima asociacin, pero estn completamente separadas o slo ligeramente solapadas en el periodo de floracin. Se han identificado intermedios putativos en varios condados de la regin donde su distribucin se solapa. Liatris glandulosa, sp. nov, ha sido colectada de cinco localidades en el condado de Dallas pero se sabe que slo permanece all en una nica localidad; tambin ha sido colectada en otros tres condados de Texas hacia el sur. Es similar a L. aestivalis por sus bulbos subglobosos, filarios dbilmente atenuados y estrechamente triangulares pero difiere de todas las especies del gnero por su indumento de pelos estipitado-glandulares. Liatris glandulosa tambin florece antes, casi completamente separada en su fenologa de L. mucronata, que crece en fuerte simpatra en la localidad del condado de Dallas. Se ofrecen aqu una descripcin, una ilustracin, mapa de distribucin, y una clave que contrasta L. mucronata con las nuevas especies.
41967944|Digitaria pubiflora is raised to specific rank. Digitaria pubiflora se eleva al rango especfico.
41967931|Ipomoea sororia, a new species in Ipomoea section Leptocallis is described from the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico. This species, apparently endemic to a small region of low deciduous forest in the NW of the peninsula, is similar to the more widespread species I. ternifolia and I. costellata. The new species differs from those in having cordate sepal bases and three rows of largely reflexed excresences on the outer sepals. Se describe Ipomoea sororia, una nueva especie de Ipomoea seccin Leptocallis para la Pennsula de Yucatn, Mxico. Esta especie, aparentemente endmica de una pequea regin de selva baja decidua, en la zona NW de la pennsula, es similar a las especies de ms amplia distribucin, I. ternifolia e I. costellata de la costa pacfica. La nueva especie se diferencia por presentar los spalos con las bases cordadas y tres hileras de crestas reflejas en los spalos exteriores.
41967952|Founded in 1896 by Fredrick M. Irish, the vascular plant herbarium at Arizona State University (ASU) acts as a repository for plants particularly from the desert Southwest and Mexico. It now contains over 230,000 specimens, of which 735 have been designated as types including paratypes. Here we present a list that documents 384 major vascular plant type specimens and includes verified holotypes, lectotypes, syntypes and neotypes and their duplicates. Regionally the majority of the specimens are from the United States (186) and Mexico (178), while 13 from South America and 7 from the Old World. Taxonomically, the majority of type specimens belong to the Asteraceae (84), followed by Polygonaceae (56), Cactaceae (34), Scrophulariaceae (27), Fabaceae (16), the Agavaceae (13), and Acanthaceae (10). Historically prominent are 60 isotype specimens collected by C.G. Pringle, a prominent early plant collector in Mexico from 1885 to 1909. Numerous type collections were also made by James R. Reveal, Noel H. Holmgren, Howard S. Gentry and George B. Hinton. For each basionym typified by an ASU specimen, which is accompanied by a copy of the original publication, we here list collector(s) and collection number, locality information (restricted to country and state or equivalent demographic unit), and date of collection. Fundado en 1896 por Frederick M. Irish, el herbario de plantas vasculares de la Universidad del Estado de Arizona (ASU) acta como un repositorio de plantas, principalmente del desierto del Suroeste y Mxico. Actualmente el herbario cuenta con 230.000 ejemplares, de los cuales 735 corresponden a ejemplares tipo incluyendo tambin paratipos. Se presenta una lista que documenta 384 de los ms importantes ejemplares tipo de plantas vasculares, incluyendo holotipos, lectotipos, sintipos, y neotipos, y sus duplicados. Regionalmente, la mayora de los ejemplares son de los Estados Unidos (186) y de Mxico (178); mientras que 13 son de Amrica del Sur y 7 de Viejo Mundo. Taxonmicamente, la mayora de los ejemplares tipo pertenecen a las familias Asteraceae (84), seguida de Polygonaceae (56), Cactaceae (34), Scrophulariaceae (27), Fabaceae (16), Agavaceae (13), y Acanthaceae (10). Histricamente, los ms importantes son 60 isotipos colectados por C.G. Pringle, prominente colector en Mxico entre 1885 y 1909. Se cuenta adems con ejemplares tipo de los colectores James R. Reveal, Noel H. Holmgren, Howard S. Gentry y George B. Hinton. Cada basinimo tipificado por un ejemplar en ASU, incluye una copia de la publicacin original. Se listan adems, el colector(es), y nmero de colecta, informacin de la localidad (restringida al pas y estado o unidad demogrfica equivalente) y a la fecha de la colecta.
41967882|A revision of the western North American members of Salvia L. section Heterosphace Benth. is presented. Three species are here recognized: S. roemeriana Scheele, S. henryi A. Gray, and S. summa A. Nels. Salvia davidsonii Greenm. is treated as a synonym under S. henryi. We present a discussion of subgeneric relationships and morphological variation of the group, as well as keys to the species, distribution maps, illustrations, and a complete account of typification and synonymy for each species. Se revisan taxonmicamente los representantes norteamericanos occidentales de Salvia L. seccin Heterosphace Benth. Aqu se reconocen tres especies: S. roemeriana Scheele, S. henryi Gray y S. summa A. Nels. Se trata Salvia davidsonii Greenm. como un sinnimo de S. henryi. Presentamos una discusin de las relaciones subgenricas y variacin morfolgica del grupo, claves para las especies, mapas de la distribucin, ilustraciones y un informe completo de la tipificacin y sinonimia de cada especie.
41967884|Five North American species formerly in the genus Hedyotis (Hedyotideae; Rubiaceae) are revised and placed in the newly recognized genus Stenaria, a name used by Rafinesque for a subgenus in the genus Houstonia. Keys, descriptions, distributions, and synonymies are provided. The principal species is Stenaria nigricans, a wide-ranging polymorphic species native to eastern, central, and southwestern United States and northern and central Mexico. The remaining species are S. butterwickiae, known only from Brewster Co., Texas; S. mullerae of Coahuila, Mexico, and Brewster Co., Texas; S. rupicola of southwestern Texas and northern Coahuila, Mexico; and S. umbratilis, rare and disjunct in northern Mexico south to Veracruz. Varieties are recognized within S. mullerae, S. nigricans, and S. umbratilis. Se revisan cinco especies de Norte Amrica anteriormente incluidas en el gnero Hedyotis (Hedyotideae; Rubiaceae) y se incluyen en el gnero nuevo y reconocido Stenaria, un nombre usado por Rafinesque para un subgnero dentro del gnero Houstonia. Se presentan claves, descripciones, distribucin, y sinnimos. La especie principal es Stenaria nigricans, una especie polimorfa de amplia distribucin, y nativa de las zonas orientales, centrales, y sudoeste de los Estados Unidos as como de la parte norte y central de Mxico. Las otras especies son S. butterwickiae, conocida nicamente de Brewster Co., Texas; S. mullerae de Coahuila, Mxico y de Brewster Co., Texas; S. rupicola del sudoeste de Texas y norte de Coahuila, Mxico; y S. umbratilis, especie rara y disyunta de la parte norte de Mxico al sur de Veracruz. Se reconocen variedades de S. mullerae, S. nigricans, y S. umbratilis.
41967898|Three additions to the Missouri flora are reported: Fatoua villosa (Moraceae), Oenanthe javanica (Apiaceae), and Ottelia alismoides (Hydrocharitaceae). Each of these represents a nonindigenous genus new to the state. The number of introduced taxa of vascular plants in Missouri continues to increase more rapidly than that of native taxa, and the non-native component of the state's floristic diversity has risen from ca. 22.8 percent to 27.7 percent during the past 35 years. Se citan tres nuevas especies para la flora de Missouri: Fatoua villosa (Moraceae), Oenanthe javanica (Apiaceae), y Ottelia alismoides (Hydrocharitaceae). Cada una de stas representa un gnero nuevo no autctono para el estado. El nmero de taxones introducidos contina incrementndose ms rpidamente que el de los taxones nativos, y el componente no nativo de la diversidad florstica del estado ha aumentado del 22.8 por ciento al 27.7 por ciento en los ltimos 35 aos.
41967905|Dipsacus fullonum L. (Dipsacaceae) and Verbesina walteri Shinners (Asteraceae) are reported as new to Texas. Se citan Dipsacus fullonum L. (Dipsacaceae) y Verbesina walteri Shinners (Asteraceae) nuevas para Texas.
41967896|A survey to document the vascular plants of Amite County, Mississippi, was conducted from 1997 to 2000. Occupying 732 square miles, the county lies along an edaphic and physiographic transition zone from loess in the west to sandy loam and gravel in the east. Species composition changes with the gradient, and the county serves as a westernmost limit to several southeastern plants (e.g., Gelsemium rankinii Small, llliciumfloridanum J. Ellis). Amite County also harbors a residual element of north-south Pleistocene migrations in the loess hills (e.g., Adiantum pedatum L., Pachysandra procumbens Michx., Cynoglossum virginianum L.). A total of 923 species were recorded, with new records for the state (Solidago auriculata Shuttlew. ex S.F.Blake, Clinopodium gracile (Benth.) Kuntze, Alstroemeria psittacina Lehm., Ipomoea indica (Burm.f.) Merr., Photinia serratifolia (Desf.) Kalkman) and a confirmation of recently published records of Physalis carpenteri Riddell and Dryopteris ludoviciana (Kunze) Small in Mississippi. Un arpentage pour documenter les plantes vasculaires du Comt d'Amite, Mississippi, a t conduit de 1997  2000. Occupant 1874 kilomtres carrs, le comt s'tend le long d'une zone de transition daphique et physiographique du loess  l'ouest au terreau sablonneux et au gravier  l'est. La composition d'espces se modifie selon le gradient du terrain, et le comt sert de limite occidentale  plusieurs plantes du sud-est (e.g., Gelsemium rankinii Small, llliciumfloridanum J. Ellis). Le Comt d'Amite contient aussi un lment rsiduel des migrations pleistocenes nord-sud parmi les collines de loess (e.g., Adiantum pedatum L., Pachysandra procumbens Michx., Cynoglossum virginianum L.). Un total de 923 espces est enregistr, avec de nouvelles documentations pour l'tat (Solidago auriculata Shuttlew. ex S.F.Blake, Clinopodium gracile (Benth.) Kuntze, Alstroemeria psittacina Lehm., Ipomoea indica (Burm.f.) Merr., Photinia serratijolia (Desf.) Kalkman) et la confirmation des documentations rcemment publies de Physalis carpenteri Riddell et Dryopteris ludoviciana (Kunze) Small en Mississippi.
41967880|Nardophyllum deserticola (Cabrera) Nesom and Nardophyllum patagonicum (Cabrera) Nesom are two endemic species from Argentinean Patagonia that were originally described under the monotypic genera Aylacophora and Paleaepappus in 1953 and 1969, respectively. In 1993, Nesom included Aylacophora and Paleaepappus within the genus Nardophyllum, arguing that the discontinuities between the paleaceous pappus of Aylacophora and Paleaepappus and the pappus bristles of Nardophyllum do not justify considering them as distinct genera. Careful observation of the herbarium material revealed that: 1) the pappus of N. deserticola and N. patagonicum consists of ca. 10 linear-elliptic paleae, while in remaining Nardophyllum species, the pappus is composed of ca. 30 bristles, and 2) the receptacular paleae of Nardophyllum deserticola and Nardophyllum patagonicum are wide and enclose the florets, while in Nardophyllum species, the paleae, if present, are narrow and do not enclose the florets. These observed discontinuities between N. deserticola and N. patagonicum with respect to the rest of Nardophyllum do support the consideration of both species as to two distinct monotypic genera, Aylacophora and Paleaepappus, respectively. Nardophyllum deserticola (Cabrera) Nesom y Nardophyllum patagonicum (Cabrera) Nesom son dos especies endmicas de la Patagonia argentina que fueron originalmente descritas bajo los gneros monotpicos Aylacophora y Paleaepappus en 1953 y 1969, respectivamente. Posteriormente en 1993, Nesom incluy Aylacophora y Paleaepappus dentro del gnero Nardophyllum argumentando que las discontinuidades entre el papo palceo de Aylacophora y Paleaepappus y el papo piloso de Nardophyllum no justifican considerar a stos como gneros independientes. La observacin detallada del material de herbario revel que: 1) el papo de N. deserticola y N. patagonicum consiste en ca. de 10 pleas linear-elpticas, mientras que en el resto de las especies de Nardophyllum, el papo est compuesto por ca. 30 cerdas y 2) las pleas del receptculo de Nardophyllum deserticola y Nardophyllum patagonicum son anchas y abrazan las flores, mientras que en el resto de las especies de Nardophyllum, las pleas, si estn presentes, son ms angostas y no abrazan las flores. Las discontinuidades observadas entre N. deserticola y N. patagonicum con el resto de Nardophyllum apoyan la consideracin de ambas especies como dos gneros monotpicos independientes, Aylacophora y Paleaepappus, respectivamente.
41967885|Pseudognaphalium (Gnaphalium) obtusifolium sensu stricto is variable over its geographic range in the glandularity of stems and upper leaf surfaces, but the variation is difficult to characterize geographically. Variety praecox, described from localities on the Atlantic and Gulf coastal plains on the basis of early-season flowering and an elongate capitulescence, can only be arbitrarily separated from the species and does not deserve formal recognition. Variety micradenium, which has been treated at varietal rank within both Gnaphalium obtusifolium and the closely related Gnaphalium helleri, is distinct in morphology from both and apparently reproductively isolated. It is given equivalent taxonomic rank as Pseudognaphalium micradenium (Weatherby) Nesom, comb. et stat. nov. Pseudognaphalium (Gnaphalium) obtusifolium sensu stricto es variable a lo largo de su distribucin geogrfica en la glandulosidad de sus tallos y haces foliares, pero la variacin es difcil de caracterizar geogrficamente. La variedad praecox, descrita de localidades del Atlntico y llanuras costeras del Golfo en base a su floracin temprana y una capitulescencia alargada, slo puede ser separada de la especie arbitrariamente y no tiene reconocimiento formal. La variedad micradenium, que ha sido tratada a nivel varietal tanto en Gnaphalium obtusifolium como en Gnaphalium helleri, es distinta morfolgicamente de ambas y al parecer aislada reproductivamente. Se le da el rango taxonmico equivalente como Pseudognaphalium micradenium (Weatherby) Nesom, comb. et stat. nov.
41967873|Muhlenhergia includes 151 species of mostly New World origin; 133 species are indigenous to North America [although many of these range to Central America (33) and South America (14)]; 38 species occur in Central America (a single species is endemic); 25 species occur in South America (10 are endemic); and only six endemic species are known to occur in southern Asia. No modern subgeneric classification within the genus exists and species relationships are not clear. An anatomical survey of the leaf blade as viewed in transverse section has provided a unique set of 16 characters to test previous hypothesized relationships. A cladistic analysis utilizing these 16 characters was performed on all but three species of Muhlenhergia. Based on this analysis Muhlenhergia appears to be divisible into three major anatomical groups corresponding to two subgenera (M. subg. Muhlenhergia, and Trichochloa) and two sections (M. sect. Epicampes and Podosemum) in M. subg. Trichochloa. Even though the presence of sclerosed phloem is an important apomorphy in the evolution of species in Muhlenhergia subg. Trichochloa, it appears to have evolved twice since it occurs in four other species. Our study suggests that in Muhlenhergia subg. Muhlenhergia the C photosynthesis, PCK subtype was a single evolutionary event since these species occur as a clade or an uninterrupted grade in our phylogenetic analysis. Muhlenhergia incluye 151 especies originarias principalmente del Nuevo Mundo; 133 especies son nativas de Norteamrica [aunque muchas de ellas llegan a distribuirse hasta Centro y Sudamrica (33 y 14 respectivamente)]; 38 especies habitan en Centroamrica (sola una especie es endmica); 25 especies se encuentran en Sudamrica (10 son endmicas); y solamente seis especies endmicas se distribuyen por el sur de Asia. No existe una clasificacin subgenrica moderna del gnero y las relaciones entre las especies no son claras. Un reconocimiento anatmico de las hojas en seccin transversal ha proporcionado un conjunto nico de 16 caracteres para probar las relaciones hipotticas previas. Se llev a cabo un anlisis cladstico utilizando estos 16 caracteres de todas (excepto tres) las especies de Muhlenhergia. En base a este anlisis Muhlenhergia parece ser divisible en tres grandes grupos anatmicos correspondientes a dos subgneros (M. subg. Muhlenhergia y Trichochloa) y dos secciones (M. sec. Epicampes y Podosemum) en M. subg. Trichochloa. An cuando la presencia de floema esclerosado es una apomorfa importante en la evolucin de las especies de Muhlenhergia subgnero Trichochloa, parece que ha evolucionado dos veces ya que se presenta en cuatro especies. Nuestro estudio sugiere que dentro de Muhlenhergia el subtipo de fotosntesis C PCK en las especies del subgnero Muhlenhergia fue un evento evolutivo sencillo, ya que estas especies aparecen como un ciado o un grado ininterrumpido en nuestro anlisis filogentico.
41967890|The history of publication of Florence H. Wool ward's monograph on the genus Masdevallia is discussed. Publication dates are given for all parts of the work. Se discute la historia de la publicacin de la monografia de Florence H. Woolward del gnero Masdevallia. Se dan fechas de publicacin de todas las partes del trabajo.
41967909|Phyllostachys bambusoides, native of China, is reported from the floodplain of Thompson Creek, West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. A key to Louisiana Phyllostachys and a description of the genus and species are included. Phyllostachys bambusoides, nativo de China, se cita del Ilano inundado de Thompson Creek, West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. Se incluye una clave para los Phyllostachys de Louisiana y una descripcin de P. bambusoides.
41967874|Pseudognaphalium austrotexanum Nesom, sp. nov, is described from collections in eleven counties of southern and southeastern Texas and from one locality in Nuevo Len, Mexico. The new species is similar to Pseudognaphalium viscosum, which occurs in southwestern Texas and widely in Mexico and Central America; P. austrotexanum differs in its eglandular stems, non-decurrent leaves, smaller, fewer-flowered heads and keeled, apically rounded, apiculate phyllaries. Se describe Pseudognaphalium austrotexanum Nesom, sp. nov, a partir de recolecciones en once condados del sur y sureste de Texas y de una localidad en Nuevo Len, Mxico. La nueva especie es similar a Pseudognaphalium viscosum, del suroeste de Texas y muy comn en Mxico y Amrica Central; P. austrotexanum se diferencia por sus tallos eglandulares, hojas no decurrentes, captulos ms pequenos y con menosflores, y filarios aquillados, apiculados y apicalmente redondeados.
41967881|A revision of Mirabilis, section Oxybaphoides, Nyctaginaceae, in western North America is presented. Mirabilis oligantha (Standl.) J.F. Macbride, M. oxybaphoides (A. Gray) A. Gray, and M. tenuiloba S. Wats remain as traditionally classified. Mirabilis bigelovii A. Gray, M. californica A. Gray ex Torr, M. laevis (Benth.) Curran, and M. retrorsa Heller are combined as a single species, M. laevis, and recognized as varieties, i.e., M. laevis var. villosa (Kellogg) Spellenb. (comb. nov.), M. laevis var. crassifolia (Choisy) Spellenb. (comb. nov.), M. laevis var. laevis, and M. laevis var. retrorsa (Heller) Jepson, respectively. Distribution maps are presented for each species, those for the varieties within the M. laevis complex also indicating geographic distribution of characters. The inspection of these maps was of importance in making taxonomic decisions. Lists of important collections are provided. Chromosome numbers are reported for the first time for M. laevis var. villosa (2n = 30n), M. laevis var. retrorsa (2n = 31-33n) and M. oxybaphoides (2n = 30n). Se presenta una revisin de Mirabilis, seccin Oxybaphoides, Nyctaginaceae, en el oeste de Norte Amrica. Mirabilis oligantha (Standl.) J.F. Macbride, M. oxybaphoides (A. Gray) A. Gray, y M. tenuiloba S. Wats permanecen tal como se clasificaban tradicionalmente. Mirabilis bigelovii A. Gray, M. californica A. Gray ex Torr, M. laevis (Benth.) Curran, y M. retrorsa Heller se combinan como una nica especie, M. laevis, y reconocidas como variedades, i.e., M. laevis var. villosa (Kellogg) Spellenb. (comb, nov.), M. laevis var. crassifolia (Choisy) Spellenb. (comb. nov.), M. laevis var. laevis, y M. laevis var. retrorsa (Heller) Jepson, respectivamente. Se presentan mapas de distribucin de todas las especies, y de las variedades en el complejo M. laevis indicando tambin la distribucin geogrfica de los caracteres. El estudio de estos mapas fue muy importante para tomar las decisiones taxonmicas. Se of recen listas de colecciones importantes. Se citan por primera vez nmeros cromosomticos de M. laevis var. villosa (2n = 30n), M. laevis var. retrorsa (2n = 31-33n) y M. oxybaphoides (2n = 30n).
41967876|Keysseria is divided between Indonesia (9 species in New Guinea, Celebes, and Borneo) and the Hawaiian islands (3 species). The Hawaiian species are formally segregated here as Keysseria sect. Sandmcactis Nesom, sect, nov, on the basis of their bisexual and fertile disc florets (vs. functionally staminate in Indonesia) and other morphological differences in ray and disc corollas. Keysseria pickeringii A. Gray, endemic to Vanua Levu Island, Fiji, is excluded from Keysseria and formally recognized as Pytinicarpa pickeringii (A. Gray) Nesom, comb. nov. A nomenclatural update and summary are provided for Pytinicarpa, whose other two species are New Caledonian. The genera of Lageniferinae, including Keysseria and Pytinicarpa, are divided into seven "core genera" and five "peripheral genera"; a key to the core genera is provided. Keysseria est dividido entre Indonesia (9 especies en Nueva Guinea, Celebes, y Borneo) y las islas Hawai (3 especies), las especies Hawaianas se segregan formalmente aqu como Keysseria sect. Sandwicactis Nesom, sect, nov, en base a sus flsculos bisexuales y fertiles (vs. funcionalmente estaminadas en Indonesia) y otras diferencias morfolgicas en las corolas centrales y perifricas. Keysseria pickeringii A. Gray, endmica de la isla Vanua Levu, Fiji, se excluye de Keysseriay se reconoce formalmente como Pytinicarpa pickeringii (A. Gray) Nesom, comb. nov. Se ofrece una puesta al da y resumen nomenclatural para Pytinicarpa, cuyas otras dos especies son de Nueva Caledonia. Los de Lageniferinae, que incluyen Keysseria y Pytinicarpa, se dividen en siete "centrales" y cinco "gneros perifricos"; se ofrece una clave para los gneros centrales.
41967879|During preparation of the account of Pennisetum Rich, for the Manual of Grasses for North America, it was determined that three taxa formerly treated under Cenchrus L. required new combinations in Pennisetum: P. setigerutn (Vahl) Wipff, comb, nov., P. pennisetiforme (Hochst. & Steud. ex Steud.) Wipff; comb, nov., and P. somalensis (Clayton) Wipff, comb. nov. Durante la preparacin del informe de Pennisetum Rich, para el Manualof Grasses for North America, se vio que taxa tratados previamente como Cenchrus L. necesitaban nuevas combinaciones en Pennisetum: P. setigerum (Vahl) Wipff, comb, nov, P. pennisetiforme (Hochst. & Steud. ex Steud.) Wipff; comb, nov, y P. somalensis (Clayton) Wipff, comb. nov.
41967872|In recent years, Papuasian surveys patterned on rapid-assessment formats have become increasingly popular for developing f loristic estimates of site value. Although some of the results have been widely disseminated, there have been few attempts at overall synthesis despite the obvious need for such review. A commentary on botanical exploration and documentation during the past decade is provided, with particular focus on connections between current conditions and the fulfillment of goals implicit in comprehensive bioinventory. Long nau tasol, ibin igat luksave na wok painim aut ibin kamap planti moa long ol bus na diwai bilong Papuasia. Maski ibin igat sampela save bilong wok painim aut istap na ibin kamap long planti hap nabaut, ibin igat wok traim tasol i kamap long dispela wok bilong painim haumas bus na diwai istap long Papuasia. Dispela em i ripot o toksave long ol wok painim aut wei ikamap long ten pela yia igo pinis na luksave long wok ibai kamap bihain taim long wei bilong painim aut ol diwai na bus.    .  10 
41967889|Plants from a single population on the Keweenaw Peninsula in Houghton County, Michigan, have been reported as hybrids between Doellingeria (Aster) umbellata and Odemena (Aster) nemoralis, but the few features of putative intermediacy between these two species are equivocal. In contrast, morphological features of their roots, leaves, capitulescence, florets, and cypselae are consistent with those of Odemenain the interpretation here, morphological evidence for the genomic contribution of Doellingeria is very limited, and the Keweenaw plants more likely arose from within Odemena. They are suggested to represent either an atypical form of O. blakei (a recurring and persistent hybrid between O. nemoralis and O. (Aster) acuminata) or a relict population differentiated earlier in the evolutionary history of the genus and appropriately recognized as a separate species. Current evidence is insufficient to convincingly support a single hypothesis of origin. Plantas de una sola poblacin en la Pennsula de Keweenaw en el Condado de Houghton, Michigan, se han citado co hbridos entre Doellingeria (Aster) umbellata y Odemena (Aster) nemoralis, pero las pocas caractersticas presumiblemente intermedias entre estas dos especies son equvocas. En contraste, las caractersticas morfolgicas de sus races, hojas, capitulescencia, flsculos y cipselas coinciden con los de Odemenaen la interpretacin que hacemos aqu, las evidencias morfolgicas de una contribucin de Doellingeria es muy limitada, y las plantas de Keweenaw probablemente surgieron de Odemena. Se sugiere que representan ya sea una forma atpica de O. blakei (un hbrido recurrente y persistente entre O. nemoralis y O. (Aster) acuminata) o una poblacin relicta diferenciada tempranamente en la historia evolutiva del gnero y reconocida apropiadamente como una especie independiente. Las evidencias actuales son insuficientes para apoyar una hiptesis nica de su origen.
41967912|Lespedeza cuneata (Dum.Cours.) G. Don, a native species from eastern Asia and introduced in the U.S.A., is reported for first time to Mexico. Recent botanical field collections between Cuauhtmoc and La Junta, in Chihuahua, Mexico have extended its distribution about 800 km southwestern from its previously known range, in eastern Texas. Lespedeza cuneata (Dum.Cours) G. Don, una especie nativa del este de Asia e introducida en los E.U.A se cita por primera vez para Mxico. Colecciones recientes de material botnico entre Cuauhtmoc y La Junta, en el estado norteo de Chihuahua, Mxico, permiten extender su rango de distribucin cerca de 800 km al sur de su rango de distribucin conocido, en el este de Texas.
41967877|A new species, Saccoglossum takeuchii, is described from the Hans Meyer Range in southern New Ireland, Papua New Guinea. The novelty is most closely related to S. lanceolatum L.O. Williams, but differs from the latter species in the size and shape of the petals, the lesser number of cilia-like stelids, the prominent dentation around the clinandrium, and by the differently shaped leaves. Nupela kain orchid Saccoglossum takeuchii, ol bin kisim long Hans Meyer Range insait long Nu Ailan, Papua New Guinea, em ol bin deskraibim. Em I wankain long Saccoglossum lanceolatum L.O. Williams. Dispela em minim olsem long sais na saip long petals, na namba long stelids na dentations bilong clinandrium, na saip long lip.
41967753|The Mexican species Erigeron byei Sundberg & Nesom is excluded from Erigeron and subtribe Conyzinae and treated as the monotypic genus Batopilasia Nesom & Noyes, gen. nov., and species Batopilasia byei (Sundberg & Nesom) Nesom & Noyes, comb. nov.Batopilasia byei at least superficially resembles the phyletically isolated North American genera Boltonia and Chloracantha in morphology. DNA studies indicate that Batopilasia and Boltonia are closely related and suggest that Boltonia is closely related to Chloracantha. The new genus apparently is restricted to the area of the Barranca del Cobre in southwestern Chihuahua, Mexico. A technical description, illustration, and distribution map are provided. La especie mexicana Erigeron byei Sundberg & Nesom se excluye de Erigeron y de la subtribu Conyzinae y se trata como gnero monotipico Batopilasia Nesom & Noyes, gen. nov., y especie Batopilasia byei (Sundberg & Nesom) Nesom & Noyes, comb. nov. Batopilasia byei se parece al menos superficialmente en su morfologa a los gneros norteamericanos filticamente aislados Boltonia y Chloracantha. Los estudios de DNA indican que Batopilasia y Boltonia estn muy relacionados y sugieren que Boltonia est muy relacionada con Chloracantha. El nuevo gnero aparentemente est restringido al rea de Barranca del Cobre en el suroeste de Chihuahua, Mxico. Se ofrecen una descripcin tcnica, una ilustracin y un mapa de distribucin.
41967771|It is suggested that four terms provide an adequate general description of the major categories of non-native plants in our flora: cultivated, persisting, waif, and naturalized. Comparative definitions are given for seven related terms that describe the non-native origin and floristic integration of vascular plant species in North America: adventive, alien, escaped, established, exotic, introduced, and non-native. Se sugiere que cuatro trminos dan una descripcin general adecuada de las grandes categoras de las plantas no nativas de nuestra flora: cultivada, persistente, abandonada, y naturalizada. Se dan definiciones comparativas de siete trminos relacionados que describen el origen no nativo y la integracin florstica de plantas vasculares en Norteamrica: adventicia, extraa, escapada, establecida, extica, introducida, no-nativa.
41967749|Botanical survey results are presented from the Josephstaal Forest Management Agreement Area, a venue currently under planning evaluation for several development contingencies. Four new species are formally described: Aglaia saxonii (Meliaceae), Barringtonia josephstaalensis (Barringtoniaceae), Calycosia mamosei (Rubiaceae), and Psychotria mayana (Rubiaceae). A substantial number of distributional records and discoveries of rare taxa are reported. Compilations of Maian plant names and uses are also included. The findings suggest that Josephstaal habitats are refugia for restricted endemics which have been eliminated from other parts of their historical range. Judicious planning is necessary when evaluating the land-use options for this area. Populations of several susceptible taxa may constitute the only existing colonies.  4   Aglaia saxonii (), Barringtonia josephstaalensis ()Calycosia mamosei ( )Psychotria mayana ()   
41967756|Trepadonia oppositifolia (Asteraceae: Vernonieae) is described from Peru and a key is presented for the two species of the genus. Se describe Trepadonia oppositifolia (Asteraceae: Vernonieae) de Per y se presenta una clave para las dos especies del gnero.
41967751|Eragrostis ancashensis P.M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar, sp. nov., is described and illustrated. The new species occurs on steep rocky slopes in three distinct locations in Departamento Ancash: near the southern end of the Cordillera Blanca, approximately 20 km E of Raquia, near Huaylas, and near Bambas,just north of the Cordillera. The new species seems most closely allied with Eragrostis magna Hitchc. but differs by its shorter culms (26-84 cm long); shorter and narrower leaf blades [(6-) 10-22(-26) cm long  1-2.5(-3.0) mm wide]; shorter panicles [10-20(-38) cm long]; shorter branches (1.5-11 cm long) that are widely spreading; ovate spikelets (3-6.1 mm long  2-4.5 mm wide) with a long ciliate (the hairs up to 1.5 mm long) and flattened rachilla; veins of the glumes, lemmas, and paleas usually with minute, whitish, raised glands; broadly ovate lemmas 2-3.2 mm long; and anthers 1.2-2.0 mm long. Eragrostis ancashensis P.M. Peterson, Refulio & Tovar, sp. nov., es descrita e ilustrada. Esta nueva especie habita en pendientes de suelos rocosos, en tres localidades distintas del departamento de Ancash: cerca del extremo sur de Cordillera Blanca, aproximadamente a 20 km E de Raquia; cerca a Huaylas y cerca a Bambas, al norte de la Cordillera Blanca. Esta nueva especie est fuertemente relacionada con Eragrostis magna Hitchc., pero difiere de ella por sus culmos ms cortos (26-84 cm de largo); sus lminas foliares ms cortas y menos anchas [(6-) 10-22(-26) cm de largo 3 1-2.5(-3.0) mm de ancho]; panculas ms cortas [10-20(-38) cm de largo]; ramas de la pancula ms cortas (1.5-11 cm de largo) y extendidas; espiguillas ovadas (3-6.1 mm de largo 3 2-4.5 mm de ancho), raquila aplanada y ciliada (pelos hasta 1.5 mm de largo); nervios del las glumas, lemas y pleas usualamente con glandulas diminutas y blanquecinas; lemas anchamente ovadas 2-3.2 mm de largo;y anteras 1.2-2.0 mm de largo.
41967777|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida:Ajuga reptans. Aster laevis var. concinnus, Cyperus retrofractus, Linum macrocarpum, and Rhynchospora thornei. Several additions to the flora of north Florida are also documented, and some species that were thought to be restricted in Florida to the western panhandle are noted for extreme northeastern Florida. Los siguientes taxa parecen ser las primeras citas para el estado de Florida: Ajuga reptans, Aster laevis var. concinnus, Cyperus retrofractus, Linum macrocarpum, y Rhynchospora thornei. Se documentan tambin varias adiciones a la flora del norte de Florida, y algunas especies que se pensaba que estaban restringidas en Florida a la franja occidental se han encontrado en el extremo nordeste de Florida.
41967759|Vitis blancoi Munson as treated by Munson included two, unrelated taxa with separate distributions. Plants from southern Mexico are treated as V. blancoi Munson emend. Comeaux, and are assigned to series Occidentales Munson. The northern group of plants from northern Mexico and extreme southern Texas belong to series Cinerascentes Planchon, and are here designated as V. cinerea (Engelm. in Gray) Engelm. ex Millardet var. tomentosa (Planchon) Comeaux. Revised descriptions and specimen citations are provided. Vitis blancoi Munson tal como fue tratada por Munson incluye dos taxa no relacionados con distribuciones diferentes. Las plantas del sur de Mxico son tratadas como V. blancoi Munson emend. Comeaux, y se asignan a la serie Occidentales Munson. El grupo norteo, de plantas del norte de Mxico y extremo sur deTexas, pertenece a la serie Cinerascentes Planchn, y se designa aqu como V. cinerea (Engelm. in Gray) Engelm. ex Millardet var. tomentosa (Planchn) Comeaux. Se ofrecen descripciones y citas revisadas de especmenes.
41967766|Eight species in four genera of Aroideae (Araceae) are introduced, cultivated, and variously established in the southeastern United States. Keys, illustrations, descriptions, distribution and ranges, habitat preference, flowering and fruiting periods, and variation in both vegetative and sexual reproductive characteristics are provided for the genera, species, and varieties. Additional information on the cultivation of all species and the weedy attributes of Colocasia and Xanthosoma are discussed. Ocho especies de cuatro gneros de Aroideae (Araceae) estn introducidas, cultivadas, y establecidas en el sureste de los Estados Unidos. Se ofrecen claves, ilustraciones, descripciones, distribucin y reas, hbitat preferente, periodos de floracin y fructificacin, y variacin en las caractersticas vegetativas y reproductoras para los gneros, especies, y variedades. Se discute informacin adicional sobre el cultivo de todas las especies y las caractersticas como malas hierbas de Colocasia y Xanthosoma.
41967758|Rhynchospora zacualtipanensis M. Strong and Eleocharis moorei M. Strong & S. Gonzlez, from eastern Mexico, are described and illustrated. Their relationships to closely allied and morphologically similar species are discussed. Se describen e ilustran Rhynchospora zacualtipanensis M. Strong y Eleocharis moorei M. Strong & S. Gonzlez, del oriente de Mxico, y se discuten sus relaciones con especies cercanas y morfolgicamente similares.
41967754|A new combination in Archibaccharis (Asteraceae: Astereae) is made based on an earlier name by F.W. Klatt published in 1884. Se hace una nueva combinacin en Archibaccharis (Asteraceae: Astereae) basada en un nombre anterior de F.W. Klatt publicado en 1884.
41967776|A survey was conducted to determine the nodulating ability of 44 legume species from theTahoe Basin. All were found to nodulate under natural soil conditions. Nodulation is reported for the first time in nine species in five genera of Papilionoideae. These species are distributed in tribes Galegeae, Genisteae, Thermopsideae, Trifolieae and Vicieae. Nodule color, shape and frequency are also described. The results support using the morphology of nodular structures to classify legumes. The soils of the Tahoe Basin are generally nutrient poor. However, legumes survive and grow well there. Healthy plants with lush green foliage growing in nutrient-limited environments, suggest that they were nurtured by nitrogen-fixing nodules. Exploitation of legume-Rhizobium symbiosis may help to improve nutrient poor soils and may provide refuge and quality browse for wildlife in the Tahoe Basin. Los condicionantes geolgicos y bioclimticos han permitido la existencia en el rea de Tahoe de un entorno nico. Nuestra investigacin se centr en la determinacin de la capacidad de nodulacin de algunas especies de leguminosas en el rea del lagoTahoe donde predominan los suelos pobres en nutrientes. Todas las especies estudiadas resultaron nodulantes en condiciones edficas naturales. En nueve de ellas, pertenecientes a cinco gneros de Papilionoideae e incluidas en las tribus Galegeae, Genisteae, Thermopsideae, Trifolieae y Vicieae, se describe por primera vez el proceso de nodulacin indicndose la coloracin, forma y frecuencia de las formaciones nodulares. Los resultados apoyan la estrecha relacin existente entre los diferentes grupos taxonmicos y la morfologa estructural de los nodulos. El desarrollo de poblaciones sanas con follaje exuberante colonizando estaciones con suelos pobres en nutrientes puede ser utilizado como bioindicador del proceso nodular de fijacin del nitrgeno. La utilizacin de la simbiosis legumlnosa-Rhizobium quizs ayude a mejorar la pobreza en nutrientes de los suelos del rea de Tahoe as como, en general, a proveer de mejores habitats para el incremento y la supervivencia de la vida silvestre en la cuenca del lago Tahoe.
41967767|The geographic distribution of the genus Ariocarpus in the State of Tamaulipas, Mexico was determined based on literature, herbarium vouchers, botanical gardens and several field trips in 1991 and 1992 Three species and two subspecies were detected: Ariocarpus agavoides, A. kotschoubeyanus, A. retusus subsp. retusus and A retusus subsp. trigonus. Ariocarpus agavoides is extremely restricted geographically, occupying an area less than 2 km; the main factor responsible for its distribution is soil type, which has clay texture, low organic matter content and a slightly alkaline pH. Ariocarpus retusus subsp. trigonus has the largest distribution (all the arid and semiarid portions of the state) probably because of its tolerance to different ecological factors, such as vegetation, soil types, and its ability to survive even if nurse plants were removed. Se determin la distribucin geogrfica del gnero Ariocarpus en el estado de Tamaulipas, Mxico con base en revisiones bibliogrficas, consultas de herbarios, jardines botnicos, as como en recorridos de campo realizados en 1991 y 1992. Se encontraron tres especies y dos subespecies: Ariocarpus agavoides, A. kotschoubeyanus, A. retusus subsp. retusus y A. retusus subsp. trigonus. Ariocarpus agavoides se encuentra extremadamente restringida geogrficamente, ocupando un rea no mayor a 2 km; el factor responsable de su distribucin es el tipo de suelo, el cual se caracteriza por su textura arcillosa, bajo contenido de materia orgnica, as como un pH ligeramente alcalino. Ariocarpus retusus subsp. trigonus presenta el mayor rango de distribucin (ocupando las regiones ridas y semiridas del estado) debido a su tolerancia a diferentes factores ecolgicos tales como vegetacin, tipo de suelo, y a su sobrevivencia cuando las plantas nodrizas son removidas.
41967761|Bolbitis thommankuthiana, a new species of fern from Kerala, India, is described. Se describe Bolbitis thommankuthiana, una nueva especie de helecho de Kerala, India.
41967764|Based on morphological analysis, Rhynchospora leptocarpa, long synonymized under R. capitellata, is reinstated as a distinct species. Although clearly related to the latter, R. leptocarpa differs in a number of mensural and qualitative characters. Furthermore, its distribution is confined to the southern coastal plain and it inhabits a narrow range of plant communities, very unlike those of R. capitellata. Based on the relative ease of finding R. leptocarpa in suitable habitat, it is believed not to be rare, but merely overlooked. En base a anlisis morfolgicos Rhynchospora leptocarpa, que fue sinonimizada a R. capitellata, se vuelve a considerar como una especie diferente. Aunque claramente relacionada con esta ltima, R. leptocarpa difiere en cierto nmero de caracteres cuantitativos y cualitativos. Adems, su distribucin est confinada al sur de la llanura costera y vive en un nmero restringido de comunidades vegetales, muy diferentes de las de R. capitellata. Debido a lo fcil que es encontrar R. leptocarpa en los habitats adecuados, se cree que no es rara, sino que simplemente ha sido ignorada.
41967752|Qualitative and quantitative data are given for Achatocarpus nigricans Triana, A. praecox Griseb., and Phaulothamnus spinescens A. Gray. The minute vessel pits, lack of successive cambia, and lack of betalains or anthocyanins are distinctive features of the family that justify its removal from Phytolaccaceae. The phyletic nature of these features is unclear; libriform fibers are commonly regarded as specialized. The absence of borders on perforation plates accords with the placement of this family in suborder Phytolaccineae, however. Quantitative features of vessels accord with the concept that Phaulothamnus has the wood of a desert shrub, whereas wood of Achatocarpus is like that of a shrub from a chaparral-like habitat. Se ofrecen datos cualitativos y cuantitativos sobre los leos de Achatocarpus nigricans Triana, A praecox Griseb., y Phaulothamnus spinescens A. Gray. Punteaduras diminutas de vasos, deficiencia de pigmentos, y deficiencia de cambios sucesivos caracterizan a la familia, y separan Achatocarpaceae de Phytolaccaceae. El estado filtico de estas peculiaridades es incierto; las fibras libriformes se interpretan como estado avanzado. Los datos cuantitativos de los vasos indican una ecologa desertcola para Phaulothamnus, y una ecologa de tipo chaparral seco para Achatocarpus.
41967755|The classification of Lobelia L. sect. Tupa (G. Don) Benth. was revised following extensive field studies and examination of over 2500 specimens in 43 herbaria. Four species are recognized; all are hexaploids with racemose unilabiate flowers, endemic to central Chile. Two are branched solidstemmed shrubs (rarely small trees) with faintly striate oblong or ellipsoid seeds, found in the dwarfand xerophytic-shrub and sclerophyllous vegetation zones of the xeric north: L.polyphylla Hook. & Arn.with small wine-purple flowers, and L. excelsa Bonpl. with larger flowers that change color from yellow and orange in bud to red at anthesis. The other two are large herbaceous or suffruticose unbranched hollow-stemmed perennials with minutely foveolate-reticulate broadly ellipsoid seeds, found in the deciduous forest and evergreen temperate rain forest regions of the mesic south:red-flowered L. tupa L. and pink-flowered L. bridgesii Hook. & Arn. The species of each pair are at least partly sympatric, and their reproductive isolation (as evidenced by a near total lack of plants with intermediate morphology) may be related to differences in pollination syndrome: entomophily in L. bridgesii and L. polyphylla, ornithophily in L. tupa and L. excelsa. La clasificacin de Lobelia L. sect. Tupa (G. Don) Benth. se revis como continuacin a estudios de campo extensivos y el examen de ms de 2500 especmenes de 43 herbarios. Se reconocen cuatro especies, todas ellas hexaploides con flores unilabiadas racemosas, endmicas de Chile central. Dos son arbustos ramosos de tallos slidos (raramente pequeos rboles) con semillas oblongas o elipsoides dbilmente estriadas, que se encuentran en las zonas de vegetacin de arbustos enanos xerofticos y la zona esclerfila del norte xrico: L. polyphylla Hook. & Arn. con flores pequeas de color prpura-vino, y L. excelsa Bonpl. con flores ms grandes que cambian de color desde el amarillo y naranja en el botn, hasta rojo en la antesis. Las otras dos son perennes herbceas grandes o sufruticosas no ramosas de tallo hueco, con semillas anchamente elipsoides diminutamente foveolado-reticuladas, que se encuentran en las regiones de la pluvisilva caducifolia y la templada perennifolia del sur msico: L. tupa L. de flores rojas y L. bridgesii Hook. & Arn. de flores rosas. Las especies de cada par son al menos parcialmente simptricas, y su aislamiento reproductivo (como se evidencia por la falta casi total de plantas con morfologa intermedia) puede estar relacionado con diferencias en el sndrome de polinizacin:entomofilia en L. bridgesii y L. polyphylla, y ornitofilia en L. tupa y L. excelsa.
41968939|Observations are reported on anthesis, stamen and style movement, and insect visitation in five taxa of Boerhavia, one a pantropical perennial (B. coccinea Mill.), and five that are North American annuals (B. intermedia M.E. Jones, B. spicata Choisy, B. torreyana S.Wats., and B. wrightii A. Gray). Observations were made in natural situations in Las Cruces, New Mexico. Individual flowers are open for only a portion of one day. Insect visitors were Hymenoptera, Diptera, and Coleoptera. All species received insect visitation; the larger-flowered species had more visitors. Autogamy is believed to be the usual method of reproduction, either through insect pollination or self-pollination of the flower as stamens contact the stigma as the flowers close. There is no evidence of wind pollination even in crowded populations. Chromosome numbers are fairly high, especially for annuals. New chromosome number reports are made for B. coccinea (n = 26), B. diffusa L (n = 27), B. intermedia (n = 26, ca. 27), B. linearifolia (n = ca. 26), B. mathisiana F.B. Jones (n = ca. 26), B. spicata (n = 26), and B. wrightii (n = 27). It is suggested that high chromosome number, prevalent autogamy, but occasional outcrossing or hybridization, produce a population structure of locally uniform populations that differ slightly to greatly from other populations, a pattern that can lead to difficulty in classification. Se informa de las observaciones del movimiento de los estambres y el estilo durante la antesis, as como de la visita de insectos en cinco taxa de Boerhavia, uno pantropical perenne (B. coccnea Mili.), y cinco anuales norteamericanos (B. intermedia M.E. Jones, B. spicata Choisy, B. torreyana S. Wats., and B. wrightii A. Gray). Las observaciones se hicieron en situaciones naturales en Las Cruces, New Mexico. Las flores individuales se abren slo una parte de un da. Los insectos visitantes fueron Hymenoptera, Dptera, y Coleoptera. Todas las especies recibieron visitas de insectos; las especies de flores grandes tuvieron ms visitantes. Se cree que la autogamia es el mtodo normal de reproduccin, tanto por entomogamia como por autopolinizacin de la flor mediante contacto de los estambres con el estigma cuando la flor se cierra. No hay evidencia de anemogamia ni siquiera en poblaciones densas. Los nmeros cromosmicos son bastante altos, especialmente en las anuales. Se citan nuevos nmeros cromosomticos para B. coccinea (n = 26), B. diffusa L.(n = 27), B. intermedia (n = 26, ca. 27), B. linearifolia (n = ca. 26), B. mathisiana F.B. Jones (n = ca. 26), B. spicata (n = 26), y B. wrightii (n = 27). Se sugiere que el alto nmero cromosomtico, la autogamia predominante, con reproduccin cruzada ocasional o hibridacin, producen una estruchura poblacional de poblaciones localmente uniformes que difieren de ligeramente a mucho de otras poblaciones, un patrn que puede llevar a dificultades en la clasificacin.
41968933|Ardisia rarescens,native to the border area of SE Chiapas, Mexico and SW Guatemala, was studied in preparation for a treatment of Myrsinaceae for the Flora Mesoamericana project. Its dextrorsely imbricate petals, extremely short free apical portions of the filaments, anthers whose wide longitudinal slit from each theca meet apically to form a subcontinuous opening at anthesis, short and broadly conical flower buds, and relatively numerous ovules on the rather thick placenta, precluded its placement in any known neotropical subgenus of Ardisia. Curiously, the aforementioned features comprise the diagnostic character states unique to the Indo-Malesian Ardisia subgenera Acrardisia and Stylardisia. Because subgenus Stylardisia is defined by its protogynous flowers (the style piercing the bud apex long before the bud opens), Ardisia rarescens can be excluded from that group and therefore placed in subgenus Acrardisia Mez. We suggest that Ardisia rarescens is a member of Ardisia subgenus Acrardisia and that this represents another species whose distribution may be attributable to the logical extension of the Boreotropics Hypothesis, previously explained in our work on the discovery of the genus Hymenandra in Mesoamerica. Ardisia rarescens is described, newly illustrated, its distributions, phylogenetic relationships, ecology and conservation status, are discussed. Ardisia rarescens fue estudiada para el tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Myrsinaceae para la Flora Mesoamericana. Sus ptalos dextrorsamente imbricados, porciones apicales libres de los filamentos que son muy cortas, anteras con dehiscencia comprendida por hendiduras longitudinales anchas y continuas en el pice, botones corto-y anchamente cnicos en perfl, y vulos relativamente numerosos y insertados en una placenta gruesa, se combinaron para indicar que no fue posible ubicar sta especie dentro de un subgnero previamente conocido en el neotrpico. Sin embargo, los caracteres susodichos comprenden los que se define el gnero Ardisia subgneros Aerarsia , y Stylardisia, ambos provenientes de la regin Indo-Malesia. Debido al hecho de que se define el subgnero Stylardisia por sus flores protginas, y que Ardisia rarescens no tiene esa cualidad, ubicamos la especie dentro del subgnero Acrardisia. Surgerimos que Ardisia rarescens es otro elemento, tanto como el gnero Hymenandra previamente reportado, cuya distribucin se atribuya a la extensin lgica de la Hiptesis Boreotropical. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute su distribucin, parentezco, ecologa y estatus en cuanto a la conservacin se refiere.
41968924|A new variety, Pittocaulon hintonii var. cerrograndensis (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) is described, and four new combinations are proposed: Pittocaulon velatum var. tzimolensis, Telanthophora cobanensis var. molinae, Telanthophora grandifolia var. serraquitchensis, and Telanthophora sublaciniatus. Se describe una variedad nueva, Pittocaulon hintonii var. cerrograndensis, y se propon cuatro combinacines nuevas, Pittocaulon velatum var. tzimolensis. Telanthophora cobanensis var. molinae, Telanthophora grandifolia var. serraquitchensis, y Telanthophora sublaciniatus.
41968946|The Kallawaya herbalists of Bolivia follow a healing tradition over a millennium old. Twenty-eight plants of the indigenous pharmacopoeia have been documented in both 16th and 17th century historical literature and contemporary ethnobotanical research. This continuity has bio-cultural implications representing not only useful medicinal plants but also traditional cultural knowledge. These plants and their antiquity of use represent the cultural heritage of the Kallawaya and should be considered along with the biodiversity priorities of local conservation programs. The rapid loss of biological diversity and local knowledge is putting modern ethnobotany at the risk of becoming decadent, before becoming a discipline. Analysis of indigenous pharmacopoeias can be an effective means of determining bio-cultural importance and establishing ethnobotanical conservation priorities. The following case study discusses a selected group of plants that have ethnomedical importance and also various economic uses. The utilization of these plants over time represents their bio-cultural importance and priority for conservation and sustainability efforts. Los herboristas Kallawaya de Bolivia siguen una tradicin de curacin de ms de un milenio. Se han documentado veintiocho plantas de la farmacopea indgena en la literatura histrica de los siglos XVI y XVII y de la investigacin etnobotnica contempornea. Esta continuidad tiene implicaciones bio-culturales que representan no slo plantas medicinales tiles sino tambin conocimiento cultural tradicional. Estas plantas y su antigedad de uso representan la herencia cultural de los Kallawaya y debe ser considerada en los programas de conservacin junto con las prioridades de biodiversidad. La prdida rpida de diversidad biolgica y conocimiento local est poniendo a la etnobotnica moderna en el riesgo de hacerse decadente antes de llegar a ser una disciplina. El anlisis de las farmaconpeas indgenas puede ser un mtodo efectivo de determinar la importancia bio-cultural y establecer las prioridades de conservacin etnobotnicas. El siguiente caso de estudio discute un grupo selecto de plantas que tienen importancia ethnomdica junto con usos econmicos variados. La utilizacin de estas plantas a lo largo del tiempo representa su importancia bio-cultural y los esfuerzos para la conservacin y uso sostenido.
41968929|The term "variety" has historical precedence over "subspecies" and is either prescribed or recommended by the ICBN as the rank to be first used in the description of infraspecific taxa. The rank "subspecies" is then used to cluster related varieties. Accordingly, to replace earlier combinations at subspecific rank, the following new combinations in Styrax platanifolius are proposed: var. mollis (P.W. Fritsch) B.L. Turner, comb. et stat. nov.; var.texanus (Cory) B.L Turner, comb. et stat. nov.; and var. youngiae (Cory) B.L.Turner,comb.et stat. nov. No subspecies are recognized here in S. platanifolius. El trmino" variedad" precede histricamente al de"subespecie"y es ordenado o recomendado por el ICBN como el primer rango a ser usado en la descripcin de taxa infraespecficos. El rango "subespecie"se usa despus para agrupar variedades relacionadas. De acuerdo con sto, se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones para reemplazar combinaciones previas en el rango subespecfico en Styrax platanifolius:var.mollis (P.W.Fritsch) B.L.Turner,comb.et stat. nov.;var.texanus (Cory) B.L.Turner, comb. et stat. nov.; y var. youngiae (Cory) B.L.Turner, comb. et stat. nov. No se reconocen subespecies aqu en S. platanifolius.
41968943|Cyperus hyalinus Vahl is reported from Dade County, Florida, U.S.A. This paleotropical species has not been previously reported from the Western Hemisphere. Its taxonomy and pest potential are discussed. A dichotomous key to the subgenera of Cyperus in the United States, technical description, and photographs are provided, and collection data and voucher specimens are cited. Se cita Cyperus hyalinus Vahl del condado de Dade, Florida, U.S.A. Esta expecie paleotripical no ha sido citada previamente del hemisferio occidental. Se discute su taxonoma y su potencial como mala hierba. Se ofrece una clave dicotmica de los subgneros de Cyperus en los Estados Unidos, descripcin tcnica, y fotografas, y se citan los datos de la recoleccin y los pliegos testigo.
41968930|Recent molecular evidence indicates that most genera of North American Astereae comprise a monophyletic assemblage. Within this North American clade are three distinctive generic groups previously hypothesized to be most closely related to subtribes of the Southern Hemispherethe Monoptilon group, the Pentachaeta group, and the Townsendia group. Additionally, morphological and molecular evidence indicates that the genera Boltonia, Chloracantha, and Batopilasia are closely related among themselves and constitute a coherent group. These four North American groups are recognized here with formal names at subtribal rank:Chaetopappinae subtr.nov.(Chaetopappa, Monoptilon), Pentachaetinae subtr.nov.(Pentachaeta, Rigiopappus, Tracyina), Astranthiinae subtr. nov. (Astranthium, Dichaetophora, Geissolepis, Townsendia), and Boltoniinae (Batopilasia, Boltonia, Chloracantha). Homochrominae is placed synonymy under subtribe Bellieae. Recientes evidencias moleculares muestran que la mayora de los gneros norteamericanos de Astereae comprenden un conjunto monofiltico. Dentro de este clado norteamericano hay tres grupos genricos sobre los que se hipotetiz previamente que fuesen los ms relacionados con las subtribus de hemisferio surel grupo Monoptilon, el grupo Pentachaeta,y el grupo Townsendia. Adicionalmente, la evidencia morfolgica y molecular indican que los gneros Boltonia, Chloracantha, y Batopilasia estn muy relacionados entre ellos y constituyen un grupo coherente. Estos cuatro grupos norteamericano se reconocen aqu con nombres formales en el rango: Chaetopappinae subtr. nov. (Chaetopappa, Monoptilon), Pentachaetinae subtr.nov. (Pentachaeta, Rigiopappus, Tracyina), Astranthiinae subtr.nov.(Astranthium, Dichaetophora, Geissolepis, Townsendia), y Boltoniinae (Batopilasia, Boltonia, Chloracantha). Se lectotipifica Homochrominae, colocndola en la sinominia de la subtribu Bellieae.
41968925|The floristic checklist for the Crater Mt. Wildlife Management Area (CMWMA) is updated. Canarium acutifolium war. pioriverensis (Burseraceae) is newly described. Canarium acutifolium var. pioriverensis ( 
41968941|Field studies show Cyperus louisianensis is locally common and weedy in eastern Louisiana and southern Mississippi and extend its range into Alabama and Georgia. Morphometric and herbarium studies show C. sanguinolentus and C. louisianensis are taxonomically indistinguishable, and C. louisianensis is treated as a synonym of C. sanguinolentus . The widespread weed, C. sanguinolentus, formerly thought to be restricted to the Eastern Hemisphere, is reported new to North America, and data on its frequency, distribution, and ecology in the southeastern United States are presented. Los estudios de campo muestran que Cyperus louisianensis es localmente comn y una mala hierba en el este de Louisiana y el sur de Mississippi y que se extiende hasta Alabama y Georgia. Estudios morfomtricos y de herbario muestran que C. sanguinolentus y C. louisianensis son taxonmicamente indistinguibles, y C. louisianensis se trata como un sinnimo de C. sanguinolentus. La mala hierba extendida, C. sanguinolentus, que previamente se crey restringida al hemisferio este, se cita aqu como nueva para Norte Amrica, y se presentan datos de su frecuencia, distribucin y ecologa en el sureste de los Estados.
41968927|Cypripedium crossii Morren was first mentioned in La Belgique Horticole for 1865 and described in the same journal for 1883. Its priority over Cypripedium callosum Rchb.f. 1886 is discussed and established. The taxon and two of its known varieties are transferred to the genus Paphiopedilum Pfitzer. Cypripedium crossii Morren se mencion por primera vez en La Belgique Horticole en 1865 y se describi en la misma revista en 1883. Se discute y establece su prioridad sobre Cypripedium callosum Rchb.f.1886. Este taxon y dos de sus variedades conocidas se transfieren al gnero Paphiopedilum Pfitzer.
41968938|We describe the structure of eight natural stands of otate (Otatea acuminata (Munro) Cald.& Sod. subsp. aztecorum Guzmn, Anaya & Santana) that are subject to traditional extraction. These populations are compared based on density, diameter and height using growth stage categories, site characteristics and history of management/The point quarter method was used to sample populations to obtain estimates of stem densities. Analysis of variance was conducted on stem categories and density to compare stands; all comparisons showed significant differences between stands. Results suggest that the population structure of otate is being modified by harvest intensity, which appears to be a function of accessibility of the stands by basket makers and their history of use. Results are described in relation to harvesting otate for craft production. Se describe la estructura de ocho rodales naturales de otate (Otatea acuminata (Munro) Cald.& Sod. subsp. aztecorum Guzmn, Anaya y Santana) que estn sujetos a extraccin tradicional. Se comparan estas poblaciones de acuerdo a categoras de tallos, caractersticas del sitio e historial de manejo. Se utiliz el mtodo punto cuadrante para estimar la densidad de tallos. Se hizo un anlisis de varianza de la densidad y categoras de tallos para comparar los rodales entre s; todas las comparaciones mostraron diferencias significativas en una o varias de las caractersticas evaluadas. Los resultados indican que la estructura de las poblaciones de otate est siendo modificada por la intensidad del aprovechamiento, el cual est determinado principalmente por la cercana y accesibilidad de los rodales a los artesanos. Los resultados se discuten en relacin al aprovechamiento para fines artesanales.
41968935|Senecio quaylei, a new species from Texas, U.S.A., is described. Se describe Senecio quaylei, una especie nueva de Texas, U.S.A.
41968931|Preparation of our treatment of the family Myrsinaceae for the florula of the "Rio Cenepa" region resulted in the discovery of a heretofore undescribed species in the genus Stylogyne. Stylogyne aguarunana Pipoly & Ricketson is described, illustrated, mapped and its phylogenetic relations are discussed. Estudios para preparar un tratamiento taxonmico de la Myrsinaceae para la flrula de la regin "Ro Cenepa" resultaron en el descubrimiento de una nueva especie perteneciente al gnero Stylogyne.Stylogyne aguarunana Pipoly & Ricketson se describe, se ilustre, se mapea y se discute su parentezco.
41968937|Solidago villosicarpa, sp. nov., is described from the outer coastal plain of southeastern North Carolina, where collections have been made from four counties. Although it apparently is extant in only two of these four counties, its habitat and evident adaptation to disturbance suggest that the new species may be more frequent along the Carolina coast than is currently known. Solidago villosicarpa is placed as a member of sect, and subsect. Solidago and is distinctive in its combination of pubescent stems, glabrous to glabrate leaves, thyrsoid inflorescence, large heads with bright lemon-yellow rays, densely villous achenes, and late flowering. Se describeSolidago villosicarpa, sp. nov., de la llanura costera externa del sudeste de Carolina del Norte, donde se han hecho colecciones en cuatro condados. Aunque aparentemente existe en slo dos de estos cuatro condados, su habitat y evidente adaptacin a las perturbaciones sugieren que la nueva especie puede ser ms frecuente a lo largo de la costa de Carolina de lo que se conoce actualmente. Solidago villosicarpa se coloca como un miembro de la sect. y subsect. Solidago y es distintiva su combinacin de tallos pubescentes, hojas glabras o glabrescentes, inflorescencia tirsoide, captulos grandes con lgulas amarillo limn, aquenios densamente villosos y floracin tarda.
41968944|Our study of the legumes from the central part of the state of Chihuahua records 42 genera and 117 species. The number of genera/number of species for each of the three leguminous subfamilies are: Lotoideae 27/77; Mimosoideae 8/28; Caesalpiniodeae 7/12. Oak-pine forest had the highest number of species. Genera with the highest number of species are: Dalea (19), Acacia (11), Phaseolus (7), Desmodium (6), and both, Senna and Mimosa (5). Dalea, Desmodium and Phaseolus are most common on oak-pine forest communities, while Acacia, Senna, and Mimosa are most common on shrublands and grasslands. Nuestro estudio de leguminosas en la porcin central del estado de Chihuahua registr 42 gneros y 117 especies. El nmero de gneros/nmero de especies para cada una de las tres subfamilias es: Lotoideae 27/77; Mimosoideae 8/28; Caesalpinioideae 7/12. Los gneros con mayor nmero de especies son Dalea (19), Acacia (11 ), Phaseolus (7), Desmodium (6) y Senna y Mimosa con (5). Dalea, Desmodium y Phaseolus son mas comunes en los bosques de encino-pino, mientras que Acacia, Mimosa y Senna son mas comunes en matorrales y pastizales.
41968945|Located in southwestern Louisiana, Calcasieu Parish is composed of five major vegetation regions. These regions are defined by their respective vascular plant composition and physiography. A field survey of the vascular flora of the approximately 2,844 square kilometers that make up the Parish was conducted from August 1995 to October 2000. Additionally, specimens housed in various Louisiana herbaria were examined to complete the survey. Names of the 1,147 specific and subspecific entries representing 147 families found during this survey have been compiled in an annotated catalogue that includes collector name and collection number for one representative specimen and a designation as to whether each species is considered native or introduced. Vegetation regions where each species occurs are included in the catalogue. An additional 134 taxa reportedly collected in Calcasieu Parish that were not discovered during our field research nor located during our visits to other herbaria are also listed. Euphorbia texana is reported new for Louisiana. Localizado en el suroeste de Louisiana, la parroquia de Calcasieu est compuesta por cinco regiones de vegetacin principales. Estas regiones se definen por su composicin florstica y su fisiografa. Una prospeccin de campo de la flora vascular de los aproximadamente 2,844 kilmetros cuadrados que componen la parroquia fue realizada desde agosto de 1995 a octubre de 2000. Adicionalmente, especmenes albergados en varios herbarios de Louisiana fueron examinados para completar el estudio. Los nombres de las 1,147 entradas especificas y subespecficas que representan las 147 familias encontradas durante esta prospeccin se han compilado en catlogo comentado que incluye nombre del colector y nmero de la recoleccin de un espcimen respresentativo y una designacin de cada especie sobre si se considera nativa o introducida. Se incluyen en el catlogo las regiones de vegetacin en que vive cada especie. Se listan tambin 134 taxa adicionales citados como colectados en la parroquia de Calcasieu que no se encontraron durante la investigacin de campo ni en las visitas o otros herbarios. Euphorbia texana se cita como nueva para Louisiana.
41967190|Potamogeton perfoliatus L. is listed as a sensitive plant in the Louisiana Coastal Zone. Four erratic records from Lake Pontchartrain constitute the southwestern extent of its range in North America. To obtain a better understanding of its current status, aquatic habitats near New Orleans were surveyed. It was found in eastern Lake Pontchartrain at three new localities (Point Platte, Big Point, and Irish Bayou) and at two previously reported localities. The Point Platte bed is large (1.8 ha) and in a remote area. The erratic historic distribution of P. perfoliatus in Lake Pontchartrain may be due to the establishment of small, scattered, temporary beds in more accessible areas by dispersal from the large Point Platte population. Its restricted Louisiana distribution appears to be due to the suitable sediment and water quality conditions occurring in eastern Lake Pontchartrain. Potamogeton perfoliatus L. se incluye entre las plantas amenazadas de la zona litoral de Louisiana. Cuatro citas errticas a orillas del lago Pontchartrain constituyen la parte suroeste de su rea norteamericana. Con objeto de obtener una mejor comprensin de su estado actual se observaron ciertos habitats acuticos cercanos a New Orleans. La especie fue hallada en tres nuevas localidades al este del lago Pontchartrain: Pointe Platte, Big Pointe, e Irish Bayou, as como en otras dos localidades previamente citadas. El lecho correspondiente a Point Platte es extenso (18 m) y se encuentra en una zona remota. La distribucin histricamente errtica de P. perfoliatus en el lago Pontchartrain puede ser debida al establecimiento de lechos pequeos, dispersos y temporales de zonas ms accesibles, debidos a dispersiones que tuvieron lugar a partir de la poblacin de Pointe Platte. Su distribucin restringida en Louisiana parece deberse a las condiciones de sedimento apropiado y calidad del agua que se dan en la zona oriental del lago Pontchartrain.
41967180|The two species of Cyphomeris (Nyctaginaceae) occur in arid regions of central southern North America. Historically, C. gypsophiloides (Mart. & Gal.) Standl., the more widespread, consisted of two subspecies. The other, C. crassifolia (Standl.) Standl., is restricted to the eastern margin of the range of the genus. A survey of herbarium specimens reveals considerable variation particularly in fruit characteristics, leaf shape, and foliar pubescence and some intergradation in these features among populations. We used 114 specimens and 29 population samples to examine relationships of 14 vegetative and 10 fruit characters. Cluster analysis, principal components analysis, discriminant analysis, and multivariate analysis of variance indicate the presence of two morphological groups that correspond roughly to the species-level taxa of previous authors, groups that can be separated by morphology, geography, and ecology. These two species are maintained. The sole infraspecific taxon, C. gypsophiloides var. stewartii I. M. Johnst., is noted to be an extreme and geographically restricted form intergradient with nearby populations and is not recognized taxonomically. La variacin geogrfica de macromorfologia de Cyphomeris, un gnero pequeo de Nyctaginaceae de zonas ridas de la parte sur-centro de Norte Amrica, fue examinada mediante el uso de mtodos estadsticos multivariantes. Autores anteriores reconocieron dos especias, una [C. gypsophiloides (Mart. & Gal.) Standl.] con dos subespecias, y la otra [C. crassifolia Standl.] restringida a la parte este del rea del gnero. Usamos 114 muestras y ejemplares de 29 poblaciones para revisar las afinidades de 14 caracteres vegetativos y 10 caracteres de los frutos. Los datos fueron analizados por anlisis de agrupacin, anlisis de componentes principales, anlisis discriminante, y anlisis de multiariante. Los resultados indican la presencia de dos grupos morfolgicos que se corresponden aproximadamente con los taxa delnivel de especie de los autores anteriores; que pueden ser separadas por su morfologa, geografa, y ecologa. Unicamente no se reconoce el taxon infraespecifico, C. gypsophiloides var stewartii I. M. Johnston, pero es considerado como una forma extrema, intermedia con poblaciones ms o menos aisladas en las montaas prximas.
41967179|The genus Clusia section Criuva is revised for species within the Guayana Floristic Province. Eleven species are recognized, of which five, Clusia grammadenioides Pipoly, C. multilineata Pipoly, C. asymmetrica Pipoly, C. maguireana Pipoly, and C. guayanae Pipoly are described as new, illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Amplified descriptions are provided for the section and each hitherto known species, along with keys to the species within the section, and citation of representative specimens. Clusia reducta is reduced to synonymy under Clusia opaca and Clusia hexacarpa subsp. ptaritepuiana is reduced to synonymy under C. hexacarpa. Se presenta una revisin taxonmica del gnero Clusia seccin Criuva para las especies procedentes de la Provincia florstica Guayanesa. Se reconocen once especies, dentro de las cuales hay cinco, Clusia grammadenioides Pipoly, C. multilineata Pipoly, C. asymmetrica Pipoly, C. maguireana Pipoly, y C. guayanae Pipoly que se describen como nuevas, se ilustran y se discute su parentesco. Se ofrecen descripciones ampliadas para la seccin y especies previamente conocidas; tambin se presentan claves para identificar las especies dentro de la seccin, y un listado de especmenes representativos. Se reduce Clusia reducta a la sinonmia bajo C. opaca y C. hexacarpa subsp. ptaritepuiana bajo C. hexacarpa.
41967178|The genus Mirabilis includes the formerly recognized genera Allionia in part, Hesperonia, Oxybaphus and Quamodidion. It is comprised of about 60 species of tropical and temperate herbs distributed primarily in the Americas. Currently the genus is arranged in six sections, generally along the boundaries of the former genera. This study considers the section Mirabilis. Based on comparative morphology, including extensive field studies and observations in the greenhouse, scanning electron microsopy studies of pollen and fruit (anthocarp) characters, two species, M. donahooiana, M. polonii and one variety M. sangunea var. breviflora are described as new. In addition, one new combination is proposed, M. gracilis. El gnero Mirabilis incluye los gneros anteriormente reconocidos Allionia en parte y Hesperonia, Oxybaphus y Quamodidion. Est compuesto por aproximadamente 60 especies de plantas tropicales y clima templado, istribuido principalmente en las Americas. Actualmente el gnero est organizado en seis secciones generalmente dentro de los lmites del anterior gnero. Este estudio considera la seccin Mirabilis. Est basado en morfologa comarativs, incluyendo estudios extensivos de campo, observaciones en invernadero, caracteristicas del polen y fruto (antocarpo) estudiadas con microscopa electrnica, se describen dos nuevas especies M. donabooiana, M. polonii y una variedad M. sanguinea var. breviflora. Adems se propone una nueva combinacin: M. gracilis.
41967182|The species of Packera (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) have been treated in the past as the "Aureoid" group within the genus Senecio. Fifteen species and three varieties of Packera are recognized in Mexico; a key, an account of the nomenclature, and statements of ranges and habitats are presented. Three new combinations are proposed: Packera scalaris var. parnasiana (Greenm.) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera scalaris var. carmenensis (C.C. Freeman) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; and Packera zimapanica (Hemsley) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkley, comb. nov. Las especies de Packera (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) han sido tratadas en el pasado como grupo "Aureoide" dentro del gnero Senecio. En Mxico se reconocen quince especies y tres variedades de Packera. Se presentan una clave, un informe nomenclatural y otro relativo a las reas y los habitats. Se proponen tres combinaciones nuevas: Packera scalaris var. parrasina (Greenm.) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkely, comb, nov., Packera scalaris var. carmenensis (C.C. Freeman) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkely, comb, nov., and Packera zimapanica (Hemsley) C.C. Freeman & T.M. Barkeley, comb. nov.
41967186|New varieties of 10 species of Clitoria (Leguminosae - Phaseoleae - Clitoriinae) are described with commentary. Characteristics of segregation from other varieties within the species are presented. Newly described varieties include: C. arborea var. pseudoamazonica (Western Brazil), C. epetiolata var. angustissima (Brazil: Paran), C. guianensis var. macrocleistogama (Brazil: Minas Gerais), C. leptostachya var. fruticosa (Brazil: Para), C. maana var. pubescentia (United States: Florida), C. polystachya var. congesta (Mxico: Mxico), C. polystachya var. pringlei (Mxico: Morelos), and C. pozuzoensis var. schunket (Per: Loreto). New combinations include: C. falcata var. aurantiaca (Southern Brazil), C. falcata var. latifolia (Brazil: Para), C. heterophylla var. pedunculata Madagascar, Mauritius), C. guianensis var. chapadensis (Brazil: Mato Grosso), and C. stipularis var. latifolia (Brazil: Cear, Maranho). Se describen variedades nuevas de diez especes de Clitoria (Leguminosae -Phaseoleae - Clitoriinae). Se presentan las caractersticas de segregacin de otras variedades dentro de las especes. Estas variedades nuevamente descritas incluyen las siguientes: C. arborea var. pseudoamazonica (Brasil oeste), C. epetiolata var. angustissima (Brasil: Paran), C. guianensis var. macrocleistogama (Brasil: Mineas Gerais), C. leptostachya var. fruticosa (Brasil: Par), C. mariana var. pubescentia (Estados Unidos: Florida), C. polystachya var. congesta (Mxico: Mxico), C. polystachya var. pringlei (Mxico: Morelos), and C. pozuzoensis var. schunkei (Per: Loreto). Se incluyen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: C. falcata var. aurantiaca (Brasil del sur), C. falcata var. latifolia (Brasil: Para), C. heterophylla var. pedunculata (Madagascar, Mauritius), C. guianensis var. chapadensis (Brasil: Mato Grosso), y C. stipularis var. latifolia (Brasil: Cear, Marano).
41967188|In preparation of the treatment of Clusia section Anandrogyne for Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, Flora of the Guianas, and Flora of Central French Guiana, the section is lectotypified and its description is emended. A key to the species, along with updated descriptions with citation of types and representative specimens examined, are also provided for each species, concomitant with discussions of distribution, ecology and conservation status. Discussions of postulated phylogenetic relationships are presented for each taxon. Clusia fabiolae is described and illustrated. Clusia scariosa is relegated to synonymy under Clusia pachyphy Ha. Clusia duartei is placed in the section for the first time, based on new data from flowering material, and C. savannarum is newly recorded for Venezuela. Clusia sessilis is a homonym and a nomen novum, Clusia wurdackiana, is provided for it. Al preparar un tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Clusia secc. Anandrogyne para las floras de la Guayana Venezolana, de las Guayanas, y de la Guayana Francesa Central, se lectotipifica la seccin y se amplia su descripcin. Adems, se ofrece una clave para distinguir las especies, junto con descripciones actualizadas, tipos y especmenes citados. Se discute el parentesco, la distribucin geogrfica, ecologa y estatus en cuanto a conservacin para cada especie. Finalmente, se discute lo que sabe de la filogenia de dichas especies. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute el parentesco de Clusia fabiolae. Se relega C. scariosa a la sinonmia bajo C. pachyphylla. Se ubica Clusia duartei en la seccin por la primera vez, en base a nuevo material en flor, y se cita C. savannarum como nuevo para Venezuela. Clusia sessilis es un homnimo y por lo tanto, se ofrece para ella un nombre nuevo, Clusia wurdackiana.
41967192|The chromosome number of the Californian cornelian cherry, Cornus sessilis Torr., is determined to be 2n= 20, differing from the number (2n= 18) reported for other cornelian cherries. This is the first report of a chromosome number for C. sessilis. The finding of 2n= 20 in C. sessilis along with evidence from morphology and molecular data helps clarify the evolutionary trend of chromosome numbers in Cornus and suggests an early divergence between the species and its close relatives, C. mas - C. officinalis - C. chinensis. El determina el nmero cromosmico del cornejo de California Cornus sessilis Torr. Como 2n= 20, que difiere del nmero (2n= 18) citado de otros cornejos. Este es el primer recuento cromosmico de C. sessilis. El hallazgo de 2n= 20 en C. sessilis junto con la evidencia de datos morfolgicos y moleculares ayuda a clarifica las tendencias evolutivas de los nmeros cromosmicos en Cornus y sugiere una divergencia temprana entre esta especie y sus parientes ms prximos, C. mas - C. officinalis - C. chinensis.
41967187|The tuberculate-fruited Ichthyothere pastazensis from Ecuador and the pinnately veined I. macdanielli from Peru are described as new. Se describen como nuevas especies Ichthyothere pastazaensis, con frutos tuberculados, de Ecuador y I. macdanielii, de hojas pinnatinervias, de Per.
41967184|References by Lindheimer (1845a and b, 1879) and Engelmann (Gray 1850) to Texas central coast palm trees, and a description of the distribution and uses of Sabal mexicana Mart, by Sargent (1905, 1922), add to the evidence that a wild population of the species discovered in Jackson and Victoria counties in 1989 is indigenous. Referencias de Lindheimer (1845a y b, 1879) y Engelmann (en Gray 1850) a palmeras en la litoral central de Texas, y una descripcin de la distribucin y los usos de Sabal mexicana Mart, hecha por Sargent (1905, 1922), contribuyen a la evidenciar que una poblacin natural de la especie descubierta en los condados de Jackson y Victoria en 1989 es autctona.
41967147|Examination of the taxonomic relationships of the rare parasitic vine Cuscuta attenuata Waterf. to other species of the genus reveals that it should be positioned in subsect. Indecorae Yunck. rather than Lepidanche Engelm. as previously placed. Analyses of morphological variation, via univariate analysis, UPGMA clustering, principal component analysis, and discriminant analysis, indicate that it is distinct from C. compacta Juss. and C. cuspidata Engelm. but morphologically similar to C. indecora Choisy, especially var. longisepala Yunck. Results obtained in a program of interspecific hybridizations reveal that C. attenuata is reproductively isolated from the other taxa. These data suggest that C. attenuata merits continued recognition as a distinct species. El examen de las relaciones taxonmicas de la rara parsita Cuscuta attenuata con otras especies del gnero revela que debe ser colocada en la subsect. Indecorae en vez de la subsect. Lepidanche como se haba hecho previamente. Los anlisis de la variacin morfolgica, mediante anlisis univariante, agrupamiento UPGMA, anlisis de componentes principales y anlisis discriminante, indican que es distinta de C. compacta Juss. y de C. cuspidata Engelm., aunque morfolgicamente semejante a C. indecora Choisy, especialmente a la var. longisepala Yunck. Los resultados obtenidos en un programa de hibridaciones interespecficas revela que C. attenuata est aislada reproductivamente de los otros taxa. Estos datos sugieren que C. attenuata debe continuar reconocindose como una especie distinta.
41967146|A historical perspective and discussion of the generic relationships is presented for Paspalidium and Setaria. It is concluded that species of Paspalidium are best treated as Setaria. A list of accepted taxa previously placed in Paspalidium is given. Nineteen new combinations (Setaria albovillosa, S. aversa, S. basiclada, S. dmentit, S. constricta, S. criniformis, S. gausa, S. globoidea, S. spartela, S. grandispiculata, S. inaequalis, S. jubiflora, S. paludivaga, S. rara, S. reflexa, S. retiglumis, S. scabrifolia, S. tabulata, S. uda) and one new name (Setaria brigalow) are proposed. Se presenta una perspectiva histrica y una discusin de las relaciones genricas de Paspalidium y Setaria. Se concluye que las especies de Paspalidium estn mejor tratadas en Setaria. Se ofrece una lista de los taxa aceptados colocados previamente en Paspalidium. Se proponen diez y nueve combinaciones nuevas (Setaria albovillosa, S. aversa, S. basiclada, S. clementii, S. constricta, C. criniformis, S. gausa, S. globoidea, S. spartela, S. grandispiculata, S. inaequalis, S. jubiflora, S. paludivaga, S. rara, S. reflexa, S. retiglumis, S. scabrifolia, S. tabulata, S. uda) y un nombre nuevo (Setaria brigalow).
41967138|Se describe y se ilustra Pteropepon oleiferum y se discute su parentesco. Es una especie nica dentro del gnero y de la familia debido al hecho de que tiene solamente un estambre con una antera bilocular insertada en un filamento cnico, y que es dioica. Sin embargo, est mejor colocada en Pteropepon que en cualquier otro gnero conocido hasta la fecha. Esta especie es la tercera especie nueva descrita de la regin de Ro Claro (Antioquia) en los ltimos tres aos, como resultado de las investigaciones de los autores. La zona donde crece tiene suelos calcreos con un alto porcentaje de la flora aparentemente endmica, presentando tambin muchos elementos disyuntos y otros aspectos biogeogrficos interesantes. Pteropepon oleiferum is described, illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships discussed. It is a unique species within the genus and family, based on its one stamen and one bilocular anther on a conic filament, concomitant with its dioecious habit. Nevertheless, we feel that the new entity is best placed in Pteropepon than in any other cucurbitaceous genus known, because of its laterally compressed, fibrous and winged fruit, and staminate flowers in panicles. As a result of the authors' collaborative research, this is the third new species to be described from the Ro Claro area of Antioquia since 1991. The area is calcareous, apparently with a large percentage of the flora endemic, disjunct, or otherwise biogeographically interesting.
41967157|A subtribal classification system for 38 genera of Eragrostideae that occur in the New World is presented. Seven recognized subtribes include: Eleusininae, Eragrostidinae, Monanthochloinae, Muhlenbergiinae, Munroinae, Sporobolinae, and Uniolinae. A comparative discussion outlining the recent classification history is included. Diagnostic fully comparative descriptions are given for each subtribe and a new subtribe, Munroinae, is validated. Se presenta un sistema de clasificacin tribal de 38 gneros de Eragrostideae que viven en el Nuevo Mundo. Las siete subtribus reconocidas son: Eleusininae, Eragrostidinae, Monanthochloinae, Muhlenbergiinae, Munroinae, Sporobolinae, y Uniolinae. Se incluye una discusin comparativa que esboza la historia de la clasificacin reciente. Se ofrece una descripcin diagnstica comparativa completa de cada subtribu y se valida una nueva subtribu, Munroinae.
41967152|Sageretia yunlongensis G.S. Fan & L.L. Deng sp. nov. from Yunlong Xian, Yunnan, China and Rhamnus hemsleyanus Schneid, var paucinervatus G.S. Fan & L.L. Deng var. nov. from Wuyi Shan Mountain, Fujian, China, are described and illustrated. Se describen e ilustran Sageretia yunlongensis G. S. Fan et L. L. Deng del condado de Yunlong en Yunnan (China) y Rhamnus hemsleyanus Schneid, var. paucinervatus G.S. Fan et L.L. Deng var. nova de la montaa Wuyi Shan en Fujian (China).
41967142|Leaf blades of Erioneuron and Dasyochloa species were analyzed for anatomical details. Analysis of transverse sections and epidermis show that both genera can be clearly delimited. Differences between E. avenaceum and E. grandiflorum were not found, supporting the interpretation that these are conspecific. Differences between E. avenaceum, E. pilosum, and E. nealleyi were found, suggesting that these be maintained as distinct entities. Differences between Dasyochloa and Erioneuron support the recognition of Dasyochloa as a monotypic North American genus. Fueron analizadas lminas de las especies de Erioneuron y Dasyochloa, para un estudio anatmico detallado. El anlisis de la lmina en seccin transversal y de la epidermis, muestra que los dos gneros pueden ser claramente definidos. No se encontraron diferencias entre E. avenaceum y E. grandiflorum, lo que apoya la interpretacin de que no son especies distintas. Se encontraron algunas diferencias entre E. avenaceum, E. pilosum y E. nealleyi, que sugieren que stas se pueden mantener como especies distintas. Las diferencias entre Dasyochloa y Erioneuron, apoyan el reconocimiento de Dasyochloa como un gnero monotpico para Norteamrica.
41967140|Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Tachigali, T. vasquezii, procedente de la cuenca amaznica colombiana y peruana. Se ilustra la especie y se discuten sus relaciones filogenticas. Adems, otras especies anteriormente clasificadas en el gnero Sclerolobium, que se encuentran en varias flrulas amaznicas actualmente en proceso de redaccin, o con las que tienen parentesco, se transfieren al gnero Tachigali, resultando las nuevas combinaciones Tachigali rugosa (Martius) Zarucchi & Pipoly, T. micropetala (Ducke) Zarucchi & Pipoly, Tachigali bracteosa (Harms) Zarucchi & Pipoly. Tachigali micropetala y T. bracteosa son nuevas citas para Per. A new species of Tachigali, T. vasquezii, is described from the Amazon Basin of Peru and Colombia. The new species is illustrated and its phylogenetic relations are discussed. In addition, other species previously classified in the genus Sclerolobium now being treated in amazonian florulas in final preparation, or closely related to them, are transferred to Tachigali, resulting in the new combinations: Tachigali rugosa (Martius) Zarucchi and Pipoly, T. micropetala (Ducke) Zarucchi and Pipoly, and T. bracteosa (Harms) Zarucchi and Pipoly. The occurrence of T. micropetala, and T. bracteosa are new reports for Peru.
41967144|Quercus basaseachkenis C. H. Muller, collected by LeSueur in 1936 and named by Muller in 1938, was not recollected until 1985. Since that time this white oak (sect. Quercus) has been discovered at several sites in the Sierra Madre Occidental in Chihuahua and extreme northern Durango, Mexico. For the first time fruiting material is described. Quercus basaseachicensis occurs with two other white oaks, the low, shrubby, rhizomatous Q. depressipes Trel. and the robust shrub or tree Q. rugosa Ne, and is intermediate between them. Evidence based on habitat, habit, leaf morphology (including pubescence) is presented to indicate the hybrid nature of Q. basaseachicensis. The name Q. X basaseachicensis C. H. Muller, pro sp., is proposed. Quercus basaseachicensis C. H. Muller, que fue colectado por LeSueur en el ao 1936 y descrito por Muller en 1938, no ha sido vuelto a recolectado hasta 1985. Desde entonces este roble blanco (secc. Quercus) ha sido encontrado en algunos lugares en la Sierra Madre Occidental de Chihuahua y en el norte extremo de Durango, Mxico. Se describen por el primer vez plantas con flores y frutos. Quercus basaseachicensis convive con dos otros robles blancos muy diferentes, uno el pequeo, arbusto, rizomatoso Q. depressipes Trel., el otro el arbreo o arbusto grande, Q. rugosa Ne, siendo intermedio entre los dos. Se presentan evidencias basadas en el habitat, hbito, morfologa y indumento de las hojas para indicar la naturaleza hbrida de Q. basaseachicensis. Se propone el nombre Q. Xbasaseachicensis C. H. Muller, pro sp.
41967150|The genus Haplophyton has typically been regarded as monotypic by various authors. A close examination of herbarium specimens coupled with field observations in Chiapas, Mexico, has uncovered new evidence that strengthens the recognition of two distinct species, H. cimicidum and H. crooksii. Further evidence suggests that Haplophyton should be removed from the subtribe Alstoniinae and placed back into its own subtribe, the Haplophytinae. Distribution maps and a key to the species are provided. El gnero Haplophyton ha sido tratado como monotpico por varios autores. Un cuidadoso examen de especmenes de herbario junto con observaciones de campo en Chiapas, Mxico, ha puesto de manifiesto nuevas evidencias que refuerzan el reconocimiento de dos especies distintas: H. cimicidum y H. crooksii. Otras evidencias suplementarias sugieren que Haplophyton debera ser sacado de la subtribu Alstoniinae para volverlo a colocar en su propia subtribu Haplophytinae. Se ofrecen mapas de distribucin y una clave de especies.
41967158|Marsilea minuta L. (Marsileaceae), discovered in a streetside ditch in Escambia County, Florida, is here reported as newly introduced for Florida and North America. A probable explanation of its introduction via waterfowl and its potential as a weed are considered. Se cita Marsilea minuta L. (Marsileaceae), descubierta en una cuneta del borde de la carretera en el Condado de Escambia, Florida, como reciente nefito para Florida y Norte Amrica. Se discute una explicacin probable de su introduccin mediante las corrientes de agua y su potencial como mala hierba.
41967160|Saccharum L. consists of about 40 species concentrated in the tropics and subtropics of the world. Five species and one variety are recognized in this revision of the native North American taxa. Recognized taxa include S. alopecuroideum (L.) Nutt., S. baldwinii Spreng., S. brevibarbe (Michx.) Pers. var. brevibarbe, S. brevibarbe (Michx.) Pers. var. contortum (Nutt.) R. Webster, S. coarctatum (Fern.) R. Webster, S. giganteum (Walt.) Pers. A review of the relevant taxonomic history of the taxa is presented. A comprehensive set of morphological, geographical, and nomenclatural data was collected. A discussion is given on the range and distribution of the 234 characters applied in the taxonomic analysis. The DELTA computer system was used for the analysis and production of a key to the species and comparative species descriptions. Given for each taxon is a representative set of specimen citations and a discussion of diagnostic characters and biological relationships among the recognized species. Saccharum L. est formado por cerca de 40 especies concentradas en las zonas tropicales y subtropicales del mundo. En esta revisin de los taxa nativos de Norteamrica se reconocen cinco especies y una variedad. Los taxa reconocidos son: S. alopecuroideum (L.) Nutt., S. baldwinii Spreng., S. brevibarbe (Michx.) Pers. var. contortum (Nutt.) R. Webster, S. coarctatum (Fern.) R. Webster y S. giganteum (Walt.) Pers. Se presenta una revisin de la historia taxonmica de los taxa. Se coleci un conjunto extenso de datos morfolgicos, geogrficos y nomenclaturales. Se hace una disucsin del rango y distribucin de los 234 caracteres utilizados en el anlisis taxonmico. Se emple el sistema DELTA para el anlisis, la elaboracin de la clave de especies y para las descripciones comparativas de las especies. De cada taxon se da un conjunto representativo de citas y se hace una discusin de los caracteres diagnsticos y de las relaciones biolgicas entre las especies que se reconocen.
41967148|A newly discovered population of Dirca from the Sierra Madre Oriental of Tamaulipas, Mexico, is described and illustrated here as D. mexicana sp. nov. It expands the genus to three species and it is first of the genus known to occur in Mexico. The new species is similar to D. palustris of the eastern United States in its long calyx tube with abruptly flaring limb, but its greatest overall similarity is with the rare and restricted D. occidentalis of the San Francisco Bay region in west-central California. Dirca mexicana resembles the latter in its bud scales with whitish pubescence, sessile flowers and fruits, distinctly lobed calyces, and persistent pubescence on the young twigs and abaxial leaf surfaces. The new species differs from D. occidentalis in its flowers with a longer, narrower tube, shorter limb and lobes, and shorter style and filaments; the two population systems are separated by more than 2500 kilometers. Dirca mexicana is separated from the closest population of D. palustris by more than 1100 kilometers. Una poblacin de Dirca recientemente descubierta en la Sierra Madre Oriental de Tamaulipas, Mxico, se describe e iconografa aqu como D. mexicana sp. nov. Con ello se eleva a tres el nmero de especies en el gnero, siendo sta la primera que se conoce en Mxico. La nueva especie se parece a D. palustris, del este de los Estados Unidos, por su largo tuba del cliz con limbo abruptamente acampanado, pero su mayor parecido general es con la rara y restringida D. occidentalis de la regin de la Baha de San Francisco en la regin centro-oeste de California. Dirca mexicana se parece a esta ltima en las escamas de las yemas con pubescencia blanquecina, flores y frutos ssiles, clices netamente lobulados y la pubescencia persistente en las ramas jvenes y en el envs de las hojas. La nueva especie difiere de D. occidentalis por sus flores con un tubo ms largo y ms estrecho, con limbo y lbulos ms cortos, y estilo y filamentos ms cortos. Los dos sistemas de poblaciones estn separados por ms de 2500 kilmetros. Dirca mexicana est alejada ms de 1100 kilmetros de la poblacin de D. palustris ms prxima.
41967161|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Anredera baselloides, Chimaphila macult a, Scirpus subterminalis, Silene caroliniana, and Zigadenus leimanthoides. Some additions to the Florida panhandle are documented also, and several significant range extensions, particularly for rare or endangered taxa within our area, are given. Las plantas siguientes parecen ser primeras citas para el estado de Florida: Anredera baselloides, Chimaphila maculata, Scirpus subterminalis, Silne caroliniana y Zygadenus leimanthoides. Se documentan tambin algunas adiciones para el extremo de Florida y se dan varias extensiones de rea significativas, particularmente para plantas raras o en peligro dentro de este rea.
41967155|The genus Clusia sections Criuvopsis and Brachystemon are revised, in preparation for a treatment of the Clusiaceae for Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana and Flora de Colombia. Amplified descriptions, keys to the species and lectotypifications are provided for each section. In Clusia section Criuvopsis, 3 species are recognized, of which one, Clusia araracuarae, is described as new, illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships discussed. Amplified descriptions, illustrations and discussions of phylogenetic relationships are provided for Clusia amaznica and C. martiana. Clusia oedematopoidea is reduced to synonymy under C. amaznica, and C. uleana under C. martiana. In Clusia section Brachystemon, 3 taxa are recognized, of which one, Clusia aymardii, is described as new, illustrated, and its phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Amplified descriptions and discussions of phylogenetic relationships are provided for Clusia spathulaefolia and C. penduliflora. Como resultado de investigaciones para preparar un tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Clusia para Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana y Flora de Colombia, se presenta una revisin de las secciones Criuvopsis y Brachystemon. Se presentan descripciones actualizadas para las dos secciones, claves para separar sus especies, y se lectotipifiquen.. Se reconoce tres especies en la seccin Criuvopsis, entre las cuales, C. araracuare, se describe como especie nueva, se ilustra, y se discute su parentesco. Se provee descripciones ampliadas, ilustraciones y comentarios sobre relaciones filogenticas para Clusia amazonica, y C. martiana. Se relega C. oedematopoidea a sinonimia bajo C. amaznica y, a C. uleana bajo C. martiana. In seccin Brachystemon, se reconoce tres especies, entre las cuales, C. aymardii se describe como especie nueva, se ilustra, y se discute su parentesco. Tambin, se provee descripciones ampliadas, y comentarios sobre relaciones filogenticas para C. spathulaefolia y C. penduliflora.
41967153|A 150-year chronology of interaction between Lonicera maackii and people reveals the diverse roles of arboreta, botanical gardens, and government agencies in plant introduction and eventual naturalization. The species' biology, horticultural value, and conservation use are described. Una cronologa de 150 aos de interaccin entre Lonicera maackii y la gente revela los roles diversos que han tenido los arboreta, jardines botnicos, y agencias del gobierno en la introduccin y eventual naturalizacin de esta planta. Se describe la biologa de esta especie, su valor en horticultura, y su uso para conservacin.
41967136|A new species, Zigadenus mogollonensis, is described and illustrated. Its large flowers are campanulate, cernuous, and have a distinct purplish tinge. It is endemic, but quite locally common, to the Mogollon Mountains of southwestern New Mexico. A discussion on related species characteristics and variation within the section Anticlea of the genus Zigadenus is also presented. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Zigadenus mogollonensis. Sus flores grandes son campanuladas, colgantes y tienen un tinte prpura manifiesto. Es endmica, aunque muy comn localmente, de las montaas Mogolln del Suroeste de Nuevo Mxico. Se ofrece tambin una discusin de las caractersticas y variacin en las especies emparentadas dentro de la seccin Anticlea del gnero Zigadenus.
41966508|The pollen morphology of Dalea section Theodora in the southwestern United States and Mexico has been studied. Four of the five species in section Theodora have a unique pollen type commonly referred to as "dogbone" with Dalea mollis possessing the typical prolate pollen type of the genus. A radial development of the pollen shape is evident from the prolate pollen type in the center of the geographic range of the section Theodora to the "dogbone" pollen type radiating outward to the north, east, and southeast. The pollen grains of D. mollissima represent the intermediate form between the prolate and the "dogbone" type.
41966503|A taxonomic revision of POLYGALA series DECURRENTES is presented, based upon evidence from morphology, chromosome numbers, habitat, and distribution. Seven species, one with two varieties, are recognized. All are native to the southeastern United States. Each species is illustrated with line drawings showing habitat and floral morphology; distribution maps indicate sites of known populations. Selected specimens are cited, representative of the 2,463 examined. POLYGALA BALDUINII var. carteri (Small) Smith & Ward is proposed as a new combination, and POLYGALA smallii Smith & Ward is proposed in place of the illegitimate P. arenicola Small.
23909123|As an outgrowth of the discovery of Petrorhagia prolifera (L.) P. Ball & Heyw. in Michigan, a review is presented of North American material of Petrorhagia (Ser. in DC.) Link, a genus revised by Ball and Heywood (1964). Four species, all introduced from Europe, are ascribed to North America based on field study and an extensive herbarium survey that included European material. The history of introduction (where known), distribution, and current status of each species is presented. Petal vein color is described as an additional character that can be used in distinguishing the three species of the P. prolifera complex. A partial synonymy emphasizing names used in major floristic manuals and additional synonyms not listed by Ball and Heywood (1964) is presented to establish a transition to previous treatments.
23909125|Historically the taxonomic interpretation of three species of PortulacaP. pilosa L., P. mundula I.M. Johnst., P. parvula Gray has been unsettled. The basis for each interpretation has been reevaluated using material representing collections from both the Southeast and the Southwest United States. Morphological characters traditionally used in descriptions and keys, along with an examination of the seed surfaces by scanning electron microscopy, have provided evidence that P. mundula is conspecific with P. pilosa. The interpretation of P. parvula is still uncertain due to lack of study material. Theoretical patterns of the migration of Portulaca are presented.
23909121|Forestiera godfreyi (Oleaceae) is formally described and illustrated. The new species has previously been confused with F. acuminata and F. pubescens; comparions amongst the three are given.
23909315|Sida hermaphrodita (L.) Rusby (Malvaceae) is a perennial herb of riverine habitats in the northeastern and midwestern United States that presently is under consideration for listing as a federally endangered or threatened species. Although the species is rare in most sections of its range, it is locally common in a limited area along the Kanawha and Ohio rivers in West Virginia and Ohio. In contrast to previous reports, evidence is presented that Sida hermaphrodita is indigenous to the Great Lakes drainage. Its distribution and abundance is not limited either by soil type or by low seed viability or germination potential. Gametophytic and sporophytic chromosome numbers are 14 and 28, respectively. Although Sida hermaphrodita is not immediately in danger of extinction, its habitat continues to be severely altered by man, and no populations of this species presently are protected from destruction.
23909317|Fifty-one taxa new to the vascular flora of central Florida, 30 of which are exotics, and 65 nomenclatural or taxonomic changes are reported.
23909310|Leucophyllum and Eremogeton were placed in Leucophylleae series Pseudosolaneae by Bentham and in Verbasceae by Wettstein at the base of Scrophulariaceae. The two genera have been considered somewhat anomalous in Scrophulariaceae because of their woody habits and other features. Recent comparisons have shown similarities with woody Myoporaceae but the woody habit of Leucophyllum appears to be derived: this and comparisons of ovary structure show relationships are clearly with Scrophulariaceae. Data from comparative anatomy and morphology of leaves, stems, flowers, and trichomes, from chromosome number, and from phytgeography suggest recognition of 12 species of Leucophyllum including Faxonanthus as a monotypic subgenus. The species range from Puebla north through arid portions of Mexico into southern Texas. Leucophyllum langmaniae and L. ultramonticola are described as new. Eremogeton, retained as a monotypic genus related to Leucophyllum, is endemic to Central America.
23909316|Six vascular plant taxa are reported as new to the Arkansas flora (Cirsium muticum, Liparis loeselii, Pedicularis lanceolata, Rhynchospora capillacea, Solidago patula var. strictula, Solidago riddellii) and two noteworthy collections (Buchnera floridana, Scleria verticillata) are presented with brief ecological notes.
23909313|Of the six species of Cactaceae described as dioecious, only Opuntia stenopetala Engelm., O. grandis Pfeiffer and O. glaucescens Salm-Dyck are dioecious. Mammillaria dioica K. Brandegee and M. neopalmeri Craig are gynodioecious or possibly trioecious, differing from one population to another. Selenicereus innesii Kimnach is gynodioecious or probably hermaphroditic with sterile, abortive flowers that appear pistillate. Inadequate data and careless word usages have obscured the true sexual condition of the latter three species.
23909312|A taxonomic treatment and illustrations are provided for the three taxa of Leavenworthia and two of Lesquerella in Kentucky, and the distribution of each taxon in Kentucky is shown on a dot distribution map. The ecology and rarity status of each taxon at the state and federal level are discussed. Leavenworthia exigua var. laciniata and Lesquerella globosa currently are under review by the Fish and Wildlife Service for listing as endangered and threatened, respectively.
41961075|Jones, in a study of the fasciculate group of Vernonia, designated the single collection C. Wright 242 as the lectotype for both V. jamesii Torrey & Gray and V. tenuifolia Small. Vernonia jamesii Torrey & Gray is based on the type of V. altissima Nutt.  marginata Torrey and as such is typified by the specimen, Dr. E. P. James "On the Arkansa?," [sic] cited by Torrey. Although Small cited no specimens in his description of V. tenuifolia in 1898, he did annotate the collection Wright 242 (NY), which can serve as the lectotype for that name.
41961073|A synopsis is presented of the seven species of Lobelia section Tylomium (K. Presl) Benth. & Hook, known to occur in Mexico and Central America. A previously undescribed species, Lobelia zelayensis, is described from recent collections made in northeastern Nicaragua. Two species, whose generic placement has been problematic, are herein transferred to Lobelia: L. calochlamys (J. D. Smith) comb. nov. (= Pratia calochlamys (J. D. Smith) F. Wimmer) and L. guatemalensis (B. L. Robinson) comb. nov. (= Pratia guatemalensis (B. L. Robinson) F. Wimmer).
41961070|Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the lemma micromorphology of 30 genera and 57 species in the tribe Eragrostideae. Results show four silica deposition patterns: 1) cork cell associated with silica cell; 2) cork cell solitary; 3) cork cell with papillae; 4) cork cell not observed. The presence or absence of epidermal papillae, prickle hairs, micro-and macro-hairs is reported. An electron beam x-ray microanalysis indicated a high silica concentration in all structures examined including the cork cells. The distribution of cork cells and silica bodies has taxonomic significance and two subtribes within the tribe are proposed. Se examin la micromorfologia de la lema de 30 gneros y 57 especies de la tribu Eragrostideae mediante microscopa electrnica de barrido. Los resultados muestran cuatro patrones de deposicin de silice: 1) clula suberfera asociada con clula silicfera; 2) clula suberfera solitaria; 3) clula suberfera con papila; 4) no se observ clula suberfera. Se reporta la presencia o ausencia de papilas epidrmicas, aguijones, micropelos y macropelos. El microanlisis con haz electrnico de Rayos X indic una alta concentracin de silice en todas las estructuras examinadas, incluyendo las clulas suberferas. La distribucin de clulas suberferas y cuerpos de slice tiene significado taxonmico y se proponen dos dentro de la tribu.
41961079|Variational patterns and discontinuities were studied in Cinna (Poaceae). Nearly 4000 herbarium specimens of the genus were examined; four species were recognized on the basis of features of the spikelets. Cinna arundinacea inhabits moist forests in eastern North America; C. latifolia occupies similar sites in circumboreal regions; C. poaeformis occurs in mountainous areas from Mexico to Venezuela and Bolivia; and C. bolanderi is a central montane Californian endemic previously considered conspecific with C. latifolia. Keys, descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps are provided for all species.
41961072|Cheilanthes hintoniorum sp. nov. is described from Nuevo Leon, Mexico, where it is endemic and restricted to habitats of gypsum. Among other species of northern Mexico, it apparently is most similar to the more widespread C. hirsuta. Se describe una nueva especie endmica de helcho, Cheilanthes hintoniorum, de Nuevo Len, Mxico, restringida a los habitats de sustrato gipsio. Dentro de las especies encontradas en el norte del pas, la nueva especie se parece mas a C. hirsuta, un taxn de mbito geografico amplio.
41961068|Calocbortus balsensis, a new species from the Sierra Madre del Sur in Guerrero and Oaxaca, Mxico, is described and illustrated. Its relationships are discussed. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Calochortus balsensis, proveniente de la Sierra Madre del Sur en los estados de Guerrero y Oaxaca, Mxico. Se discuten sus relaciones con otras especies.
41961081|Data obtained from morphological characters and chromosome number indicate that seven species of Sisyrinchium should be recognized for Arkansas: S. albidum Raf., S. angustifolium Mill., S. atlantkum Bickn., S. campestre Bickn., S. langloisii Greene [S. pruinosum Bickn.], S. rosulatum Bickn. [S. exile Bickn.], and S. sagittiferum Bickn. These seven taxa are different from the eight previously recognized by Smith in that S. sagittiferum Bickn. was not listed and S. langloisii Greene and S. pruinosum Bickn., plus S. rosulatum Bickn. and S. exile Bickn., were listed as four distinct species. Distribution maps were produced using herbarium voucher specimens.
41961077|Euphorbia johnstonii, a newly recognized species from northern Tamaulipas, is described and illustrated. It most closely resembles E. acuta, from which it is distinct in its less upright habit, shorter, wider leaves, shorter, appressed vestiture, and geographical distribution. Euphorbia johnstonii is a member of Boissier's subsection Acutae, a group of Euphorbia which are morphologically intermediate between Euphorbia subgenus Agaloma and Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce. Three species considered here to belong to subsect. Acutae are mapped and compared. Se describe e ilustra Euphorbia johnstonii una especie nueva del norte deTamaulipas. Esta especie es semejante a E. acuta, de la cual se distingue por su hbito menos erecto, menor tamao, hojas ms anchas y cortas, indumento adpreso y distribucin geogrfica diferente. Euphorbia johnstonii es miembro de la subseccin Acutae de Boissier, un grupo de Euphorbia morfolgicamente intermedio entre Euphorbia subgnero Agaloma y Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce. Se mapean ycomparan las tres especies consideradas dentro la subseccin Acutae.
41966913|The authors provide a list of 32 additions, significant collections, and reinstatements for the vascular flora of Arkansas, with annotations and citation of voucher specimens.
41966905|Paronychia chartacea ssp. minima (Caryophyllaceae) from the Florida panhandle is formally described. The new subspecies is polygamodioecious and exhibits sexual dimorphism. It is distinguished from P. chartacea ssp. chartacea of peninsular Florida, and a map of their ranges is given.
41966915|Carex baltzellii was discovered for the first time in Mississippi from Marion County. The southwestern range limit of C. picta was extended by its discovery in Marion and Pearl River counties, Mississippi. Carex impressinervia was relocated in Forrest and Marion counties, Mississippi. Habitat information was acquired for each species.
41966909|Two new species, Vitis bloodworthiana and V. jaegeriana, are described and compared to the two most similar species in series Occidentales. Vitis bloodworthiana was found only at high elevations (1820  2360 m) in the Sierra Madre Occidental in the states of Sinaloa and Durango, and V. jaegeriana occurred in similar, high elevations in the Sierra Madre Oriental of San Luis Potosi. Dos especies nuevas, Vitis bloodworthiana y V. jaegeriana, son descritas y comparadas con las dos especies ms similares en la serie Occidentales. Se encontr a Vitis bloodworthiana solamente en altitudes mayores (1820  2359 m) en la Sierra Madre Occidental de los estados de Sinaloa y Durango; asimismo Vitis jaegeriana, ocurri en altitudes mayores, pero en la Sierra Madre Oriental del estado de San Luis, Potos.
41966903|Based on the result of a biosystematic study that employed phenetic analyses of morphological and enzyme electrophoretic data, and fieldwork, six Korean species can be recognized: Hosta yingeri S. B. Jones (Tae-huk-san, So-huk-san, Hong islands); H. capitata (Koidz.) Nakai (southern Korea); H. clausa Nakai (central and northern Korea); H. minor (Baker) Nakai (south and middle-eastern Korea, including Wan and Ko-jae islands); H. taquetii (Lvl. in Fedde) M. Chung & J. Kim comb. nov. (= H. venusta F. Maekawa) (Che-ju Island); and H. jonesii M. Chung (southern islands). Keys, typications, synonomies, descriptions, and distributions are included.
41966916|Chromosome numbers for 13 species of the pantropical or subtropical genus Hybanthus Jacq. (Violaceae) are known, including 9 species from Australia, 4 from North and South America and one from Afroasia. Diploid counts of 2n = 8, 12, 16, 24, 32 and 48 have been published for the various species. The genus appears to have a base chromosome number of x = 4 since polyploidy on such a base will account for all of the numbers reported to date. Dysploids among the various ploidy levels have not been found. In the present paper 5 meiotic counts are presented for four populations of the previously unreported Hybanthus verticillatus (n = 8 and 16 pairs), and one new meiotic count is given for H. attenuatus (n = 12 pairs).
41966896|Eastern North American Vitis, north of Mexico, as circumscribed here consists of two subgenera: Vitis and Muscadinia (Planchon) Rehder. Subgenus Muscadinia consists of a single species with two varieties. Subgenus Vitis is further divided into five series. Series Aestivales and Cinerescentes both consist of a single species, the former with three varieties and the latter with four varieties. Series Cordifoliae, Labruscae and Ripariae each contain three species. Three taxa previously recognized as species are regarded as hybrids: V.  champinii, V.  doaniana, V.  novae-angliae. Keys, descriptions, synonomies and typifications are included.
41966902|The secretions of glandular trichomes of two South American species of Sida are highly toxic to ants and cockroaches. In natural habitat, these secretions most likely provide resistance to herbivory by insect or other small arthropods.
41966891|Recent explorations of the alpine-subalpine floras of northeastern Mexico have revealed several new species o Sedum. The most widespread of these, here described as S. chrysicaulum, approaches most closely S. parvum ssp. nanifolium, but is easily distinguished from the latter by persistent, pale yellow-green, dorsally sulcate leaves, petals 5.0  7.5 mm long, and a preference for habitats above timberline. Exploraciones recientes de las floras alpinas en el nordeste de Mxico han dado luz a varias especies nuevas de Sedum. La especie mas ampliamente distribuida, S. chrysicaulum, aqu descrita, asemeja a S. parvum ssp. nanifolium, con la cual se distingue por hojas persistentes, verde-amarillentas plidas, sulcadas en la superficie adaxial, ptalos 5.0  7.5 mm de largo, y por prefencia de habitats arriba de los lmites arboreos.
41966904|Guidelines for structure, spelling, use, and application of common names for vascular plants are presented.
41966900|Conradina etonia, a new species of shrubby mint endemic to northern peninsular Florida is diagnosed, described, and figured. Differences between it and its closest morphological relative, C. grandiflora Small, are detailed. Attention is given to the fact that C. etonia is a narrow endemic, that it is on land being developed presently for residential use, and that it therefore should receive a high conservation priority.
41966898|The introduction and spread of Sclerochloa dura (Poaceae) in the United States are traced. Included is a detailed description of the species.
41966907|Specimens examined in 14 herbaria indicate that there are 30 native and naturalized species of Convolvulaceae in the state of Arizona. Types and select specimens are cited. Notes are given on county distributions, habitats, altitudes, and flowering dates. Comments are made on taxonomic problems, abundance and natural history of selected taxa. A lectotype for Ipomoea heterophylla Ortega is selected. Una revisin de las muestras de 14 herbarios indica que existen 30 especies nativas y naturalizadas para el estado de Arizona. Se citan los tipos y los ejemplares estudiados. Se nota la distribucion por los condades, el habitato, la distribucion altitudinal, y las fechas de floracion. Se commenta sobre los problemas taxonmicos, la historia natural, y la abundancia de los taxa. Se selecciona un lectotipo para Ipomoea heterophylla Ortega.
41966893|A single plant found west of Zacatepec, Puebla, Mexico, is recognized as a hybrid between members of two x = 6 genera of Astereae based on intermediacy of characters and reduced fertility. The plant is regarded as Xanthocephalum humile (Kunth) Benth.  Isocoma (Haplopappus) veneta (Kunth) E. Greene. The existence of this and two other natural hybrids of similar origin supports the hypothesis that the genera of Astereae having x = 6 are more closely related to one another than any is to genera having other base chromosome numbers, but should not be interpreted as evidence for uniting the genera. Una planta encontrada al oeste de Zacatepec, Puebla, Mxico ha sido reconocida como un hbrido entre dos x = 6 gneros de Astereae basado en fertilidad reducida y caracteres intermedios. La planta es considerada Xanthocephalum humile (Kunth) Benth.  Isocoma (Haplopappus) veneta (Kunth) E. Greene. La existencia de ste y otros dos hbridos de origen natural sostiene la hipotesis de que los gneros de Astereae que tienen x = 6 estn ms cercanamente relacionados unos a otros que cualquiera de stos con otros gneros con diferentes nmeros cromosomicos base, no obstante sto no debe ser interpretado como evidencia para unir los gneros.
41966895|Five distinct morphological groups were identified in a cultivated guayule stand at the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station Guayule Research Site near Fort Stockton, Texas. These groups were delineated according to growth habit, and leaf and inflorescence morphology. Mean rubber content was higher in Groups II, III, and V, which possessed more typical Parthenium argentatum morphological characters than in Groups I and IV. The latter groups are apparently products of the natural hybridization between guayule and mariola. Selection for superior rubber-yielding shrubs should be concentrated in Groups II, III, and V. Cinco diferentes grupos morflogicos fueron identificados en un puesto de guayule cultivado en la Estacion del Estudio de Guayule de la Estacio Experimental de Agricultura de Texas. Estos grupos fueron delineados de acuerdo con lo alto y el dimetro del palio, caractersticas de la hoja, y la morfologa del pedunclo. El alto contenido de hule ocurri en los Grupos II, III, y V los cuales poseen el tpico Parthenium argentatum de caractres morfologicos. Los Grupos I y IV, productos de la hybridacin natural entre el guayule y la mariola, producieron menos hule. La seleccin de arbustos que produscan hule superior deber concentrarse en Grupos II, III, y V.
41966901|The rediscovery of the rare Fryxellia pygmaea (Correll) Bates in central Coahuila is reported, and its ecology and taxonomic affinities are discussed. The plant has a chromosome count of 2n = 16. Se reporta el redescubrimiento de una poblacin de la infrecuente Fryxellia pygmaea (Correll) Bates de la parte central de Coahuila, y se discute su ecologa y sus afinidades taxonmicas. El nmero cromosmico de la planta es 2n = 16.
41966899|Seeds of 58 species of Clematis and Clematopsis were obtained from a variety of sources, germinated, and their seedling and juvenile morphology observed. Two very distinctive patterns emerged, each consisting of a cluster of characters. In Type I seedlings, the eophylls are alternate and toothed. Hypocotyls are elongate (except in Clematopsis), elevating the cotyledons and apical bud above ground, and buds are lacking in the axils of the cotyledons. Such seedlings are similar to those found in related genera such as Anemone, and are found in Clematis in the infrageneric taxa Clematis, Lasiantha, Connatae, Tubulosae, Atragene, Meclatis, Cheiropsis, Bebaeanthera, Naraveliopsis, Papuasicae, and in the genus Clematopsis. In Type II seedlings, leaves are paired from the beginning, but the first 1  3 pairs are usually reduced to cataphylls. Leaves are generally entire, often becoming lobed or divided, but not toothed. Hypocotyls are short, keeping the cotyledon bases and the epicotyl at first subterranean. Buds are typically present in the axils of the cotyledons. Such seedlings are found in the infrageneric taxa Crispae, Viticella, Patentes, Rectae, and Angustifoliae. These differences in seedling morphology and some correlated characters suggest a fundamental split in the genus and a basis for a revised infrageneric classification. Semillas de 58 especie de Clematis y Clematopsis fueren obtenido de orgenes diversos, se germin, y sus morfoliga juvenil se observi. Dos modelos distintos se manifestaron, cada uno consite en un grupo de varios caracteres. En las plantas de semilleros del Tipo Uno los eofilos son alternos y dentados. Los hipocotilos son alargados (con exclusin de Clematopsis), y elevan los cotiledones y la yema cimera sobre la tierra. Yemas son ausente de las axilas do los cotiledones. Plantas de seimlleros de este tipo son semejante a aquellas hallado en gneros relatados como Anemone. Se encuentran en las taxa infragenricas Clematis, Lasiantha, Connatae, Tubulosae, Atragene, Meclatis, Cheiropsis, Bebaeantehra, Naraveliopsis, Papuasicae, de Clematis y en el gnero Clematopsis. En plantas de semilleros del Tipo II, todas hojas son opuestas, per las parea 1  3 son usualmente reduciendo a catfilos. Las hojas son usualmente enteras, frecuentemente lobados pero no dentados. Hipocotilos son corto, y las bases de los cotiledones y la yema cimera se quedan subterrneo. Yemas se encuentran en las axilas de los cotiledones. Plantas de semilleros de este tipo se hallan en las taxa infragerricas Crispae, Viticella, Patentes, Rectae, y Angustifoliae. Estas differencias morfolgicas de las plantas de semilleros y algunes caracteres correlativos sugeron una divisin fundamental in el gnero y un fundamento para revisar la clasificacin infragenrica.
41966910|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Anthemis arvensis, Artemisia vulgaris, Carex leavenworthii, Cerastium semidecandrum, Cicuta maculata, Cladium mariscoides, Curcuma zedoaria, Hedyotis purpurea, Paspalum minus, Ranunculus marginatus, and Silene virginica. Some additions to the Florida panhandle are documented here also, and several significant range extensions, particularly for rare or endangered taxa within our area, are given.
41966911|Field work in southeastern Missouri during 1989 and 1990 has resulted in a number of noteworthy Cyperus records. Cyperus grayioides and Cyperus retroflexus are reported new to Missouri. Also, additional records of Cyperus croceus and Cyperus  mesochorus and two previously unknown Cyperus hybrids are reported.
41966746|Ratibida coahuilensis B. Turner fron north central Mxico is described as new. It is related to R. latipalearis Fisher of western Chihuahua, but can be distinguished by a number of features, including leaf partition, shape and size of segments, vestiture and achenal characters. An illustration is provided.
41966749|Cimicifuga is frequently confused with Actaea, Aruncus, and Astilbe, when only vegetative structures are present. A chart is presented comparing and contrasting the subtle morphological features existing between these four genera, Thalictrum, Caulophylum, and Trautvetteria are also sometimes misidentified as Cimicifuga. Photographs of the leaf or most terminal leaflets from herbarium speciments of all seven genera accompany the discussion and illustrate their diagnostic vegetative differences. A simple key is offered as a tool for the possible field identification of vegetative specimens.
41966754|Eupatorium yashanalense sp. nov. from Chiapas, Mexico differs from E. conzatti and E. lozanoanum in its terete stems, ovate leaves, spirally inserted phyllaries and glabrous achenes; E. parviflorum var. monticola var. nov. from Blue Mountain Peak, Jamaica, differs from var. parviflorum in its smaller narrower leaves and its small condensed inflorescences.
41966752|Examination of the holotype of Carex boelckeiana suggests that this Patagonian species belongs in Carex sect. Junciformes rather than in sect. Inflatae, where it was originally placed. It is then more closely related (i.e., morphologically similar) to carices from southern South America than to C. breweri and C. engelmannii from western North America, as was previously suggested.
41966757|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Aristida tuberculosa, Bumelia thornei (an endangered species), Chaerophyllum procumbens, Centaurea maculosa, Desmodium nuttallii, Dodocatheon meadia, Phyla lanceolata, Polygonum bicorne, Rhus aromatica, and Sporobolus vaginiflorus . A few adventive and naturalized species are also listed that could be considered new to the state. Also, 28 additions to the flora of the Florida panhandle are documented here, and several significant range extensions within the area are given.
41966743|A key and summary of typification are provided for the six Mexican species of Omphalodes, including the new species O. richardsonii Nesom from the Gmez Faras region of Tamaulipas, Mxico. All are from Mxico and are the only taxa of Omphalodes native to North America. The locality of the new speices reinforces the observation that northeastern Mxico is a secondary center of diversity for this primarily Eurasian genus.
41966740|Senecio mahindae Nesom & Vorobik is described from the Sierra de San Carlos in Tamaulipas, Mxico. It is most closely related to S. platypus Greenman but differs from it most prominently in its strongly rhizomatous habit, shorter and nearly scapose stems, and lyrate leaves.
41966744|Glandularia brachyrhynchos is described from the Sierra de San Carlos in north central Tamaulipas, Mxico. It has a strongly inflated nutlet and other characters of G. tumidula (Perry) Umber that imply that the two are sister species. The new species differs most prominently from its close relative in having non-glandular stems and leaves, shorter, stiffer stem pubescence, and an extremely abbreviated calyx "beak."
41966756|Forty-one taxa new to the vascular flora of central Florida are reported, 19 of which are exotics and nine reported for the first time for the state. Twenty nomenclatural or taxonomic changes are also included.
41966747|Two new species belonging to the genus Verbesina sect. Platypteris, V. vallartana and V. lottiana, are described from Jalisco, Mxico. According to characters of the involucre, the former is presumably related to V. fraseri, the latter to V. crocata. Illustrations of the new taxa are provided.
41966758|The following 44 species of monocots are reported as new or otherwise noteworthy in south Alabama: Amphkarpum muhlenbergianum, Bothriochloa ischaemum var. songarica, Bulbostylis warei, Carex cherokeensis, C. elliottii, Catapodium rigidum, Chamaelirium luteum, Corallorhiza wisteriana, Cyperus oxylepis, Eleocharis robbinsii, Eragrostis amabilis, E. lugens, E. minor, Eustachys glauca, Fimbristylis schoenoides, F. vahlii, Halodule ivrightii, Heteranthera reniformis, Ipheion uniflorum, Juncus abortivus, Koeleria gerardii, Leptochloa fascicularis, L. panicoides, Lilium iridollae, Limnobium spongia, Limnodea arkansana, Luziola bahiensis, Manisuris tessellata, Nothoscordum inodorum, Panicum nudicaule, Parapholis incurva, Paspalum conjugatum, Peltandra saggitifolia, Phalaris angusta, Pleea tenuifolia, Potamogeton robbinsii, Sagittaria platyphylla, Scirpus cubensis, Setaria corrugata, S. faberii, Spartina spartineae, Tradescantia fluminensis, T. subaspera, and Triglochin striata.
41966751|Vaccinium margarettae Ashe is lectotypified and proposed as a hybrid pro species.
41966742|Villadia jimulcensis Nesom, sp. nov., appears to be a narrow endemic from the Sierra de Jimulco in southwestern Coahuila. It is similar to V. cucullata Rose of northeastern Mxico but differs from it in having a more open inflorescence with flowers in axillary clusters, smaller sepals and petals, and petals with a rounded, non-hooded, non-apiculate apex. Sedum tamaulipense Nesom, sp. nov., is known from the Sierra de San Carlos in north-central Tamaulipas. It is most similar to S. reptans R. Clausen but differs in its smaller leaves, smaller flowers, triangular petals without a subapical apiculus, and transparent carpels connate in their basal 1/2  3/5 and with "cellular" walls.
41966748|A revision of Verbesina section Platypteris is presented. Five species are recognized in the section: V. crocata, V. vallartana, V. lottiana, V. fraseri and V. ovatifolia. A distribution map and one figure are provided.
41966769|Plant names published in Engelmann's 1848 Letter to Emory are provisional and therefore not valid. These include O. californica, O. microcarpa, O. stanlyi, and O. violcea. Of these, only O. californica was never validated. The remainder were validated by Jackson in Index Kewensis in 1895. The first two names cannot be applied with certainty from the drawings and diagnoses. The last two are predated by O. emoryi Engelm. and O. macrocentra Engelm. respectively; in neither species do we recognize varieties. Other changes are O. aureispina (Brack & Heil) Pinkava & Parfitt, comb, et stat. nov. and O.  spinosibacca Anthony, pro sp., the latter a hybrid between putative parents, O. aureispina and O. phaeacantha Engelm.
41966775|After demonstrating that the binomial Gentiana alba Muhl. was not originally validly published, it is concluded that the correct name for this distinctive species is Gentiana flavida A. Gray.
41966780|A taxonomic study of generic concepts and evaluation of characters is presented for the Paniceae of Mesoamerica. An original set of data, consisting of 305 characters recorded for 37 genera, were collected and analyzed to produce English and Spanish bracketed keys to the recognized genera. An appropriate subset of characters was selected for inclusin in a Spanish synoptic key. These characters are also presented in a set of comparative English descriptions for the genera not occurring in North Amrica. Diagnostic characters essential for identification are highlighted within each description. Remarks on the morphology and relationships of each genus are also given. Se presenta un estudio taxonmico de evaluacin de caracteres y conceptos a nivel gnero para las Paniceae de Mesoamrica. Un conjunto particular de datos, consistente en 305 caracteres se registr para 37 gneros, stos fueron reunidos y analizados para producir claves dicotmicas en ingls y espaol para los gneros reconocidos. Un subconjunto adecuado de caracteres fue seleccionado para elaborar una clave sinptica en espaol. Estos caracteres estn tambin presentados en un grupo de descripciones comparativas en ingls para los gneros que no se distribuyen en Norteamrica. Caracteres diagnsticos escenciales para la identificaci"n estn resaltados en cada descripci"n. Observaciones sobre la morfologa y relaciones de cada gnero son tambin presentados.
41966782|Chromosome numbers are presented for 104 populations of tracheophytes representing 78 species in 21 families. First reports include Isoetes butleri Engelm., 2n = 22; Penstemon eatonii A. Gray subsp. undosus (M. E. Jones) Keck, n  8; P. linarioides A. Gray subsp. linarioides, n = 8; and P. wrightii Hook., n = 8.
41966773|Selected significant records from a study of the Caryophyllaceae for the Vascular Flora of the Southeastern United States are presented. Gypsophila oldhamiana Miq. is reported as new to the flora of North America.
41966770|A new species, Picea martinezii T. E. Patterson, is described from Nuevo Len, Mxico, It is a low elevation, large-cone spruce most similar to Picea chihuahuana Martnez.
41966778|Mississippi was surveyed for the presence of Carex exilis. The species was detected in the six southernmost counties. The floristic associates, habitat characteristics, and distribution are provided for C. exilis in Mississippi.
41966781|An annotated list of 70 noteworthy dicots of Mobile and Baldwin counties, Alabama is presented. Fifty-four taxa are thought to represent new county records and the following three species may represent first reports for the state: Crotalaria pallida, Indigofera hirsuta, and Mikania cordifolia.
41966779|A floristic study of Grenada County, Mississippi, in 1986 and 1987, documented 996 species of vascular plants. Of these, four taxa are new records for the state: Equisetum arvense L., Dryopteris X australis (Wherry) Small, Cyperus lancastriensis Porter, and Angelica atropurprea L. In addition, species that represent significant range extensions and species considered rare or threatened in Mississippi are reported from Grenada County.
41966774|A recent collection of Robinsonella glabrifolia extends the range of the species from southern Mxico to Guatemala, permits an amplification of the description to include flowers and fruits (previously unknown), and clarifies our understanding of inflorescence structure in the genus, and consequently of sectional subdivision of the genus. On the basis of this improved understanding, section Mirandella is reduced to synonymy with section Robinsonella. Section Grayella is retained as distinct.
41966771|The range of Calamovilfa curtissii (Gramineae) in the Florida panhandle has been rediscovered and expanded. Observations on habitat, soils, associated species, and flowering response to fire are reported.
41966776|Azalea rosea Loisel. is lectotypified from heterogeneous elements and restored as basionym of Rhododendron roseum (Loisel.) Render. A new combination for the glandular forma of R. periclymenoides (Michx.) Shinners is proposed.
41966772|The taxonomy of two gypsum endemics, Heterotoma pringlei and Lobelia margarita, is discussed and their relationship clarified. Heterotoma pringlei is transferred to Lobelia, "series Angustifolia" requiring a new name, for which L. gypsophila is proposed. A key, descriptions, distributions, and illustrations are provided for both species.
41966843|Varying chromosome counts of Cercis canadensis L. have been reported in the literature, i.e., n = 6 and n = 7. Squash preparations of pollen parent cells from native trees in southwestern Ohio confirm the count of n = 7. However, past segmental interchanges between nonhomologues are the assumed cause of occasional structural connections observed between two or more bivalents during meiosis. The viewing of such connected chromosomes, perhaps superficially appearing as a unit structure, might result in an erroneous count, such as n = 6.
41966849|Authors report discovery of a wild population of Sabal mexicana Mart, in the Central Coast (Coastal Bend) region of Texas, present evidence that the species is indigenous to that region, and discuss conservation prospects. Los autores relatan el descubrimiento de una poblacin salvaje de Sabal mexicana Mart, en el litoral central de Texas, presentan evidencia de que esta regin es parte de la distribucin nativa de la especie, y discuten las perspectivas de su conservacin.
41966851|Five species of Carex section Lupulinae occur in Texas; C. lupulina, C. lupuliformis, C. louisianica, C. intumescens and C. gigantea. Carex lupulina is the most common and widespread of the five. Carex lupuliformis, which is rare, grows mostly in calcareous sites in swampy woodlands. It has been recorded only in the northeast corner of the state in Bowie and Marion counties. Carex louisianica occurs infrequently in the eastern 1/3 of Texas growing in acidic soils of swampy woods or bottomland hardwood forests. Carex intumescens is widespread across the distributional range of section Lupulinae in Texas but is infrequent within its diminishing habitat of acidic bottomland hardwood forests. In Texas, C. gigantea is the rarest member of the section having not been collected for 46 years. The only two collections were made in Harris and Polk counties in acidic swampy woodlands. An artificial dichotomous key, county distribution maps and comparable species descriptions are provided.
41966844|A new species of Crataegus L. (Rosaceae), C. secreta Phipps, is described from westcentral Texas in the drier, northwestern parts of the Edwards Plateau. It is now known from at least a five-county area. The new species is compared with candidates in series Virides and Molles and easily excluded from these series. Its probable affiliation is series Tenuifoliae, but this awaits further study.
41966854|The Weches Geologic Formation, which was formed during the Eocene Epoch, supports a herbaceous flora in a region where forest is the general climax vegetation. Soils are shallow and basic in contrast to the deeper acid soils of eastern Texas and the sites are usually waterlogged during spring. Species with the highest importance values in the Weches plant communities are Sedum pulchellum, Satureja arkansana, Sporobolus vaginiflorus, Arenaria patula, Valerianella spp. and Tri folium dubium. Lesquerella pallida and Leavenworthia texana are endemic to these outcrops. Disjunct species include Calylophus drummondianus, Liatris mucronata, Paronychia virginica and Petalostemon pulcherrimum. Species richness ranged from 49 to 81 species for the sites studied, while species diversity ranged from 3.23 to 4.56. Although the Weches sites contained many species in common with cedar glade plant communities in the southeastern United States, overall similarity was generally low. La formacin geolgica del Weches, formada durante la poca Eocena, sostiene una flora herbcea en una regin donde el bosque es el climax vegetal. Los terrenos son poco profundos y bsicos en contraste con los terrenos ms profundos y cidos del Este de Tejas; los sitios por lo general estn anegados durante la primavera. Las especies ms valiosas e importantes en las comnidades de plantas del Weches son Sedum pulchellum, Satureja arkan sana, Sporobolus vaginiflorus, Arenaria patula, Valerianella spp. y Trifolium dubium. Lesquerella pallida y Leavenworthia texana son endmicas al Weches. Las especies dislocadas incluyen Calylophus drummondianus, Liatris mucronata, Paronychia virginica y Petalos temon pulcher rimum. La riqueza en especies vari de 49 a 81 especies en los sitios estudiados, mientras la diversidad de especies vari de 3.23 a 4.56. Aunque los sitios del Weches contienen muchas especies en comn con la comunidad de cedros en la regin sudeste de los Estados Unidos, la semejanza en general no es muy grande.
41966845|A floristic list of angiosperms found above or in association with timberline vegetation in northeastern Mxico is presented. The flora doubles the number of alpine-subalpine species previously reported for the region, and extends the known distribution of this vegetation type. Included are 170 species, representing 119 genera and 46 families. Se presenta un listado floristico de angiospermas que existen en los limites arboreos de zonas altas en el nordeste de Mxico. Se reconoce el doble del numero de elementos alpinosubalpinos reportados para la region en trabajos anteriores, y se extiende la distribucion conocida de este tipo de vegetacin. Se reconocen 170 especies, 119 generos y 46 familias.
41966853|The 27 species of Ericameria sensu stricto occur primarily in the western United States and northwestern Mexico. Eight species traditionally associated with Ericameria are primarily endemics of the Chihuahuan Desert region and comprise a well-defined natural group separated from the others. Although the last are superficially similar to Ericameria in habit and morphology of the leaves and capitulescence, they are strongly divergent in other aspects, particularly their zygomorphic (vs. regular) disc corollas with long (vs. short) lobes and phyllaries with an apical glandular patch but without a prominent midline (vs. no apical patch but a resinous midline). Studies of patterns of restriction site variation in chloroplast DNA corroborate the observations that these two groups are widely divergent phylogenetically and place Ericameria sensu stricto nearest Chrysotbamnus and the Chihuahuan species closest to Euthamia. The latter species are segregated as a new genus, Xylo thamia Nesom, Suh, Morgan, & Simpson, and the following new combinations are proposed: X. diffusa (Benth.) Nesom, X. palmeri (A. Gray) Nesom, X. parrasana(S. F. Blake) Nesom, X. pseudobaccharis (S. E. Blake) Nesom, X. purpusii (Brandegee) Nesom, X. riskindii (B. Turner & Langford) Nesom, and X. triantha(S. E Blake) Nesom. One new species is described: X. johnstonii Nesom. A key to the species is provided, as well as a summary of typification, morphological description, and distribution map for each one. Las 27 especies de Ericameria sensu stricto se encuentran distribuidas principalmente en el oeste de los Estados Unido y el noroeste de Mexico. Ocho especies que anteriormente han sido incluidas en Ericameria comprenden un grupo natural bien definido y separado de las dems especies, y son principalmente especies endmicas del desierto Chihuahuense. Aunque estas ocho especies son semejantes a Ericameria en cuanto al hbito y la morfologa de las hojas y la capitulescencias, se destacan fuertemente en otros aspectos, especialmente en cuanto a las corolas zigomrficas (vs. actinomrficas) con lbulos largos (vs. cortos) de las flores del disco, y los filarios con una mancha apical glandulosa pero sin una linea medial prominente (vs. sin mancha apical pero con linea medial resinosa promiente). Los estudios de los patrones de variacin de los sitios de restriccin del ADN de los cloroplastos apoyan a las observaciones que estos dos grupos son fuertemente divergentes filogeneticamente e indican que Ericameria sensu stricto es mas semejante a Chrysothamnus mientras que las ocho especies del desierto Chihuahense se asemejan mas a Euthamia. Estas ltimas especies se incluyen en el gnero nuevo Xylothamia Nesom, Suh, Morgan, and Simpson, con las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: X. diffusa (Benth.) Nesom, X. palmeri (A. Gray) Nesom, X. parrasana(S.  Blake) Nesom, X. pseudobaccharis (S. F. Blake) Nesom, X. purpusii (Brandegee) Nesom, X. riskindii (B. Turner & Langford) Nesom, and X. triantha (S.  Blake) Nesom. Una especie nueva se describe: X. johnstonii Nesom. Se incluyen una clave para la identificacin de las especies, asi como un resumen de la tipificacin, una descripcin morfolgica, y un mapa de la distribucin para cada una.
41966848|Cyperus entrerianus Bckeler, an apparently recent introduction from South America or Mexico, is reported in temperate North America. It is presently known from 20 sites in five states in southeastern United States. Its distribution and ecology are discussed, and differences between it and closely related Cyperus luzulae (L.) Retz. are detailed. A key is given to distinguish Cyperus entrerianus from other members of section Luzuloidei, which occur in North America. Cyperus entrerianus Bckeler es registrada para la zona templada de America del Norte; esta especie aparentemente es de reciente introduccion de Mexico o America del Sur. Esta expecie se conoce actualmente de 20 localidades en cinco estados en el sureste de los Estados Unidos. Se discute aqui su distribucion y ecologia y se detallan las diferencias entre esta y la especie mas afin Cyperus luzulae (L.) Retz. Se incluye una clave taxonomica para distinguir Cyperus entrerianus de los otros miembros de la seccion Luzuloidei, que ocurren en America del Norte.
41966842|The only yellow-flowered Viola known to exist in the Guadalupe Mountains, Texas, is described as V. guadalupensis. The rock-dwelling new species is known from a single, small limestone formation on the East Rim of the mountains, and is an immediate candidate for endangered status. The new species is related to V. vallicola and V. nuttallii of northern New Mxico and western United States, and is also similar to V. painteri of northern Mxico. La nica Viola con flores amarillas en las montaas Guadalupes, Texas, se describe como V. guadalupensis. La especie, que vive (existe) entre las piedras, se reconoce de una sola, pequea formacin de piedra caliza en la Orilla al Este de las montaas, y es candidata imediate para estado o posicin de peligro. La nueve especie esta relacionada a V. vallicola y V. nuttallii del norte de nuevo Mxico y el oeste de los Estados Unidos, y es tambin semejante a V. painteri del norte de Mxico.
41966847|The Clematis virginiana complex of eastern North America consists of two closely related and often confused species. The morphological, phenological, ecological and geographical characterization of these two species is clarified here, accompanied by notes on typification, nomenclature and synonymy. Clematis catesbyana Pursh is distinguished from the more widespread C. virginiana L. on the basis of leaves 5-foliolate to biternate as opposed to 3-foliolate, and carpels 18  35 as opposed to 40  60. Clematis catesbyana also flowers earlier in the season than C. virginiana and occupies drier habitats. Clematis catesbyana is restricted to several disjunct regions of the southeastern United States, while C. virginiana is widespread throughout eastern North America.
41966871|No type specimen was designated with the 1903 publication of Laciniaria cartnata Small (= Liatris carinata [Small] Coker). The lectotypification of this name became necessary in order to evaluate its suitability of application to the sandhills blazing-star, which has passed in recent treatments of the genus as part of Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann. Of four specimens obtained from NY which were annotated by Small as La. carinata, the one which best fits Small's initial 1903 description is a collection which is actually material compatible with Liatris secunda Elliott. This choice of a lectotype is made in accordance with the principle that the lectotype chosen should be the specimen which is most compatible with the authors description. This choice makes Liatris carinata a synonym for Liatris secunda, and necessitates the naming and description of the sandhills blazing-star as a species novum, Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky. En la publicacin de la descripcin de Laciniaria carinata Small (= Liatris carinata [Small] Coker) en 1903 no fue designado ningn espcimen de tipo. Fue necesaria la lectotipificacin de esta denominacin para determinar si era adecuado aplicarla al "sandhills blazing-star" (estrella resplandeciente de las colinas arenosas). En los tratos recientes de este genus esta planta se ha considerado como parte de Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann. De los cuatro especmenes recibidos del Herbario de Nueva York, que Small anot como La. carinata, el que mejor corresponde a la descripcin inicial de Small, en 1903, es una colecta que en realidad es compatible con Liatris secunda Elliott. La eleccin del presente lectotipo se hace de acuerdo con el principio de que el lectotipo elegido debe ser el espcimen que mejor corresponde a la descripcin hecha por el autor. Esta eleccin hace que Liatris carinata sea un sinnimo de Liatris secunda, y hace necesaria la descripcin y denominacin de la sandhills blazing-star como una species novum, Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky.
41966883|The species listed in the Annotated Checklist of the Vascular Plants of Collier, Dade, and Monroe counties, Florida (1965) as occurring in the three southernmost counties of Florida have been compared with those species included in A Flora of Tropical Florida (1971, 1976) and with the known flora of the area. Corrections are made by deletion of 62 species and six families reported to occur in South Florida, restoration of 18 species and one family once reported but later omitted, and assignment of 23 names that should have been included in synonymy in the later publication.
41966881|Quercus shumardii Buckl. var. acerifolia Palmer is elevated to species Q. acerifolia. It is restricted to the north-facing bluffs of Magazine Mountain, Logan County, Arkansas. A comparison of certain morphological features with Q. shumardii sensu lato is made.
41966864|Acourtia ovatifolia, a new species from Guerrero and Oaxaca, Mxico, is described and illustrated. This species is similar in some characters to A. lozanii. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Acourtia ovatifolia, colectada en Guerrero y Oaxaca, Mxico. Esta especie es similar a A. lozanii en algunos caracteres.
41966875|A new species, Gentianella canosoi, is described and illustrated from Durango, Mexico, where it is known from several collections.
41966880|Our understanding of the morphological variability of Agarista boliviensis is significantly expanded by an examination of a population in the Sierra de Zapla in the Province of Jujuy in extreme northwestern Argentina. The Sierra de Zapla plants may be distinguished from Bolivian populations of A. boliviensis by several features relating to the indumentum of stems and leaves, petiole and inflorescence lengths, and leaf margins. The taxonomic status of this population is discussed and a revised description for the species is provided. The pattern of variation o Agarista boliviensis is similar to that of the closely related A. eucalyptoides. The species also is compared with A. paraguayensis, the only other species of Agarista occurring in Argentina.
41966870|Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann has been regarded as a species widely distributed in the western Piedmont and adjacent provinces of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. Principal components analyses (PCA) show that the holotype and an isotype of L. regimontis from the western Piedmont of NC are close morphological approximates of the holotype of L. graminifolia var. smallii (Britton) Fern. & Griscom from the mountains of VA and that the two types of the former species fall well within the range of morphological variability described by a sample of the latter variety. It is concluded that L. graminifolia var. smallii and the types of L. regimontis represent the same taxon. PCA and cluster analyses show that specimens from the Fall-line sandhills of North and South Carolina previously determined by other investigators as L. regimontis are morphologically discontinuous with material from other portions of the species range, including the holotype and isotype, and with collections of L. graminifolia var. smallii. This distinct sandhills plant is here described as a new species, Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky. In a geographical zone in the Coastal Plain of the Carolinas, where the ranges of L. cokeri and L. graminifolia become contiguous, specimens that are morphologically intermediate between the two species have been collected. Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann ha sido considerada una especie ampliamente distribuida en la parte occidental del Piedmont y en provincias prximas de los estados de Virginia, Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur, y Georgia. Los anlisis de componentes principales (PCA) muestran que el holotipo y un isotipo de L. regimontis de la parte occidental del Piedmont en Carolina del Norte son prximas en morfologa al holotipo de L. graminifolia var. smallii (Britt.) Fern. & Griscom de las montaas de Virginia, y que los dos tipos de la primera especie se hallan dentre del rango de variabilidad morfolgica circumscrita por un muestro de la seguna variedad. Se concluye que L. graminifolia var. smallii y los tipos de L. regimontis representan el mismo taxon. PCA y anlisis de grupos ("cluster analysis") muestran que especmenes del area Fall-line sandhills en Carolina del Norte y del Sur, anteriormente identificados como L. regimontis por otros investigatores, son morfolgicamente discontinuos con colectas de otras areas de la distribucin de la especie, incluyendo el holotipo e isotipo, y con colectas de L. graminifolia var. smallii. Esta planta distinta de las colinas arenosas se describe aqu como una especie nueva, Liatris cokeri Pyne & Stucky. En una zona geografica donde la distribucin de L. cokeri y de L. graminifolia son contguas, especmenes que son morfolgicamente intermedios entre las dos especies han sido colectados.
41966874|A new species of Ibervillea is described from western Mexico. Ibervillea maxima is most closely related to I. hypoleuca (Standl.) C. Jeffrey, but has a more robust stature and larger fruit.
41966867|The Plumbaginaceae is represented in the native southeastern flora by Limonium carolinianum, Limonium limbatum, and Plumbago scandens. Plumbago auriculata is widely cultivated and has become naturalized. This paper describes, illustrates, and maps these species in the southeastern flora. Las Plumbaginceas estan representadas en la flora nativa del sureste por Limonium carolinianum, Limonium limbatum, y Plumbago scandens. Plumbago auriculata es cultivado ampliamente y se ha naturalizado. En este papel se describen, ilustran, y presentan mapas de distribucin para estas cuatro especies para la flora del sureste.
41966882|Specimens examined in 14 herbaria resulted in the identification of 25 species of Convolvulaceae for the state of New Mexico. The list includes three species not recorded in the recent state flora, and makes nomenclatural changes in five others to bring them in accord with current literature. A lectotype is chosen for I. mexicana. Un revision de las muestras de catorce herbarios ha resultado en la identificacion de veinticinco especies de Convolvulaceas para el estado de New Mexico. La lista incluye tres especies nuevemente reportados en el estado, y se realiza cambios de nomenclatura en cinco de las otras para ponerlas en acuerdo con la literatura moderna. Se selecciona un lectotipo para Ipomoea mexicana.
41966877|Paxistima Raf. (Celastraceae), a North American genus of shrubs and subshrubs, has a confusing nomenclatural history. The genus name has four spellings in the literature. Although the name of the eastern species, P. canbyi Gray, is unequivocal, two specific epithets have been in use for the western species. In 1943, Wheeler concluded that Paxistima was the correct spelling of the genus, and that myrtifolia was the correct epithet for the western species. Wheeler combined several taxa into Paxistima myrtifolia (Nutt.) Wheeler, and indicated the possible existence of an uninvestigated (Mexican) taxon. After our review of the literature, the name of the western species is determined to be P. myrsinites (Pursh) Raf. Based on our numerical phenetic analyses, two species of Paxistima, P. canbyi and P. myrsinites, are recognized. We have clarified the holotypification of P. canbyi, and have selected a lectotype for P. myrsinites. A new subspecies, Paxistima myrsinites subsp. mexicana Navaro and Blackwell, is described herein.
41966873|In Sida L., the leaves are simple having serrate margins, except S. schimperiana, where the leaves have entire margins. The venation type is pinnate or actinodromous. The leaf shape, apex, base, number of areoles and the vein endings entering the areoles vary from species to species. The highest degree of vein order is resolved up to fifth degree. Vein endings exhibit brachytracheoids as well as tracheoids-in-aggregates.
41966879|The morphologic similarity of Aristida ternipes and A. hamulosa was assessed. All 29 measured variables exhibited considerable overlap in their ranges, and only eight of the 29 had correlations greater than 0.50. Multivariate (principle component and discriminant) analyses revealed a lack of phenetic patterning; only awn lengths distinguished the taxa. The two entities are recognized at the varietal level. The nomenclatural combination A. ternipes var. hamulosa (Henrard) Trent is made. Se evalus la similitud morfolsgica entre Aristida ternipes y A. hamulosa. Las 29 variables medidas mostraron considerable superposicisn, y solamente ocho de ellos dieron correlaciones mayores que 0.50. Un analisis multivariada reveis una carencia de patrones feniticos; unicamente la longitud de las aristas sirvis para distinguir los taxa. Las dos entidades son reconocidas a nivel variedad. Se propone la combinacisn A. ternipes var. hamulosa (Henrard) Trent.
41966865|Twelve species are recognized in a taxonomic revision of Digitaria section Aequiglumae. The DELTA computer system was used in the collection, analysis, and presentation of taxonomic data. A comprehensive set of data was gathered from herbarium specimens and analyzed in order to produce a description of the section, key to the species, and comparative species descriptions. Given with each species is a complete set of specimen citations and discussion of diagnostic characters and taxonomic relationships. Recognized species include D. aequiglumis, D. connivens, D. costarcensis, D. cuyabensis, D. ekmanii, D. eriostachya, D. lanuginosa, D. leucites, D. pauciflora, D. sabulicola, D. simpsonii, and D. texana.
41966687|A key, descriptions, revised nomenclature, range statements and maps are presented for the species of Peciis known to occur in Florida. A new combination, Pectis glaucescens, is published for the plant formerly known as P. leptocephala. A naturally occurring triploid interspecific hybrid, Pectis  floridana (P. glaucescens  P. prostrata), is described and illustrated.
41966689|Vaccinium simulatum Small is lectotypified, author citation for V. atrococcum Heller is corrected, and the type locality of V. corymbosum is restricted.
41966686|The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Agrostis elliottiana, Aster hemisphericus, Plantago rugelii, Ratibida columnifera, Salix eriocephala, Stachys tenu if olia, Veronica agrestis, and Vicia hugeri. Over 30 additions to the flora of the Florida panhandle are documented here.
41966685|Reconsideration of circumscription of Dyssodia s. l. has led to resurrection of Adenophyl lum, Boeberastrum, Comadinium, Dysodiopsis, and Thymophylla and to change to generic rank for one section: Boeberoides (DC.) Strother with one species, B. grandiflora. New combinations in Adenophyllum are: A. anomalum, A. appendiculatum, A. aurantium, A. cooperi, A. glandulosum, A. porophylloides, A. porophyllum var. cancellatimi, A. porophyllum var. radiatum, A. speciosum, A. squamosum, and A. wrightii var. pulcherrimum; in Comadinium: C. montanum; and in Thymophylla: T. acerosa, T. aurea var. polychaeta, T. concinna, T. gentryi, T. gypsophila, T. micropoides, T. mutica, T. pentachaeta var. belenidium, T. pentachaeta var. hartwegii, T. pentachaeta var. puberula, T. setifolia var. radiata, T. tenuiloba var. texana, T. tenuiloba var. treculii, T. tenuiloba var. wrightii, and T. tephroleuca.
41966695|Disjunct populations of Hedeoma hyssopifolium from northeastern Chihuahua and western Coahuila differ from Arizona and southwestern New Mexico populations in their more erect, nonrhizomatomous stature, more angular stems with vestiture restricted to decurrent lines, larger inflorescences, shorter, nonciliate lower calyx lobes and are recognized as Hedeoma hyssopifolium var. chihuahuensis Henrickson.
41966699|Two species of Scaevola (Goodeniaceae) occur in southeastern United States: S. plumieri (L.) Vahl, a native strand plant, and S. sericea Vahl, a shrub used as an ornamental and sparingly escaped and naturalized. Notes on biology, and keys to and descriptions of taxa, including two varieties of S. sericea, are given.
41966691|Miilerocauiis first used by Erasmus and mentioned by Herbst for Miller's previously proposed "Osmundacaulis herbstii group" is discussed and validated. Osmundacaulis, as now restricted, includes only members of Miller's "O. skidegatensis group." A new informal group "O. hoskingii" is proposed for Osmundacaulis (sensu stricto) containing an adaxial crenateshaped sclerenchyma mass in their leaf and/or petiole traces. New nomenclatural combina tions include: Miilerocauiis amajolensis (Sharma) Tidwell, Miilerocauiis beardmorensis (Schopf) Tidwell, Millerocaulis dunlopii (Kidston & Gwynne-Vaughn) Tidwell, Millerocaulis estipularis (Sharma, Bohra & Singh) Tidwell, Millerocaulis gibbiana (Kidston & Gwynne-Vaughn) Tidwell, Millerocaulis guptai (Sharma) Tidwell, Millerocaulis hebeiensis (Wang) Tidwell, Millerocaulis herbstii (Archangelsky & de la Sota) Tidwell, Millerocaulis indica (Sharma) Tidwell, Millerocaulis kidstonii (Stopes) Tidwell, Millerocaulis kolbei (Seward) Tidwell, Millerocaulis patagonica (Archangelsky & de la Sota) Tidwell, Millerocaulis rajmahalensis (Gupta) Tidwell, Millerocaulis sahnii (Mittre) Tidwell, and Millerocaulis wadei (Tidwell & Rushforth) Tidwell.
41966701|Herbarium and field studies on Florida and Texas representatives of Houstonia nigricans sens. lat. resulted in the recognition of three varieties in Florida: var. nigricans, var. floridana, and var. pulvinata. Taxonomic and nomenclatural confusion surrounding the name H. filifolia and its parent combinations are discussed, and these names and the Texas taxa H. salina and H. tennis are relegated to synonymy under var. nigricans. A key to Florida varieties and a nomenclatural summary are provided.
41966697|The classic Psoralea is presented as Orbexilum, Pediomelum and Psoralidium: Pediomelum digitatum (Nutt. ex T. & G.) comb, nov.; Orbexilum pedunculatum var. eglandu losum (Elliott) comb, nov.; Orbexilum lupinellum (Michx.) comb. nov. Amorpha essentially follows Wilbur's monograph: Amorpha herbacea Walter var. crenulata (Rydberg) comb. nov. Baptista lactea (Raf.) Thieret (B. leucantha T. & G.) and alba (L.) Vent. of prior literature must change names; Baptisia alba var. macrophylla (Larisey) comb. nov. Sesbania concerns the delimitation of Sesbania macrocarpa and S. emerus (Aubl.) Urban, and the distribution of S. virgata (Cav.) Poir. in the United States. An author alteration for Chamaecrista nictitans var. aspera is noted.
41966693|Wolffia papulifera Thompson is reported for the first time from Michigan and LaPorte County, Indiana. An illustration of W. papulifera in flower and electron photomicrographs of its echinate pollen surface are included.
23909830|Potamogeton floridanus Small, first collected in Milton, Florida in 1886 and represented by two specimens, was named in 1903. Its taxonomic status has fallen since into ambiguity among students of the genus, owing largely to the fact that its existence has continued to be represented only by the two original collections. It has not been recognized as a distinct species by anyone other than Small since 1933. Recently the plant was rediscovered and is known now from four disparate populations. Specimens from these populations match exactly the type and the type description. Observations in the field suggest strongly that these specimens represent a valid species endemic to the lower Blackwater River drainage in Santa Rosa County, Florida.
23909821|Species lists and vegetational descriptions are given for sedge savannahs (primarily), colluvial creek swamps, and pine-oak-nance woods of the Mosquitia region along the eastern Caribbean coast of Honduras. This vegetation is contrasted with that of adjacent tropical wet forests.
23909822|Nama lobbii and N. rothrockii, members of the monotypic sects. Arachnoidea and Cinerascentia, respectively, are divergent elements in Nama and their relationships with the genus have been questioned. Alternative genera with which the two might be allied are Eriodictyon, traditionally allied with Nama, or possibly, Turricula, historically associated with both genera. Utilizing scanning electron microscopy, seeds from five distinctive species of Eriodictyon, E. crassifolium var. denudatum, E. tomentosum, E. traskiae subsp. smithii, E. angustifolium and E. californicum, Turricula parryi and the two namas were examined for implications resident in seed morphology that might bear on placement of N. lobbii and N. rothrockii. Seeds of the namas are distinct from both Eriodictyon and Turricula, while seeds of the latter taxa are quite similar. Seed morphology combined with other available evidence suggests that N. lobbii and N. rothrockii are distinct phyletic elements within the Hydrophyllaceae.
23909825|A taxonomic treatment of the genus Flyriella is rendered including information relating to its generic relationship, phyletic arrangement of its four species, chromosomal, and chemical data. Illustrations of the species are presented along with a map showing distributions.
23909831|The narrow endemic Lesquerella lyrata Rollins (Cruciferae), considered by Department of Interior specialists as possibly extinct, was found in several localities, including the type locality, in April 1984. Ideas as to its sporadic yet abundant occurrence are proposed, and positive management practices suggested.
23909828|A new species, Wallenia formonensis, is described from a disturbed cloud forest at 1520 m alt. on the southern slope of Morne Formon in the Massif de la Hotte of southern Haiti. The genus, Wallenia, of some 25 species, is, itselt, endemic to the West Indies. The cloud forests and moist pine forests of the higher elevations of Morne Formon and adjacent M. Macaya are diverse and contain many local endemics. The flora of this area is known mainly through the field work of Erik L. Ekman, but is in need of additional botanical investigation.
23909827|Pinus glabra Walter is the least common of the southeastern pines. It rarely if ever grows in pure stands. Quadrats were established at 14 sites in the southeastern United States wherever P. glabra was abundant throughout its range. Importance values of trees found in sample plots indicate that P. glabra had a higher importance value in Mississippi than had been previously reported.
23909826|Range maps for the subspecies of P. oleracea (Portulacaceae) in Florida are provided. The collections are enumerated. Unusual specimens are noted and their seeds illustrated with scanning electron micrographs.
23909829|Solidago ouachitensis C. & J. Taylor, a rare endemic of the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas and Oklahoma is described new to science. The range of Solidago speciosa var. pallida is extended southward into New Mexico and Oklahoma.
41966551|A survey of literature and herbarium specimens indicates that two species of Bassia (Chenopodiaceae), both introduced, have become established members of the North American flora. Bassia hirsuta entered the flora of North America around 1900, and has gradually expanded its range along the East Coast. Bassia hyssopifolia has spread extensively in western North America since its introduction in Nevada around 1915, and has maintained a limited distribution in the East following its introduction there around 1930.
41966553|The vascular flora of Cedar Gap Lake and environs in the Oak-Hickory Forest Region of southern Missouri are the focus of this study. An annotated list of 504 taxa from 87 families are recorded from Cedar Gap, the second most elevated point, 1694 feet, of the unglaciated, dissected Ozark Plateaus Province of the Interior Highlands. Twenty-one percent of the taxa are nonindigenous plants. One hundred twenty-six Webster County and 134 Wright County distributional records are documented.
41966556|Sixty-two species of flowering plants were collected from Indian middens (shell mounds) located in the salt marshes of Hancock Co., Miss. The diversity of the flora depended on the height of the midden above the marsh surface and increased with increased elevation. The largest midden (Cedar Island), with an elevation of about 1 m above the surface of the marsh (about 1.3 m above MLW) had the greatest diversity of species (47). Radiocarbon dating indicates that clam shells (Rangia cuneata) found on the surface of Cedar Island are over 2,600 years old. The geological history surrounding the establishment of the middens is discussed. Indicator plants for these Indian occupation sites 0.5 m or more above MLW are the calciphiles Juniperus silicola, Erythrina herbacea, and Aesculus pavia. These shell middens provide the only known habitat of Sageretia minutiflora, the first report of its occurrence in Mississippi.
23909679|Different names and realignments are presented for several species of Galactia. It is shown that G. volubilis (L.) Britt. and G. macreei M. A. Curtis sensu most recent authors should be called G. regularis (L.) BSP and G. volubilis (L.) Britt. respectively. G. glabella Michx. is supported as the replacement name for what has been treated by most authors as G. regularis (L.) BSP. G. glabella is shown to consist of three partly sympatric forms but studies are insufficient to decide what taxonomic status, if any, should be assigned to them. A diagnostic key for eight species and distribution maps for six species are presented. More detailed diagnoses than can be included in a key are presented for better understanding of G. regularis, glabella, volubilis, and mollis, specimens of which have been abundantly misidentified.
41967735|The presence of the South American native Gamochaeta simplicicaulis (Willd. ex Spreng.) Cabrera is documented for North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, and Alabama, based on specimens in NCU and US. It has not previously been included in accounts of the North American flora. The species apparently is abundant on the coastal plain of the Carolinas, where first collected in 1957, and may be expected to occur with frequency in other regions of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal plain. A morphological description, illustration, and specimen citations are provided. Se documenta la presencia de la planta nativa de Sur Amrica Gamochaeta simplicicaulis (Willd. ex Spreng.) Cabrera en Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur, Florida, y Alabama, basada en especmenes depositados en NCU y US. No haba sido incluida previamente en los informes de la flora norteamericana. La especie es aparentemente abundante en la llanura costera de las Carolinas, donde fue colectada por primera vez en 1957, y puede que se d con frecuencia en otras regiones de la llanura costera del Atlntico y del Golfo. Se ofrecen una descripcin morfolgica, una ilustracin y citas especmenes.
41967726|Erigeron sect. Linearifolii is narrowed to a monotypic taxon, comprising only Erigeron hyssopifolius of northern North America. Erigeron sect. Pycnophyllum is restricted to the 14 species of the E. foliosus group, which are primarily Californian in distribution. The Mexican species E. exilis is transferred from sect. Cincinnactis to sect. Lamprocaules. Erigeron rhizomatus (New Mexico) and E. lepidopodus (Chihuahua and Durango, Mexico) are consolidated as Erigeron sect. Geronpternix Nesom & Noyes, sect. nov. The two species are distinct from other erigerons in their scaled-leaved, rhizomiform caudex branches, large, solitary heads, and long, narrowly oblong cypselas. Sect. Geronpternix is the most primitive phylogenetic element of Erigeron and of subtribe Conyzinae. Erigeron sect. Linearifolii se reduce a un taxon monotpico, que comprende slo Erigeron hyssopifolius del norte de Norte Amrica. Erigeron sect. Pycnophyllum se restringe a las 14 especies del grupo E. foliosus, que primariamente tienen una distribucin Californiana. La especie mexicana E. exilis se transfiere de la sect. Cincinnactis a la sect. Lamprocaules. Erigeron rhizomatus (Nuevo Mxico) y E. lepidopodus (Chihuahua y Durango, Mxico) se consolidan como Erigeron sect. Geronpternix Nesom & Noyes, sect. nov. Las dos especies se distinguen de otros erigeron por sus ramas rizomiformes con hojas escamosas, captulos grandes solitarios y cipselas largas estrechamente oblongas. La Sect. Geronpternix es el elemento filogentico ms primitivo de Erigeron y de la subtribu Conyzinae.
41967715|Setaria subgenus Reverchoniae is proposed. New combinations in subgenus Reverchoniae, Setaria reverchonii (Vasey) Pilg. subsp. ramiseta (Scribn.) W. E. Fox, S. reverchonii (Vasey) Pilg. subsp. firmula (Hitchc. & Chase) W.E. Fox are proposed. New combinations in subgenus Paurochaetium, S. utowanaea (Scribn.) Pilg. var. ophiticola (Hitchc. & Ekman) W.E. Fox, S. utowanaea (Scribn.) Pilg. var. subtransiens (Hitchc. & Ekman) W.E. Fox are also proposed. Keys separating the subgenera, subspecies of S. reverchonii, species of subgenus Paurochaetium, and varieties of S. utowanaea are included. Se propone Setaria subgnero Reverchoniae. Son propuestas combinaciones nuevas en el subgnero Reverchoniae, S. reverchonii (Vasey) Pilg. subsp. ramiseta (Scribn.) W.E. Fox y S. reverchonii (Vasey) Pilg. subsp. firmula (Hitchc. & Chase) W.E. Fox,. Son tambi propuestas combinaciones nuevas en el subgnero Paurochaetium, S. utowanaea (Scribn.) Pilg. var. ophiticola (Hitchc. & Ekman) W.E. Fox y S. utowanaea (Scribn.) Pilg. var. subtransiens (Hitchc. & Ekman) W.E. Fox. Se incluyen claves para separar los subgneros, subespecies de S. reverchonii y las variedades de S. utowanaea.
41967712|Eighteen new combinations are made in the Hispaniolan Melastomataceae, transferring the species of Ossaea and two species of Clidemia into the genera Henriettea, Leandra, and Sagraea. Se hacen diez y ocho nuevas combinaciones en las Melastomataceae de la Espaola, transfiriendo las especies de Ossaea y dos especies de Clidemia a los gneros Henriettea, heandra y Sagraea.
41967730|Sarracenia rosea is described as a new species from the Gulf Coastal Plain of southern Alabama, northwestern Florida, southwestern Georgia, and southeastern Mississippi. Pink petals, large flowers, short scapes, pitchers with thick lips, and lips deeply concave in dorsiventrally pressed pitchers are among the features that distinguish S. rosea from its closest relative, S. purpurea. Sarracenia rosea most often grows in sunny to lightly shaded, wet, acid sites in pinelands. Its infrequent occurrence within a small geographic range makes its conservation of concern. Se describe como nueva Sarracenia rosea de la Llanura Costera del Golfo del sur de Alabama, noroeste de Florida, sudoeste de Georgia, y sudeste de Mississippi. Los ptalos rosas, flores grandes, escapos cortos, utrculos con labios gruesos, y labios muy cncavos en los utrculos aplastados dorsiventralmente son las mejores caractersticas que distinguen S. rosea de su pariente ms cercano, S. purpurea. Sarracenia rosea crece la mayora de las veces en lugares hmedos cidos en pinares abiertos, de soleados a ligeramente sombros. El vivir en un rea geogrfica pequea, donde aparece con poca frecuencia hace que su conservacin sea de inters.
41967728|Preparation of a taxonomic treatment of the Myrsinaceae for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana project resulted in the discovery of a new species, Cybianthus liesneri Pipoly & Ricketson, which is described, illustrated, and its systematic relationships discussed. A key to distinguish Cybianthus liesneri from the other species of Cybianthus subgenus Weigeltia of the Venezuelan Guayana is provided. In addition, Parathesis viridis Lundell is found to be a member of the genus Stylogyne. The combination, Stylogyne viridis (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly is proposed, the species is newly illustrated and an updated description is provided. In addition, a key to the species o Stylogyne found in the Venezuelan Guayana is presented. Estudios para preparar un tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Myrsinaceae para la Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana dieron como resultado el descubrimiento de una especie nueva para la ciencia. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute el parentesco de la nueva especie, Cybianthus liesneri Pipoly & Ricketson. Se ofrece una clave taxonmica para separar Cybianthus liesneri de las otras especies pertenecientes al gnero Cybianthus subg. Weigeltia dentro de la Guayana venezolana. Adems, se encontr que Parathesis viridis Lundell se ubica mejor dentro del gnero Stylogyne. Se propone la nueva combinacin, Stylogyne viridis (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly, se ilustra la especie, y se discute su parentesco. Se aporta una clave para distinguir las especies del gnero Stylogyne en la Guayana venezolana.
41967714|Pennisetum advena Wipff & Veldkamp, a common ornamental grass in the southern United States, is described and illustrated. A key is provided to separate it from similar taxa (P. macrostachys, P. orientale, and P. setaceum). Pennisetum advena is readily distinguished from P. setaceum, its closest putative relative, by vegetative, inflorescence, fascicle, and spikelet characters. Se describe e ilustra Pennisetum advena Wipff & Veldkamp, una gramnea ornamental frecuente en el sur de los Estados Unidos. Se ofrece una clave para separarla de taxa similares (P. macrostachys, P. orientale, y P. setaceum). Pennisetum advena se distingue fcilmente de P. setaceum, la especie ms prxima, por los caracteres vegetativos, de la inflorescencia, del fascculo y de la espiguilla.
41967731|The vascular flora of Biscayne National Park, Florida consists of 372 species within 277 genera and 92 families. The largest families in the flora are the Poaceae (47 species), Asteraceae (34 species), and Fabaceae (28 species). The largest genera are Tillandsia (7 species), Chamaesyce (7 species), and Cyperus, Eugenia, Kalanchoe and Paspalum, each with 5 species. Each taxonomic entry in the checklist is accompanied by an annotation, when appropriate, which includes: C = cultivated species, not escaped; H = historical record, now extirpated; X = naturalized exotic species; E = Florida endangered; T = Florida threatened; CE = Florida commercially exploited. La flora vascular del Biscayne National Park, Florida, est formada por 372 especies pertenecientes a 277 gneros y 92 familias. Las mayores familias de esta flora son las Poaceae (47 especies), Asteraceae (34 especies), y Fabaceae (28 especies). Los mayores gneros son Tillandsia (7 especies), Chamaesyce (7 especies), Cyperus, Eugenia, Kalanchoe y Paspalum, con 5 especies cada uno. Cada entrada taxonmica al catlogo est acompaada de una anotacin, cuando es apropiada, que incluye; C = especie cultivada, no escapada; H = cita histrica, rechazada ahora; X = especie extica naturalizada; E = en peligro en Florida; T = amenazada en Florida; CE = explotada comercialmente en Florida.
41967725|Revision of the group of species formerly placed in Zunilia Lundell revealed that the group is synonymous with Ardisia subgenus Graphardisia Mez. This paper incorporates those taxa in the subgenus, necessitating further revision of Graphardisia, including an emended description of the subgenus, a key to the species and subspecies, along with updated descriptions of the two added taxa and new illustrations for each. Two additional taxa are recognized, including one new combination: Ardisia verapazensis subsp. cucullata (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Six binomials are relegated to synonymy within A. verapazensis Donn. Sm. Ardisia hyalina Lundell [Zunilia hyalina (Lundell) Lundel] is excluded from subgenus Graphardisia, and placed in subgenus Ardisia. Una revisin del grupo de especies anteriormente clasificadas dentro del gnero Zunilia Lundell, revel que Zunilia es sinnimo del gnero Ardisia subgnero Graphardisia Mez. Se incorporan dichos taxa dentro del subgnero Graphardisia, y se incluye una descripcin actualizada, una clave para separar todos los taxa, acompaados de dos descripciones actualizadas y nuevas ilustraciones para ellos. Se reconocen dos taxa adicionales, incluyendo la nueva combinacin: Ardisia verapazensis subsp. cucullata (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Se relegan seis binomios a la sinonimia bajo A. verapazensis Donn. Sm.. Se excluye Ardisia hyalina Lundell [Zunilia hyalina (Lundell) Lundell] del subgnero Graphardisia, y se la ubica dentro del subgnero Ardisia.
41967732|The flowering plants of Padre Island National Seashore (PINS) were sampled over a two year period in three different regions of the island. Specimens from our investigation and plants reported for PINS from the literature were compiled into a checklist. The flora contains both Flaveria brownii and Sporobolus tharpii which are endemics of the western Gulf of Mexico barrier islands. Lycium carolinianum var. quadrifidum, reported only along bayshores in Texas, was found in the tidal flat community. Two hundred and fifty-nine genera and 456 species of flowering plants were identified as part of the PINS flora. These occur in 77 families with the Poaceae (95 spp.), Asteraceae (57 spp.), Fabaceae (44 spp.) and Cyperaceae (29 spp.) most common. Se han tomado muestras de las angiospermas del parque nacional "Padre Island National Seashore" (PINS) durante un perodo de dos aos, en tres reas diferentes de la isla. Se hizo un catlogo de los "especmenes" de nuestra investigacin y de las plantas citadas a PINS procedentes de una serie de artculos. La flora contiene tanto Flaveria brownii como Sporobolus tharpii que son endmicas de las islas de barrera del Oeste en el Golfo de Mxico. Se ha encontrado en la comunidad de la zona mareal plana Lycium carolinianum var. quadrifidum que antes solamente se haba citado a lo largo de las bahas de Texas. 259 gneros y 456 especies de angiospermas fueron identificados en la flora de PINS. Las plantas mencionadas pertenecen a 77 familias siendo las familias Poaceae (95 especies), Asteraceae (57 esp.), Fabaceae (44 esp.), y Cyperaceae (29 esp.) las ms abundantes.
41967724|A synopsis of the genus Myrsine in Venezuela is provided. The generic description is updated, along with discussions of its morphology and ecology in Venezuela. A key to the species and subspecies is provided, along with descriptions, discussions of distribution, ecology and conservation, and etymology for all species. Each of the 12 species known for the country (one with two subspecies) is newly illustrated and its distribution is mapped. Four binomials: Rapanea ambigua Mez in Engl. (a synonym of Myrsine coricea R. Br. ex Roem. & Schult, subsp. coriacea), Rapanea andina Mez (Myrsine andina (Mez) Pipoly), Rapanea nitida Mez (Myrsine nitida (Mez) Pipoly), and Rapanea guianensis Aubl. (M. guianensis (Aubl.) Kuntze) are lectotypified. Three additional binomials are relegated to synonymy. Se presenta una sinopsis del gnero Myrsine para Venezuela. Se actualiza la descripcin genrica, acompaada por discusiones sobre su morfologa y ecologa dentro del pas. Se provee una clave para separar las especies y subespecies, descripciones, discusiones sobre distribucin, ecologa, conservacin y etimologa. Se ilustran y se ofrecen mapas de distribucin de cada una de las 12 especies (incluyendo una con dos subespecies). Se lectotipifican cuatro binomios: Rapanea ambigua Mez in Engl.(=Myrsine coriacea R. Br. ex Roem. & Schult, subsp. coriacea), Rapanea andina Mez (=Myrsine andina (Mez) Pipoly), Rapanea ntida Mez (=Myrsine ntida (Mez) Pipoly), y Rapanea guianensis Aubl. (=M. guianensis (Aubl.) Kuntze) y tres especies adicionales se relegan a la sinonimia.
41967722|A new variety of Pinus greggii is described. Variety australis is endemic to east central Mexico and represents the southern disjunct region of the natural range of the species. Variety greggii represents the northern population of the species. Characters that segregate the varieties are presented. Se describe una nueva variedad de Pinus greggii. La variedad australis es endmica del centro-este de Mxico, y abarca la distribucin natural austral de la especie. La variedad greggii representa la poblacin localizada en el norte de su distribucin natural. Se incluyen caractersticas que distinguen las dos variedades.
41967707|Portulaca yecorensis is described from the conglomeritic mudflow barrens at 1500-1600 m elevation in the Ycora valley in the Sierra Madre of eastern Sonora, Mexico. This annual is related to P. oleracea and P. retusa but differs in small size, strong reddish pigmentation, smaller seeds, larger flowers and pollen, distribution, and habitat. Se describe la especie nueva Portulaca yecorensis del Valle de Ycora de la Sierra Madre Occidental en la parte oriental de Sonora, Mexico; crece en reas con conglomerados de lodolita casi sin vegetacin. Esta especie anual est relacionada con P. oleracea y P. retusa, pero difiere de stas por su tamao pequeo, pigmentacin rojiza fuerte, semillas ms pequeas, flores y polen ms grandes, distribucin, y hbitat.
41967709|A review of the early nomenclature o Euthamia summarizes observations by Sieren (1981) and Reveal (1991) and adds other perspectives. Nuttall published the group in 1818 in the format of a new subdivision of Solidago, interpreted here at sectional rank, but noted it as "a subgenus, or rather genus." Cassini in 1825 provided the elements for validation of Euthamia at generic rank, but he did so unintentionally and ascribed the name to Nuttall. In this interpretation, separate citations of lectotype and type are required for the two names (sect. Euthamia Nutt. and genus Euthamia Nutt. ex Cass., respectively). Also in this interpretation, Nuttall in 1841 validated nomenclatural combinations for E. graminifolia (L.) Nutt. and E. tenuifolia (Pursh) Nutt. and added E. occidentalis Nutt. as a new species. The name Euthamia caroliniana (L.) Greene ex Porter & Britt. was validated in 1894, based on Erigeron carolinianus L., and includes E. tenuifolia as a synonym. There is reason to maintain Euthamia galetorum Greene at specific rank rather than as a variety of E. caroliniana or E. graminifolia. The discussion includes application of several potentially controversial interpretations of the ICBN: disposition of "alternative names;" "the term type or an equivalent" in typification; and conditions of "indirect reference" for valid publication. Una revisin de la nomenclatura previa de Euthamia resume las observaciones de Sieren (1981) y Reveal (1991) y aade otras perspectivas. Nuttall public el grupo en 1818 como una nueva subdivisin Solidago, que se interpreta aqu en el rango de seccin, pero la cit como "un subgnero o quizs gnero." Cassini en 1825 dio los elementos para la validacin de Euthamia en el rango genrico, pero lo hizo as sin querer y adscribi el nombre a Nuttall. En esta interpretacin se requieren citaciones separadas de lectotipo y tipo para los dos nombres (sect. Euthamia Nutt. y gnero Euthamia Nutt. ex Cass., respectivamente). Tambin en esta interpretacin, Nuttall en 1841 valid combinaciones nomenclaturales para E. graminifolia (L.) Nutt. y E. tenuifolia (Pursh) Nutt. y aadi E. occidentalis Nutt. como una nueva especie. El nombre Euthamia caroliniana (L.) Greene ex Porter & Britt. fue validado en 1894, basado en Erigeron carolinianus L., e incluye E. tenuifolia como sinnimo. Hay una razn para mantener Euthamia galetorum Greene en el rango especfico en vez de variedad de E. caroliniana o E. graminifolia. La discusin incluye la aplicacin de varias interpretaciones potencialmente controvertidas del ICBN: disposicin de "nombres alternativos;" "el trmino tipo o un equivalente" en la tipificacin y condiciones de "referencia indirecta" para la publicacin vlida.
41967705|A survey of the flora on a hitherto unexplored gypsum outcrop on the west face of the Guadalupe Mountains in southern New Mexico has revealed a new variety o Anulocaulis (Nyctaginaceae), A. leiosolenus (Torr.) Standl. var. howardii Spellenb. & Wootten (var. nov.). This variety has a combination of characteristics in various degrees intermediate to other taxa, an observation that results in the inclusion of A. gypsogenus Waterf. into A. leiosolenus as A. leiosolenus var. gypsogenus (Waterf.) Spellenb. & Wootten (comb. nov.). Also from this outcrop is described Mentzelia humilis (A. Gray) J. Darl. var. guadalupensis Spellenb. (var. nov.). Fifty-nine species in 29 families were observed to occur on the gypsum outcrop. A key is provided to all known Anulocaulis taxa and a list is presented documenting the other plant species that occur with it and the new variety of M. humilis. La exploracin de la flora en un afloramiento de yeso, inexplorado previamente, en la ladera oeste de las Montaas Guadalupe en el sur de Nuevo Mxico ha revelado una variedad nueva de Anulocaulis (Nyctaginaceae), A. leiosolenus (Torr.) Standl. var. howardii Spellenb. & Wootten (var. nov.). Esta variedad tiene una combinacin de caracteres intermedios en varios grados con otros taxa, una observacin que da como resultado la inclusin de A. gypsogenus Waterf. en A. leiosolenus as como A. leiosolenus var. gypsogenus (Waterf.) Spellenb. & Wootten (comb. nov.). Tambin, Mentzelia humilis (A. Gray) J. Darl. var. guadalupensis Spellenb. (var. nov.) est descrita de este afloramiento. Cincuenta y nueve especies de 29 familias de plantas fueron observadas en este afloramiento de yeso. Se ofrece una clave para todos los taxa conocidos de Anulocaulis y se presenta una lista documentando las otras especies de plantas que conviven con las dos variedades nuevas.
41967729|Fieldwork conducted during a survey of Las Orqudeas National Park in Antioquia, Colombia, resulted in the discovery of two undescribed species o Clusia section Anandrogyne. Clusia deminuta Pipoly & Cogollo and C. paisarum Pipoly & Cogollo are described and illustrated, and their respective distributions, ecology, conservation status, etymology of epithets and phylogenetic relationships are elucidated. El trabajo de campo durante una investigacin de la flora del Parque Nacional Natural "Las Orqudeas," ubicado en el Departamento de Antioquia, Colombia, dio como resultado el descubrimiento de dos especies nuevas, pertenecientes al gnero Clusia seccin Anandrogyne. Se aportan descripciones, ilustraciones, comentarios sobre sus respectivas distribuciones geogrficas, ecologa y condiciones en cuanto a la conservacin, as como la etimologa de los eptetos especficos y el parentesco de Clusia deminuta Pipoly & Cogollo y de C. paisarum Pipoly & Cogollo.
41967710|A new species Bulbophyllum wakoi, section Brachystele Schltr., collected from the Crater Mountain Wild Life Management Area in Papua New Guinea is described. It resembles B. foetidum Schltr. and its variety B. foetidum Schltr. var. grandiflorum J.J. Smith. However, it differs from these in the size and the shape of the sepals, petals, labellum, and column arms. Niupela kain orchid Bulbophyllum wakoi, sekson Brachystele Schltr., ol bin kisim long Creta Mauntein Wail Laif Management Eria insait long Papua New Guinea em ol bin diskraibim. Em i wankain long B. foetidum Schltr. na wantaim variety B. foetidum var. grandiflorum J.J.Smith. Dispela em minim olsem long dispela insait long sais na seip long sepals, petals, labellum, na colum ams.
41967720|Two species are formally described from the 1996 survey of the Lakekamu basin. The new plants are Medinilla sapoi-riverensis (Melastomataceae) and Tricbospermum stevensii (Tiliaceae). Medinilla bismarck-ramuensis is described from the 1995 biological survey of the Bismarck-Ramu tract. Taxonomic and ecological notes are provided with the diagnoses. Wanpela wok bus painimaut kamap pinis long pies Lakekamu, long Oktoba 14 igo Novemba 12, 1996. Dispela wok i kamapim tupela liklik diwai we i nupela samting olgeta. Lain saientis givim ol nem olsem: Medinilla sapoi-riverensis na Trichospermum stevensii. Narapela nupela samting kamapim long graun long Bismak-Ramu, na nem bilong dispela em i Medinilla bismarck-ramuensis.
41967717|Data for 20 morphological characters taken from recent collections of the Cyperus virens group from the southeastern United States were statistically analyzed using principal components analysis and discriminant analysis. Based upon results of the analyses and recent field observations, it is concluded that C. drummondii and C. virens are distinct at the rank of species. The taxonomy is revised accordingly. A taxonomic key, technical descriptions, distributional, and ecological data on the two species are presented. Los datos de 20 caracteres morfolgicos de colecciones recientes del grupo de Cyperus virens del sureste de los Estados Unidos fueron analizados estadsticamente usando el anlisis de componentes principales y el anlisis discriminante. En base a los resultados de los anlisis y de recientes observaciones de campo, se concluye que C. drummondii y C. virens son distintas en el rango de especie. Se revisan de acuerdo con esto la taxonoma. Se presentan una clave taxonmica, descripciones tcnicas, datos ecolgicos y sobre la distribucin de las dos especies.
41967719|Male and female flower morphology is documented for Florida plants, augmenting the original floral analysis of this rare, dioecious species (Lindera subcoriacea). Sexual dimorphism is readily apparent; leaves on male plants are much larger than those on female plants. Leaf surfaces of the two sexes also contrast strongly in features of trichome size, epicuticular wax (abundance and pattern), and development of peristomatal rims. Such dimorphism has not been previously reported for the Lauraceae. Se documenta la morfologa de flores masculinas y femeninas de Lindera subcoriacea en plantas de Florida, aumentando el anlisis floral de esta especie rara y dioica. El dimorfismo sexual es muy aparente; las hojas de las plantas masculinas son mucho mayores que las de las plantas femeninas. Las superficies foliares de los dos sexos tambin contrastan fuertemente en cuanto a las caractersticas del tamao de los tricomas, ceras epicuticulares (abundancia y patrn), y desarrollo de los bordes peristomticos. Este dimorfismo no haba sido citado previamente en las Lauraceae.
41967704|An exploratory survey of the Crater Mt. Wildlife Management Area (CMWMA) has revealed the presence of at least 1,200 vascular plant taxa within the 2,700 sq. km reserve. Included among the findings are several new species and a significant number of distributional records. Three novelties are formally described and illustrated. The new species are Glochidion beehlerii, Jasminum pipolyi, and Psychotria matambuai. An annotated checklist of the collections is also provided. The botanical documentation for the CMWMA is one of the most substantial for any locality in Papuasia. The preservation status and floristic richness of surveyed communities are very high, comparing favorably with the best sites in Papua New Guinea. Continued application of the ICAD (Integrated Conservation and Development) strategy is recommended for the subject area. Crater zan yaseiseibutu kanri chitai chousa niyori 1,200 ijou no ikansoku (kansoku) shokubutsu bunrui guntai no sonzai ga 2,700 heihou kilometoru inai de kiroku shoumei sareta. Hakken saretamono no nakani fukumareteirumono wa kazukazu no shinshu to soutou naru kazu no mezurashi ishu shokubutsu to bunpukuiki kiroku dearu. Mittsu no mezurashii shokubutus wa seishiki ni kijyutsu oyobi zukai ni yori shimesareta. Shinshu wa Glochidion beehlerii, jasminum pipolyi, soshite Psycbotria matambuai dearu. Chushaku tuki no shushu butsu ichiranhyou mo futai sareru. Crater zan yaseiseibutu kanri chitai no shokubutusgakuteki bunken wa Papuasian chihou nitotte mottomo kuwashi monono hitotus de aru. Chosa sareta shkubutsu gunraku no hozonjotai oyovi shokubutussou no yutakasa wa soutou ni takaku, Papua New Guinea no sairyou na basho ni masaru hododearu. Kadai to sareteiru chiiki ni taisuru tougouteki hogo oyobi kaihatu doryoku wo zokkou surukoto ga shourie sareru.
41967734|In order to contribute to our understanding of lianas and vines, as well as to facilitate future research, a preliminary checklist of the dicotyledonous lianas and vines from the Las Cruces Biological Station, Costa Rica is presented. Seventy species in sixty genera and thirtytwo families are recorded. The largest climbing families at Las Cruces are Cucurbitaceae (11 spp.), Leguminosae (6 spp.), Sapindaceae (5 spp.), and Bignoniaceae (4 spp.). Para contribuir al conocimiento de lianas y enredaderas, as como para facilitar otras investigaciones, se presenta una lista preliminar de las lianas y enredaderas dicotiledneas de la Estacin Biolgica Las Cruces, Costa Rica. Se citan 70 especies de 60 gneros y 32 familias. Las familias ms grandes de Las Cruces son Cucurbitaceae (11 spp.), Leguminosae (6 spp.), Sapindaceae (5 spp.) y Bignoniaceae (4 spp.).
41968890|Muhlenbergia jaime-hintonii P.M. Peterson & Valds-Reyna, sp. nov., is described and illustrated. The new species occurs in gypsum soils in southern Nuevo Len, Mexico between the municipalities of Aramberri and General Zaragoza. Based on anatomical and morphological features Muhlenbergia jaime-hintonii is placed in subgenus Podosemum, section Epicampes. The new species seems most closely allied with Muhlenbergia pubigluma but differs by its shorter culms (44-82 cm long), shorter truncate ligules (0.4-1.0 mm long) with ciliolate apices, shorter spikelets (1.5-2.1 mm long), shorter glumes (0.7-1.2 mm long), shorter lemmas (1.5-2.0 mm long), shorter paleas (1.5-2.0 mm long), and shorter anthers (0.8-1.0 mm long). Se describe y se ilustra Muhlenbergia jaime-hintonii P.M. Peterson & Valds-Reyna, sp. nov. Esta nueva especie se presenta en parte de las tierras gipsfilas en el sur del estado de Nuevo Len, Mxico, en los municipios de Aramberri y General Zaragoza. Basados en caractersticas anatmicas y morfolgicas Muhlenbergia jaime-hintonii se ubica en el subgnero Podosemum, seccin Epicampes. Esta nueva especie est fuertemente relacionada con Muhlenbergia pubigluma pero difiere de ella por sus clmenes ms cortos (44-82 cm de largo), lgulas ms cortas (0.4-1.0 mm de largo) truncadas con pices ciliolados, espiguillas ms cortas (1.5-2.1 mm de largo), glumas ms cortas (0.7-1.2 mm de largo), lemas ms cortas (1.5-2.0 mm de largo), paleas ms cortas (1.5-2.0 mm de largo), y anteras ms cortas (0.8-1.0 mm de largo).
41968896|Botanical results are presented from the 1995 biological survey of the Bismarck-Ramu tract, an area identified by multiagency assessment as a prime site for possible conservation action. The findings provide confirmation of the area's presumed biodiversity value. Over 610 distinct morphospecies and up to 15 confirmed or suspected plant novelties were documented by an intensive 24-day expedition. Three of the new species are formally described. General descriptions of the vegetation are also provided for the major floristic environments explored by the survey team. Adoption of special management and conservation measures is recommended for the subject territory. Wanpela wok bus painimaut bilong ol saveman bilong ol bus diwai, rop, na gras, ibin kamap long Bismak - Ramu territori long Oktoba 2 igo 24, 1995. Ol saveman bilong bus ol i kaunim olsem moa long 610 ol kain kain diwai, rop, na gras i kamap long dispela hap. Na wok painimaut i kamapim olsem fiftinpela long ol diwai na gras i nupela kain olgeta. Dispela tupela ten na foa de wok i soim dispela ples Bismak - Ramu em i holim wanpela long ol kain ples bus we Papua New Guinea mas lukautim gut. Stori long dispela pepa i tok klia long olgeta samting mipela lukim long Bismak-Ramu bus.
41968907|Native American shell rings are composed almost exclusively of shellfish remains, and occupy coastal sites. The nine shell rings and one shell mound selected in this study range approximately 40 kilometers north of Charleston, South Carolina to 10 kilometers north of St. Augustine, Florida. The vascular flora consists of 241 species within 182 genera in 80 families. The Poaceae and Asteraceae are the largest families in the flora. Soil salinity and daily flooding affect the distribution of vascular plants at the tidal shell rings. Calcareous soils influence species distribution at inland shell ring sites. Each taxonomic entry in the checklist is accompanied by an annotation, which includes frequency of occurrence, rarity status and pertinent synonyms. Los "shell rings" nativos de Amrica estn compuestos casi exclusivamente de restos de conchas marinas y ocupan lugares costeros. Los nueve "shell rings" y un "shell mound" seleccionados en este estudio van aproximadamente desde 40 kilmetros al norte de Charleston, Carolina del Sur hasta 10 kilmetros al norte de St. Augustine, Florida. La flora vascular consiste en 241 especies agrupadas en 182 gneros de 80 familias. Las Poaceae y Asteraceae son las mayores familias de la flora. La salinidad del suelo y las inundaciones diarias afectan la distribucin de las plantas vasculares en los "shell rings" intermareales. Los suelos calcreos influencian la distribucin de las especies en los "shell ring" interiores. Cada entrada taxonmica del catlogo se acompaa de una anotacin de la frecuencia, estado de rareza y los sinnimos pertinentes.
41968900|A new generic name, Barnebydendron, is proposed for Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Tul. which is an illegitimate, later homonym of Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Endl. Se propone el nuevo nombre genrico, Barnebydendron, para reemplazar a Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Tul., ya que, este nombre es ilegtimo y un homnimo posterior de Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Endl. O novo nome genrico, Barnebydendron,  proposto para substitutir a Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Tul., visto que este nome  ilegtimo e homnimo posterior de Phyllocarpus Riedel ex Endl.
41968892|A new species of Buddlejaceae, Emorya rinconensis, is described here as the second species of the genus. The species is known from a single collection from the Serranas del Burro in northern Coahuila, Mexico. Although associated with a more mesic flora than Emorya suaveolens, morphological adaptations and associated species suggest that E. rinconensis may grow in edaphically xeric, steep rock outcrops. The racemose inflorescences of the new species are unique among New World Buddlejaceae and appear to represent a reduction from the open, few-flowered axillary cymes found in Emorya suaveolens. In the context of North American Buddlejaceae, the long tubular corollas in open inflorescences, long styles, linear calyx lobes, and prolate pollen support the present generic placement of the new species with Emorya, but future confirmation of the phyletic position of both species in a larger geographic context is needed. En este trabajo se describe una nueva especie de Buddlejaceae, Emorya rinconensis, como la segunda especie del gnero. La especie se conoce a partir de una sola colecta de las Serranas del Burro en el norte de Coahuila, Mxico. Aunque asociada con una flora ms msica que Emorya suaveolens, las adaptaciones morfolgicas y especies asociadas sugieren que E. rinconensis puede crecer en afloramientos rocosos, escarpados y xricos. Las inflorescencias racemosas de la nueva especie son nicas entre las Buddlejaceae del Nuevo Mundo y parecen representar una reduccin de las cimas axilares abiertas de pocas flores encontradas en E. suaveolens. En el contexto de las Buddlejaceae Norteamericanas, las largas corolas tubulares en inflorescencias abiertas, estilos largos, lbulos del cliz lineares, y polen prolado, apoyan la presente posicin genrica de la nueva especie con Emorya, pero se necesita una futura confirmacin de la situacin filtica de ambas especies en un contexto geogrfico ms amplio.
41968886|The traditional, broadly conceived genera Semcio, s.l., and Cacalia, s.l., will be divided into several segregate genera in the forthcoming Flora of North America North of Mexico, (FNANM). Provided here are a synoptical key and annotated catalog for the genera, and a nomencltor for the specific and infraspecific epithets for Senecio, s.l., and Cacalia, s.l., that have been commonly used in North American floristics. Los gneros, tradicionalmente concebidos ampliamente, Senecio, s.l., y Cacalia, s.l., sern divididos en varios gneros segregados en la Flora of North America North of Mexico, (FNANM) de prxima aparicin. Ofrecemos aqu una clave sinptica, un catlogo anotado de los gneros y un ndice de los eptetos especficos e infraespecficos de Senecio, s.l., y Cacalia, s.l., que han sido usados normalmente en las floras norteamericanas.
41968903|A new naturally occurring hybrid between Spiraea douglasii var. menziesii and S. splendens var. rosea is described and named S. hitchcockii W. Hess & N. Stoynoff. Morphological, chromosome number, and pollen stainability evidence is presented. The hybrid is the first reported triploid for the genus Spiraea. Se describe un nuevo hbrido natural entre Spiraea douglasti var. menziesii y S. splendens var. rosea que se nombra S. hitchcockii W. Hess & N. Stoynoff. Se presentan evidencias morfolgicas, nmero cromosmico y tincin del polen. El hbrido es el primer triploide citado del gnero Spiraea.
41968887|The new variety Physarta newberryi var. yesicola is described and illustrated. It is readily distinguished within P. newberryi by its very long styles. Variety yesicola occurs upon the gypseous Yeso Formation in the Sierra Lucero of west-central New Mexico. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva variedad Physaria newberryi var. yesicola. Se distingue fcilmente de P. newberryi por sus estilos muy largos. La variedad yesicola aparece en suelos gipscolas de la Formacin Yeso en la Sierra Lucero del centro-oeste de Nuevo Mxico.
41968889|Two new species of Commicarpus from Mxico (C. coctoris and C. praetermissus) are described. A key to the five New World species is presented. Se describen dos nuevas especies de Commicarpus (Nyctaginaceae) de Mxico. Se ofrece una clave para las cinco especies del Nuevo Mundo.
41968905|One new species of Abildgaardia, A. papillosa, and seven of Bulbostylis, are described and illustrated, and their relationships to closely allied species are discussed. In addition, an updated description of the genus along with a key to the species of New World Abildgaardia is provided. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Abildgaardia, A. papillosa, y siete nuevas especies de Bulbostylis, y se discute su relacin con especies cercanas. Adems, se ofrece una descripcin actualizada del gnero, acompaada de una clave para identificar las especies del Nuevo Mundo de Abildgaardia.
41968909|The authors provide a list of 41 additions, reinstatements, and significant range extensions for the flora of Arkansas. Trautvetteria caroliniensis, Dalea gattingeri, Rbynchosia minima, and Setaria pumila are reported as new and persistent elements, while Magnolia macrophylla, Didiplis diandra, Valerianella locusta, and Sisyrinchium exile are reinstated to the state flora. A number of alien weeds are noticed and documented for the first time, however, their persistence is not known. Los autores proporcionan una lista donde se enumeran 41 adiciones, confirmaciones, y extensiones significativas para la flora de Arkansas. Trautvetteria caroliniensis, Dalea gattingeri, Rhynchosia minima, y Setaria pumila se citan como componentes nuevos y persistentes en el rea, mientras que Magnolia macrophylla, Didiplis diandra, Valerianella locusta, y Sisyrinchium exile se confirman para la flora del estado. Un nmero de malas hierbas de origen alctono son mencionadas y documentadas por primera vez, sin embargo, no es conocida su persistencia.
41968904|The unispecific genus Pseudosagotia is placed in synonymy under Croizatia and a new combination, Croizatia brevipetiolata (Secco) Dorr, is proposed for its sole species. An emended description is provided for C. brevipetiolata, a dioecious species that was known previously only from female flowers and fruits. Croizatia brevipetiolata is compared to C. neotropica and C. naiguatensis, two species from coastal Venezuela, and to C. panamensis, a species from Panama and Pacific Colombia. Se ubica el gnero monoespecfico Pseudosagotia como sinnimo del gnero Croizatia y se propone una nueva combinacin, Croizatia brevipetiolata (Secco) Dorr, para su nica especie. Se presenta una descripcin corregida de C. brevipetiolata, una especie dioica, de la cual previamente slo se conocan las flores femeninas y los frutos. Se compara C. brevipetiolata con C. neotropica y C. naiguatensis, dos especies de la regin litoral de Venezuela, y con C. panamensis, una especie de Panam y el extremo occidental de Colombia.
41968882|The new combination, Packera subnuda (DC.) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley is proposed, based upon Senecio subnudus DC. Se propone la nueva combinacin Packera subnuda (DC.) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, en base a Senecio subnudus DC.
41968884|We report the existence of a new species, Phaseolus albescent, from western Mexico, with close affinities to P. vulgaris, P. coccineus, P. costaricensis, and particularly to P. polyanthus, and describe plants commonly occurring in wild habitats, examine morphological and anatomical characters and give notes on observations made on its floral biology. An illustration of the plant, photographs of its pollen, and stem anatomy are provided. Also, a key to the species of the Phaseolus vulgaris group is presented. Se reporta la existencia de una nueva especie, Phaseolus albescens, del occidente de Mxico, especie afn a P. vulgaris, P. coccineus, P. costar icens is, y en particular a P. polyanthus y se describen plantas de esta especie de habitats silvestres, se examinan caracteres morfolgica y anatmicamente y se presentan notas sobre observaciones efectuadas a su biologa floral. La especie se ilustra y se provee de figuras de su polen y anatoma del tallo. Tambin, una clave de las especies del grupo Phaseolus vulgaris es presentada.
41968897|Amaranthus crassipes is recognized as consisting of two varieties: var. crassipes from the West Indies, coastal Mexico-Texas-Louisiana, and northern South America, and var. warnockii of the Chihuahuan Desert region of Texas and Mexico. Amaranthus scleropoides contains two morphs that are not taxonomically recognized. Amaranthus  texensis, considered of hybrid origin between A. crassipes and A. scleropoides, is described as new. Amaranthus berlandieri is not considered as distinct from the more wide ranging A. polygonoides. A new species, Amaranthus tamaulipensis, is described from southmost Texas and eastern Mexico. It is related to A. dubius and the poorly known A. brandegei of Sinaloa. An enigmatic Amaranthus  tucsonensis is described from the Tucson Mountains of southern Arizona, with related populations occurring in Sonora, Mexico. Se reconoce a Amaranthus crassipes como constituida por dos variedades: la var. crassipes, con distribucin desde la costa de Mxico, Texas y Louisiana, a travs del Caribe hasta el norte de Sudamrica; y la var. warnockii, de la regin del Desierto Chihuahuense. Amaranthus scleropoides consiste de dos fases morfolgicas sin designacin de rango taxonmico formal. La notoespecie nueva Amaranthus  texensis probablemente se origin de la hibridacin entre A. crassipes y A. scleropoides. No se considera a A. berlandieri como diferente de A. polygonoides, especie de ms amplia distribucin. Se describe Amaranthus tamaulipensis, especie nueva del este de Mxico y la parte ms meridional de Texas. Esta especie est relacionada con A. dubius y con A. brandegei, taxon sinaloense pobremente conocido. Se describe la enigmtica Amaranthus  tucsonensis como notoespecie nueva de la Sierra de Tucson, del sur de Arizona.
41968912|Diploid and tetraploid chromosome numbers and pollen measurements are reported for 95 collections from five taxa of Thelesperma (Asteraceae). These chromosome counts include the first 17 diploid (2x) reports for T. megapotamicum var. ambiguum. A correlation between ploidy level (2x, 4x) and pollen diameter (mm) is found in diploid and polyploid plants of T. megapotamicum and T. simplicifolium. In both taxa, multivalent configurations (IV, V, VI, X) are found. A recurring oversized bivalent (II) was observed in up to 23 of the 103 collections from four of the five taxa studied. En este estudio se contaron nmeros cromosomticos diploides y tetraploides, y medidas de polen de 95 colecciones, las cuales en total agrupan cinco txones de Thelesperma (Asteraceae). Los recuentos de cromosomas incluyen 17 de diploides (2x) de T. megapotamicum var. ambiguum, publicados ahora por primera vez. En plantas diploides y poliploides de T. megapotamicum y T. simplicifolium se encontr una correlacin entre el nivel de ploida (2x, 4x) y el dimetro del polen (mm). Adems ambos txones presentaron configuraciones multivalentes (IV, V, VI, X). Posiblemente en 23 de las 103 colecciones se observ una recurrencia de bivalentes (II) con tamao incrementado, en cuatro de los cinco txones.
41968911|Herbarium study and field exploration, primarily in the Longleaf Pine and Coastal Pine Meadows regions, have yielded the following new species to Mississippi: Chamaecrista deeringiana, Cladium mariscoides, Dichanthelium fusiforme, Dryopteris ludoviciana, Eleocharis elongata, E. melanocarpa, E. robbinsii, Isoetes louisianensis, Lobelia boykinii, Mitreola angustifolia, Rhynchospora decurrens, R. globularis var. pinetorum, R. harperi, Rhynchospora scirpoides, Sagittaria isoetiformis, Scleria reticularis sensu stricto, Spiranthes brevilabris var. floridana, Utricularia olivacea. The following are previously known from the state, but are rarely collected, or represent significant range extensions within Mississippi: Agrimonia incisa, Aristida condensata, A. simpliciflora, A. tuberculosa, Burmannia biflora, Calopogon multiflorus, Coelorachis cylindrica, Dichanthelium erectifolium, Elyoneurus tripsacoides, Gordonia lasianthus, Isoetes melanopoda, Juncus gymnocarpus, Marshallia trinervia, Myriophyllum laxum, Parnassia grandifolia, Polygala leptostachys, Potamogeton epihydrus, Rhynchospora curtissii, R. fascicularis var. distans, R. nitens, R. tracyi, Ruellia pedunculata ssp. pinetorum, Sorghastrum apalachicolense, Stylisma aquatica, S. pickeringii, Tridens carolinianus. Los estudios de herbario y exploraciones de campo en las zonas de pino palustre y de prados costeros con pinos, han dado las siguientes especies nuevas para Mississippi: Chamaecrista deeringiana, Cladium mariscoides, Dichanthelium fusiforme, Dryopteris ludoviciana, Eleocharis elongata, E. melanocarpa, E. robbinsii, Isoetes louisianensis, Lobelia boykinii, Mitreola angustifolia, Rhynchospora decurrens, R. globularis var. pinetorum, R. harperi, Rhynchospora scirpoides, Sagittaria isoetiformis, Scleria reticularis sensu stricto, Spiranthes brevilabris var. floridana, Utricularia olivacea. Las siguientes se conocan previamente del estado, pero se colectan raramente o representan una ampliacin significativa de su areal er Mississippi: Agrimonia incisa, Aristida condensata, A. simpliciflora, A. tuberculosa, Burmannia biflora, Calopogon multiflorus, Coelorachis cylindrica, Dichanthelium erectifolium, Elyoneurus tripsacoides, Gordonia lasianthus, Isoetes melanopoda, Juncus gymnocarpus, Marshallia trinervia, Myriophyllum laxum, Parnassia grandifolia, Polygala leptostachys, Potamogeton epihydrus, Rhynchospora curtissii, R. fascicularis var. distans, R. nitens, R. tracyi, Ruellia pedunculata ssp. pinetorum, Sorghastrum apalachicolense, Stylisma aquatica, S. pickeringii, Tridens carolinianus.
41968899|Two new species of Poaceae, Tripogon sivarajanii Sunil and T. vellarianus Pradeep from the Western Ghats of Kerala, India are described and illustrated. Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies de Poaceae, Tripogon sivarajanii Sunil y T. vellarianus Pradeep de los Western Ghats de Kerala, India.
41968901|Mentzelia conspicua T.K. Todsen, endemic to the Rio Chama basin of New Mexico, is illustrated and described. It is compared to a similar species, Mentzelia laciniata (Gray) Darl. The distribution of the two species in Rio Arriba County is shown. Se ilustra y se describe Mentzelia conspicua T.K. Todsen, endmica de la cuenca del Ro Chama en Nuevo Mxico. Se compra con la especie semejante, Mentzelia laciniata (Gray) Darl. Se muestra la distribucin de las dos especies en el condado de Ro Arriba.
41968895|A review of herbarium specimens of Myrsine for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana project revealed the presence of a distinctive new taxon from the Serra de Lua in the adjacent Territorio do Roraima, Brazil. Myrsine luae is described and illustrated, and its relationship to its nearest congener, Myrsine guianensis is discussed. An outline map showing the type locality is provided. Al estudiar pliegos del herbario pertenecientes al gnero Myrsine de la guayana venezolana, se encontr una especie nueva para la ciencia proveniente de la Serra de Lua, del Territorio do Roraima, Brazil; la zona brasilea adyacente a la guayana venezolana. Se describe, se ilustre y se discute el parentezco de la nueva especie, Myrsine luae. Tambin incluye un mapa mostrando la localidad tipa.
41968881|A new genus, Villasenoria (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), is described and a new combination, Villasenoria orcuttii (Greenm.) B.L. Clark, comb, nov., is proposed. Se describe un nuevo gnero, Villasenoria (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), y se propone una nueva combinacin, Villasenoria orcuttii (Greenm.) B.L. Clark, comb. nov.
41968902|Recent revisionary and cladistic studies in Nuphar Sm. resulted in the following nomenclatural amendments: two novel sections are described (sect. Nuphar and sect. Astylus), five new combinations are proposed (N. advena subsp. orbiculata, N. advena subsp. ozarkana, N. advena subsp. ulvacea, N. pumila subsp. sinensis, N. pumila subsp. oguraensis), and one species, N. oguraensis Miki, is lectotypified. Los estudios recientes, cladsticos y revisiones de Nuphar Sm. dan por resultado las siguientes enmiendas nomenclaturales: se describen dos secciones nuevas (sect. Nuphar y sect. Astylus), se proponen cinco combinaciones nuevas (N. advena subsp. orbiculata, N. advena subsp. ozarkana, N. advena subsp. ulvacea, N. pumila subsp. sinensis, N. pumila subsp. oguraensis), y se lectotipifica N. ogaraensis.
41968885|A group of black-fruited Crataegus (Rosaceae) from the western United States is analysed. Crataegus erythopoda, a species with previously poorly understood affinities, is shown to be closely related to C. rivularis. The affinity of C. rivularis and C. saligna is reconfirmed. The three species form a clade subtended by C. brachyacantha and different from the clade containing C. douglasii and C. okennonii when analyzed by PAUP using 38 morphological characteristics. Crataegus rivularis and C. saligna are lectotypified. Se estudia un grupo de Crataegus (Rosaceae) con frutos negros del oeste de los Estados Unidos. Crataegus erythopoda, una especie con afinidades pobremente conocidas, se muestra que est muy relacionado con C. rivularis. Se reconfirma que C. rivularis es tambin muy afn a C. saligna. Las tres especies forman un ciado en cuya base se encuentra C. brachyacantha y que es diferente del ciado que contiene a C. douglasii y C. okennonii cuando se analiza mediante el PAUP usando 38 caractersticas morfolgicas. Se lectotipifican Crataegus rivularis y C. saligna.
41968894|The taxonomic revision of a neotropical group of taxa formerly placed by Lundell in Auriculardisia, Chontalesia, and Icacorea, resulted in the discovery that they were actually members of the otherwise Indo-Malesian genus, Hymenandra. The genus is defined by its filaments fused at least basally to form a staminal tube, the tube adnate to the base of the corolla tube and anthers connate along their longitudinal dehiscence sutures at least until anthesis. It is also noted that all species of the genus exhibit Fagerlind s Architectural Model, a model that is otherwise extremely restricted, and one whose vegetative vs. reproductive shoot dimorphism has led to taxonomic overdescription. Nine species of Hymenandra are recognized in the Neotropics, bringing the total number of species in the genus to 16. Owing to a lack of complete material for Indo-Malesian species, and previous workers' hesitancy to unequivocally assign all of those species to a subgenus, the neotropical group is transferred to the genus without circumscription of any subgenera. It is postulated that the geography of Hymenandra, now considered an amphipacific taxon, is consistent with that predicted by the Boreotropics Hypothesis, and its logical extension postulated by Wendt (1993) and Lavin and Luckow (1993), especially when viewed in light of the biogeography for the rest of the tribe Ardisieae. Each neotropical Hymenandra species is fully described, newly illustrated, and provided with citations for all taxonomic and nomenclatural synonyms. In addition to the general section on morphology, biogeography and ecology provided for the genus, each species is accompanied by a discussion of its distribution, ecology and conservation status, along with citation of specimens examined. Five binomials are newly relegated to synonymy, and one taxon, Hymenandra pittieri, is lectotypified. The following new combinations are made: Hymenandra stenophylla (Donn. Sm.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. calycosa (Hemsl.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. srdida (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. squamata (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. wilburiana (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. pittieri (Mez) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. callejasii (Pipoly) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. acutissima (Cuatrec.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. crosbyi (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. A complete list of exsiccatae is provided at the end for all collections examined. Al llevar a cabo una revisin taxonmica de un grupo comprendiendo taxa anteriormente clasificados por Lundell como pertenecientes a los gneros Auriculardisia, Chontalesia, y Icacorea, se revel que todos pertenecen al gnero indo-malesiano, Hymenandra. El gnero se define por sus filamentos conados, formndose un tubo estaminal, por lo menos en su base, adnado a la base del tubo corolino y con anteras conadas a lo largo de las hendiduras longitudinales de dehiscencia. Se note que todas las especies del gnero se caracterizan por exhibir el Modelo Arqutectural de Fagerlind, un modelo bastante nico y cuyo dimorfismo entre ramas vegetativas y reproductivas se ha ocasionado sobredescripcin taxonmica. Se reconocen nueve especies neotropicales de Hymenandra, sumando el total para el gnero hasta 16. Debido al hecho de que el material indo-malesio es muy incompleto, no se han podido asignar a un subgnero todas las especies. Por lo tanto, se transfierren las especies neotropicales al gnero sin circumscribir subgneros. Se postula que la geografa del gnero est de acuerdo con el patrn fitogeogrfico proveniente del Hiptesis Boreotropical, especialmente en vista de la distribucin y relaciones con el tribu Ardisieae. Adems de la seccin general sobre morfologa, biogeografa, y ecologa proveda para el gnero, se discute la distribucin geogrfica, ecologa y estado de conservacin, y se lista pliegos examinados para todos los taxa. Se relega cinco binomiales a la sinonimia, y se lectotipifica Hymenandra pittieri. Las nuevas combinaciones se incluyen a continuacin: The following new combinations are made: Hymenandra stenophylla (Donn. Sm.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. calycosa (Hemsl.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. srdida (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. squamata (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. wilburiana (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. pittieri (Mez) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. callejasii (Pipoly) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. acutissima (Cuatrec.) Pipoly & Ricketson, H. crosbyi (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Se provee una lista completa de exsiccata al final del trabajo.
23909809|Dalea candida has been collected from the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province in Meigs County, Tennessee and Catoosa County, Georgia. This is the first report of the species from eastern Tennessee, Georgia and the Ridge and Valley Physiographic Province.
23909800|Descriptions, habitats, ranges, frequencies, and flowering times of the four species of Sorghastrum indigenous to Florida are presented. Three-dimensional features of the inflorescences have proven critical in the discrimination of species. Past difficulties in identification are largely attributable to the two-dimensional aspects of the inflorescences seen in herbarium specimens. Sorghastrum apalachicolense D. W. Hall, endemic to Florida, is described from elevated spots in wet pine-wiregrass savannas.
23909804|Morphological, anatomical, and cytological data were used to show the taxonomic relationship between the perennial Digitaria milanjiana and the annual species of Digitaria section Digitaria (D. bicornis, D. ciliaris, D. horizontalis, D. nuda, D. saguinalis and D. setigera). A phenetic analysis showed populations of D. milanjiana form a distinct cluster separate from the most closely related annual (D. bicornis), and a statistical analysis showed these species differed significantly on 16 of the 20 characters measured. A nested analysis of variance gave corresponding results. Instead of characters pertaining to longevity, it is suggested that the total absence of leaf pubescence, the presence of spicules on the lower lemma nerves, a narrow lateral branch, and a short and narrow bract blade be used to segregate D. milanjiana from the annual taxa. An analysis of North American populations of D. milanjiana showed no justification for the recognition of subspecific categories of this species. In addition, general shape and average size of the epidermal long cells and the association of sclerenchyma tissue with second-order vascular bundles differed between the annual taxa and D. milanjiana. Cytologically, D. milanjiana was found to be both male and female sterile, whereas the annuals were highly male fertile and produced a normal embryo sac. It was concluded that a measurable and definable difference exists between D. milanjiana and the annual members of the section Digitaria.
23909802|The earlier and correct name for what has been called Iresine grandis Standl. actually is I. cassiniiformis Schauer. The species to which the latter name has been misapplied is recognized here as I. orientalis, sp. nov. Iresine orientalis is known from the mountains of Tamaulipas, Nuevo Len, San Luis Potos, Quertaro, and Hidalgo; its closest relative is I. discolor Greenm. from Oaxaca and Puebla.
41967400|Lesquerella lescurii (Gray) Watson, a mustard of limited distribution and threatened status, has heretofore been viewed as endemic to the Central Basin of Tennessee. Recent collections show that the species is well established northwest of the Basin on the Highland Rim, apparently due to migration along the Cumberland River. Collections from Dickson County, Tennessee, are cited, making a total of nine known county occurrences from that state. The species is reported as new to Kentucky (Trigg County).
41967398|Two new names and seven new combinations are proposed in species of Erigeron previously classified as Achaetogeron. For ten validly named Erigeron species to which names as Achaetogeron have been applied, synonymies are given. An index is presented to the current disposition of all names in Achaetogeron.
41967399|Naturalized populations of Nymphaea lotus are reported for the first time in the Western Hemisphere. A recently discovered population in Florida is discussed and additional records of N. lotus in Louisiana, Guyana, Panama, Venezuela, Colombia, and Brazil are presented.
41967394|The species Sida helleri is segregated out of Sida and placed in the new genus Billieturnera, named in honor of the noted Texas botanist, B. L. Turner. The new genus is of isolated taxonomic position but has a greater affinity with Abutilon than with Sida. It occurs in southern Texas and northeastern Mexico (Nuevo Len and Tamaulipas).
41967295|Strophostyles Elliott is the only genus within the Phaseolinae with a center of distribution in the United States. It comprises three species, namely S. helvula (L.) Elliott, S. umbellata (Willd.) Britton, and S. leiosperma (Torrey & A. Gray) Piper, and it is considered as allied to Dolicbopsis Hassler, a monotypic genus endemic to South America. This study analyses the leaf flavonoid content from the three Strophostyles species and Dolkhopsisparaguariensis Hassler with the aim of examining the phylogenetic relationships among taxa. We isolated 38 glycosides based on kaempferol, quercetin and isorhamnetin. All Strophostyles species were characterized by the presence of isorhamnetin glycosides. However, S. leiosperma showed a distinctive profile while S. helvula and S. umbellata clustered together. In contrast, D. paraguariensis lacked isorhamnetin-based compounds. A cladistic analysis of flavonoid plus morphological data supported Strophostyles monophyly and showed S. leiosperma as the sister taxon of the clade S. helvula-S. umbellata. Strophostyles Elliott es el nico gnero de las Phaseolinae con un centro de distribucin en los Estados Unidos. Comprende tres especies: S. helvula (L.) Elliott, S. umbellata (Willd.) Britton y S. leiosperma (Torrey & A. Gray) Piper, y se considera afn a Dolichopsis Hassler, un gnero monotipia) endmico de Sudamrica. Este estudio analiza el contenido de flavonoides foliares en las tres especies de Strophostyles y en Dolichopsis paraguariensis Hassler con el objeto de examinar las relaciones filogenticas entre estos taxa. Se aislaron 38 glicsidos de kaempferol, quercetina e isoramnetina. Todas las especies de Strophostyles se caracterizaron por la presencia de glicsidos de isoramnetina. Sin embargo, S. leiosperma mostr un perfil distintivo mientras que S. helvula and S. umbellata se agruparon juntas. Por el contrario, D. paraguariensis no sintetiz compuestos basados en la isoramnetina. Un anlisis cladstico conjunto de los datos de flavonoides y caracteres morfolgicos apoy la monofilia del gnero y mostr a S. leiosperma como el taxn hermano del ciado S. helvula-S. umbellata.
41967305|Caryopsis morphology of the grass genus Leptochloa was studied regarding the necessity of some authors for segregating Diplachne. The data do not support the separation of Diplachne from Leptochloa based on a putative bimodal distribution of dorsal and lateral cross-sectional compression. The presence or absence of a prominent sulcus and the relative adnation of the pericarp are the only attributes sufficiently distinct to warrant use as phylogenetic markers. However, variations in surface texture and color can be useful regionally as diagnostic characters at the species level. Se estudi la morfologa del caripside del gnero Leptochloa dada la supuesta necesidad de algunos autores de segregar Diplachne. Los datos no apoyan la separacin de Diplachne y Leptochloa basada en una supuesta distribucin bimodal de la compresin dorsal y en seccin transversal lateral. La presencia o ausencia de un surco prominente y la adnacin relativa del pericarpo son los nicos atributos suficientemente diferentes para justificar su uso como marcadores filogenticos. Sin embargo, las variaciones en textura y color de la superficie pueden ser tiles regionalmente como caracteres diagnsticos a nivel especfico.
41967311|Field and herbarium studies have documented Cyperus fuscus as new for Missouri and Nevada. Localities, habitat data, lists of associated species, description, illustrations, photo of habit, and discussion of weedy potential are presented. Los estudios de campo y de herbario han documentado Cyperus fuscus como nuevo para Missouri y Nevada. Se aportan localidades, datos del hbitat, listas de especies asociadas, descripcin, ilustraciones, foto del hbito, y discusin de su potencial como mala hierba.
41967294|In 1874 Sereno Watson described Atriplex nuttallii as a new species, citing his number 981 collection, made in 1868 from northern Nevada, as a representative. His collection consisted of three plants each collected from a separate population all mounted on one sheet. One is A. canescens, two are the new species, A. nuttallii. Failure to recognize the original collection and collection site of A. nuttallii has resulted in assignment of the name A. nuttallii to several different Atriplex species in western North America. However, by using quantitative as well as qualitative differences, A. nuttallii is readily distinguished from its near relatives A. cuneata, A. falcata, A. gardneri, and A. tridentata. The principal distinguishing features include plant size and habit, leaf dimensions, fruiting-bract size and shape, fruiting bract appendages, chromosome number, saponin content, flavonol content, dates of anthesis, and geographic distribution. En 1874 Sereno Watson describi Atriplex nuttallii como nueva especie, citando su recoleccin nmero 981, hecha en el norte del estado de Nevada, E.E.U.U., como representativa. Consiste esta recoleccin en tres plantas, de distintos lugares pero colocadas todas en un mismo pliego de herbario. Una de ellas es A. canescens y dos son de la nueva especie, A. nuttalli. El no darse cuenta los botnicos de la colecta original y su lugar de origen ha tenido como consecuencia la aplicacin del nombre de Atriplex nuttallii a varias otras especies de Atriplex del oeste de Norte Amrica. Sin embargo, usando tanto caractersticas cuantitativas como cualitativas, se distingue fcilmente A. nuttallii de las especies afines, A. cuneata, A. falcata, A. gardneri, y A. tridentata. Las caractersticas de mayor utilidad son la altura de la planta, las dimensiones de la hoja, la forma y tamao de las brcteas fructferas, sus apndices, el numero de cromosomas, contenido de saponinas, contenido de flavonoides, fecha de antesis, y la distribucin geogrfica.
41967312|A specific case of the forensic use of animal-dispersed propagules is presented, and it is suggested that this type of evidence deserves wider utilization by the law enforcement community. Animal dispersed seeds and fruits are ubiquitous, often cling tenaciously to clothes or other materials worn or used by suspects, and are small and frequently go unnoticed. Furthermore, their identification is relatively inexpensive and technically straightforward, and their presentation as evidence is visually and intuitively obvious, making it ideal for the courtroom. It is also suggested that forensic botany is an excellent topic to use as a case study in college botany or biology classes because of its inherent interest and integrative nature. In order to facilitate such usage, a brief review of some aspects of forensic botany is presented including references to pertinent literature. Se presenta un caso especfico de propgulos diseminados por animales en uso forense, y se sugiere que este tipo de evidencia puede tener mayor utilizacin en varios aspectos legales. Las semillas y frutos dispersados por animales estn por todas partes, a menudo se enganchan tenazmente a las ropas u otros materiales llevados o usados por sospechosos, y por ser pequeos pasan frecuentemente inadvertidos, adems, su identificacin es relativamente barata y tcnicamente sencilla, y su presentacin como prueba es obvia visual e intuitivamente, convirtindose en ideal para los juicios. Se sugiere tambin que la botnica forense es un tema excelente para ser usado como caso prctico en las clases de biologa por su inters inherente y naturaleza integrativa. Para facilitar ese uso se hace una breve revisin de algunos aspectos de la botnica forense incluyendo las referencias bibliogrficas pertinentes.
41967290|The genus Cybianthus was revised to provide taxonomic treatments of the Myrsinaceae for Flora of Peru, Catalogue of the Vascular Plants of Ecuador, and Flora of Ecuador. Eight of Cybianthus' ten subgenera are represented, and an updated description of the genus, keys to its subgenera and emended descriptions for each are provided. Detailed descriptions of the morphology, anatomy and ecology of the genus are presented. Cybianthus subgenus Iteoides is relegated to synonymy under subgenus Microconomorpha. Within each subgenus, keys, full descriptions, synonymy, distribution, ecology and conservation statuses, local names and uses are given for each species. In addition, specimens are cited for each species, including extralimital ones to show extremes in morphological variation. Thirteen species are relegated to synonymy, nine names are lectotypified, and one, Conomorpha rigida, is neotypified. One new combination, Cybianthus guyanensis subsp. pseudoicacoreus, is made, and Cybianthus poeppigii is transferred from subgenus Cybianthus to subgenus Weigeltia. The following 15 new species are described, illustrated and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed: Cybianthus anthuriophyllus, C. cenepensis, C. comperuvianus, C. croatii, C. flavovirens, C. fosteri, C. grandezii, C. granulosus, C. huampamiensis, C. incognitus, C. jensonii, C. nestorii, C. pseudolongifolius, C. timanae, C. vasquezii. Al preparar tratamientos taxonmicos sobre la familia Myrsinaceae para los proyectos Flora del Per, Catdlago de las Plantas Vasculares del Ecuador, y Flora del Ecuador, se llev a cabo una revisin del gnero Cybianthus. Se encuentra en la regin ocho de los diez subgneros, y se proveen tanto una descripcin actualizada para el gnero como para cada subgnero tambin. Se presenta descripciones detalladas tratando la morfologa, anatoma y ecologa del gnero. Se relega Cybianthus subgnero Iteoides a la sinonimia bajo subgnero Microconomorpha, y se transfiere Cybianthus poeppigii del subgnero Cybianthus al subgnero Weigeltia. Para cada subgnero, se proveen claves, descripciones completas, sinonimia, distribucin geogrfica y estado actual de su conservacin, nombres locales y usos. Tambin se cita colecciones revisadas para cada especie, incluyendo ellas fuera de la regin delimitada cuando se muestran variacin morfolgica significativa. Se relegan 13 especies a la sinonimia, se lectotipifica 9 binomiales y uno, Conomorpha rgida, se neotipifica. Se publica la nueva combinacn, Cybianthus guyanensis subsp. pseudoicacoreus. Se describen, se ilustran y se discuten el parentezco para 15 especies nuevas, listadas a continuacin: Cybianthus anthuriophyllus, C. cenepensis, C. comperuvianus, C. croatii, C. flavovirens, C. fosteri, C. grandezii, C. granulosus, C. huampamiensis, C. incognitus, C. jensonii, C. nestorii, C. pseudolongifolius, C. timanae, C. vasquezii.
41967306|A new species of Xanthostemon, X. fruticosus, presently known only from the Palanan Wilderness in Isabela Province, Luzon, is described and its relationships discussed. Una nueva especie de Xanthostemon, X. fruticosus, en la actualidad solamente conocida de la Palanan Wilderness en la provincia de Isabela es descrita y sus relaciones con otras especies discutidas.
41967291|Botanical exploration of the Hans Meyer Range in southern New Ireland revealed the existence of two previously unknown taxa in the families Rubiaceae and Corsiaceae. The novelties, Psychotria osiana Takeuchi & Pipoly, (Rubiaceae) and Corsia purpurata var. wiakabui Takeuchi & Pipoly (Corsiaceae) are described and illustrated. Taxonomic and ecological notes are also provided for the new taxa. Wanpela wok bus long sait bilong botani ibin kamap long ol lain maunten bilong Hans Meyer, Niu Hand Province, long yia 1994. Dispela wokbus o stadi ibin kamapim tupela niupela samting. Wanpela em sotpela diwai bilong famili Rubiaisi. Namba tu em wanpela liklik gras nating bilong famili Korsiasi. Tupela igat nem olsem: Psychotria osiana na Corsia purpurata var. wiakabui. Dispela stori i tok klia na soim tu sampela piksa bilong tupela.
41967310|The following 15 taxa are documented new to Texas: Alternanthera sessilis, Cyperus eragrostis, Urochloa ramosa, Lindernia crustacea, Phyllanthus fraternus, Stellaria parva, Alysicarpus vaginalis, Cardamine debilis, Rhynchospora debilis, Lilaeopsis chinensis, Rumex paraguayensis, Saccharum coarctatum, Utricularia foliosa, Polygonum meisnerianum, and Cuscuta polygonorum. Significant new collections records are provided for five: Scirpus cubense, Polygonum cespitosum, Phyllanthus niruri, Ludwigia microcarpa, and Armoracia lacustris. Data are presented to question the presence of Eleocharis compressa in Texas. Taxa are listed alphabetically by family, genus, and species with annotations and citation of voucher specimens. Los siguientes 15 taxa se citan como nuevos para Texas: Alternanthera sessilis, Cyperus eragrostis, Urochloa ramosa, Lindernia crustacea, Phyllanthus fraternus, Stellaria parva, Alysicarpus vagina I is, Cardamine debilis, Rhynchospora debilis, Lilaeopsis chinensis, Rumex paraguay ens is, Saccharum coarctatum, Utriculariafoliosa, Polygonum meisnerianum, y Cuscuta polygonorum. Se ofrecen nuevas citas importantes para cinco: Scirpus cubense, Polygonum cespitosum, Phyllanthus niruri, Ludwigia microcarpa, y Armoracia lacustris. Se presentan datos para cuestionar la presencia de Eleocharis compressa en Texas. Los taxa estn listados alfabticamente por familia, gnero, y especie con anotaciones y citas de los pliegos testigo.
41967307|We compared seasonal changes in concentrations of four elements, arsenic, cadmium, copper and lead, in samples of various tissues of creosotebush collected in the El Paso, USA/Ciudad Juarez, Mexico region during 1980-81 and 1994-95. Levels in leaf tissue changed seasonally, with concentrations dropping in the spring and late fall, corresponding to the time of leaf drop in the plant. This suggests that most of the heavy metals were simply deposited on the surface of leaves, although data are presented which indicate that internal tissues also have significant levels of heavy metals. These seasonal cycles were less pronounced in the most recent samples. Levels of all four elements in cresotebush were significantly high in the region, as compared to a distant control area. Concentrations of most elements dropped below detection limits within 12 to 30 km from areas of highest concentration. Densities of native Chihuahuan Desert flora and lichens are low in the area, suggesting an apparent negative impact of industrial pollution on the local vegetation. Cadmium and lead levels in creosotebush tissues have dropped over the past 15 years, suggesting that enforcement and strengthening of environmental laws has reduced the air pollution levels in the El Paso area. Comparamos los cambios estacionales de las concentraciones de 4 elementos, arsnico, cadmio, cobre y plomo, en muestras de varios tejidos de gobernadora colectados en el rea de El Paso y Ciudad Jurez, Mxico durante 1980-81 y 1994-95. Se encontr un cambio estacional de los metales con las concentraciones disminuyendo en la primavera y otoo, que coresponden al momento de la cada de las hojas de la planta. Esto sugiere que hay deposicin de los elementos en la superficie de las hojas, aunque presentamos datos de que hay acumulacin de metales en los tejidos interiores. Estos ciclos estacionales estn menos pronunciados en los ltimos aos. Los niveles de los elementos son altos en la regin, pero estn concentrados en un rea entre 12 y 30 kilmetros del rea con concentraciones ms altas. Las densidades de la flora y lquenes en el rea son bajas, sugiriendo un impacto negativo de la polucin industrial en la vegetacin local. Los niveles de cadmio y plomo en los tejidos ha disminuido en los ltimos 15 aos, lo que sugiere que la aplicacin de las leyes medioambientales ha reducido los niveles de polucin en el rea de El Paso.
41967304|The Sporobolus floridanus complex is defined to include five North American species. Keys, descriptions, distributions, illustrations, and habitat information are provided for: S. curtissii, S. floridanus, S. silveanus, S. teretifolius, and a new member of the complex from North Carolina, South Carolina, and eastern Georgia, Sporoboluspinetorum Weakley and P. M. Peterson. A lectotype is chosen for S. floridanus. The taxonomic and ecological relationships of these five species, as well as the related S". junceus and S. heterolepis, are compared and discussed. Sporobolus curtissii, S. floridanus, S. pinetorum, S. silveanus, and S. teretifolius are all relatively narrow endemics of various portions of the southeastern Coastal Plain. Each of these five species is the locally dominant or codominant grass in fire-maintained pinelands with open canopies of Pinus palus tris, P. serotina, and/or P. elliottii var. elliottii. The geographic distributions and many ecological requirements of the S. curtissii, S. floridanus, S. pinetorum, and S. teretifolius overlap, but they can be separated on a hydrologie gradient. El complejo Sporobolus floridanus es definido para incluir cinco especies de Norte America. Se proporcionan claves, descripciones, distribucin, ilustraciones, e informacin del habitat para: S. curtissii, S. floridanus, S. silveanus, S. teretifolius, y un nuevo miembro del complejo de Carolina del Norte, Carolina del Sur y del este de Georgia, Sporobolus pinetorum Weakley & P. M. Peterson. Un lectotipo es escogido para S. floridanus. Las relaciones taxonomicas y ecolgicas de estas cinco especies, asi como de las especies afines S. junceus y S. heterolepis, son comparadas y discutidas. Sporobolus curtissii, S. floridanus, S. pinetorum, S. silveanus, y S. teretifolius son todas relativamente endmicas restringidas a varias partes del sureste de la llanura costera. Cada una de las cinco especies, es el pasto localmente dominante o codominate en terrenos de pinos mantenidos por quemas con dosel abierto de Pinuspalustris, P. sertina, y/o P. elliottii var. elliottii. La distribucin geogrfica y muchos de los requerimientos ecolgicos de S. curtissii, S. floridanus, S. pinetorum, y S. teretifolius se solapan, pero pueden ser separados en base a un gradiente hidrolgico.
41967298|In preparation for a forthcoming treatment of the Apocynaceae of Mexico, a routine examination of herbarium specimens revealed the following new species, Mandevilla pringlei J.K. Williams, sp. nov. The new species is distinct from other members of its alliance (sect. Torosae) in having subsessile leaves and larger peduncles and flowers. In addition, Mandevilla apocynifolia (A. Gray) Woodson is here presented to be a synonym of M. foliosa (Mll. Arg.) Hemsl. En la preparacin de un prximo tratamiento de las Apocynaceae de Mxico, un examen de rutina de los especmenes de herbario revel la nueva especie siguiente, Mandevilla pringlei J. K. Williams, sp. nov. La nueva especie se distingue de otros miembros de su alianza (sect. Torosae) por tener hojas subssiles, y pednculos y flores ms grandes. Adems, Mandevilla apocynifolia (A. Gray) Woodson se presenta aqu como un sinnimo de M. foliosa (Mll. Arg.) Hemsl.
41967300|In preparation for a forthcoming treatment of the Apocynaceae of Mexico, it was discovered that Echites holoserkea of Sess & Mo. has priority over the species Mandevilla sertuligera Woodson and M. syrinx Woodson, accordingly Mandevilla holoserkea (Sess & Mo.) J. K. Williams comb. nov. is here proposed. En la preparacin de un prximo tratamiento de las Apocynaceae de Mxico, se descubri que Echites holoserkea Sess & Mo. tiene prioridad sobre Mandevilla sertuligera Woodson y M. syrinx Woodson, como consecuencia se propone Mandevilla holoserkea (Sess & Mo.) J. K. Williams comb. nov.
41967308|Twenty-six vascular plant species are reported here for the flora of Dominica, in the Lesser Antilles. These include two pteridophytes, 13 monocotyledons, and 11 dicotyledons. Four of these species are reported as new to the Lesser Antilles: Marsilea polycarpa Hook. & Grev., Diplacrum capitatum (Willd.) Boeck., Rhynchospora racemosa Wright ex Sauvalle, and Pharus lappulaceus Aubl. Se citan 26 plantas vasculares adicionales para la flora de Dominica en las Antillas Menores. Estas especies incluyen dos pteridfitos, 13 monocotiledneas y 11 dicotiledneas. Cuatro de estas especies se presentan como nuevas para la flora de las Antillas Menores: Marsilea polycarpa Hook. & Grev., Diplacrum capitatum (Willd.) Boeck., Rhynchospora racemosa Wright ex Sauvalle, y Pharus lappulaceus Aubl.
41967309|The widespread Old World adder's-tongue, Ophioglossum polyphyllum A. Br. is reported for the first time in North America. Formerly confused with O. engelmannii Prantl, we now recognize as O. polyphyllum collections from U.S.A. (Texas and Arizona) and Mexico (Hidalgo, Oaxaca, San Luis Potos, and Zacatecas). The earliest confirmed collection was in 1874. The two species are keyed out and illustrated, and specimens of O. polyphyllum are listed. The known county distribution of the species in Texas is mapped, and the habitat and phenology are briefly described. La lengua de serpiente del Viejo Mundo, muy frecuente, Ophioglossum polyphyllum A. Br. se cita por primera vez en Norte Amrica. Previamente confundida con O. engelmannii Prantl, reconocemos ahora como O. polyphyllum colectas de E.E.U.U. (Texas y Arizona) y Mexico (Hidalgo, Oaxaca, San Luis Potos, y Zacatecas). La primera colecta confirmada fue en 1874. Se ofrece una clave de identificacin y se ilustran las dos especies, y se listan los especmenes de O. polyphyllum. Se cartografa la distribucin conocida por condados en Texas, y se describen brevemente el hbitat y la fenologa.
41967296|Ruellia jimulcensis Villarreal sp. nov., from the Jimulco mountains area (southwestern Coahuila and northeast Durango), is described and illustrated. It is similar to R. occidentalis (Gray) Tharp and Barkley, and recognized by its relatively smaller flowers, shorter corolla basal tube and its distribution. Ruellia jimulcensis Villarreal sp. nov. del rea de las montaas de Jimulco (suroeste de Coahuila y noreste de Durango), es descrita e ilustrada. Es similar a R. occidentalis (Gray) Tharp y Barkley, y se reconoce por sus flores ms pequeas, tubo basai de la corola ms corto y su distribucin.
41967292|Three new species of Crataegus, C. okennonii J. B. Phipps (from series Douglasianae), C. okanaganens is J. B. Phipps & O'Kennnon (from the newly described series Purpureofructi J. B. Phipps & O'Kennon), and C. phippsii O'Kennon (near series Molles) are described from western North America. All are striking, widespread taxa with a substantial number of records. Tres nuevas especies de Crataegus, C. okennonii J.B. Phipps (de la serie Douglasianae), C. okanaganensisJ. B. Phipps & O'Kennnon (de la nueva serie descrita Purpureofructi J.B. Phipps & O'Kennon), y C. phippsii O'Kennon (prximo a la serie Molles) se describen del oeste de Norte Amrica. Todos son taxa sorprendentes y de amplia difusin con un sustancial nmero de citas.
41967297|Se describe e ilustra Agave gracilis de los estados de Guerrero y Oaxaca, Mxico. La especie pertenece al grupo Striatae Baker, del subgnero Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker, y muestra similitudes con A. dasylirioides Jacobi & Bouch. Agave gracilis from Guerrero and Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The species is a member of group Striatae Baker, subgenus Littaea (Tagliabue) Baker. It is similar to A. dasylirioides Jacobi & Bouch.
41967302|Trachypogon mayansis, a new species from the Maya Mountains in Belize, is described and illustrated. A key is provided to separate it from other species in Central America. Trachypogon mayansis is readily distinguished from other Central American species by its annual life cycle, height, leaf blade length and width, and prominent and conspicuous sheath auricles/ligules, that can reach to 6 cm in length. Se describe y ilustra una especie nueva, Trachypogon mayansis, de las montaas Maya de Belize. Se presenta una clave para separarla de las otras especies Centro-americanas. T. mayansis se distingue fcilmente de ortras especies Centro-americanas por su ciclo de vida anual, altura, longitud y anchura de las lminas foliares, sus lgulas con aurculas prominentes y conspicuas, y que pueden llegar hasta 6 cm de largo.
41967636|Pollen descriptions of Echinopepon species and a palynological key are presented. Data on apertures, exine, polarity, shape, and size of pollen grains are included. Pollen morphology is distinctive for the species of Echinopepon and Echinocystis and in some Marah species. The main features of each taxon are illustrated by photographs. Se presenta la descripcin del polen de las especies de Echinopepon. Se incluyen datos de la apertura, exina, polaridad, forma y tamao de los granos, asi como una clave palinolgica para su identificacin. La morfologa polnica es caracterstica en Echinopepon y distintiva de Echinocystis y de algunas especies de Marah. Se ilustra con fotografas las caractersticas principales de cada taxon.
41967648|Chromosome counts for 14 species of Carex section Ovales are documented completing at least a single report for each of the over 40 species known for eastern North America. The haploid numbers in this report ranged from n = 24 to n = 42. Counts for Carex feta, C. muskingumensis, C. oronensis, and C. tetrastachya were determined for the first time and six aneuploid (sensu lato) series are indicated. The only previously published counts for C. adusta, C. argyrantha, and C. foenea (C. aened) were found to be incorrect. Se documentan los recuentos de 14 especies de Carex seccin Ovales completando al menos una cita de las ms de 40 especies conocidas del este de Amrica del Norte. Los nmeros haploides varan de n = 24 hasta n = 42. Se hacen por primera vez recuentos de Carex feta, C. muskingumensis, C. oronensis, y C tetrastachya y se indican seis series aneuploides (sensu lato). Los nicos recuentos previos de C adusta, C. argyrantha, y C. foenea (C. aenea) se ha encontrado que son incorrectos.
41967631|Seedling development is described for Chamaesyce hirta, C. hypericifolia, and C. mesembrianthemifolia as discerned by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Although these species ultimately develop erect to ascending growth habits, epicotyl development is limited to the production of a single pair of leaves located immediately superjacent to and decussate with the cotyledons. The shoot system develops from one or more buds located in the axils of the cotyledons. In all respects, seedling ontogeny is very similar to that of previously studied prostrate species of Chamaesyce. Evidence from seedling ontogeny thus contradicts a hypothesis concerning homologies of plant form pertinent to the origin of Chamaesyce from Euphorbia that was first articulated by Roeper in 1824. These results support an alternative hypothesis based on proliferation of branches from the cotyledonary node in hypothetical ancestral elements within Euphorbia where this morphology can be found in perennial hemicryptophytes as well as certain annual species. Se describe el desarrollo de la semilla de Chamaesyce hirta, C. hypericifolia, y C. mesembrianthemifolia al microscopio ptico y microscopio electrnico de barrido. Aunque estas especies desarrollan finalmente hbitos de crecimiento de erectos a ascendentes, el desarrollo del epictilo se limita nicamente a la produccin de un par de hojas localizadas inmediatamente encima y decusadas con los cotiledones. El sistema de ramas se desarrolla a partir de una o ms yemas localizadas en las axilas de los cotiledones. La ontogenia de la semilla es en todos los aspectos muy semejante a la de las especies de Chamaesyce postradas estudiadas previamente. Esta evidencia de la ontogenia de la semilla contradice la hiptesis relativa a las homologas, de la forma de la planta, relativas al origen de Chamaesyce & partir de Euphorbia emitida por Roeper en 1824. Estos resultados apoyan la hiptesis alternativa basada en la proliferacin de ramas a partir del nudo de los cotiledones en los hipotticos elementos ancestrales de Euphorbia donde puede encontrarse esta morfologa en hemicriptfitos perennes as como en algunas especies anuales.
41967621|The new species Arnoglossum album is described. Its phyllaries have prominently winged keelsa feature shared with A diversifolium, A. floridanum, A. phntagineum, and A sulcatum. Comparisons among members of this closely knit assemblage include morphology, phenology, ecological setting, and range, and a key is provided to distinguish the species. Se describe una especie nueva Arnoglossum album. Sus filarios tienen quillas aladas prominentesuna caracterstica que comparte con A. diversifolium, A. floridanum, A. phntagineum, y A. sulcatum. Las comparaciones entre miembros de este conjunto fuertemente reticulado incluye morfologa, fenologa, caractersticas ecolgicas y areal. Se ofrece una clave para diferenciar las especies.
41967628|Continuing studies on the Clusiaceae for Flora de Colombia, and fieldwork to document the phytodiversity of Ro amb Natural Reserve have revealed two new species, Clusia bernardoi Pipoly & Cogollo, and C. tetragono. Pipoly & Cogollo. The new species are described, illustrated, and hypotheses of their phylogenetic positions are proposed. Corrections to bibliographic errors in citations for Clusia sect. Oedematopus and Clusia sect. Havetiopsis are provided. The new combination Clusia comans (Mart.) Pipoly is validated. Colombian and related Andean Venezuelan species formerly included in the genus Oedematopus are transferred to Clusia, necessitating the new combinations: C. aristeguietae (Maguire) Pipoly, C divaricata (Cuatrec.) Pipoly, C. epiphytica (Cuatrec.) Pipoly, C. mirandensis (Cuatrec.) Pipoly. Estudios hacia un tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Clusiaceae para Flora de Colombia y para documentar la fitodivdersidad de la Reserva Natural Ro Namb, revelaron dos especies nuevas para la ciencia, Clusia bernardoi Pipoly & Cogollo, y C. tetragona Pipoly & Cogollo. Se describen, se ilustran y se proponen hipteses de parentezco para las nuevas especies. Errores bibliogrficos previamente publicados para Clusia secciones Oedematopus y Havetiopsis se corrigen. La nueva combinacin Clusia comans (Mart.) Pipoly se valida. Especies colombianas y venezolanas de la regin Andina anteriormente consideradas como miembros del gnero Oedematopus se transfieren a Clusia, resultando en las nuevas combinaciones: C. aristeguietae (Maguire) Pipoly, C. divaricata (Cuatrec.) Pipoly, C. epiphytica (Cuatrec.) Pipoly, C. mirandensis (Cuatrec.) Pipoly.
41967641|Crepidomanes indicum, a new species of filmy fern is described and illustrated from southern Western Ghats of India. Se describe e ilustra Crepidomanes indicum, una nueva especie de helcho membranoso de los Ghats del suroeste de la India.
41967624|Documentation of the flora of the Natural Reserve Ro amb has resulted in the discovery of a heretofore undescribed species, Ardisia niambiensis. The species is described, illustrated and its salient morphological features are elucidated. Ardisia niambiensis is best placed in subgenus Ardisia because of its terminal, glandular-papillate, paniculate inflorescences with tripinnate branches, and the evenly divided, 5-lobed calyx, whose symmetric lobes have glandular-ciliolate margins. It is most closely related to Ardisia premontana, a taxon endemic to the eastern slopes of the Eastern Andean Cordillera of southern Ecuador and Peru. Al documentar la flora de la Reserva Natural Ro Namb, se encontr una nueva especie, Ardisia niambiensis. Se describe, se ilustra y se discuten sus caracteres principales y sobresalientes. Ardisia niambiensis se ubica mejor dentro del subgnero Ardisia debido a sus panculas terminales y glandular-papillosas con ramificacin tripinnada, su cliz simtricamente dividido con lbulos simtricos y glandular-ciliolados a lo largo de los margenes. La nueva especie es muy afn a Ardisia premontana, una especie endmica a la falda oriental de la Cordillera Oriental del Ecuador y Per.
41967626|Documentation of the flora of the Natural Reserve Ro amb has resulted in the discovery of a heretofore undescribed species, Clusia niambiensis. The species is described, illustrated and its salient morphological features are elucidated. While its vegetative morphology is reminiscent of both Clusia laurifolia and C. venusta, the free, numerous, and subulate stamens with a central mass of staminodia producing a waxy resin indicate it is a member of section Chhmydoclusia rather than section Retinostemon, where the aforementioned congeners belong. At present, the relationships of Clusia niambiensis within section Chlamydoclusia, are unknown. It is anticipated that continuing studies of the genus, leading to a treatment of the family for Flora de Colombia, will resolve this problem. Al documentar la flora de la Reserva Natural Ro amb, se encontr una nueva especie, Clusia niambiensis. Se describe, se ilustra y se discuten sus caracteres principales y sobresalientes. Mientras que sus caracteres vegetativos son muy semejantes a los de Clusia laurifolia y C. venusta, sus estambres libres, numerosos y subulados indican claramente que C. niambiensis pertenece a la seccin Chlamydo clusia y no a la seccin Retinostemon, donde se ubican las otras especies congenricas susodichas. En este momento, no se sabe exactamente la ubicacin taxonmica de Clusia niambiensis dentro de la seccin Chlamydoclusia. Esperamos que a travs de los estudios en proceso para el tratamiento taxonmico de la familia para Flora de Colombia, se pueda resolver este problema.
41967633|A taxonomic revision of Ardisia subgenus Graphardisia is presented, including an emended description of the subgenus, a key to the species and subspecies, along with updated descriptions and new illustrations for each taxon. Six taxa are recognized, including three new combinations: Ardisia opegrapha subsp. paquitensis (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, A. opegrapha subsp. wagneri (Mez) Pipoly & Ricketson, and A. bartlettii subsp. lilacina (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Four binomials, Ardisia weberbaueri, A. opegrapha, A. wagneri and A. albovirens, are lectotypified and twenty-one are newly relegated to synonymy. Ardisia nigrovirens J. F. Macbr. is relegated to synonymy under A. albovirens Mez, and both are excluded from subgenus Graphardisia. Se presenta una revisin taxonmica del gnero Ardisia subgnero Graphardisia. Se provee una descripcin actualizada del subgnero junto con una clave para identificar las especies y subespecies, descripciones acutalizadas y nuevas ilustraciones para cada taxon. Se reconoce seis taxa, incluyendo tres combinaciones nuevas: Ardisia opegrapha subsp. paquitensis (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson, A. opegrapha subsp. wagneri (Mez) Pipoly & Ricketson, y A. bartlettii subsp. lilacina (Lundell) Pipoly & Ricketson. Se lectotipifican cuatro binomiales: Ardisia weberbaueri, A. opegrapha, A. wagneri y A. albovirens y se relega veintiuno a la sinonimia. Tambin, Ardisia nigrovirens se relega bajo sinonimia de A. albovirens, y ambas se excluyen del subgnero Graphardisia.
41967647|Se realiz un inventario de las especies vegetales que son utilizadas con fines ornamentales en el rea metropolitana de Monterrey, encontrndose que se cuenta con 137 especies pertenecientes a 68 familias, de las cuales Fraxinus sp., Ligustrum lucidum Ait., Rosa centifolia L. y Melia azedarach L. son las especies ms frecuentes. An inventory was taken of the ornamental plants in the metropolitan area of Monterrey. We found 137 species in 68 families. The most frequent species are Fraxinus sp., Ligustrum lucidum Ait., Rosa centifolia L. and Melia azedarach L.
41967622|The following new combinations and new name are proposed: Packera bolanderi var. harfordii (Greenm.) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera dimorphophylla var. intermedia (T.M. Barkley) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera dimorphophylla var. paysoni (T.M. Barkley) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera pseudaurea var. flavula (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera psudaurea semicordata (Mack. & Bush) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera neomexicana var. toumeyi (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb. nov.; Packera neomexicana var. metcalfei (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb. nov.; and Packera buekii D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, nom. nov. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones y nuevo nombre: Packera bolanderi var. harfordii (Greenm.) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera dimorphophylla var. intermedia (T.M. Barkley) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera dimorphophylla var. paysoni (T.M. Barkley) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera pseudaurea var. flavula (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera pseudaurea var. semicordata (Mack. & Bush) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera neomexicana var. toumeyi (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; Packera neomexicana var. metcalfei (Greene) D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, comb, nov.; y Packera buekii D.K. Trock & T.M. Barkley, nom. nov.
41967639|Lundell (1981a, 1986) published 68 new names and combinations for binomials in Ardisia and Myrsine. In both papers, he indicated that he was opposed to placement of the taxa involved in those genera and that the combinations and new names were provided in anticipation of future circumscriptions of the genera. We agree with Morales (1997) that in doing so, Lundell inadvertently invalidated his new names and combinations, according to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature Article 34.1. To remedy the situation, the following new combinations are proposed m Myrsine: M.. calcarata (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly and M. juergensenii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly; the other seven Lundell combinations are taxonomic synonyms and thus, not in need of validation. In addition to those combinations validated by Morales (1997) in Ardisia, 27 new combinations are made, nine new names are proposed, and for those taxa described by Lundell in the segregate genus Icacorea Aublet but never transferred, five new combinations are proposed. The remaining 17 binomials are taxonomic synonyms and therefore, are not validated. Lundell (1981a, 1986) public 68 nombres y combinaciones nuevos para binomiales en los gneros Ardisia y Myrsine. En ambos trabajos, el indic que no estaba de acuerdo con la ubicacin taxnmica de los taxa dentro de los gneros susodichos y que se estaba llevando a cabo las combinaciones y nombres nuevos para anticipar circumscripciones futuras que podran ser descritas para los gneros. Estamos de acuerdo con Morales (1997) quien consideraba que Lundell, por haber dicho eso claramente, invalid sus nombres y combinaciones nuevos segn el Cdigo Internacional de Nomenclatura Botnica (ICBN) Artculo 34.1. Para corregir esta situacin, las combinaciones nuevas se proponen dentro del gnero Myrsine: M. calcarata (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly, y M. juergensenii (Lundell) Ricketson & Pipoly; las otras siete combinaciones que hizo Lundell se consideran como sinnimos taxonmicos y por lo tanto, no necesitan ser transferidos. Adems de las combinaciones validadas por Morales (1977) dentro de Ardisia, se proponen 27 combinaciones nuevas y nueve nombres nuevos. Para los taxa descrito por Lundell dentro del gnero segregado como Icacorea Aublet, pero nunca transferidos al gnero Ardisia, se transfierren cinco combinaciones nuevas. Los 17 binomiales restantes son sinnimos taxonmicos y por lo tanto, no necesitan ser transferidos.
41967634|Se describe e ilustra Polianthes bicolor, una nueva especie del estado de Oaxaca, Mxico. Esta especie muestra similitudes con Polianthesgeminiflora (La Llave et Lex.) Rose var. geminiflora, Polianthesgeminiflora (La Llave et Lex.) Rose var. clivicola McVaugh y Polianthes graminifolia Rose. Polianthes bicolor from the state of Oaxaca, Mxico, is described as new and illustrated. This species is similar to Polianthes geminiflora (La Llave et Lex.) Rose var. geminiflora, Polianthes geminiflora (La Llave et Lex.) Rose var. clivicola McVaugh and Polianthes graminifolia Rose.
41967642|Oritrophium durangense Nesom, sp. nov., is described from the Sierra Madre of southern Durango, Mexico. It is the second species of the genus known from Mexico, following another recently described from the northeastern slopes of Pico de Orizaba in Veracruz, about 1000 kilometers northwest of the Durango locality. The remainder of the species of Oritrophium occur in montane habitats of northern South America. Se describe Oritrophium durangense Nesom, sp. nov., de la Sierra Madre del sur de Durango, Mxico. Es la segunda especie del gnero que se conoce en Mxico, despus de otra recientemente descrita de las laderas noreste del Pico de Orizaba en Veracruz, unos 1000 kilmetros al noroeste de la localidad de Durango. Las otras especies de Oritrophium se dan en habitats del norte de Amrica del Sur.
41967645|The ten species of Agalinis known to occur in the Ozark Highlands are treated floristically. A key to the species is presented along with descriptions, flowering time, ecological data, and distribution maps. In addition, taxa considered rare are noted and their current statuses indicated. Se trataron las diez especies de Agalinis conocidas de los "Ozark Highlands." Se presenta una clave de las especies, con descripciones, datos fenolgicos y ecolgicos, y mapas de distribucin. Adems, se anota el estado actual de las especies raras.
41967644|Recent collections and herbarium specimen study resulted in this review of the status of the 121 taxa in the genus Carex occurring the state of Arkansas, USA. A list of these taxa provides frequency and habitat data, while county dot maps show known distribution. The list gives additional information on selected taxa, especially on rare species, on taxa previously considered rare in Arkansas, or on nine taxa reported new to Arkansas. This paper considers several taxa as distinct which were previously treated as synonyms by other authors. It reports four hybrids, and treats taxa excluded from the Arkansas flora, as well as taxa considered to be possible additions to the state flora. Recientes recolecciones estudios de especmenes de herbario dieron como resultado esta revisin del estatus de los 121 taxa del gnero Carex del estado de Arkansas, USA. Una lista de estos taxa ofrece datos de frecuencia y habitat, mientras que los mapas de condados muestran la distribucin conocida. La lista da informacin adicional de taxa selectos, especialmente de especies raras, de taxa considerados raros previamente en Arkansas, o de los nueve taxa citados como nuevos para Arkansas. Este trabajo considera como distintos varios taxa que haban sido tratados como sinnimos por otros autores. Se citan cuatro hbridos, y se tratan taxa excluidos de la flora de Arkansas, as como taxa considerados como posibles adiciones a la flora del estado.
41967630|Se describen e ilustran dos nuevas especies del gnero Malaxis (Malaxideae, Orchidaceae) para Mxico, Malaxispalustris y Malaxis alvaroi. La primera crece en el estado de Morelos y la segunda se conoce de los estados de Morelos y Guanajuato. Malaxispalustris and Malaxis alvaroi (Malaxideae, Orchidaceae), two new species from Mexico, are described and illustrated. The former grows in Morelos and the latter is known from Morelos and Guanajuato.
41967638|Plants from southeast Texas and adjacent Louisiana previously identified in part as BerUndiera xbetonicifolia are regarded here as geographical variants of B. pumila and are treated as B. pumila var. scabrella Nesom & Turner, var. nov. Variety pumila and var. scabrella differ in features of cauline and foliar vestiture, that of the upper leaf surfaces allowing the most consistent separation. The type collection of B. betonicifolia (Hook.) Small (Silphium betonicifolium Hook., 1835) represents a species distinct from B. pumila and comprises plants previously identified by the name B. texana DC. (1836), which is displaced by the former. While the morphology of B. pumila var. scabrella has suggested that it originated as a hybrid between typical B. pumila and B. betonicifolia, there is no evidence of current hybridization between these two species. Plantas del sudeste de Texas y la parte adyacente de Louisiana identificadas previamente en parte como Berlandiera xbetonicifolia son consideradas aqu como variantes geogrficas de B. pumila y son tratadas como B. pumila var. scabrella Nesom & Turner, var. nov. La variedad pumila y var. scabrella difieren en caractersticas del indumento caulinar y foliar, siendo la del haz la que permite una mejor separacin. El tipo de B. betonicifolia (Hook.) Small (Silphium betonicifolium Hook., 1835) representa una especie distinta de B. pumila y comprende plantas previamente identificadas como B. texana DC. (1836), que es desplazada por la anterior. Mientras que la morfologa de B. pumila var. scabrella ha sugerido que se form como un hbrido B. pumila tpica y B. betonicifolia, no hay evidencia de hibridacin actual entre estas dos especies.
41967643|Morphological analysis led to the conclusion that Florida Semaphore Cactus is a distinct species. That conclusion is congruent with genetic studies reported elsewhere. Our plants are properly called Opuntia corallicoh (Small) Werdermann (O. subgenus Consoled). The Florida plants are not O. spinosissima, as recorded in recent literature. Indeed, the Florida plants are probably more closely related to O. rubescens and O. millspaughii than to O. spinosissima. Details of the Florida species, and a key to similar and confusing Caribbean relatives are provided. Because of the limited number of individuals remaining in the wild, the threat from the alien pest moth Cactoblastis cactorum, the low genetic diversity within Florida, and recent damage by Hurricane Georges, the Semaphore Cactus may be the most endangered plant in the United States. El estudio morfolgico nos lleva a la conclusin de que el cactus semforo de Florida es una especie distinta. Esta conclusin est de acuerdo con los estudios genticos publicados en otros lugares. Las plantas son propiamente llamadas Opuntia corallicola (Small) Werdermann (O. subgnero Consolea). Las plantas de Florida no son O. spinosissima, tal como fue publicado en la literatura reciente. Es mas, las plantas de Florida probablemente son ms cercanas a O. rubescens y O. millspaughii que a O. spinosissima. Se ofrecen detalles de la especie de Florida y una clave taxonmica de las especies emparentadas y confusas del rea del Caribe. Dado el nmero limitado de individuos que quedan en estado salvaje, la amenaza de la polilla alctona Cactoblastis cactorum, la poca diversidad gentica dentro de Florida, y el reciente impacto del huracn Georges, el cactus semforo puede que sea la planta ms amenazada de los Estados Unidos de Norte Amrica (EEUU).
41960963|Pennisetum orientale Rich., a polymorphic species, is potentially important as an ornamental and as a valuable source for germplasm in forage crop improvement programs. Unfortunately little information is available on the diversity within U.S. collections. This investigation was initiated to provide an extensive morphological analysis of each of eleven P. orientale accessions and to characterize the germplasm. Cytological studies revealed that all accessions were tetraploids (2n=36) and that the method of reproduction being sexual or aposporus apomicts. Based on plant heights, leaf blade lengths and widths, inflorescence density, and growth habit in College Station (with a latitude of 31.5) , Texas, the accessions 269961, 330717, 271595, 433, and Cowboy appeared to have the best forage potential. However, this has yet to be supported by studies on nutritional value. There were also some distinct taxonomic features such as the longest ligule length in PI 315867; central spikelet length in PI's 215600 and 315867 which was significantly longer than all the other accessions. Furthermore, long anthers and filaments were observed in PI's 330717 and 315867. Additional germplasm acquisitions from non-represented areas could expand genetic diversity in the germplasm collection. Pennisetum orientale Rich, es una especie polimrfica que tiene importancia potencial como planta ornamental y como fuente valiosa de germoplasma en los programas de mejora de forrajes. Desgraciadamente hay poca informacin disponible sobre la diversidad en las colecciones estadounidenses. Esta investigacin se inici para realizar un anlisis morfolgico amplio de cada una de once adquisiciones de P. orientale y para caracterizar el germoplasma. Los estudios citolgicos revelaron que todas las muestras eran tetraploides (2n=36) y que el mtodo de reproduccin es sexual o apomixis aposprica. Basndose en la altura de las plantas, longitud y anchura de la lmina de la hoja, densidad de la inflorescencia y hbito de crecimiento en la College Station (con una latitud 31.5), Texas, las muestras 269961, 330717, 271595, 433, y Cowboy parecen tener el mejor potencial forrajero. Sin embargo sto an no ha sido comprobado con estudios del valor nutritivo. Tambin se encontraron algunas caractersticas taxonmicas diferentes, tales como la mayor longitud de la lgula en PI 315867, longitud de la espiguilla central en PI's 215600 y 315867 que era significativamente ms larga que en todas las otras muestras. Adems se observaron filamentos y anteras largos en PI's 330717 y 315867. Muestras adicionales de germoplasma de reas no representadas podran ampliar la diversidad gentica de la coleccin de germoplasma.
41960956|A treatment is provided for the species of Spigelia formerly in the genus Coelostylis that lack elongated secund inflorescences. Two taxa are recognized: Spigelia loganioides (including S. texana), and S. hedyotidea (including S. lindheimeri, and S. coulteriand). Se presenta un tratamiento taxonmico para las especies de Spigelia anteriormente incluidas en el gnero Coelostylis, o sea las especies sin inflorescencias elongadas y unilaterales. Se reconocen dos taxa: Spigelia loganioides (incluyendo S. texana), y S. hedyotidea (que incluye S. lindheimeri y S. coulteriana).
41960947|Populations of hybrids of distantly related black oaks (Fagaceae: Quercus: section Lobatae), Quercus conzattii Trelease and Quercus eduardii Trelease, are examined throughout the southern Sierra Madre Occidental of Mexico, where the distributions of the two parental species overlap. Morphometric analyses are presented to show the structure of a hybrid swarm relative to that of populations where extensive hybridization is not apparent. A major swarm south of Cd. Durango shows 82% Q. conzattii, 14% intermediate plants, and 4% Q. eduardii distributed unevenly within the site. Parental types are differentiated by leaf size, density of pubescence of the abaxial surface, rugosity of the adaxial leaf surface, reticulation of the adaxial leaf surface, cordateness of the leaves, leaf shape, and other characters. Hybrids were morphologically intermediate. Acorn production in all types is good, and in a very limited sample there is no indication of reduced pollen fertility. Anderson hybrid index histograms show continuous morphological variation at the hybrid swarm site and limited variation, representative of parental types, at other sites. Cluster analysis of populations yielded unexpected grouping of a Q. conzattii population with the adjacent hybrid swarm population. Discriminant function analysis explained the clustering pattern by grouping several immature plants and several weakly intermediate plants with the hybrid plants. Principal components analysis also showed strong overlap between the hybrids and Q. conzattii. Although morphological evidence did not suggest movement of genes between species, the hybrid swarm structure suggests that potential for introgression exists. Se examinaron poblaciones de hbridos de dos especies de robles rojos (Fagaceae: Quercus: seccin Lobatae) en sitios donde sus distribuciones se solapan, en el sur de la Sierra Madre Occidental de Mxico. Quercus conzattii Trelease y Quercus eduardii Trelease son de grupos filogenticos muy separados. Se presentan anlisis morfomtricos para mostrar la estructura de una poblacin de hbridos, las especies parentales, y plantas intergradientes en comparacin con poblaciones donde la hibridacin no es aparente. La poblacin hbrida, al sur de la Cd. de Durango, est integrada por 82% Q. conzattii, 14% plantas de morfologa intermedia, y 4% Q. eduardii las cuales no estn distribuidas uniformemente en esa localidad. Los tipos parentales estn caracterizados por diferencias en el tamao de las hojas, densidad de la pubescencia del envs, rugosidad del haz, reticulacin de las nervaduras, grado en que la base est cordada, forma de las hojas, y otras caractersticas. Los hbridos resultaron intermedios en su morfologa. La produccin de bellotas en todos los tipos morfolgicos fue amplia, y en una muestra limitada no hay indicacin de reduccin de la fertilidad del polen de las plantas de origen hbrido. Los histogramas de valores del ndice de Anderson de los hbridos sealan una variacin morfolgica continua en la poblacin hbrida y, en otros sitios, variacin limitada, representativa de los tipos parentales. Los anlisis de grupos (clusters) mostraron una agrupacin de la poblacin de Q. conzattii con la poblacin de hbridos adyacente, en lugar de una agrupacin con otras poblaciones de Q. conzattii, como se hubiera esperado. Los anlisis de la funcin discriminante explicaron el patrn de agolpamiento conjuntamente entre varias plantas inmaduras y varias plantas con morfologa intermedias con los hbridos. Los anlisis de componentes principales tambin mostraron que las morfologa de los hbridos y Q. conzattii solapan ampliamente. Aunque la evidencia morfolgica no indic movimiento de genes entre especies, la estructura de la poblacin hbrida surgiere que hay potencial para la introgresin.
41960960|The new combination Bouteloua hirsuta Lag. subsp. pectinata (H. Featherly) J. Wipff & S.D. Jones is proposed. A key to the two subspecies is provided. Se propone la nueva combinacin Bouteloua hirsuta Lag. subsp. pectinata (H. Featherly) J. Wipff & S.D. Jones. Se ofrece una clave de las dos subespecies.
41960951|Urocarpidium sect. Urocarpidium is shown to be synonymous with the genus Tarasa, and Urocarpidium sect. Anurum is generically distinct. The latter is redescribed in generic rank and given the name Fuertesimalva. Fourteen new combinations are made. Urocarpidium sect. Urocarpidium es un sinnimo del gnero Tarasa, y Urocarpidium sect. Anurum es considerado como un gnero distinto. Este ltimo se redescribe en el rango genrico con el nombre de Fuertesimalva. Se proponen catorce combinaciones nuevas.
41960974|Chromosome counts for seventeen species of Carex section Ovales are reported. They range from n=26 + IV to n=40. Counts for Carex alata, C. hyalina, C. longii, C. ozarkana, C. reniformis, C. suberecta, C. tincta, and C. vexans were determined for the first time and included 3 aneuploid (sensu lato) series. Four species (C. albolutescens, C. hormathodes, C. straminea, and C. tribuloides) yielded counts similar to previously published results. On the other hand, two species (C. cumulata and C. silicea) differed from previous reports and represent possible aneuploidy, while aneuploidy was demonstrated for C. festucacea. Se realizan recuentos cromosmicos de diez y siete especies de Carex seccin Ovales. Su nmero varia de n=26 + IV hasta n=40. Se realizan por primera vez recuentos de Carex alata, C. hyalina, C. longii, C. ozarkana, C. reniformis, C. suberect, C. tincta y C. vexans que incluyen tres series aneuploides (sensu lato). Cuatro expecies (C. albolutescens, C. hormathodes, C. straminea y C. tribuloides) dieron recuentos similares a resultados publicados previamente. Por otro lado, dos especies (C. cumulata y C. silicea) difieren de los recuentos previos y representan aneuploidia posible, mientras que se demostr la existencia de aneuploda en C. festucacea.
41960961|Collections from northwestern Durango have uncovered the presence of Gentianella heterosepala (Engelm.) Holub in Mexico. The species is previously known from the southwestern United States. The Mexican population, described here as subspecies durangensis, produces foliaceous calyx lobes joined to the tube and a calyx tube with glandular trichomes between the lobes, corolla fimbriae inserted at the base of the lobes and ovateauriculate leaves. A morphological description and an illustration are presented. Colectas provenientes del noroeste de Durango ponen de manifiesto la presencia de Gentianella heterosepala (Engelm.) Holub en Mxico. La especie se conocida previamente del sudoeste de los Estados Unidos. La poblacin mexicana, descrita aqu como subespecie durangensis, muestra los lbulos foliceous del cliz unidos al tubo, el tubo del cliz con tricomas glandulares entre los lbulos, fimbrias de la corola insertas en la base de los lbulos y hojas ovado-auriculades. Se presenta una descripcin morfolgica y una ilustracin de la subespecie.
41960958|The new combination Eragrostis pectinacea var. tracyi is proposed as a more appropriate means of recognizing the slight morphological difference of possessing longer anthers. A revised key to the three varieties of E. pectinacea, a diagnosis of var. tracyi, and specimens examined are provided. Se propone la nueva combinacin Eragrostis pectinacea var. tracyi como ms apropiada para reconocer las ligeras diferencias morfolgicas de tener anteras ms largas. Se ofrece una clave revisada de las tres variedades de E. pectinacea, una diagnosis de la var. tracyi, y los especmenes examinados.
41960965|Recent studies of Mexican Apocynaceae have led to a reevaluation of the taxonomic status of Thevetia peruviana (Pers.) K. Schum. var. pinifolia Standl. & Steyerm. The taxon is here viewed as specifically distinct and elevated accordingly with the new combination, Thevetia pinifolia (Standl. & Steyerm.) J.K. Williams, comb. nov. Los estudios recientes sobre las Apocynaceae mexicanas han permitido una reevaluacion del estatus taxonomico de Thevetia peruviana (Pers.) K. Schum. var. pinifolia Standl. & Steyerm. Este taxon se ve aqu como una especie distinta y por consiguiente es elevado de rango con la nueva combinacin, Thevetia pinifolia (Standl. & Steyerm.) J.K. Williams, comb. nov.
41960946|The move to place biological diversity and traditional cultural knowledge into the mainstream global economy is based on the premise that economic subsidies will stimulate conservation. This premise is arguably counterproductive if the effects of such subsidies are not felt at the local level. Ethnobotanical research should focus on characterizing traditional knowledge to establish priorities with the local community to ensure that local values are translated into rational use of resources and effective conservation of biological diversity and cultural knowledge. A case study focussing on twenty-five of the most locally valued plants from a community in the Sierra de Manantln Biosphere Reserve provides an example of recommendations that can be made based on basic ethnobotanical inventories. La tendencia a ubicar la diversidad biolgica y el conocimiento tradicional dentro de la corriente de la economa global, se fundamenta en la premisa de que las subvenciones estimularan la conservacin. Esta premisa resultara contraproducente si los efectos de tales subvenciones no llegaran al nivel local. La investigacin etnobotnica debera enfocarse en el uso del conocimiento tradicional para establecer las prioridades conjuntamente con la comunidad local, para asegurar que los valores locales se traduzcan en el uso racional de los recursos naturales, una conservacin efectiva de la biodiversidad y el conocimiento cultural. Un estudio de un caso en una comunidad de la Reserva de la Biosfera Sierra de Manantln, que examina veinticinco de las especies vegetales con mayor valor local, proporciona un ejemplo de las recomendaciones que pueden hacerse en base a la informacin de inventarios etnobotnicos.
41960949|Invasion and spread of the European native Coincya monensis (Brassicaceae) in North America are traced. In the late 1800s the species was found in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania/Hoboken, New Jersey area on ballast, where it has not persisted. Then, in the mid and late 20th century, naturalized populations of unknown source were documented in North Carolina, Pennsylvania, New York, Michigan, and Kentucky. Se esboza la invasin y dispersin de la planta nativa de Europa Coincya monensis (Brassicaceae) en Norte Amrica. A fines del siglo XX se encontr la especie en el rea de Philadelphia, Pennsylvania/Hoboken, New Jersey sobre cascajos, lugar donde no ha persistido. Luego, a mediados y fines del siglo veinte, han sido documentadas poblaciones naturalizadas de origen desconocido en Carolina del Norte, Pennsylvania, New York, Michigan, y Kentucky.
41960977|Observations reported here from 14 populations representing 13 species in 4 tribes of Compositae include first reports of chromosome number for Heterolepis (H. aliena; 2n = 12, a new number for Arctoteae), for Athanasia bremeri (2n = 20, a new number for the genus), and for four species of Ursinia (U. abrotanifolia, U. nudicaulis, U. pinnata, and U. punctata; all 2n = 16). Se presentan aqu las observaciones basadas en 14 poblaciones que representan 13 especies de 4 tribus de Compositae que incluyen los primeros recuentos de nmeros cromosmicos de Heterolepis (H. aliena; 2n = 12, un nuevo nmero para las Arctoteae), de Athanasia bremeri (2n = 20, un nuevo nmero para el gnero) y de cuatro especies del gnero Ursinia (U. abrotanifolia, U. nudicaulis, U. pinnata y U. punctata; todas ellas 2n = 16).
41960971|Field notes of pre-1860 Texas surveys in the Texas General Land Office were read and the included data on witness trees collected. This data were analyzed for evidence concerning the indigenous range of three trees: Catalpa speciosa Warder, Catalpa bignonioides Walt., and Madura pomifera (Raf.) Schneid. Catalpas were named as witness trees before 1860 in only two east Texas counties, Jasper and Newton. Their presence in the surveyors' reports from only these two contiguous counties, with their absence from the thousands of reports from the rest of the state, is advanced as evidence that these two counties make up most, if not all of any Catalpa's indigenous range in Texas. The location of these two counties being at the southeast Texas border seems to indicate that only C. bignonioides (the Southern Catalpa) should be considered indigenous in this state. Bois d' arcs appear as witness trees before I860 in only 12 northeast Texas counties. This is presented as evidence that the native range of Madura pomifera in Texas was probably limited to those 12 counties. Se leyeron las notas de campo de los informes sobe Texas, anteriores a 1860, de la Texas General Land Office y se recogieron los datos existentes acerca de los rboles testigo. Estos datos fueron analizados para buscar evidencias acerca del rea autctona de tres rboles: Catalpa speciosa Warder, Catalpa bignonioides Walt., y Madura pomfera (Raf.) Schneid. Antes de 1860 las catalpas fueron designadas como rboles testigo en slo dos condados del este de Texas, Jasper y Newton. Su presencia en los informes de los topgrafos en slo estos dos condados contiguos, junto con su ausencia de miles de informes del resto del estado, se toma como evidencia de que estos dos condados forman la mayor parte, si no el total del rea autctona de Catalpa en Texas. La localizacin de estos dos condados en la frontera sudeste de Texas parece indicar que slo C. bignonioides (la catalpa del sur) deba ser considerada autctona en este estado. Antes de 1860 Madura pomfera aparece, como rbol testigo, en slo 12 condados del nordeste de Texas. Esto se presenta como evidencia de que el rea nativa de Madura pomfera en Texas estaba limitada probablemente a estos 12 condados.
41960962|A synopsis of the genus Myrsine L. is provided for the Philippines, including all species heretofore assigned to the genus Rapanea Aublet. Fourteen species are recognized, of which four: Myrsine densiflora, M. cruciata, M. aralioides, and . penibukana, are reported from the archipelago for the first time. Myrsine aralioides, M. penibukana, and M. cruciata, previously thought to be endemic to Mt. Kinabalu, Sabah, are reported for Surigao, Mindanao, Abra and Rizal provinces, Luzon, and northern Palawan, respectively. A key to the species, descriptions, representative photographs and comments on the distribution, ecology and conservation status for each species are provided. Because Rapanea is here considered a taxonomic synonym of Myrsine, all Philippine species heretofore assigned to Rapanea are transferred to Myrsine, and new names are proposed for those species whose epithets in Rapanea are preoccupied under Myrsine. The following new combinations are made: Myrsine apoensis (Elmer) Pipoly, M. oblongibacca (Merrill) Pipoly, M. cruciata (Philipson) Pipoly, M. penibukana (Philipson) Pipoly, M. mindanaensis (Elmer) Pipoly, M. fastigiata (Elmer) Pipoly, M. aralioides (Philipson) Pipoly, M. glandulosa (Elmer) Pipoly, and Myrsine peregrina (Mez) Pipoly. Comparative studies of taxa in nearby Sabah, Brunei, Sarawak and Borneo result in the new combination Myrsine multibracteata (Merrill) Pipoly. In. addition, two new names are made: Myrsine medeciloae Pipoly and M. amorosoana Pipoly. Ten binomials are lectotypified and Rapanea venosa Elmer non (A. DC.) Mez is placed in synonymy under Myrsine peregrina (Mez) Pipoly. Se ofrece una sinopsis del gnero Myrsine L. para las Filipinas, incluyendo todos los taxa previamente asignados al gnero Rapanea Aublet. Se reconocen catorce especies, de las cuales cuatro, Myrsine densiflora, M. cruciata, M. aralioides, y M. penibukana, son nuevas citas para el pas. Myrsine aralioides, M. penibukana y M. cruciata, anteriormente fueron consideradas como especies endmicas del Mt. Kinabalu, de Sabah, sin embargo, el presente estudio revela que estas especies se encuentran en las provincias de Abra y Rizal en la isla de Luzn, y en la parte septentrional de la isla de Palawan. Se ofrece una clave de las especies, descripciones, fotos representativas y comentarios sobre la distribucin, ecologa y estatus de conservacin para cada especie. Debido al hecho de que se considera el gnero Rapanea como un sinnimo taxonmico del gnero Myrsine, todas las especies previamente asignadas al gnero Rapanea se transfieren al gnero Myrsine. Para las especies con eptetos previamente ocupados en Myrsine, se forman eptetos nuevos. Se proponen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones: Myrsine apoensis (Elmer) Pipoly, M. oblongibacca (Merrill) Pipoly, M. cruciata (Philipson) Pipoly, M. penibukana (Philipson) Pipoly, M. mindanaensis (Elmer) Pipoly, M. fastigiata (Elmer) Pipoly, M. aralioides (Philipson) Pipoly, M. glandulosa (Elmer) Pipoly y Myrsine peregrina (Mez) Pipoly. Estudios comparativos del las especies de Sabah, Brunei Sarawak y Borneo dan como resultado la nueva combinacin Myrsine multibracteata (Merrill) Pipoly. Tambin, se proponen dos nombres nuevos: Myrsine medeciloae Pipoly y Myrsine amorosoana Pipoly. Se lectotipifican diez binmenes y se relega Rapanea venosa Elmer non (A. DC.) Mez, a la sinonimia de Myrsine peregrina (Mez) Pipoly.
41960972|The life of Emanuel Rudolph (19271992), noted polar lichenologist and historian of botany, was well documented by Ronald Stuckey. Rudolph's scholarly endeavors is further revealed through his devotion to Biological Abstracts. He accepted the intellectual challenge of preparing abstracts in 1952 when a graduate student in the Henry Shaw School of Botany at Washington University. From then as a volunteer, he prepared 382 abstracts through 1977, a most exacting and time consuming task, perhaps an art. Some background on procedures at Biological Abstracts is reviewed and Rudolph's role as a volunteer abstractor for Biological Abstracts/BIOSIS is assessed. La vida de Emanuel Rudolph (19271992), notable liquenlogo e historiador de la botnica, que fue bien documentada por los esfuerzos eruditos de Ronald Stuckey. Rudolph, se desvela en un grado mayor a travs de su dedicacin a los Resmenes Biolgicos. El acept el reto intelectual de preparar resmenes en 1952 cuando era estudiante en la Escuela de Botnica Henry Shaw de la Universidad de Washington. Desde entonces como voluntario, prepar 382 resmenes durante 1977, una tarea muy exigente y laboriosa, quizs un arte. Se revisan algunos antecedentes de los procedimientos de los Resmenes Biolgicos, y se evala el papel de Rudolph como voluntario en la elaboracin de resmenes para los Biological Abstracts/BIOSIS.
41960970|In this work the different plant communities on Socorro Island are described and delimited in a map of vegetation; also, the distribution of the endemic species in the different plant communities is analysed. The identification and mapping of the different plant communities was based in four trips to the island which included plant collecting, walk arounds and overviews by airplane, aerial photos 1:70,000 were revised as guide. Most of the plant communities and nomenclature used in this work agree with those proposed by earlier descriptions. Six plant communities (prairie, evergreen tropical forest, mixed scrub, Croton scrubland, grassland, and coastal groups) are described with data about their area and dominant species. The eroded area, induced by overgrazing of the domestic sheeps which since 1869 inhabits the island, is also considered in the mapping, it covers about 15% of the total surface. On 210 km, Socorro Island counts with 116 species of native vascular plants, plus 46 naturalized. En este trabajo se describen y delimitan los diferentes tipos de vegetacin de la isla Socorro, se presenta un mapa de las unidades de vegetacin, se analizan la distribucin de las especies endmicas y de las formas de vida en los diferentes tipos de vegetacin, as como la riqueza especfica en cada una de stas. Para la identificacin y cartografiado de las diferentes agrupaciones vegetales se realizaron cuatro viajes a la isla, durante los cuales se hicieron recorridos por tierra y por aire, tambin se revisaron fotos areas a escala 1:70,000. La nomenclatura de los tipos de vegetacin aqu presentados son compatibles con los sealados por trabajos previos. En total se describen seis tipos de vegetacin (pradera, bosque tropical perennifolio, matorral mixto, matorral de Crotn, pastizal y agrupaciones costeras), proporcionndose la lista de las especies ms comunes a cada una de ellas y delimitando su rea de distribucin. Tambin se consideran las superficies erosionadas, que cubren actualmente alrededor del 15% de la isla, las cuales han sido inducidas por el sobrepastoreo del borrego domstico, introducido en 1869-La flora de la isla Socorro (210 km de superficie) est formada por 116 especies de plantas vasculares nativas y 46 introducidas recientemente.
41960952|Robinsonecio, gen. nov., is a distinctive genus of two species from high elevations in Mexico and Guatemala. The plants are subscapose herbs with ovate to lanceolate or spatulate basal leaves and tussilaginoid microcharacters. Two new combinations are proposed: Robinsonecio gerberifolius (Sch. Bip.) T.M. Barkley & J.P. Janovec, and Robinsonecio porphyresthes (T.M. Barkley) T.M. Barkley & J.P. Janovec. Robinsonecio, gen. nov., es un gnero con dos especies que viven en lugares elevados de Mxico y Guatemala. Las plantas son herbceas, subescaposas, con hojas bsales de ovadas a lanceoladas o espatuladas y microcaracteres tussilaginoides. Se proponen dos nuevas combinaciones: Robinsonecio gerberifolius (Sch. Bip.) T.M. Barkley & J.P. Janovec, y Robinsonecio porphyresthes (T.M. Barkley) T.M. Barkley & J.P. Janovec.
41960954|Plants of the wide-ranging Swertia radiata from the Sierra de la Madera near Cuatro Cinegas, Coahuila, in Mxico differ from all other populations in having corollas that only partially open and remain globose at anthesis. As this feature is consistent throughout the Sierra de la Madera, the plants are recognized as a new variety, S. radiata var. maderensis. Las plantas de Swertia radiata, una espec ie de distribucion amplia, procedentes de la Sierra de la Madera, cerca de Cuatro Cinegas (Coahuila, Mxico), se diferencian del resto de las poblaciones por tener corolas que se abren solo parcialmente y permanecen globosas durante la antesis. Dado que este carcter es consistente a lo largo de toda la Sierra de La Madera, estas plantas son reconocidas aqu como una nueva variedad: S. radiata var. maderensis.
41960968|A key to the apocynaceous genera of Mexico is presented. The study is based on literature, field observations, and herbarium studies. The family is represented in Mexico by thirty genera (twenty-five native, four Old World cultivars, and one South American cultivar) and approximately ninety species (eighty-five native, four Old World cultivars, and one South American cultivar). Bibliographical references for the native genera are included, as are illustrations, a distribution list of genera by state, and a table of morphological novelties. Se presenta una clave de los gneros de Apocynaceae de Mxico. El estudio est basado en bibliografa, observaciones de campo y estudios de herbario. La familia est representada en Mxico por treinta gneros (veinticinco autctonos, cuatro del Viejo Mundo y uno de Sudamrica). Se incluyen referencias bibliogrficas para los gneros autctonos, as como ilustraciones, una lista de distribucin de gneros por estados y una tabla con las novedades morfolgicas.
41960964|Five new species of rust fungi (Uredinales) from Brazil parasitizing plant host species in the family Bignoniaceae are described. The new species are: Porotenus bibasiporulus, Porotenus biporus, and Uredo amapaensis on Memora spp.; Prospodium amapaensis on undetermined Bignoniaceae, and Prospodium laevigatum on Mansoa sp. Cinco novas espcies de fungos (Uredinales) so descritos, provenientes do Brasil, parasitando especies de plantas hospedeiras da familia Bignoniaceae. As novas espcies so: Porotenus bibasiporulus, Porotenus biporus, e Uredo amapaensis em Memora spp., Prospodium amapaensis em Bignoniaceae indeterminada e Prospodium laevigatum em Mansoa sp.
41960950|Barbieria is a monotypic genus that was transferred to subtribe Clitoriinae and included within the genus Clitoria in 1981 by Lackey. The morphology o Barbieria is compared with Clitoria and contrasted with genera Centrosema, Periandra and Clitoriopsis. Barbieria is found to be an abberrant member o Clitoria with characters supporting its recognition as a separate genus in the Clitoriinae. A key to genera of subtribe Clitoriinae and a taxonomic treatment o Barbieria is presented. Barbieria es un gnero monotpico que fue transferido a la subtribu Clitoriinae e incluido dentro del gnero Clitoria por Lackey en 1981. La morfologa de Barbieria se compara con Clitoria y se contrasta con los gneros Centrosema, Periandra y Clitoriopsis. Barbieria ha resultado ser un miembro aberrante de Clitoria con caracteres que corroboran su reconocimiento como un gnero separado en Clitoriinae. Se presenta una clave de los gneros de la subtribu Clitoriinae y el tratamiento taxonmico del gnero Barbieria.
41960966|Se describe Agave montana como especie nueva de la regin de la Sierra Madre Oriental. Est relacionada con A. gentryi y A. parrasana, pero difiere de ambas por sus rosetas grandes con hojas ms numerosas, panculas ovadas con mayor nmero de ramas florferas y brcteas dentadas. Se presenta una ilustracin con los detalles de la planta. Agave montana is described as a new species from the Sierra Madre Oriental. It is related to A. gentryi and A. parrasana but differs from both in its larger rosettes with more numerous leaves, ovate panicles with higher number of floriferous branches and armed bracts. A detailed illustration is included.
41960975|Chromosome counts are reported for over eighty collections of flowering plants from the U.S.A. and Mexico, representing 59 species in 39 genera of 10 families. Se presentan recuentos cromosmicos de ms de ochenta recolecciones de plantas con flores de U.S.A. y Mxico, pertenecientes a 59 especies, de 39 gneros, de 10 familias.
41967228|Routine determination of specimens received as gift for determination resulted in the discovery of four new species of Ardisia, from Ecuador and Peru. Ardisia premontana Pipoly, A. zakii Pipoly, A. flavida Pipoly, and A. websterii Pipoly are described, illustrated, and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Al determinar pliegos de herbario recibidos como regalo para su determinacin, se encontraron cuatro especies nuevas pertenecientes al gnero Ardisia, y procedentes de Ecuador y Per. Se describen e ilustran Ardisia premontana Pipoly, A. zakii Pipoly, A. flavida Pipoly, y A. websterii Pipoly, y se discuten sus relaciones flogenticas.
41967230|Carex herteri (sect. Digitatae) is newly described from the Department of Florida in southern Uruguay and is known only from the holotype. This very distinctive, but diminutive species is characterized by having large, glabrous perigynia that are distinctly beaked, few perigynia per spike, large achenes that are strongly apiculate, and ciliate leaf margins. Additionally, the South American plants previously called C. phalaroides var. crassiflora (sect. Digitatae) are here raised to species rank. The name C. gibertii is offered for this species and a lectotype is selected. Se describe Carex herteri (sect. Digitatae) del Departamento de Florida en sur de Uruguay y slo se conoce el holotipo. Esta especie, muy diferente aunque diminuta, se caracteriza por tener utrculos grandes y glabros, con un pico distinto, pocos utrculos por espiga, aquenios grandes fuertemente apiculados, y mrgenes foliares ciliados. Adicionalmente, las plantas sudamericanas denominadas previamente C. phalaroides var. crassiflora (sect. Digitatae) se elevan aqu al rango especfico. Se propone para esta especie el nombre C. gibertii y se selecciona un lectotipo.
41967215|Recent discoveries of new localities for this rare species justify documentation of its presently known range. The additional specimens show that leaves and fruits can be much larger than previously recorded. Foliar micromorphology as viewed by scanning electron microscopy demonstrates the species is distinctive and probably not derived from S. lanuginosum and S. reclinatum as formerly thought. El reciente descubrimiento de nuevas localidades de esta rara especie justifica la documentacin de su rango conocido actualmente. Los especmenes adicionales muestran que las hojas y los frutos pueden ser mucho ms grandes que los citados previamente. La micromorfologa foliar al microscopio electrnico de barrido demuestra que esta especie es peculiar y que probablemente no es derivada de S. lanuginosum y S. reclinatum como se pens previamente.
41967214|Qualitative and quantitative wood data are provided for Limnantbes douglasii R. Brown and Tropaeolum majus L.; no descriptions of wood of Limnanthaceae or Tropaeolaceae have been offered hitherto. Limnanthes douglasii wood is present in localized zones at the rootstem junction; imperforate tracheary elements are absent; both axial and ray parenchyma are thin-walled. Tropaeolum majus has root wood in which all axial tracheary elements are wide or narrow vessels, and no libriform fibers are present; in stems, libriform fibers are present, although narrow vessels predominate in later-formed secondary xylem. The wood patterns of Limnantbes and Tropaeolum are characteristic of wood of an annual and a vine, respectively. Although both are herbaceous species, wood patterns are quite different, a fact explainable by both habit and systematic position. The concept that both of the families belong to a new expanded Capparales is compatible with wood data. Se ofrecen datos cualitativos y cuantitativos sobre los leos de Limnantbes douglasii R. Brown y Tropaeolum majus L.; hasta ahora no existan descripciones de los leos de Limnanthaceae y Tropaeolaceae. El leo de Limnantbes douglasii se presenta localizado en la unin entre la raz y el tallo. Los elementos traqueales sin perforaciones faltan completamente, y tanto el parnquima axial como el radial tienen paredes finas. Tropaeolum majus tiene el leo radical con elementos traqueales compuestos por vasos anchos y estrechos; y no hay fibras libriformes presentes. En los tallos existen fibras libriformes, aunque predominan en el xilema secundario formado tardamente. Los patrones del leo de Limnantbes y Tropaeolum son caractersticos de una hierba anual y una trepadora respectivamente. Aunque las dos especies son herbceas, los modelos del leo son bastante diferentes, hecho explicable tanto por el hbito como por la posicin sistemtica de las dos especies. Los datos del leo sostienen el concepto de que las dos familias se encuadran en un Capparales nuevo ampliado.
41967223|A new variety of an endangered plant species, Spigelia gentianiodes (Loganiaceae), is described. The new variety, differing largely in quantitative features, comprises a group of recently discovered populations in central Alabama, well disjunct from the type variety of central Florida. The new populations are localized to a rare glade community of Ketona dolomite on the Little Cahaba River and contain greater numbers of individuals than any of the Florida populations. Se describe una nueva variedad de una especie vegetal en peligro, Spigelia gentianoides (Loganiaceae). La nueva variedad comprende unas poblaciones descubiertas en el centro del estado de Alabama, separadas geogrficamente de la variedad tpica, que est restringida al estado de Florida. Las nuevas poblaciones se localizan en una comunidad tipo "glade," con abundancia de rocas dolomticas de la formacin Ketona, en el ro Little Cahaba. Esta poblacin contiene muchos ms individuos que cualquier poblacin de Florida.
41967216|The Mublenbergia repens complex consists of rhizomatous perennial species with short contracted inflorescences and awnless spikelets. A study was undertaken to determine the amount of morphological variation that is present within and among the species. Examination of morphological variation has shown that M. plumbea does not have a close affinity with other species of the complex. Mublenbergia ricbardsonis and M. squarrosa were not found to be morphologically distinct and are considered a single highly variable species most closely related to M. repens and M. utilis. Morphological variation between M. villiflora and M. villosa intergrades to a large extent, although they remain distinct throughout most of their distribution, and they are thus recognized as a single species with two varieties, var. villiflora and var. villosa. A key to the six species and two varieties is provided. El complejo Mublenbergia repens est formado por especies rizomatosas perennes con inflorescencias cortas contradas y espiguillas mticas. Se realiz un estudio para establecer la variacin morfolgica intraespecfica e interespecfica. El examen de la variacin morfolgica ha mostrado que M. plumbea no tiene afinidades grandes con las otras especies del complejo. Se encontr que Mublenbergia ricbardsonis y M. squarrosa no son distintas morfolgicamente y son consideradas como una sola especie de variabilidad alta, ms afn a M. repens y M. utilis. La variacin morfolgica entre M. villiflora y M. villosa se intergrada en una gran extensin aunque permanecen diferentes en la mayor parte de su distribucin, y por ello se reconocen como una nica especie con dos variedades, var. villiflora y var. villosa. Se ofrece una clave de las seis especies y las dos variedades.
41967221|During a study of Eleocbaris section Pauciflorae, and other species thought to be related, it became apparent that some nomenclatural changes were necessary. Two new combinations are proposed: Eleocbaris albibracteata var. boliviana and E. quinqueflora var. bernardina. Durante el estudio de Eleocbaris seccin Pauciflorae, y de otras especies al parecer relacionadas, se detect la necesidad de llevar a cabo cambios nomenclaturales. Son propuestas aqu dos combinaciones nuevas: Eleocbaris albibracteata var. boliviana y Eleocbaris quinqueflora var. bernardina.
41967225|In 1995, a population of 120 very large yellow lady's slippers was discovered in a remote ravine on the Northern Neck peninsula of Eastern Virginia. Multivariate and univariate analyses of morphological variation in the Virginia population suggest that these individuals belong to a rare species, Cypripedium kentuckiense, and not the more common yellow lady's slipper, C. parviflorum var. pubescens. These analyses also indicate that the dorsal sepal width and orifice length are two important characters that can be used to discriminate between C. kentuckiense and C. parviflorum var. pubescens. A few individuals at the Virginia site approached the size of C. parviflorum var. pubescens in some characters which may be due to historical introgressive patterns or genetic isolation. Lastly, a survey of records on C. kentuckiense populations revealed that Arkansas contains the largest number of populations (70 out of 156). These records also indicate that C. kentuckiense is characterized by a majority of populations (58%) with less than 21 individuals. En 1995 se descubri una poblacin de 120 individuos de zapato de venus ("yellow lady's slippers" en ingls) en un barranco alejado localizado en la pennsula llamada "Northern Neck" del este del estado de Virginia, EEUU. Un anlisis multivariante y univariante de la variacin morfolgica en la poblacin investigada de Virginia sugiere que estos especmenes pertenecen a una especie rara, Cypripedium kentuckiense, en vez de la especie ms comn de zapato de venus C. parviflorum var. pubescens. Este anlisis tambin indica que la anchura del spalo dorsal y la longitud del orificio son dos caractersticas importantes que pueden ser usadas para distinguir C. kentuckiense de C. parviflorum var. pubescens. Unos especmenes del lugar de investigacin en Virginia se aproximan al tamao de C. parviflorum var. pubescens en algunas caractersticas que pueden explicarse debido a patrones histricos introgresivos o aislamiento gentico. Por ltimo, una revisin del conjunto de investigaciones sobre poblaciones de C. kentuckiense revel que el estado de Arkansas contiene el nmero ms grande de poblaciones (70 de 156). Estas investigaciones tambin indican que C. kentuckiense est caracterizado por una mayora de poblaciones (58%) con menos de 21 especmenes.
41967231|A north central Texas Baptisia (Fabaceae, Faboideae, Thermopsideae) hybrid complex containing three parents (B. australis, B. sphaerocarpa, and B. bracteata) and the three F hybrids is investigated using morphological, spectrophotometric, and isozyme electrophoretic methods. Two of the three hybrids (B. bushii and B. bicolor) have been previously named, but the B. australis B. sphaerocarpa hybrid (B. variicolor) is here described for the first time. This is the first report of sympatric occurrence of these three Baptisia species and all the possible F hybrids. Morphological evidence for introgressive hybridization involving B. australis and B. sphaerocarpa is presented. Un complejo de hbridos del norte de Texas, Baptisia (Fabaceae, Faboideae, Thermopsideae) que contiene tres padres (B. australis, B. sphaerocarpa, y B. bracteata) y tres hbridos F se investiga por mtodos morfolgicos, espectrofotomtricos, y de electroforesis de isozimas. Dos de los tres hbridos (B. bushii y B. bicolor) haban sido nombrados previamente, pero el hbrido de B. australis B. sphaerocarpa (B. variicolor) se describe aqu como nuevo. Esta es la primera cita de la existencia simptrica de estas tres especies Baptisia y todos los hbridos posibles de F. Se presenta la evidencia morfolgica de hibridacin introgresiva que afecta B. australis y B. sphaerocarpa.
41967229|Routine determination of specimens received as gift for determination resulted in the discovery of three novelties in Geissantbus. Geissantbus vanderwerffii Pipoly, G. spectabilis Pipoly and G. cballuayacus Pipoly are described, illustrated and their phylogenetic relationships are discussed. Al determinar muestras recibidas como regalos para su determinacin, se encontraron tres especies nuevas, pertenecientes al gnero Geissantbus. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute el parentesco de Geissantbus vanderwerffii Pipoly, G. spectabilis Pipoly y G. challuayacus Pipoly.
41967211|Two poorly known species of spider-lilies described by Hamilton Traub, Hymenocallis choctawensis and Hymenocallis puntagordensis, are shown to be worthy of recognition. Distinguishing characteristics and distributions are presented. Somatic chromosome numbers and, for the first time, karyotypes of these species are presented. A short key is provided to help distinguish Hymenocallis choctawensis from taxa with which it is likely to be confused. Se demuestra que dos especies poco conocidas de himenoclide ("lirio araa") descritas por Hamilton Traub, Hymenocallis choctawensis y Hymenocallis puntagordensis, son dignas de reconocimiento. Se presentan las caractersticas distintivas y las distribuciones. Se dan los nmeros somticos de cromosomas, y, por primera vez, han sido preparados los cariotipos de estas especies. Se proporciona una clave corta para ayudar a distinguir Hymenocallis choctawensis de los taxa con los que puede confundirse fcilmente.
41967227|Using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light microscopy, we attempted to establish if xylem and phloem occur in Ceratopbyllum stems; roots are lacking in the genus. In larger stems, a central core of elongate cells contains scattered sieve tube elements with simple sieve plates; the sieve tubes are associated with companion cells. Sieve tubes are not organized into phloem strands. The central core of main and branch stems contains elongate cells, some of which lack starch and tannins. These cells lack any evidence of the annular or helical thickenings of secondary wall material characteristic of primary xylem in other vascular plants, and therefore xylem cannot be claimed for Ceratopbyllum. Absence of xylem in Ceratopbyllum is interpreted as secondary, a loss related to adaptation to the submersed habit. Empleando la microscopa electrnica de barrido y la microscopa ptica, hemos intentado establecer si existe xilema y floema en los tallos de Ceratopbyllum; no existen races en el gnero. En los tallos ms grandes, un ncleo central de clulas alargadas contiene elementos cribosos dispersos; estos elementos cribosos tienen placas cribosas simples y estn asociados con clulas compaeras. Los elementos cribosos no se organizan en paquetes de floema. El ncleo central de los tallos principales y laterales contiene clulas alargadas, y en algunas falta el almidn y los taninos. Estas clulas no tienen engrosamientos espiralados o anillados en la pared secundaria caractersticos del xilema primario en otras plantas vasculares, y no puede decirse que haya xilema en Ceratopbyllum. La ausencia de xilema en Ceratopbyllum se interpreta como secundaria, una prdida relacionada con la adaptacin al hbito sumergido.
41967218|A total of 72 families, 163 genera, and 443 species (including 14 represented by at least two subspecies or varieties each) are listed for Alabama. This includes 346 native and 60 naturalized species as well as 37 others believed likely to occur in the state. Se listan un total de 72 familias, 163 gneros y 443 especies (incluyendo 14 que estn representadas por dos subespecies o variedades cada una) para Alabama. Se incluyen 346 especies autctonas y 60 naturalizadas, as como otras 37 que se cree que pueden encontrarse en el estado.
41967219|Rhynchospora crinipes Gale and related species are considered as to sectional disposition, taxonomic relationships, geography and ecology. New distributional information is added. Se consideran Rbynchospora crinipes Gale y las especies prximas en cuanto a su disposicin seccional, relaciones taxonmicas, geografa y ecologa. Se aade informacin nueva de su distribucin.
41967233|Gametic chromosome numbers are reported for ten accessions of Campanulaceae, representing six genera and six species, one of which was represented by five cultivars. The chromosome number of Cyanea hirtella is reported for the first time; it has n = 14, the same as the four congeners previously reported. Within Lobelia erinus, a cultivar of the Pndula Group was tetraploid (n = 14), while four Compacta Group cultivars were hexaploid (n = 21). Previous counts of n = 14 in Clermontia kakeana and Hippobroma longiflora, n = 16 in Campanula isophylla, and n = 17 in Trachelium coeruleum were confirmed. Se citan los nmeros cromosmicos gamticos de diez recuentos de Campanulaceae, correspondientes a seis gneros y seis especies, una de las cuales est representada por cinco cultivares. Se recuenta por primera vez el nmero cromosmico de Cyanea hirtella; tiene n = 14, el mismo nmero que los cuatro congneres previamente contados. En Lobelia erinus, un cultivar del grupo Pndula es tetraploide (n = 14), mientras que cuatro cultivares del grupo Compacta son hexaploides (n = 21). Se confirman los recuentos previos de n = 14 en Clermontia kakeana y Hippobroma longiflora, n = 16 en Campanula isophylla, y n = 17 en Trachelium coeruleum.
41967213|Two species in Central America are known by the name Centrosema pubescens Benth. Description and differentiation of the two taxa are presented, along with a record of the nomenclatural history of confusion with other species [C. galeottii Fantz, C. macrocarpum Benth., C. molle Mart, ex Benth., C. schiedeanum (Schlecht.) Williams & Clements, and C. virginianum (L.) Benth.], and commentary on the type specimen of C. pubescens. Evidence from the type indicates the name C. pubescens should be applied to an upland Central American species currently known as C. galeottii or C. scbiedeanum. The widespread, lowland tropical species bearing the name C. pubescens must be renamed, with C. molle having priority. En Centroamrica son conocidas dos especies con el nombre de Centrosema pubescens Benth. Se presenta la descripcin de los dos taxa, junto con la historia nomenclatural de confusin con otras especies [C. galeottii Fantz, C. macrocarpum Benth., C. molle Mart, ex Benth., C. schiedeanum (Schlecht.) Williams & Clements, y C. virginianum (L.) Benth.], y un comentario sobre el tipo de C. pubescens. Una vez examinado el tipo aparecen evidencias que indican que el nombre de C. pubescens debe ser aplicado a una especie de las tierras altas de Centroamrica conocida normalmente como C. galeottii o C. schiedeanum. La especie tropical de las tierras bajas conocida como C. pubescens debe ser renombrada, teniendo prioridad C. molle.
41967232|Field explorations have yielded Carex austrina new to North Carolina and Tennessee, Carex fissa var. aristata, Cyperus ochraceus, and Eleocharis macrostachya new to Mississippi, Carex oklahomensis new to Tennessee, Cyperus lanceolatus new to Georgia and Mississippi, Cyperus difformis, C. oxylepis, and C. pumilus new to Georgia, Cyperus eragrostis new to Louisiana, Cyperus surinamensis new to Tennessee and Oxycarum cubense new to Georgia, U.S.A. Additional range extensions are presented for Carex hyalina, C. oklahomensis, C. scoparia var. scoparia, Cyperus aggregates, C. difformis, C. lancastriensis, C. pilosus, Kyllinga brevifolioides and Oxycaryum cubense. Localities, habitat data, lists of associated species, and discussions of weed potential are presented. Exploraciones de campo han dado como resultado la aparicin de Carex austrina nuevo para Carolina del Norte y Tennessee, Carex fissa var. aristata, Cyperus ochraceus, y Eleocharis macrostachya nuevos para Mississippi, Carex oklahomensis nuevo para Tennessee, Cyperus lanceolatus nuevo para Georgia y Mississippi, Cyperus difformis, C. oxylepis, y C. pumilus nuevos para Georgia, Cyperus eragrostis nuevo para Louisiana, Cyperus surinamensis nuevo Tennessee, y Oxycarum cbense nuevo para Georgia, U. S. A. Se presentan extensiones de rea de Carex hyalina, C. oklahomensis, C. scoparia var. scoparia, Cyperus aggregates, C. difformis, C. lancastriensis, C. pilosus, Kyllinga brevifolioides y Oxycaryum cubense. Se ofrecen localidades, datos del habitat, listas de especies asociadas, y discusiones de su potencial como malas hierbas.
41967063|Based upon recent field studies, 908 species and varieties of vascular plants, representing 502 genera and 148 families, are listed for Conecuh County, Alabama. The county is centrally located in the Coastal Plain Province and contains portions of the Red Hills, Lime Hills, and Pine Flatwoods subdivisions. At least 89 of the species listed (9.8%) are considered to be new county or state records, and several of these significantly extend previously reported geographic ranges. With very few exceptions, these records represent native, non-weedy taxa. En base a estudios de campo recientes se listan para el Condado de Conecuh, Alabama, 908 especies y variedades de plantas vasculares, pertenecientes a 502 gneros y 148 familias. El condado est localizad en e0l centro de Coastal Plain Province y contiene partes de subdivisiones de Red Hills, Lime Hills y Pine Flatwoods. Al mentos 89 de las especies listadas (9.8%) se considera que son nuevas citas para el condado o para el estado, y algunas de ellas aumentan significativamente el rango geogrfico previo. Con muy pocas excepciones estas citas representan taxa nativos que no se comportan como malas hierbas.
41967049|A new species, Mirabilis russellii, belonging to the section Oxybaphoides, is described and illustrated. It is known from two collection sites along the coast of Jalisco. It is rather common along the entry road to the Instituto de Biologia de la Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, Chamela, Mexico, in tropical deciduous vegetation. Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva, Mirabilis russellii, perteneciente a la seccin Oxybaphoides. Se conoce nicamente de dos colectas a lo largo de costa de Jalisco. Es comn en el camino de entrada a la estacin biologa de la Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mexico "Chamela," Mxico, en bosques bajos caducifolios.
41967048|Mikania hoffmanniana var. macrophylla, M. pseudohoffmanniana, M. pseudohoffmanniana var. microphylla, and M. barrosoana are validated as new species. Se validan como nuevas especies Mikania hoffmanniana var. macrophylla, M. pseudohoffmanniana, M. pseudohoffmanniana var. microphylla, y M. barrosoana.
41967047|The invasion and spread of the European Erucastrum gallicum (Brassicaceae) in North America are traced from the first collection, in 1903, through 1992. The plant is now known from 29 states of the United States and from all provinces and one territory of Canada. The increasing North American range, shown on four maps, indicates a spot-and-fill pattern of spread. La invasin y expansin poblacional de la especie europea Erucastrum gallicum (Brassicaceae) en Norte Amrica se rastrea desde la primera coleccin (1903) hasta 1992. La planta se ha encontrado en 29 estados de los Estados Unidos y en todas las provincias y un territorio del Canad. El acrecentamiento del mbito en Norte Amrica, demostrado en cuatro mapas, indica un modelo de expansin poblacional de "spot-and-fill."
41967053|The priority of Eleutherococcus Maxim, over Acanthopanax (Decne. & Planch.) Witte necessitates additional transfers of Acanthopanax baoxinensis X.P. Fang et C. K. Hsieh, A. cissifolius (Griff. ex Seem.) Harms var. glaber Y.R. Li, A. nanpingensis X.O. Fang et C.K. Hsieh, A. giraldii Harms var. pilosulus Rehd. and A. yui H.L. Li var. villosus Y.R. Li to the genus Eleutherococcus. La prioridad de Eleutherococcus Maxim, sobre Acanthopanax (Decne. & Planch.) Witte necesita las transferencias adicionales al gnero Eleutherococcus de Acanthopanax baoxinensis X.P. Fang et C.K. Hsieh, A. cissifolius (Griff, ex Seem.) Harms var. glaber Y.R. Li, A nanpingensis X.P., Fang et C.K. Hsieh, A. giraldii Harms var pilosulus Rehd. y A. yui H.L. Li var villosus Y.R. Li.
41967055|A problem exists in the literature concerning the application of correct names to Echinacea angustifolia DC., E. pallida (Nutt.) Nutt., and E. tennesseensis (Beadle) Small. We review and clarify the past confusion concerning the nomenclatural history of these three taxa from 1753 to 1991. The contrasting views of A. Cronquist and R.L. McGregor on the taxonomic status of E. angustifolia, E. pallida, and E. tennesseensis are briefly discussed. Based on various types of evidence, these three taxa should be recognized as distinct species; thus, McGregor's view is accepted. Existe un problema en la bibliografa respecto a la aplicacin de los nombres correctos a Echinacea angustifolia DC, E. pallida (Nutt.) Nutt., y E. tennesseensis (Beadle) Small. Se revisa y clarifica la confusin pasada relativa a la historia nomenclatural de estos tres taxa desde 1753 a 1991. Los diferentes puntos de vista de A. Cronquist y R. L. McGregor sobre el estatus taxonmico de E. angustifolia, E. pallida, y E. tennesseensis se discuten brevemente. En base a evidencias de varios tipos, estos tres taxa deben ser reconocidos como especies distintas. As pues, se acepta el punto de vista de McGregor.
41967046|Agave isthmensis from Oaxaca and Chiapas, Mxico is described as new and illustrated. The new species belongs to the Hiemiflorae group. Its relationships with A. potatorum and A. pygmaea, its closest relatives are discussed. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Agave isthmensis de los estados de Oaxaca y Chiapas, Mxico. El nuevo taxon pertenece al Grupo Hiemiflorae. Se discuten sus relaciones con A. potatorum y A. pygmaea, las especies ms cercanamente emparentadas.
41967058|A new species of Anulocaulis, A. hintoniorum B.L. Turner, is described and illustrated from near Parras, Coahuila. It is related to A. eriosolenus but is amply distinct by a number of characters including larger flowers and smooth ellipsoid anthocarps.
41967056|Two Solanaceae, Solanum viarum, native to southern Brazil, Paraguay, and northern Argentina, and S. tampicense, native to the West Indies and Mexico to Costa Rica, are here reported for Florida and the contiguous United States. Solanum viarum has become a noxious weed in Florida in pasture land and S. tampicense has the potential to become one in wet forested habitats. A key to S. tampicense, S. viarum, and related species and the nomenclature of S. tampicense is given. Dos Solanaceae, Solanum viarum nativa del sur de Brasil, Paraguay y norte de Argentina, y S. tampicense nativa de las Indias Occidentales y de Mxico a Costa Rica, se citan aqu para Florida y los Estados contiguos. Solanum viarum se ha convertido en una mala hierba nociva en los pastos de Florida y S. tampicense tiene el potencial de convertirse en otra en los hbitats forestales hmedos. Se ofrece una clave para S. tampicense, S. viarum y especies relacionadas as como la nomenclatura de S. tampicense.
41967062|The occurrence of three species of Luziola in the United States is reviewed; L. fluitans is widespread, whereas L. peruviana and L. bahiensis are limited in range. Collection data and a distribution map are given for the latter two, plus a detailed description of the Florida plants of L. bahiensis. Se revisa la presencia de tres especies de Luziola en los Estados Unidos: L. fluitans est ampliamente distribuida, mientras que L. peruviana y L. bahiensis tienen una distribucin ms limitada. Se dan datos de la recoleccin y un mapa de distribucin para las dos ltimas, adems de una descripcin detallada de las plantas de Florida pertenecientes a L. bahiensis.
41967065|Chromosome counts are reported for 100 collections of flowering plants representing 81 species from the U.S.A., Mexico, Ecuador, and Guatemala: 71 species of Asteraceae, representing 44 genera; 3 species of Phacelia (Hydrophyllaceae); 3 species of Physalis (Solanaceae); 2 species of Brazoria (Lamiaceae); 1 species of Gilia (Polemoniaceae); and 1 species of Gibasis (Commelinaceae).
41967064|Chromosome numbers are reported for 29 species of Malvaceae in 13 genera, of which 18 are new reports. The taxonomic implications of these data are discussed. Se reporta nmeros cromosmicos para 29 especies de las malvceas en 13 gneros, de las cuales 18 son datos nuevos. La significacin taxonmica de estos datos est considerado.
41967016|The taxonomy of Anulocaulis (Nyctaginaceae: Nyctagineae) is reviewed. Fivespecies, one with two varieties, are recognized: A. annulatus (Coville) Standl.,A. eriosolenus (A. Gray) Standl., A.gypsogenus Waterf., A. leiosolenus (Torr.) Standl. var. leiosolenus, A . leiosolenus var. lasianthus I. M.Johnst., and A. reflexus I. M. Johnst.. The difference between Anulocaulis and Boerbavia includes habit, gross leaf features, perianth shape, and anthocarp morphology. Included is first report of chromosome numbers for the genus (n = 24 for A. annulatus, A. eriosolenus, A. leiosolenus var. leiosolenus). Se revis la taxonoma del gnero Anulocaulis (Nyctaginaceae: Nyctagineae). Se reconocieron cinco especies, una de ellas con dos variedades: A. annulatus (Coville) Standl., A. eriosolenus (A. Gray) Standl., A. gypsogenus Waterf., A. leiosolenus (Torr.) Standl. var. leiosolenus, A. leiosolenus var. lasianthusl. M. Johnst., y A. reflexus. M. Johnst.. En la discusin de las diferencias de A nulocaulis con el gnero Boerhavia se incluye el hbito, los caracteres distinctivos de las hojas, la forma del perianto, y la morfologa del antocarpo. As mismo se incluye el primer recuento de nmeros cromosmicos para el gnero (n = 24 para A. annulatus, A. eriosolenus, y A. leiosolenus var. leiosolenus).
41967014|Salvia divinorum, ceremoniously employed by the Mazatec Indians of Oaxaca, is endemic to the sierra inhabited by the Mazatec, its distribution anthropogenic. Plants spread vegetatively, flourishing in shaded, humid sites, flowering sporadically from October until June. Flower nectar and corolla dimensions suggest ornithophily, and the only pollination event observed involved a single hummingbird, but other factors suggest that visits by birds to the flowers in their present range are opportunistic, and not a product of plant-pollinator coevolution. The species is diploid with n= 11, pollen fertility is reduced, there is no active pollen tube inhibition within the style, but some event or process after the pollen tube reaches the ovary is aberrant, as no fully developed nutlet has ever been collected from a Mexican plant, and greenhouse cross-pollinations led to only 3% seed set. Hybridity is suggested, although intermediacy between two known species has not been recognized. Salvia divinorum, que fue usada en las ceremonias por los Indios Mazatecas de Oaxaca, es una planta endmica de la sierra habitada por los Mazatecas y su distribucin antropognica. Se reproduce vegetativamente, prosperando en lugares hmedos y sombros, y ocasionalmente florece de octubre a junio. Las dimensiones de la corola y la presencia de nctar sugieren ornitofilia y la nica polinizacin observada fue realizada por un colibr, pero hay otros factores que sugieren que las visitas de los pjaros a las flores son oportunistas y no el producto de una coevolucin plantpolinizador. La especie es dipolide, n = 11, la fertilidad del polen reducida, no hay inhibicin estilar activa del tubo polnico, pero algunos procesos posteriores a la llegada del tubo polnico al ovario son aberrantes, por lo que nunca se ha recolectado ninguna nuclua perfectamente desarrollada en plantas mexicanas, y las polinizaciones cruzadas realizadas en invernadero producen slo un 3% de semillas. Se ha sugerido hibridacin, aunque no se ha reconocido que sea intermedia entre dos especies concocidas.
41967025|A review of the taxonomic literature of Setaria P. Beauv. resulted in the production of a computer database consisting of 1009 scientific names. These include 114 accepted names, 628 synonyms, 240 names of uncertain status, and 26 names currently placed in genera other than Setaria. Presented in hard copy is an alphabetical list of the accepted names with associated synonyms in chronological order, an alphabetical list of names placed in genera other than Setaria, a list of names of uncertain status in alphabetical sequence, and an index to all names. The complete database is available from the author on request. Una revisin de la bibliografa taxonmica de Setaria dio como resultado la elaboracin de una base de datos informatizada que consite en 1009 nombres cientficos. Estos encluyen 114 nombres vlidos, 628 sinnimos, 240 nombres de estatus incierto, y 26 nombres que se aplican a otros gneros diferentes de Setaria. Se presenta una lista en orden alfabtico de los nombres vlidos con sus sinnimos en orden cronolgico, otra lista con los nombres que se ubican en gneros diferentes a Setaria, otra lista en orden alfabtico de los nombrees con estatus incierto y un ndice con todos los nombres. Se puede obtener la base de datos completa pidindosela al autor.
41967033|A total of 78 counts for 64 taxa of Compositae are presented. Of these, five are for previously uncounted taxa: Grindelia camporum var. bracteosa (n = 12), G. confusa (n = 6), Isocoma tenuisecta (n = 6II, 12II), Conoclinium betonicifolium (n = 10II), and Gnaphalium schraderi (n = 14II). Three counts are reports of previously unreported ploidy levels for the taxa they represent. Two counts are of interest because they conflict with earlier reports: Geissolepis suaedaefolia (n = 9II) and Vanclevea stylosa (2n = 12). Se presentan un total de 78 recuentos para 64 taxa de Asteraceae. De estos, cinco pertenecen a taxa que no haban sido recontados previamente: Grindelia camporum var. bracteosa (n = 12), G. confusa (n = 6), Isocoma tenuisecta (n = 6II, 12II), Conoclinium betonicifolium (n = 10II), y Gnaphalium schraderi (n = 14II). Tres recuentos ofrecen niveles de ploida no citados previamente para los taxa afectados. Dos recuentos son de inters porque estn en contradiccin con recuentos previos: Geissolepis suaedaefolia (n = 9II) y Vanclevea sty losa (2n = 12).
41967021|Hedeoma oblatifolia Villarreal sp. nov., from the mountains of southeastern Coahuila (Northeast Mexico), is described and illustrated. It is similar to H. johnstonii Irving, and is easily recognized by its relatively larger flower, circular-oblate leaves and retrorse hairs on the stem. Hedeoma oblatifolia Villarreal sp. nov. de las montaas del sureste de coahuila (Noreste de Mxico), es descrita e ilustrada. Es similar a H. johnstonii Irving, y se reconoce fcilmente por sus flores relativamente grandes, hojas circular-obladas y pelos retrorsos en el tallo.
41967019|Urochloa is represented in Texas by three species, U. mosambicensis, U. panicoides, and U. reptans. Urochloa mosambicensis is being reported new for Texas. Urochloa panicoides has recently been reported in the state and is listed in the Federal Noxious Weed Act. Urochloa reptans has been recognized in Texas and the U. S. as Panicum reptans or, more recently, Brachiaria reptans. A key to distinguish related genera, a key to the species of Urochloa in Texas, species descriptions, and their distribution in Texas are provided. Urochloa est representada en Texas por tres especies, U. mosambicensis, U. panicoides y U. reptans. Urochloa mosambicensis se cita como nueva para Texas. Urochloa panicoides ha sido citada recientemente en el estado y est catalogada en la Ley Federal de Plantas Nocivas (Federal Noxious Weed Act). Urochloa reptans ha sido reconocida en Texas y en el resto de los Estados Unidos como Panicum reptans, o ms recientemente como Brachiaria reptans. Se ofrece una clave para identificar los gneros prximos, otra clave para las especies de Urochloa en Texas, as como descripciones de las especies y su distribucin en Texas.
41967023|Agalinis navasotensis Dubrule & Canne-Hilliker is described from a sandstone outcrop in Grimes County, Texas. It is morphologically most similar to the Louisiana species, A. caddoensis Penn., from which it differs primarily in characters of the inflorescence, calyx, and corolla. The plant and its unusual habitat are described. A table and a key are provided to distinguish A. navasotensis from similar Agalinis of Texas and neighboring areas. Se describe Agalinis navasotensis Dubrule & Canne-Hilliker que crece en afloramientos de areniscas en el Condado Grimes, Texas. Morfolgicamente es muy similar a A. caddoensis Penn. de Louisiana, de la cual se diferencia principalmente por caracteres de la inflorescencia, cliz y corola. Se describen la planta y su habitat particular. Se incluyen un cuadro y una clave para distinguir A. navasotensis de las especies parecidas de Agalinis de Texas y de reas cercanas.
41967027|A revisionary treatment of Baileya is rendered following the examination of approximately 1,800 herbarium specimens of the genus. Three species are recognized: B. pauciradiata, B. multiradiata and B. pleniradiata. Descriptions, illustrations, dot-maps, keys to species and complete synonymy are presented. The relationship of Baileya to its most closely related genus, Psilostrophe, is discussed. Se hace una revisin del gnero Baileya mediante el examen de aproximadamente 1800 pliegos de herbario. Se reconocen tres especies: B. pauciradiata, B. multiradiata y B. pleniradiata. Se ofrecen descripciones, ilustraciones, mapas de distribucin, clave de especies y sinonimia completa. Se discuten las relaciones entre Baileya y Psilostrophe por ser el gnero ms semejante.
41967029|Complete lists of the species of vascular plants in the flora of Chicken Key in Dade County Florida were generated during surveys of the key on five occasions over a period of five years, including surveys conducted just before and just after Hurricane Andrew (which impacted the key on 24 Aug 1992). Although the short term effect on the species richness of the key was dramatic (a drop from 72 to 63 species), the post hurricane species richness is still well within the known range for the island, indicating that the long term effects on the species composition may not be significant. Se realizo la lista completa de plantas vasculares del "Chicken Key" (Cayo Pollo) en el condado de Dade de Florida. Fue elaborada en cinco visitas, durante un perodo de cinco aos, e incluyen reconocimientos llevados a cabo inmediatamente antes e inmediatamente despu del huracn Andrew (que afect el cayo el 24 de agosto de 1992). A pesar de que el impacto inmediato en el nmero de especies fue dramtico (una reduccin de 72 a 63 especies), la diversidad despus del huracn est aun dentro del rango normal para la isla, indicando que los efectos a largo plazo sobre la composicin de la flora, probablemente no sea significativo.
41967028|Carex lativena, section Triquetrae, is described from the Chisos Mountains in southern Brewster County, Texas. It was found in an open semi-dry hardwood-conifer forest. It differs from its putative closest relative, C. planostachys, in having more numerous and shorter basal peduncled pistillate spikes; shorter culms; perigynia that are conspicuously obovate, less pubescent and with shorter, abruptly bent beaks; achenes that are apically retuse, brown in color; and differing in achene micromorphology. Both species are cespitose in habit. The difference being that the cespitose clumps of C. lativena is composed of individual plants that can be pulled apart from each other. A key to the species of section Triquetrae is included.
41967024|Commelina socorrogonzaleziae Espejo & Lpez-Ferrari (Commelinaceae) is described from Mxico as new to science, commentaries are made about the genus Commelina in Mxico. The new species is distinguished by its flowers "flesh" colour, its linear to linear-filiform leaves and its subaquatic habit. Se describe Commelina socorrogonzaleziae Espejo & Lpez-Ferrari (Commelinaceae) como nueva para la ciencia a partir de material procedente del Centro-Norte de Mxico y se hacen comentarios acerca del gnero Commelina en Mxico. La nueva especie se distingue por sus flores color "carne," sus hojas lineares a linear-filiformes y su hbito subacutico.
41967022|Rottboellia cochinchinensis (Lour.) W.D. Clayton (syn. = R. exaltata L.f.), previously unreported in Texas, has been found in Jefferson County. A key is provided to separate this taxon from similar genera of Texas Andropogoneae, as well as a description of the species. Rottboellia cochinchinensis (Lour.) W. D. Clayton (sinnimo de R. exaltata L.f.) previamente no citada en Texas, se ha encontrado en el Condado Jefferson. Se ofrece una clave para separar este taxon de gneros similares de Andropogoneae de Texas, as como una descripcin de la especie.
41967017|Foliar trichomes of Quercus section Protobalanus, the smallest section of the oaks, were studied using scanning electron microscopy. Distinct complements of non-glandular trichome types were observed for each of the five recognized species (Q. cedrosensis C. H. Mll., Q. chrysolepis Liebm., Q. palmeri Engelm. [Q. dunnii Kell.], Q. tomentella Engelm., and Q. vaccinifolia Kell.). Trichome characters fully support the current taxonomy of the section and provide additional characters for species identification. Intraspecific trichome variation was used to address both geographic variation and hypotheses of hybridization between several species-pairs. Contrary to previous reports, the total complement of non-glandular trichomes documented in section Protobalanus is as diverse as that observed in both the larger red (black) and white oak groups. Se estudiaron, mediante el microscopio electrnico de barrido, los tricomas foliares de Quercus seccin Protobalanus, que es la seccin ms pequena de los robles. Se observaron distintas cantidades de tipos de tricomas no glandulares en cada una de las cinco especies (Q. cedrosensis C. H. Mll., Q chrysolepis Liebm., Q. palmeri Engelm., [Q. dunnii Kell.], Q. tomentella Engelm., y Q. vaccinifolia Kell.). Los caracteres de los tricomas apoyan la taxonoma aceptada de la seccin y ofrecen caracteres adicionales para la identificacin de especies. La variacin intraespecfica de los tricomas se uso tanto para explicar la variacin geogrfica como para hacer hiptesis de hibridacin entre varios pares de especies. Contrariamente a lo que se haba citado previamente, la cantidad total de tricomas no glandulares en la seccin Protobalanus es tan diversa como la observada en los grandes grupos de robles blancos y rojos (negros).
41967031|The monotypic genus Lindheimera, based upon L. texana, a common spring-flowering annual with the common name, Texas Star, occurs in mostly heavy clay or silty-clay soils of Central Texas and closely adjacent Oklahoma and the state of Coahuila, Mexico. A single record from the state of Arkansas is believed to have been introduced. A map showing the distribution of this species is provided, along with the citation of representative specimens from each of the counties in which it has been collected. El gnero monotpico Lindheimera, basado en L. texana, es una planta frecuente anual de floracin primaveral, de nombre vulgar Estrella de Texas (Texas Star), que vive normalmente en suelos calcreos del centro de Texas y en Oklahoma, as como en el estado de Coahuila, Mxico. Una nica cita del estado de Arkansas se cree que se trata de una planta introducida. Se ofrece un mapa que muestra la distribucin de la especie junto con la cita de los especmenes representativos de cada uno de los condados en que ha sido colectada.
41967015|On the basis of historical and recent collections, Staurogynejtgrestis is reported from western Mexico. This is the first report of this genus in North America. Descriptions and illustrations are provided of this poorly known species. Staurogyne is compared with other Mexican Nelsonioideae. Se cita por primera vez para Mxico (y Amrica del Norte) Staurogyne agrestis. Se describe e ilustra esta especie poco conocida. Tambin se ofrece una clave de todos los gneros de la subfamilia Nelsonioideae en Mxico.
41966512|Pollen grains of Dalea section Cylipogon are described by scanning electron microscopy. This section consists of ten species; nine are discussed here. In this section there are three definite pollen types. Two types are clearly distinct while the third is intermediate. The first type is spherical, highly reticulate with anomotreme apertures. The second is prolate, finely reticulate with tricolpate apertures. The intermediate type has three different forms, two prolate and a subprolate form.
41966516|Thorough field studies of the Ragland Hills area, Forrest and Perry counties, Mississippi began in 1969 and were continued until autumn 1973. The flora and ecology of several rich, mesic ravines were given special consideration. About 250-300 acres of these ravines, although disturbed by man, probably represent the largest and best remnant of the beech-magnolia forest in Mississippi. One-thousand nineteen species of vascular plants, variously distributed among 452 genera in 130 families, are recorded for the area.
41967372|The study of North American specimens of the halophytic genus Suaeda has led to recognition of 14 species and five varieties, plus two species of doubtful status. Taxonomic problems associated with the succulent habit of Suaeda and the historical development of the genus are discussed. Distribution, typification and systematics of the species are presented with citation of specimens from each county or district recorded.
41966668|Distributional studies of the coastal plain species isolated on the Cumberland Plateau and Highland Rim indicate that they are southern species which migrated onto the plateaus in late Pleistocene from northern Alabama.
41966670|The results of a herbarium study of two common species of Cyperus (C. manimae and C. odoratus) are presented. It is shown that: 1) in C. manimae, the varieties asperrimus, divergens and phaeocephalus do not merit recognition; 2) C. spectabilis Link and C. apiculatus Liebm. should be treated as synonyms of C. manimae; and 3) C. macrocephalus Liebm., C. eggersii Boeck., C. acicularis (Schrad.) Steud. and C. engelmannii Steud. are synonyms of C. odoratus L.
41966669|A guide to the vascular plants of the Florida panhandle is to be published next year. Over 30 additions to that guide are documnted here. The following appear to be first reports for the state of Florida: Arabis canadensis, Asclepias, viridiflora, Bromus tectorum, Cayaponia grandiflora, Helianthus atrorubens, Scutellaria drummondii, and Solidago flaccidifolia.
41966667|Biosystematic study and study of type and other material of the eight species of Californian Coreopsis (sections Tuckermannia, Pugiopappus, and Euleptosyne) was undertaken. The group is resistant to the biosystematic approach, in the sense that artificial hybridizations attempted in all combinations among the species were mostly unsuccessful. Only C. maritima X C. gigantea hybrids (and the reciprocal) were produced and these had high pollen stainability. All eight species in the three sections are n = 12. The perennials (section Tuckermannia) have noticeably larger meiotic chromosomes than do the annuals (sections Pugiopappus and Euleptosyne). The three sections are well-differentiated and deserve sectional status. A key to the taxa and citation of observed types and other specimens examined is presented. Based on selected morphological characteristics, the relative evolutionary advancement of the species within each section is postulated.
41966666|Chromosome numbers are reported for 39 taxa of Nama. Counts for 25 taxa confirm numbers as previously reported. Counts for 14 taxa are initial reports; 12 taxa conform to the generally diploid pattern found in the genus, while two, N. dichotomum vars. dichotomum and pueblense, are tetraploid with n = 14. Notes on relationships of selected taxa are included.
41966671|The taxonomy of Duranta L. is provisionally reviewed in the form of a synoptic key and synonymy list. Seventeen species, without infraspecific taxa, are recognized. In zones of geographic sympatry, twelve of the species have been involved in forming nineteen putative natural hybrids, eight of which have been described previously as species or varieties.
41966651|Senecio millefolium T. & G. is restricted to the character of its protologue and a lectotype is designated for it. Senecio memmingeri Britt. is removed from the synonymy of S. millefolium and designated a hybrid between that species and Senecio anonymus Wood.
41966652|There are 25 species of Solidago (Goldenrod) in Oklahoma and Texas, with 10 species having two varieties each and one species having four varieties for a total of 38 taxa in this treatment. Information includes keys, data on type specimens, distribution maps, drawings of typical leaves, synonymy, discussion of differentiating characteristics, habitat, and one new combination: Solidago velutina var. nevadensis (Gray) C. & J. Taylor.
41966647|Aronia arbutifolia (L.) Elliott var. glabra Elliott is reduced to forma. A lectotype is designated for A. melanocarpa (Michaux) Elliott. A. prunifolia (Marshall) Rehder is formally designated a hybrid and the taxonomic consequence of this action is discussed.
41966646|A night-blooming, sagittate-leaved water-lily of Nymphaea subgenus Hydrocallis is described from the Amazon drainage in northern Brazil.
41968031|Pitcher plant bogs require frequent fires to prevent encroachment of woody vegetation. Little information is available on the relative effectiveness of growing-season burns for maintaining plant communities in bogs and reducing woody encroachment. In this study, the effects of growing-season and dormant-season burns on plant communities were assessed in two pitcher-plant bogs on the Peason Ridge Military Reservation in western Louisiana. Measurements were collected every month from March through November 1996 and from March through October 1997. Floristic composition and forb and woody plant density were determined in both bogs. Both bogs had been burned on 3-year rotations in the dormant season for approximately 20 years. One bog, hereafter Conef lower bog, was burned during the dormant season in December 1995 and is approximately 0.8 hectare (ha). The other bog, Woodpecker bog, was burned during the growing season in August 1996 and is approximately 0.7 ha. Over both years, we found 98 plant species in both bogs together with 94 of the 98 species in Conef lower bog and 90 of the 98 species in Woodpecker bog. No species were eliminated from either bog after the fires. In addition, all species that were present after the growing season fire in Woodpecker bog had been present before the fire. However, several species were much more abundant after the fire than before the fire. The study also contains comments on the occurrence of several rare and interesting species encountered during this study including Sabine conef lower (Rudbeckia scabrifolia), Texas pipewort (Eriocaulon texense), Red-top panicum (Panicum rigidulum var. combsii), Slender panicum (Panicum tenerum), Beakrush (Rhynchospora chalarocephala), Drummond's yellow-eyed grass (Xyris drummondii), and Rough-leaved yellow-eyed grass (Xyris scabrifolia). Las turberas requieren frecuentes fuegos para evitar la invasin de vegetacin leosa. Est disponible poca informacin sobre la relativa efectividad de los fuegos en la poca de crecimiento para mantener las comunidades vegetales en turberas y reducir la invasin de vegetacin leosa. En este estudio, se evaluaron los efectos de las quemas en la estacin de crecimiento y en la poca de parada de comunidades vegetales en dos turberas en la Reserva Peason Ridge Military en el oeste de Louisiana. Las medidas se tomaron todos los meses de marzo a noviembre de 1996 y de marzo a octubre de 1997. Se determin la composicin florstica y densidad de hierbas y plantas leosas en ambas turberas. Ambas turberas han sido quemadas en rotaciones de tres aos en la estacin de parada durante unos 20 aos. Una turbera, concretamente la Coneflower, se quem en diciembre de 1995 y tiene aproximadamente 0.8 hectreas (ha). La otra, Woodpecker, se quem durante la estacin de crecimiento en agosto de 1996 y tiene aproximadamente 0.7 ha. Durante ambos aos, encontramos 98 especies en ambas turberas junto con 94 de las 98 especies en la turbera Coneflower y 90 de las 98 especies en la turbera Woodpecker. Ninguna especie fue eliminada de las turberas despus de los fuegos. Adems, todas las especies que estaban presentes despus del fuego en la estacin de crecimiento en la turbera Woodpecker estaban presentes antes del fuego. Sin embargo, varias especies eran mucho ms abundantes despus del fuego que antes. El estudio tambin contiene comentarios sobe la presencia de varias especies raras e interesantes encontradas durante este estudio incluyendo Rudbeckia scabrifolia, Eriocaulon texense, Panicum rigidulum var. combsii, Panicum tenerum, Rhynchospora chalarocephala, Xyris drummondii, y Xyris scabrijolia.
41967985|Eriogonum riograndis, sp. nov., is segregated from plants previously identified as E. multiflorum Benth. The new species is known from 17 counties of the Rio Grande plains in south-central Texas. Eriogonum riograndis differs from E. multiflorum in its broader leaves with auriculate-subclasping bases (vs. attenuate, non-clasping leaf bases) and its involucres with more numerous flowers (22-28(-36) vs. 6-12(-15) flowers). The two taxa are primarily allopatric and sharply discontinuous in morphology. Putative intermediates have been observed in three counties. Both species are distinct from the apparently closely related E. annuum Nutt. in their longer peduncles, sparsely tomentose and glabrescent involucres, and cordate perianth lobes. Eriogonum riograndis, sp. nov., se segrega de las plantas identificadas previamente como E. multiflorum Benth. La nueva especie se conoce de 17 condados de las llanuras de Ro Grande en el sur-centro de Texas. Eriogonum riograndis difiere de E. multiflorum en sus hojas ms anchas con bases auriculado semiabrazadoras (en vez bases de las hojas atenuadas, no abrazantes) y sus involucros con flores ms numerosas (22-28(-36) vs. 6-12(-15) flores). Los dos taxa son primariamente aloptricos y fuertemente discontinuos en su morfologa. Se han observado intermedios putativos en tres condados. Ambas especies son distintas del aparentemente muy relacionado E. annuum Nutt. Por sus pednculos ms largos, involucros esparsamente tomentosos y lbulos del perianto glabrescentes, y cordados.
41968005|Infrageneric taxa in Panicum and Dichanthelium have a long history of usage, but at least eight of these taxa have not been validly published previously. The new taxa published here are Panicum sect. Antidotalia, P. sect. Hemitoma, Dichanthelium sect. Clandestina, D. sect. Linearifolia, D. sect. Macrocarpa, D. sect. Nudicaulia, D. sect. Pedicellata, and D. sect. Strigosa. Fifty-two new combinations, made for a forthcoming treatment of these two genera, are as follows: D. sect. Angustifolia; D. sect. Ensifolia; D. sect. Lancearia; D. sect. Lanuginosa; D. sect. Oligosantha; D. sect. Sphaerocarpa; D. aciculare subsp. angustifolium, subsp. fusiforme, subsp. neuranthum; D. acuminatum subsp. columbianum, subsp. fasciculatum, subsp. implicatum, subsp. leucothrix, subsp. lindheimeri, subsp. longiligulatum, subsp. sericeum, subsp. spretum, subsp. thermale; D. chamaelonche and subsp. breve; D. commutatum subsp. ashei, subsp. equilaterale, subsp. joori; D. dichotomum subsp. lucidum, subsp. mattamuskeetense, subsp. microcarpon, subsp. nitidum, subsp. roanokense, subsp. yadkinense; D. ensifolium subsp. curtifolium; D. oligosanthes subsp. scribnerianum; D. ovale subsp. praecocius, subsp. pseudopubescens, subsp. villosissimum; D. portoricense subsp. patulum; D. strigosum subsp. glabrescens, subsp. leucoblepharis; D. tenue; P. amarum subsp. amarulum; P.anceps subsp. rhizomatum; P. capillore subsp. hilmanii; P. dichotomiflorum subsp. bartowense, subsp. puritanorum; P. hallii subsp. filipes; P. hirticaule subsp. sonorum, subsp. stramineum; P. philadelphicum subsp. gattingeri, subsp. lithophilum; and P. rigidulum subsp. abscissum, subsp. combsii, subsp. elongatum, subsp. pubescens. Los txones infragenricos en Panicum y Dichanthelium han sido usados durante mucho tiempo, pero por lo menos ocho de estos txones no han sido publicados vlidamente. Los nuevos txones aqu publicados son Panicum sect. Antidotalia, P. sect. Hemitoma, Dichanthelium sect. Clandestina, D. sect. Linearifolia, D. sect. Macrocarpa, D. sect. Nudicaulia, D. sect. Pedicellata, y D. sect. Strigosa. Cincuenta y dos nuevas combinaciones, designadas en un futuro tratamiento de estos dos gneros, son: D. sect. Angustifolia; D. sect. Ensifolia; D. sect. Lancearia; D. sect. Lanuginosa; D. sect. Oligosantha; D. sect. Sphaerocarpa; D. sect. Angustifolia; D. sect. Ensifolia; D. sect. Lancearia; D. sect. Lanuginosa; D. sect. Oligosantha; D. sect. Sphaerocarpa; D. aciculare subsp. angustifolium, subsp. fusiforme, subsp. neuranthum; D. acuminatum subsp. columbianum, subsp. fasciculatum, subsp. implicatum, subsp. leucothrix, subsp. lindheimeri, subsp. longiligulatum, subsp. sericeum, subsp. spretum, subsp. thermale; D. chamaelonche y subsp. breve; D. commutatum subsp. ashei, subsp. equilaterale, subsp. joori; D. dichotomum subsp. lucidum, subsp. mattamuskeetense, subsp. microcarpon, subsp. nitidum, subsp. roanokense, subsp. yadkinense; D. ensifolium subsp. curtifolium; D. oligosanthes subsp. scribnerianum; D. ovale subsp. praecocius, subsp. pseudopubescens, subsp. villosissimum; D. portoricense subsp. patulum; D strigosum subsp. glabrescens, subsp. leucoblepharis; D. tenue; P. amarum subsp. amarulum; P. anceps subsp. rhizomatum; P. capillare subsp. hilmanii; P. dichotomiflorum subsp. bartowense, subsp. puritanorum; P. hallii subsp. filipes; P. hirticaule subsp. sonorum, subsp. stramineum; P. philadelphicum subsp. gattingeri, subsp. lithophilum; y P. rigidulum subsp. abscissum, subsp. combsii, subsp. elongatum, subsp. pubescens.
41968018|Melastomataceae es una familia con aproximadamente 4500 especies distribuidas en los trpicos y subtrpicos, principalmente en Amrica del Sur. En Ecuador se han registrado 43 gneros y 553 especies, de stos, 24 gneros y 124 reportan alguna utilidad para el ser humano. Segn los registros de los herbarios QCNE y QCA y la literatura, las especies ecuatorianas de Melastomataceae son utilizadas principalmente para tratar heridas, picaduras de culebras y para construcciones. De las 124 especies tiles, 27 (21,8%) son alimenticias, especialmente debido a los frutos dulces y a los tallos agrios usados para calmar la sed; 32 (25,8 %) son utilizadas para tablas y construccin; 59 (47,6%) son medicinales; 8 (6,4%) son usados por los shamanes para aliviar algunas enfermedades fsicas y espirituales; solamente 4 (3,2%) son ornamentales y 50 (40,3%) tienen otros usos, tales como cabos de herramientas, escobas, encofrados, forraje para animales, lea, tinciones, y como cercas vivas. Melastomataceae is a family with about 4500 species distributed mainly in the tropics, especially in South America. There are 43 genera and 553 species registered for Ecuador. Based on the revision of herbarium specimens housed at QCNE, QCA and the literature, 24 genera and 124 species are registered as useful for humans. Of these, 27 (21.8%) are used as food due to the sweetish fruits and acidic stems, used against thirst; 32 (25.8 %) are used for construction; 59 (47.6%) are medicinal; 8 (6.4%) are used by Shamans for treating fisical and spiritual ailments; only 4 (3.2%) are ornamentals; and 50 (40.3%) have various uses, such us for tools handles, brooms, fuelwood, charcoal, dyes, and for living fences.
41967990|Chromosome studies and phylogenetic analyses of morphology, allozymes, and nrDNA-ITS sequence data were used to resolve taxonomic relationships in the Thelesperma subnudum complex. Of special interest is the placement of three globally rare members of the complex: Thelesperma caespitosum, T. pubescens, and T. subnudum var. alpinum. The first two rare taxa yield only diploid (n=12) chromosome counts; T. subnudum var. alpinum is consistently tetraploid (n=24). Thelesperma subnudum var. subnudum exhibits both diploid (n=12) and tetraploid (n=24) populations. Phylogenetic analyses of individual data sets strongly support (bootstrap 88%99%) T. subnudum var. alpinum as being more closely related to T. pubescens and T. caespitosum than to T. subnudum var. subnudum. Combined analyses give the strongest support (bootstrap 100%) for the clade of T. pubescens, T. caespitosum, and T. subnudum var. alpinum. Preliminary evidence suggests that T. subnudum var. alpinum may be an allotetraploid resulting from hybridization between T. pubescens and T. subnudum. Based on the available evidence, we propose the following nomenclatural changes: Thelesperma pubescens Dorn var. caespitosum (Dorn) C.J. Hansen, stat. nov., and Thelesperma windhamii C.J. Hansen, nom. et stat. nov. Se han usado estudios cromosmicos y anlisis filogenticos de datos morfolgicos, alozimas y de secuencias de nrDNA-ITS para tratar de resolver las relaciones taxonmicas dentro del complejo Thelesperma subnudum. De especial inters es la posicin taxonmica de los tres miembros del complejo: Thelesperma caespitosum, T. pubescens y T. subnudum var. alpinum, considerados globalmente raros. Los dos primeros taxa mostraron solamente poblaciones diploides (n = 12), mientras que T. subnudum var. alpinum se mostr constantemente como tetraploide (n = 24). Thelesperma subnudum var subnudum mostr tanto poblaciones diploides (n = 12) como tetraploides (n = 24). Los resultados del anlisis filogentico de diferentes tipos de datos soportan ms fuertemente (bootstrap 88%-99%) el agrupamiento de T. subnudum var. alpinum con T. caespitosum y T. pubescens, que su agrupamiento con T. subnudum var. subnudum. Los anlisis combinados mostraron el mximo soporte (bootstrap 100%) para el ciado compuesto por T. subnudum var. alpinum, T. caespitosum y T. pubescens. Evidencias preliminares sugieren que T. subnudum var. alpinum podra ser un alotetraploide resultante de la hibridacin entre T. subnudum y T. pubescens. De acuerdo con la evidencia disponible proponemos los siguientes cambios nomenclaturales: Thelesperma pubescens Dorn var. caespitosum (Dorn) C.J. Hansen, stat. nov. y Thelesperma windhamii C.J. Hansen, nom. et stat. nov.
41967986|Ipomoea costellata var. edwardsensis, var. nov., is described, illustrated, and mapped. It apparently is endemic to the Edwards Plateau region of Texas, where it is known from six counties. It is set apart from I. costellata elsewhere in its range by its combination of shorter peduncles and bright white, nearly rotate flowers with fewer and deeper lobes. Se describe, se ilustra y se cartografa lpomoea costellata var. edwardsensis, var. nov. Es aparentemente endmica de la regin de la meseta Edwards de Texas, de donde se conoce de seis condados. Se separa de I. costellata por su combinacin de pednculos ms cortos y flores blanco brillante, casi rodadas con menos lbulos y ms profundos.
41968016|Chromosome numbers are reported for 85 collections of Cerastium (Caryophyllaceae) from continental North America belonging to 22 taxa. First published reports include those for C. nutans var. objectum Kearney & Peebles (2n = 34) and C. texanum Britton (2n = 36). First reports for material of North American origin include C. bialynickii Tolm. (2n = 108), C. brachypodum (Eng. ex Gray) B.L. Robinson (2n = 34), C. dichotomum L. (2n = 38), C. diffusion Pers. (2n = 72), C. fischerianum Ser. (2n = 66 & 72), C. glomeratum Thuill. (2n = 72) and C. semidecandrum L. (2n = 36). Se citan los nmeros cromosomticos de colecciones de Cerastium (Caryophyllaceae) de Norte Amrica continental pertenecientes a 22 taxa. Entre ellos se encuentran los primeros recuentos de C. nutans var. objectum Kearney & Peebles (2n = 34) y C. texanum Britton (2n = 36). Primeros recuentos en materiales de origen norteamericano de C. bialynickii Tolm. (2n = 108), C. brachypodum (Eng. ex Gray) B.L. Robinson (2n = 34), C. dichotomum L. (2n = 38), C. diffusum Pers. (2n = 72), C. fischerianum Ser. (2n = 66 & 72), C. glomeratum Thuill. (2n = 72) y C. semidecandrum L. (2n = 36).
41967991|A new species of Liatris (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae,) is described from Liberty County, Florida. Presumably its closest relative is L. gracilis, from which it differs in morphology, chemistry, and ecology. The species is diploid (n = 10). Se describe una nueva especie de Liatris (Asteraceae: Eupatorieae,) del condado de Liberty, Florida. Probablemente su pariente ms cercano es L. gracilis, de quien difiere en morfologa, qumica, y ecologa. La especie es diploide (n = 10).
41968021|The native and naturalized vascular plants of Konza Prairie Biological Station, a 3487-ha tallgrass prairie research site located in the Flint Hills of northeastern Kansas, are listed along with their primary habitat, relative abundance, flowering period, and life span. After more than 25 years of collections, the known vascular flora of Konza Prairie consists of 576 species, representing 336 genera and 96 families. Families with the most species are Poaceae (84), Asteraceae (79), Fabaceae (49), and Cyperaceae (33). Non-native species (n = 96) comprise 16.7% of the total flora. When categorized by life span, 64.6% of all species are perennials, 31.3% are annuals, and 4.2% are biennials. Species that are characteristically associated with a prairie habitat comprise 40.6% of the flora, followed by species in disturbed (22.4%), woodland (22.2%), and wetland (14.8%) habitats. In the prairie habitat, 16.2% of the species are grasses and 76.9% are herbaceous forbs. The C photosynthetic pathway occurs in 59.5% of all grass species and in 70.8% of the annual grasses. The diversified habitats created by management and research activities on Konza Prairie provide a flora richness that is likely greater than that of any other area of comparable size in the Great Plains region. Las plantas vasculares indgenas y aclimatadas de la Estacin Biolgica de la Pradera Konza, un sitio de investigacin en una pradera de pasto alto de 3487 hectreas en el noreste de Kansas, se listan indicando su hbitat principal, abundancia relativa, periodo de floracin y su longevidad. Tras ms de 25 aos de colectar, se han identificado 576 especies de flora vascular de la Pradera Konza, que representan 336 gneros y 96 familias. Las familias con mayor cantidad de especies son Poaceae (84), Asteraceae (79), Fabaceae (49) y Cyperaceae (33). Las especies no indgenas (n = 96) componen el 16.7% de la flora total. Cuando son clasificadas por su longevidad, 64.6% del total de especies son perennes, 31.3% anuales y 4.2% bienales. Las especies caractersticas de un hbitat de praderas componen el 40.6% de la flora total, seguidas por las de habitat perturbado (22.4%), forestal (22.2%) y pantano (14.8%). La ruta fotosinttica C aparece en el 59.5% de las especies de pastos y en el 70.8% de los pastos anuales. Los hbitats diversificados que se han producido a travs de actividades de administracin e investigacin en la Pradera Konza ofrecen una abundancia de flora que posiblemente sobrepasa cualquier otra rea de tamao comparable en esta regin.
41968037|The authors provide a list of 41 additions, reinstatements, and significant range extensions for the flora of Arkansas. Alternanthera paronychioides, Bowlesia incana, Eleocharis montevidensis, Hypoxis curtissii, Nandina domestica, Polygonum setaceum, and Trifolium lappaceum are reported as new and persistent elements, while Ipomea leucantha, Mirabilisjalapa, Najas minor, and Veronica polita are reinstated to the state flora. A number of alien weedsCynoglossum zeylanicum, Eleusine tristachya, Euphorbia hirta, Scoparia dulcis, Tragopogon pratensis, Trifolium nigrescens, Verbena montevidensisare noticed and documented for the first time, however, their persistence is not known. Los autores proporcionan una lista donde se enumeran 41 adiciones, restablecimientos, y extensiones de rea significativas para la flora de Arkansas. Alternanthera paronychioides, Bowlesia incana, Eleocharis montevidensis, Hypoxis curtissii, Nandina domestica, Polygonum setaceum, y Trifolium lappaceum son citadas como componentes nuevos y persistentes del rea, mientras que Ipomea X leucantha, Mirabilis jalapa, Najas minor, y Veronica polita son una rehabilitacin paraa la flora del estado. Un nmero de malas hierbas de origen alctonoCynoglossum zeylanicum, Eleusine tristachya, Euphorbia hirta, Scoparia dulcis, Tragopogon pratensis, Trifolium nigrescens, Verbena montevidensisson mencionadas y documentadas por primera vez, sin embargo, su persistencia no es conocida.
41968041|The publication of a vascular flora survey of Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana by Neyland et al. in 2000 is updated and revised. Subsequent field and herbarium research has yielded the discovery of four new species for the parish. Additionally, six species that had been previously reported by other sources to occur the parish but were not discovered during Neyland et al,'s original survey have been collected. Two corrections from the original survey are also noted. La publication de un inventario de flora vascular de Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana por Neyland et al. en 2000 se pone al da y se revisa. La investigacin subsiguiente de campo y herbario ha tenido como consecuencia el descubrimiento de cuatro nuevas especies para parroquia. Adicionalmente, se han colectado seis especies que haban sido citadas previamente por otras fuentes en la parroquia pero no fueron descubiertas durante la inspeccin original de Neyland et al. Se hacen tambin dos correcciones al catlogo original.
41967997|Five new species and one new variety of Crataegus (Rosaceae) are described for the northern Okanagan area of British Columbia. They are C. castlegarensis (ser. Douglasianae), C. shuswapensis (? ser. Douglasianae), and C. okanaganensis var. wellsii, C. enderbyensis, C. orbicularis and C. atrovirens (all ser. Purpureofructi). This generates a rich western North American center of diversity for Crataegus, with 13 species so far known from this newly recognized center. Four of the species described here are endemic to the northern Okanagan but C. castlegarensis ranges widely to northern Oregon, northeastern Utah and western Montana while C. okanaganensis var. wellsii extends into the Okanogan of Washington. All the new taxa are illustrated and mapped. Revised keys for the relevant series are provided. Se describen cinco especies nuevas y una variedad de Crataegus (Rosaceae) en el norte de la regin de Okanagan en la Columbia Britnica. Son C. castlegarensis (ser. Douglasianae), C. shuswapensis (? ser. Douglasianae), y C. okanaganensis var. wellsii, C. enderbyensis, C. orbicularis y C. atrovirens (all ser. Purpureofructi). Esto genera un centro de diversidad rico en el oeste de Norte Amrica para Crataegus, con 13 especies conocidas hasta el momento en este nuevo centro. Cuatro de las especies descritas aqu son endmicas del norte de Okanaga pero C. castlegarensis llega hasta el norte de Oregn, noreste de Utah y oeste de Montana, mientras que G okanaganensis var. wellsii se extiende por el Okanoga de Washington. Todos los nuevos taxa se ilustran y cartografan. Se aportan claves revisadas para las series relevantes.
41968028|A floristic inventory of Big Lake Bottom Wildlife Management Area, a bottomland hardwood forest located on the Trinity River approximately 16 km SW of Palestine in Anderson Co., Texas, was conducted from October 1997 to July 2001. The study area is characterized by eight distinct alliances: 1) Overcup Oak-Water Hickory; 2) Willow Oak; 3) Planer Tree; 4) Cottonwood; 5) Sugarberry-Cedar Elm; 6) Bur Oak-Shumard Oak; 7) Post Oak-Blackjack Oak; and 8) Sand Post Oak-Bluejack Oak. The annotated list of taxa includes 99 families, 298 genera, and 459 species. Se realiz un inventario florstico del Big Lake Bottom Wildlife Management Area, un bosque de madera dura localizado en el ro Trinity unos 16 km al SW de Palestine en el Anderson Co., Texas, desde octubre de 1997 a julio de 2001. El rea de estudio se caracteriza por ocho alianzas distintas: 1) Overcup Oak-Water Hickory; 2) Willow Oak; 3) Planer Tree; 4) Cottonwood; 5) Sugarberry-Cedar Elm; 6) Bur Oak-Shumard Oak; 7) Post Oak-Blackjack Oak; y 8) Sand Post Oak-Bluejack Oak. El catlogo florstico de taxa incluye 99 familias, 298 gneros, y 459 especies.
41967993|A new species of Gonolobus is described, resulting from collections from southern Costa Rica. Se describe una especie nueva de Gonolobus como resultado de recientes colecciones del sur de Costa Rica.
41967994|An undescribed species of the genus Medinilla Gaud., from the Anamalai Hills, South India, is described and illustrated. Una especie no descrita del gnero Medinilla Gaud., de Anamalai Hills, sur de India, se describe y se ilustra.
41967988|In Railroad Valley of east-central Nevada is a less densely pubescent, thinner-leaved, and somewhat smaller-flowered version of Sphaeralcea caespitosa of west-central Utah. This variety is described as new, S. caespitosa var. williamsiae N.H. Holmgren. En el valle Railroad del centro-este de Nevada est una versin de Sphaeralcea caespitosa con pubescencia menos densa, hojas finas, y flores algo ms pequeas que la del centro-oeste de Utah. Se describe como una nueva variedad, S. caespitosa var. williamsiae N.H. Holmgren.
41967989|The April River of East Sepik Province has received little attention since the German explorations of the early 1900s. However the social, logistical, and vegetation status of April environments present considerable opportunities for floristic discovery and documentation.     
41968015|Mitotic chromosome counts for Stenanthium densum and S. leimanthoides (2n = 20), reported here for the first time, match the number previously documented for S. gramineum, the only other species in this genus as recently recircumscribed based on molecular data. The significance of chromosome numbers in the Melanthiaceae, particularly as generic synapomorphies in tribe Melanthieae, is discussed. El recuento de cromosomas mitticos de Stenanthium densum y S. leimanthoides (2n = 20), reportados por primera vez aqu, concuerdan con el nmero previamente documentado para S. gramineum, la nica otra especie de este gnero recircumscrito recientemente basndose en datos moleculares. Se discute aqu el significado del nmero de cromosomas en Melanthiaceae, particularmente como sinapomorfas genricas en la tribu Melanthieae.
41968006|Senecio sandersiana B.L. Turner, sp. nov, is described and illustrated from near El Salto, Durango, Mexico. It occurs in pine-oak woodlands at relatively high elevations (ca. 2720 m) and is said to be common locally on shady slopes and along ledges. The species is believed to be closely related to S. tolucannus DC. but differs in leaf shape and features of the capitulescence. Se describe y se ilustra Senecio sandersiana B.L. Turner, sp. nov., de cerca de El Salto, Durango, Mxico. Aparece en bosques de pino-encino en elevaciones relativamente altas (ca. 2720 m) y se dice que es comn localmente en las laderas umbras y a lo largo de cornisas. Se cree que la especie est emparentada con S. tolucannus DC. pero difiere en la forma de la hoja y caractersticas de la capitulescencia.
41968038|A population of the federal noxious weed Commelina benghalensis L. (Commelinaceae) was recently identified in a soybean field in North Carolina. Voucher specimens are cited and an updated key to Commelina in the Carolinas is presented. Se identifica una poblacin de la hierba nociva federal Commelina benghalensis L. (Commelinaceae) en un campo de semilla de soja en Carolina del Norte. Citamos especmenes y presentamos una clave nueva para Commelina en las Carolinas.
41968044|The following ten taxa are documented new to Texas: Aster laevis var. purpuratus, Bidens alba var. radiata, Tridax procumbens, Raphanus raphanistrum, Calycanthus floridus var. glaucus, Lyonia lucida, Hyptis mutabilis, Lilium longiflorum, Lythrum lineare, and Myrtus communis. Significant new collection records are provided for eight: Hypochaeris glabra, Cyperus cephalanthus, Rhynchosia tomentosa, Quercus arkansana, Allium stellatum, Cuphea viscosissima, Oenothera elata subsp. hirsutissima, and Leptochloa dubia. Taxa are listed alphabetically by family, genus, and species with comments and citation of voucher specimens. Los siguientes diez taxa se citan nuevos para Texas: Aster laevis var. purpuratus, Bidens alba var. radiata, Tridax procumbens, Raphanus raphanistrum, Calycanthus floridus var. glaucus, Lyonia lucida, Hyptis mutabilis, Lilium longiflorum, Lythrum lineare, y Myrtus communis. Se hacen citas significativas de otros ocho nuevas recolecciones: Hypochaeris glabra, Cyperus cephalanthus, Rhynchosia tomentosa, Quercus arkansana, Allium stellatum, Cuphea viscosissima, Oenothera elata subsp. hirsutissima, y Leptochloa dubia. Los taxa se listan alfabticamente por familia, gnero y especie con comentarios y cita de los especimenes testigo.
41968009|Two new species of Cunoniaceae, Weinmannia bradfordiana Z. Rogers and Weinmannia condorensis Z. Rogers are described and illustrated. Both sclerophyllous species are known only from their type localities and were collected from the Cordillera del Condor mountain range in the province of Morona Santiago, Ecuador. Se describe y se ilustra Weinmannia bradfordiana Z. Rogers y Weinmannia condorensis Z. Rogers. Estas dos especies esclerofilas son conocidas nicamente de las localidades de los tipos, y fueron colectadas en la regin de la Cordillera del Cndor en la provincia de Morona Santiago, Ecuador.
41968024|This paper presents the results of a study of rust fungi (Uredinales) on wild and cultivated plants in the provinces of Catamarca, Jujuy, Salta and Tucumn that belong to the region known as Northwest Argentina. The rust fungi are represented by 635 collections on 257 host plant species belonging to 51 vascular plant families. These rusts constitute 182 species in 30 genera of which 61 are new records for Argentina and 10 are new species of rusts. Eighty-four of the collections represent new host records for Argentina, and 50 of these are new host records for rusts. Specimens have been deposited in either Fundacin Miguel Lillo (LIL) or the U.S. National Fungus Collection (BPI). En el presente trabajo se presentan los resultados de la prospeccin de royas (Uredinales) realizada sobre la flora silvestre y cultivada de las Provincias de Catamarca, Jujuy, Salta, y Tucumn, pertenecientes a la regin conocida como Noroeste Argentino. Como resultado de este trabajo se elaboraron 635 colecciones correspondientes a 51 familias de hospedantes (257 especies). Ochenta y cuatro de estas colecciones son nuevos hospedantes para Argentina, de las cuales 50 son nuevas citas como hospedantes para royas. Se identificaron 30 gneros y 182 especies de royas, de las cuales 61 son nuevos registros para el pas y 10 nuevas especies. Las colecciones fueron depositadas en Fundacin Miguel Lillo (LIL) y U.S. National Fungus Collection (BPI).
41968001|Boerhavia coulteri (Hook. f.) S. Wats. var. palmeri (S. Wats.) Spellenb., comb. nov., based on B. spicata Choisy var. palmeri S. Wats., from the vicinity of Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, is proposed for a Boerhavia that differs from the var. coulteri in its small fruits and flowers, and its with sparsely-fruited spicate inflorescences. The variety ranges from the Channel Islands of California to the Big Bend region of Texas near the Ro Grande, and is very common on the Sonoran Desert. The two varieties are often sympatric, and they intergrade to a slight extent. A key is presented to distinguish the species of Boerhavia with spicate inflorescences in the United States. Boerhavia coulteri (Hook. f.) S. Wats. var. palmeri (S. Wats.) Spellenb., comb. nov., basada en B. spicata Choisy var. palmeri S. Wats., de la vecindad de Guaymas, Sonora, Mxico, se propuso para una forma de Boerhavia que difiere de la variedad coulteri por su frutos y flores pequeos, y su frutos esparcidos en inflorescencias espiciformes. La variedad se extiende desde las Islas Canales de California hasta la regin del "Big Bend" del Ro Bravo del Norte de Texas, y es muy comn en el Desierto Sonorense. Las variedades a menudo son simptricas, y se intergradan un poco. Se presenta una clave para distinguir las especies con inflorescencias espigadas de Boerhavia de los Estados Unidos de Amrica.
41967998|Xylorhiza glahriuscula var. linearifolia is treated within Xylorhiza at specific rank as Xylorhiza linearifolia (T.J. Wats.) Nesom, comb. nov. Xylorhiza linearifolia is geographically isolated from X. glabriuscula sensu stricto, but it does overlap and apparently hybridize with X. tortifolia var. imberbis. Xylorhiza glabriuscula var. linearifolia se trata dentro Xylorhiza a nivel especfico como Xylorhiza linearifolia (T.J. Wats.) Nesom, comb. nov. Xylorhiza linearifolia est aislada geogrficamente de X. glahriuscula sensu stricto, pero se solapa y aparentemente se hibrida con X. tortifolia var. imberbis.
41968012|Macranthera flammea (Bartr.) Pennell is a rare, biennial species endemic to the pine flatwoods of the lower coastal plain of the southeastern United States. Field, experimental garden, and herbarium studies were used to update the species description. The taxonomic history of the species is reviewed. Recognition of more than one taxon in the genus is not warranted because differences in calyx length and lobing are due to the placement of flower units within the architecture of the inflorescence on individual plants. A map of the species' range is provided. Macranthera flammea (Bartr.) Pennell es una especie rara, bienal endmica de los pinaresde la llanura costera inferior del sudeste de los Estados Unidos. Se hicieron estudios de campo, jardn experimental, y herbario para poner al da la descripcin de la especie. Se revisa la historia taxonmica de la especie. No se necesita reconocer ms de un taxon en el gnero ya que las diferencias en la longitud del cliz y lobulacin se deben a la colocacin de las unidades florales en la arquitectura de la inflorescencia en los distintos individuos. Se aporta un mapa del rea de las especies.
41968025|Intensive floristic surveys of the Ro Mayo region of the Mexican state of Sonora, particularly the Municipio de Ycora, have uncovered more species of Cyperaceae not previously reported from the region, the state of Sonora, or, in some cases, northern Mexico. Here we present 14 species of Cyperaceae and two species of Juncaceae not previously known to occur in the Ro Mayo region, clarify the presence of three varieties of one Cyperus (Cyperaceae) species, and discuss the significance of the range extension involved with each new discovery. This brings the total number of Cyperaceae taxa known from the Ro Mayo region to 99 and Juncaceae taxa to 14. Las herborizaciones florsticas intensivas en la regin de Ro Mayo en el estado Mexicano de Sonora, particularmente en el Municipio de Ycora, han descubierto ms especies de Cyperaceae que no haban sido citadas previamente de esta regin, del estado de Sonora, o, en algunos casos, el norte de Mxico. Presentamos qu 14 especies de Cyperaceae y dos especies de Juncaceae que no se conocan previamente de la regin de Ro Mayo, clarificamos la presencia de tres variedades y una especie de Cyperus (Cyperaceae), y se discute el significado del rango de extensin implicado en cada descubrimiento. Esto lleva el nmero total de txones conocidos de Cyperaceae de la regin Ro Mayo a 99 y el taxones de Juncaceae a 14.
41967983|Two new species, Festuca cuzcoensis Stank & P.M. Peterson and F. tovarensis Stank & P.M. Peterson, from the Andes of Bolivia and Peru are described and illustrated. The two new species appear to be closely related to Festuca flacca Hack. ex E.B. Alexeev from Ecuador. A key to the South American species of Festuca sect. Subulatae is given. Se describen e ilustran dos especias nuevas de Festuca de los Andes de Bolivia y Per: F. cuzcoensis Stank & P.M. Peterson y F. tovarensis Stank & P.M. Peterson. Las nuevas especies se consideran estrechamente relacionadas con la especies F. flacca Hack. ex E.B. Alexeev de Ecuador. Adems se presenta una clave para la determinacin de las especies de Festuca sect. Subulatae en Suramrica.
41968019|Gyrinops ledermannii (Thymelaeaceae) is identified as the tree involved in the eaglewood trade. Several taxa are currently being confused with G. ledermannii but the true eaglewood is readily distinguished by its floral characters. Diwai ol i kolim Gyrinops ledermannii (Thymelaeaceae) long tok latin na igalwud or gaharu long tok malaia na nau em tu nem mipela i save long Papua New Guinea. Gyrinops, em nau i kamap wanpela diwai insait long maket bilong salim na baim dispela diwai. Pastaim sampela luksave long lif na flawa bilong dispela diwai ino bin kamap klia turnas. Tasol nau i gat wei bilong luksave long ol flawa na lif bilong trupela diwai igalwud.
41967982|A review of the Ericaceae of Bolivia is herein presented. Nineteen genera and 53 species are native; two genera and 19 species are endemic; 18 additional species are shared by Bolivia and adjacent Peru; one species is occasionally cultivated. Most taxa are found in the wet, cool habitat, montane "Yungas" of the eastern slopes of the Cordillera Real, ranging between 2000 m and 4000 m elevation. Siphonandra boliviana Luteyn and Themistoclesia unduavensis Luteyn are described and illustrated. A key in English and Spanish to the 19 genera and 53 native species is provided. The names of all taxa of Ericaceae attributed to Bolivia are accounted for. Se presenta una resea de las especies de Ericaceae de Bolivia. Diez y nueve gneros y 53 especies son nativas; dos gneros y 19 especies son endmicas; 18 especies adicionales son compartidas por Bolivia y la parte adyacente de Per; una especie es cultivada ocasionalmente. La mayora se encuentra en hbitats montaosos, hmedos y fros de las "Yungas" de la vertiente oriental de la Cordillera Real, entre 2000 y 4000 m de elevacin. Tambin se describen y se ilustran Siphonandra boliviana Luteyn y Themistoclesia unduavensis Luteyn. Se presenta una clave en ingls y en espaol para los 19 gneros y las 53 especies nativas. Los nombres de todos los taxones de Ericaceae atribuidos a Bolivia estn justificados.
41968013|The Atlantic forest is one of the ecosystems of Brazil that has suffered the greatest destruction and it is still imperiled, especially in the Northeast. Sergipe is one of the states where the Atlantic forest has been most greatly reduced, but it still has some fragments varying in size and degree of conservation. Despite their importance, botanical studies within these fragments are still greatly needed. In this paper we report for the first time the occurrence of four species of Campomanesia in Sergipe: C. aromatica, C. dichotoma, C. guaviroba, and C. viatoris. The last, formally thought to be known from only two collections from Alagoas, has a relatively wide distribution in Sergipe, and is found in forest and restinga areas of different districts. Campomanesia guaviroba is reported for the first time from the Northeast of Brazil. We hope that studies on the composition of these remnants may contribute to the local preservation of this ecosystem and help future programs of forest restoration. We emphasize the need for a greater collecting effort, more studies on plant taxonomy, and the training of new specialists. A mata atlntica  um dos ecossistemas brasileiros mais destrudos e ainda hoje ameaado, sendo a sua devastao mais pronunciada no Nordeste do Brasil. Um dos estados com menor rea de mata atlntica, Sergipe apresenta ainda hoje alguns fragmentos florestais com tamanho e grau de conservao variveis. Apesar de sua importncia, os estudos botnicos nesses fragmentos so ainda insuficientes. Nesse trabalho registra-se a ocorrncia indita de quatro especies de Campomanesia em Sergipe: C. aromatica, C. dichotoma, C. guavi roba e G viatoris. Esta ltima, anteriormente conhecida apenas por duas coletas, ambas em Alagoas, apresenta uma distribuio relativamente ampia no Estado, sendo encontrada em reas de mata e restinga de diversos municpios. Registra-se, ainda, a ocorrncia de C. guavi roba pela primeira vez na regio Nordeste. Espera-se que estudos sobre a composio desses fragmentos possam contribuir para a preservao desse ecossistema a nvel regional e subsidiar programas futuros de recomposio florestal. Salienta-se a necessidade de um esforo de coletas mais intenso, de mais estudos sistemticos e da formao de novos especialistas.
41968039|Agrostis avenacea J.F. Gmel. is reported from temporary and permanent ponds of the region of Huimilpan and Amealco of the state of Queretaro, Mexico. Previously, it was only known from Australia, south Africa, Argentina, Chile, United State of America, the Hawaiian Islands and recently from Costa Rica. Diagnostic morphological and anatomical characters and illustrations are provided, and collection data and voucher specimens are cited. Agrostis avenacea J.F. Gmel. se cita de charcos temporales y permanentes de la regin de Huimilpan y Amealco en el estado de Quertaro, Mxico. Anteriormente slo se conoca de Australia, sur de frica, Argentina, Chile, Estados Unidos de Amrica, Islas Hawai y recientemente de Costa Rica. Se proporcionan caracteres morfolgicos y anatmicos diagnsticos e ilustraciones y se citan los datos de las colectas y especmenes examinados.
41968030|This study describes the floristics, soils, and small-scale species richness of xeric sandylands of the post oak savanna region of east central Texas and maps the distribution of xeric sandylands throughout the West Gulf Coastal Plain. The interrelation of xeric sandylands to wetlands and their interest for regional conservation assessment are discussed. En este estudio se describe la florstica, suelos, y riqueza de especies a pequea escala de los lugares arenosos xricos de la regin de sabana post oak del centro este de Texas y se cartografa la distribucin de los lugares arenosos xricos de la llanura costera del West Gulf. Se discuten la interrelacin de los lugares arenosos xricos con los humedales y su inters para la evaluacin de la conservacin regional.
41968033|Twelve species or varieties of vascular plants, all native to the southeastern U.S.A, are reported as new or noteworthy for Kentucky. Ten of these are the first documented records for the state: Bromus nottowayanus, Carex corrugala, C. oklahomensis, C. ouachitana, C. oxylepis var. pubescens, C. roanensis, Eleocharis tuberculosa, Gentiana andrewsii, Vaccinium erythrocarpum, and Viburnum lantanoides. Additional counties are reported for two rare species: Carex buxbaumii and C. seorsa. Se presentan 12 especies o variedades de plantas vasculares, todas nativas de la regin sudeste de los Estados Unidos y se citan como nuevas o de inters para el estado de Kentucky. Diez de estas plantas son las primeras citas documentadas del estado que son: Bromus nottowayanus, Carex corrugata, C. oklahomensis, C. ouachitana, C. oxylepis var. pubescens, C. roanensis, Eleocharis tuberculosa, Gentiana andrewsii, Vaccinium erythrocarpum, y Viburnum lantanoides. Al nivel del condado, se presentan dos especies raras: Carex buxbaumii y Carex seorsa.
41968022|The cerrado, a savanna-like ecosystem, is the second largest vegetation type in Brazil, originally covering about two million km (or 23%) of the Brazilian territory. The Emas National Park (ENP), comprising about 133,000 ha, is one of the most important reserves within the cerrado. From November 1998 to October 1999, we carried out a floristic survey of all the cerrado physiognomies of the ENP and found 601 species, belonging to 303 genera and 80 families. Among the collected species, 12 were weeds and seven were new to science. The herbaceous to woody species ratio was 3.03:1: The richest families were Asteraceae (88 species), Fabaceae (87), Poaceae (51), Myrtaceae (39), and Lamiaceae (24); these five families comprised 48% of the total number of species. The results obtained show the importance of the ENP to cerrado conservation, since from 8 to 20% of the species recorded for this vegetation type occur within the reserve. We emphasize the need for more floristic surveys in which the frequently overlooked herbaceous component should also be sampled. El cerrado, un tipo de sabana, es el segundo mayor tipo de vegetacin de Brasil. Una de las reservas ms importantes destinada a proteger el cerrado es el "Parque Nacional das Emas" (PNE), con un rea aproximada de 133.000 ha. En el periodo de noviembre de 1998 a octubre de 1999, fue realizado un levantamiento florstico en las fisionomas de cerrado del PNE, encontrndose 601 especies pertenecientes a 303 gneros y 80 familias. De entre las especies colectadas, fueron encontradas 12 invasoras y siete nuevas para la ciencia. La proporcin entre especies herbceo-subarbustivas y arbustivo-arbreas fue de 3,03:1. Las familias ms ricas en especies fueron: Asteraceae (88 especies), Fabaceae (87), Poaceae (51), Myrtaceae (39) e Lamiaceae (24), compreendiendo 48% del total de especies. Los resultados mostraron la importancia del PNE para la conservacin del cerrado, ya que en esta reserva aparecen de 8 a 20 % de las especies listadas para dicha formacin vegetal. Resaltamos aqu la necesidad de realizar levantamientos florsticos contemplando tambin el componente herbceo-subarbustivo, frecuentemente olvidado.
41968027|La Sierra "El Viejo" se ubica en el municipio de Pitiquito y Caborca, Sonora, en la porcin Centro - Oeste del desierto sonorense. El complejo orogrfico Sierra "El lamo"-Sierra "El Viejo" est catalogado como una Regin Prioritaria Terrestre para la conservacin en Mxico. Este trabajo tiene por objetivo contribuir al conocimiento florstico de las familias Cactaceae y Agavaceae principalmente en la Sierra "El Viejo." Se hizo una revisin bibliogrfica para establecer las especies que, posiblemente, se encontraran en el rea y posteriormente se corroboraron en campo mediante recorridos en diversas localidades. Se registraron 21 especies de cactceas distribuidas en 10 gneros y 4 especies de Agavaceas en 2 gneros, lo que hace un total de 25 especies distribuidas en las dos familias. Las especies de Cactceas representan un 21 % del total de las especies presentes en el estado de Sonora. Una especie, Ferocactus cylindraceus, cuenta con categora de proteccin. La literatura seala que dos de las especies de agaves son endmicas a la Sierra "El Viejo," Agave pelona y A. zebra. Se sugiere continuar con estudios para la determinacin de variedades y formas taxonmicas, as como tambin estudios ecolgicos en algunas especies, para establecer programas de manejo y proteccin de las poblaciones y el rea en conjunto. Sierra "El Viejo" is located in the municipality of Pitiquito and Caborca, Sonora, in the west central portion of the Sonoran Desert; the complex Sierra "El lamo"-Sierra "El Viejo" is catalogued as a terrestrial high-priority region for nature conservation in Mexico. The objective for this study is to contribute to the f loristic knowledge of the families Cactaceae and Agavaceae within this region, mainly in the Sierra "El Viejo." Bibliographical research was carried out and species reported were corroborated in the field by searching different localities in the area. Twenty-one species of cacti, in 10 genera, and 4 species, and 2 genera of the Agavaceae family were recorded. A total of 25 species are recorded in the two families. The total of species in the Cactus family represents 21 % of the total species present in the state of Sonora. One species of cactus is protected by federal law, Ferocactus cylindraceus. Two species of agaves, Agave pelona and A. zebra are endemic to the region. Further floristic and ecological work is needed in the region that will support conservation, management and protection of the natural resources of this particular region.
41968080|In Fennoscandia, Veratrum album L. (Melanthiaceae) is restricted to the northernmost part of Norway, Finland and Russia. It is locally abundant in coastal areas of northeast Finnmark (Norway), and well known in both Norwegian and Smi folk tradition as a toxic plant, frequently causing livestock poisoning. Until replaced by tobacco, the roots were used as snuff by the Smi, who had also found restricted use of the plant for medicinal purposes, e.g.as a remedy for rheumatism. En Fennoscandia, Veratrum album L. (Melanthiaceae) est restrigida a la parte norte de Noruega, Finlandia y Rusia. Es localmente abundante en areas costeras del noreste de Finnmark (Norway), y bien conocida tanto la tradicin noruega como en la finlandesa como planta toxica, que causa frecuentemente envenenamiento del ganado. Hasta que fue reemplazado por el tabaco, las races fueron usadas como rape por los finlandeses, quienes tambin encontraron un uso restringido de la planta con fines medicinales, por ejemplo como remedio para el reumatismo.
41968060|Lithospermum hintoniorum is newly described and illustrated. It reportedly occurs in marshy areas of oak woodlands in southern Nuevo Leon, Mexico at elevations of about 1500 meters. It is seemingly most closely related to the widespread L. calycosum but is distingished by a number of characters, including both vegetative and floral features. Se describe y se ilustra Lithospermum hintoniorum. Se ha localizado en reas encharcadas de robledales en el sur de Nuevo Len, Mxico en elevaciones de unos 1500 metros. Parece ser que su pariente ms cercano es el muy frecuente L. calycosum del que se diferencia por varios caracteres, tanto vegetativos como florales.
41968098|Nephrolepis exaltata (Dryopteridaceae) is reported as new to Arkansas. Nephrolepis exaltata (Dryopteridaceae) se cita como nueva de Arkansas.
41968076|Dahlia neglecta, a new species from the state of Hidalgo, Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species is distinguished by the combination of glaucous stems, tufts of light-colored hairs at the rachis nodes, strongly oblique blade bases, and mucronate ligules. Se describe e ilustrada Dahlia neglecta, una nueva especie del estado de Hidalgo, Mxico. Esta especie se distingue por la combinacin de tallos glaucos y un copete de pelos de colores suaves en los nudos del raquis. Adems, las bases de las hojas pequeas son dominantemente oblicuas, y con lgulas mucronadas. Se ofrece una clave del gnero.
41968097|A vegetative population of Cryptocoryne (Araceae), introduced at a Florida spring, appeared to represent three closely related species in the C. beckettii complex: C. beckettii Thw. ex Trimen, C. wendtii de Wit and C. undulata Wendt. Individuals of C. undulata were true to type and could be delineated at the site. Intergradation of diagnostic features was common in others, upon transplanting and flowering. While some transplants produced spathes characteristic of either C. wendtii or C. beckettii, intermediates between the two species were common. Neither C. beckettii nor C. wendtii could be delineated at the site. The seclusion of the stream and the integrity of native plant communities have likely prevented dispersal downstream. Una poblacin vegetativa de Cryptocoryne (Araceae), introducida en un manantial de Florida, al parecer representa tres especies estrechamente relacionadas del complejo C. beckettii: C. beckettii Thw. ex Trimen, C. wendtii de Wit y C. undulata Wendt. En el lugar de estudio, fueron clasificados como verdaderos tipos ejemplares de C. undulata. En otros ejemplares, despus del transplante y floracin, fue comn observar intergradacin de caracteres diagnsticos. An cuando algunos transplantes produjeron espatas, caractersticas de C. wendtii o de C. beckettii, fue comn observar ejemplares con caractersticas intermedias de ambas especies. Las especies C. beckettii y C. wendtii no fueron delineadas en el sitio de estudio. La condicin de aislamiento del manantial y la condicin ntegra de las comunidades de plantas nativas han impedido probablemente la dispersin corriente abajo.
41968075|We investigated a recent report of a disjunct individual of Cupressus arizonica (Cupressaceae) collected in the Davis Mountains of Jeff Davis County, Texas. Chloroplast DNA sequences were obtained for the novel disjunct specimen and putative related taxa. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that the Davis Mountains C. arizonica specimen consists of vegetative tissue from Juniperus deppeana, a common species of the Davis Mountains. Based on this evidence, the present known distribution of C arizonica in Texas remains restricted to the Chisos Mountains of southern Brewster County. Hemos investigado un reciente registro de un individuo disyunto de Cupressus arizonica (Cupressaceae) colectado en las montaas de Davis del condado de Jeff Davis, Texas. Se obtuvieron secuencias de ADN cloroplastidial del nuevo registro y los supuestos taxa relacionados. El anlisis filogentico muestra que el espcimen de C arizonica de las montaas de Davis consiste en tejidos vegetativos de Juniperus deppeana, una especie comn de las montaas de Davis. En base a esta evidencia, la actual distribucin de C arizonica en Texas, permanece restringida a las montaas Chisos del condado de Brewster.
41968104|Cirsium nuttallii (Asteraceae) is documented for North Carolina. The species had previously been known from Florida to South Carolina and from disjunct populations in Virginia. An illustrated key is provided to aid others in the diagnosis of Cirsium in North Carolina and the southeast. Se documenta Cirsium nuttallii (Asteraceae) para el estado de Carolina del Norte. Previamente se conoca la especie slo desde Florida a Carolina del Sur y de poblaciones disyuntas en Virginia. Se presenta una clave ilustrada para ayudar los dems en las diagnosis de Cirsium en el sudeste.
41968073|Zizania texana Hitchc., an endangered macrophyte endemic to the upper 4.9 km of the San Marcos River, Hays County, Texas was Federally listed in 1978 after the species experienced a population decline between about 1940 and 1967. Recent interest in restoration has focused attention on the need for a better understanding of the species' response to a variety of microhabitats. This study documents biomass allocation patterns in three microhabitats over 7 months. Current velocities ranged from 0.0-0.010 m/s in the slow site, 0.038-0.142 m/s in the moderate site, and 0.250-0.369 m/s in the fast site. Plants were harvested from each site, on seven occasions, washed, separated into roots, submersed leaves, and reproductive culms with associated leaves and inflorescences, then dried and weighed. At the end of the study, mean total biomass of plants grown in the fast site was 28.42 gdw vs 4.24 gdw for plants grown in the slow site. Resource allocation patterns differed among sites and two distinct phenotypes were apparent. One phenotype, associated with relatively higher current velocities, had higher net productivity, a well-developed root system, and allocated proportionally more biomass to non-reproductive organs (49.2% gdw root biomass in fast site vs 24.8% gdw root biomass in slow site). A second phenotype, associated with relatively slower flowing water, had lower net productivity and allocated proportionally more biomass to reproductive organs (22.1% gdw reproductive culm in fast site vs. 65.0% gdw reproductive culm in slow site). Because of lower productivity and the potential for loss from herbivory to a significant proportion of the plant in slower flowing water, a microhabitat with relatively low current velocity would not be recommended for restoration purposes. Zizania texana Hitchc., un macrfito en peligro, endmicode los 4.9 km superiores del ro San Marcos, Hays Co., Texas se incluy en la lista Federal en 1978 despus que la especie experimentase una reduccin poblacional entre 1940 y 1967. El inters reciente en la restauracin ha prestado atencin a la necesidad de una mejor comprensin de la respuesta de la especie a una variedad de microhbitats diferentes. Este estudio documenta los modelos de situacin de biomasa en tres microhbitats durante 7 meses. Las velocidades normales variaron entre 0.0-0.010 m/s (el sitio lento), 0.038-0.142 m/s (en el sitio moderado), y 0.250-0.369 m/s (en el sitio rpido). Las plantas se cosecharon de cada microhbitat, en siete ocasiones, se lavaron, separaron las races, las hojas sumergidas, y los clmenes reproductores con las hojas e inflorescencias asociadas, luego se secaron y pesaron. A final del estudio, la biomasa total media de plantas del sitio rpido fue 28.42 gdw contra 4.24 gdw para plantas del sitio lento. Los modelos de recursos difirieron significativamente entre los diferentes sitios y fueron aparentes dos fenotipos claros eran. Un fenotipo asociado con velocidades actuales relativamente ms altas, tena una productividad neta ms alta, un sistema radical bien desarrollado, y coloc proporcionalmente ms biomasa en rganos vegetativos (49.2% de peso seco de biomasa de raz en el sitio rpido contra 24.8% de peso seco de biomasa de raz en el sitio lento). Un segundo fenotipo, asociado con agua de corriente relativamente ms lenta, tuvo una productividad neta ms baja y coloc proporcionalmente ms biomasa en los rganos de reproductores (22.1% de peso seco de biomasa en clmenes reproductores en el sitio rpido contra. 65.0% de peso seco de biomasa en clmenes reproductores en el sitio lento). A causa de tasas bajas de productividad y la prdida potencial debida a los herbvoros en una proporcin significativa en el agua de corriente ms lenta, este tipo de microhbitat no se debera recomendar para las restauraciones.
41968088|We studied the relationship between West Gulf Coastal Plain plant endemics and habitat. Approximately half of all West Gulf Coastal Plain endemics are associates of one habitat: xeric sandylands. We discuss some implications of these data to age and former extent of xeric sandylands in the region, notably isolation of the West Gulf Coastal Plain from the East Gulf Coastal Plain and a long and distinctive biotic history. Se han estudiado las relaciones entre las plantas endmicas y el habitat de la llanura costera del Golfo Oeste. Aproximadamente la mitad de los endemismo estn asociados a un habitat: terrenos arenosos xricos. Se discuten algunas implicaciones de estos datos con la edad y extensin anterior de los terrenos arenosos xricos en la regin, notablemente aislamiento de la llanura costera del Golfo Oeste de la llanura costera del Golfo Este y una historia bitica larga y diferente.
41968082|Carlo Giuseppe Bertero (1789-1831) is, among the famous Italian botanical collectors that contributed toward the knowledge of New World flora, the one who collected and travelled the most. Bertero gathered a large number of specimens, which were in turn distributed to many of his correspondents, and are now present in many herbaria worldwide. During his travels he also collected seeds, which he sent to numerous botanists, contributing toward the collections of private and public gardens. Several hundreds of his botanical collections turned out to be plants unknown to science, which were in turn described by many of his contemporary European botanists. The botanical work of Carlo Bertero in Italy has already been extensively treated by many specialists. Nevertheless, his botanical expeditions and collections in the New World have never been completely studied, although partial reports have already been published. Such studies need further investigations as new data have been recently obtained through correspondence, field books and herbarium label data in order to reconstruct the itineraries and the chronological sequence of Bertero's first expedition to the Antilles and northern Colombia (1816-1821), and his second expedition to Chile (1827-1830), Juan Fernndez Islands (1829) and Tahiti (1830-1831). This preliminary study is part of an ongoing project that will produce a complete biography of Carlo Bertero and a comprehensive account of his botanical work in the New World and the South Pacific, that will be published in the near future (Delprete, Forneris & Pistarino, in progress). Carlo Giuseppe Bertero (1789-1831) es, entre los famosos colectores botnicos italianos que contribuyeron al conocimiento de la flora del Nuevo Mundo, el que ms viaj y colect. Bertero acopi un gran nmero de especmenes, que fueron distribuidos a la mayora de sus correspondientes y que ahora estn conservados en muchos herbarios de todo el mundo. Durante sus viajes recolect tambin semillas, que mand a muchos botnicos, contribuyendo a las colecciones de jardines pblicos y privados. Varios centenares de sus especmenes se revelaron como especies desconocidas para la ciencia y fueron descritas por varios botnicos europeos contemporneos. El trabajo botnico de Cario Bertero en Italia fue extensamente tratado por muchos especialistas. Sin embargo, sus expediciones y colecciones en el Nuevo Mundo nunca fueron completamente estudiadas, aunque se publicaron algunos reportes parciales. Estos estudios necesitan de ulterior investigacin, puesto que fueron obtenidos nuevos datos recientemente a travs de su correspondencia, cuadernos de campo y etiquetas de herbario, en el intento por reconstruir los itinerarios y la secuencia cronolgica de su primera expedicin a Las Antillas y norte de Colombia (1816-1821) y su segunda expedicin a Chile (1827-1830), Islas de Juan Fernndez (1829) y Tahiti (1830-1831). Este estudio preliminar es parte de un proyecto en curso que producir una biografa completa de Cario Bertero y una relacin comprensiva de su trabajo botnico en el Nuevo Mundo y en el Pacfico Sur, que ser publicado en un futuro prximo (Delprete, Forneris & Pistarino, en curso).
41968084|Plant classification and nomenclature are in a continuing state of flux and heated debate between two opposing schools 1) traditional taxonomists supporting "evolutionary" or "Linnaean taxonomy"; and 2) cladists supporting "phylogenetic systematics" or "cladonomy." While it is a multifaceted controversy that has spanned several decades, relatively little attention has been focused specifically on the ramifications for floristics. The two goals of this paper are 1) to give special emphasis to the implications of the controversy for the writers of floras, and 2) to provide an overview of some of the arguments in a format accessible to a diverse audience of botanists interested in floristics. We examine some of the issues we have confronted in our floristic work, discuss how we are attempting to balance the strengths and weaknesses of both approaches, and indicate what we believe is the best, albeit imperfect, approach to the writing of floras at the present time. We argue that, for both practical and theoretical reasons, a modified traditional system (binomial nomenclature, ranked hierarchies) be used in floras (allowing paraphyletic groups but eliminating all polyphyletic groups despite some nomenclatural instability). Further, these floras should incorporate information on newly discovered phylogenetic relationships (even if too preliminary, tentative, or inappropriate for nomenclatural change) and discuss these in appropriate family and generic treatments in order to facilitate as complete an understanding of plant evolution as possible. La clasificacin y nomenclatura de las plantas est en un flujo continuo y debate ardiente entre dos escuelas opuestas 1) taxnomos tradicionales que apoyan la "taxonoma Linneana" o la "evolutiva"; y 2) dadistas que apoyan la "sistemtica filogentica" o "cladonoma." Mientras esta controversia se ha extendido durante varias dcadas, se ha prestado relativamente poca atencin a las ramificaciones de la florstica. Las dos metas de este artculo son 1) dar un nfasis especial a las implicaciones de la controversia para los autores de floras, y 2) ofrecer una visin general de algunos de los argumentos en un formato accesible a una audiencia diversa de botnicos interesados en la f lorstica. Examinamos algunos de los resultados que hemos confrontado en nuestro trabajo f lorstico, discutimos como hemos intentado equilibrar las bondades y debilidades de ambos mtodos, e indicamos lo que creemos que es el mejor, aunque imperfecto, mtodo de escribir floras en la actualidad. Argumentamos que, tanto por razones tericas como prcticas, se use en las floras un sistema tradicional modificado (nomenclatura binomial, sistema jerarquizado) (que permita grupos parafilticos pero eliminando todos los grupos polif ilticos aunque causen inestabilidad nomenclatural). Adems, estas floras deberan incorporar informacin sobre las relaciones filogenticas recin descubiertas (incluso si son demasiado preliminares, tentativas, o inapropiadas para cambios nomenclaturales) y discutir stas en la familia apropiada y tratamientos genricos para facilitar una comprensin lo mas completa posible de la evolucin de las plantas.
41968071|Morphology, distribution, ecology and phenology for Carphephorus odoratissimus and C. odoratissimus var. subtropicanus are discussed and compared. Carphephorus odoratissimus var. subtropicanus is illustrated and evidence supporting varietal status is quantified. It occurs in a fire-maintained pine savanna-flatwoods/dry prairie landscape, where it is a conspicuous, perennial, autumn-flowering forb, endemic to south and central peninsular Florida. Se discute y compara la morfologa, distribucin, ecologa y fenologa de Carphephorus odoratissimus y C. odoratissimus var. subtropicanus. Carphephorus odoratissimus var. subtropicanus se ilustra y se cuantifican las evidencias que apoyan su estatus varietal. Se da en una sabana/pradera seca de pinos mantenida mediante fuego, es una hierba perenne, otoal, endmica del sur y centro de la pennsula de Florida.
41968069|Seed and fruit morphology of ten species of five American genera of Spermacoceae (Diodia, Ernodea, Mitracarpus, Richardia, Spermacoce) are described, illustrated, and compared with that in the Hedyotideae. These data support the taxonomic recognition of two distinct tribes. La morfologa de la semilla y del fruto de diez especies de cinco gneros americanos de Spermacoceae se describe, se ilustra, y se compara con la de Hedyotideae. Estos datos apoyan el reconocimiento taxonmico de dos tribus distintas.
41968085|Extreme deforestation and overuse of resources have devastated El Salvador's natural environment while continued population pressure underscores the need for the few remaining natural areas to be studied and preserved. The 150-ha Monumento Nacional Laguna de Alegra is located inside the crater of Tecapa Volcano in southeastern El Salvador and includes both primary and disturbed subtropical forest, steep and rocky crater walls, and a sulfuric lake in the basin. The flora of the Laguna de Alegra was surveyed from December 1998 to November 1999 and results of this survey were combined with reports from other collectors and published reports to compile a list of 447 specific and 2 hybrid taxa representing 106 families. The taxa are cataloged in an annotated list that includes collection number and herbarium of deposit. Exotic species are designated. Trigonospermum annum McVaugh & Lask. is a new report for El Salvador. La deforestacin extrema y la sobreexplotacin de recursos han devastado la naturaleza de El Salvador, mientras la incesante presin demogrfica subraya la necesidad de estudiar y preservar las restantes reas naturales. El Monumento Nacional Laguna de Alegra mide 150 hectreas y est ubicado dentro del crter del Volcn Tecapa en el sur-este de El Salvador. El parque incluye bosque subtropical primario y perturbado, paredes volcnicas rocosas y empinadas, y una laguna sulfrica en la cuenca. Se identific la flora de la Laguna de Alegra desde diciembre de 1998 hasta noviembre de 1999 y se combinaron los resultados del estudio con los reportes de otros colectores y reportes publicados para compilar un listado de 447 taxa especficos y 2 hbridos. Estas representan 106 familias. Los taxa fueron catalogados en un listado anotado que incluye el nmero de la coleccin y del herbario, y se designaron las especies exticas. Es el primer reporte de Trigonospermum annum McVaugh & Lask. en El Salvador.
41968086|We surveyed the flora of Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, U.S.A., from February 1994 to 1996. Occupying 118 square kilometers in east-central Mississippi, Oktibbeha County lies among 3 physiographic regions that include, from west to east, Interior Flatwoods, Pontotoc Ridge, and Black Prairie. Accordingly, the county harbors a diverse flora. Based on field work, as well as an extensive review of published literature and herbarium records at IBE and MISSA, we recorded a total of 1,148 taxa (1,125 species, 7 hybrids, 16 infraspecific taxa) belonging to 514 genera in 160 families; over 85% of all taxa documented were native. Compared to 3 other counties in east-central Mississippi, Oktibbeha County has the second largest recorded flora. The number of state-listed (endangered, threatened, or of special concern) taxa (67) documented in this survey far exceeds that reported from any other county in the region. Three introduced species, Ilex cornuta Lindl. & Paxton, Mahonia bealei (Fortune) Carrire, and Nandina domestica Thunb., are reported in a naturalized state for the first time from Mississippi. We also describe 16 different plant communities belonging to 5 broad habitat categories: bottomland forests, upland forests and prairies, aquatic habitats, seepage areas, and human-influenced habitats. A detailed description of the vegetation associated with each of these communities is provided. Hemos investigado la flora del condado de Oktibbeha, Mississippi, U.S.A., desde febrero de 1994 a 1996. Con 118 kilmetros cuadrados en el centro-este de Mississippi, el condado de Oktibbeha est entre 3 regiones fisiogrficas que son, de oeste a este, Interior Flatwoods, Pontotoc Ridge, y Black Prairie. Consecuentemente, el condado alberga una flora diversa. Basados en el trabajo de campo, as como en una extensa revision de la bibliografa publicada y pliegos de herbario depositado en IBE y MISSA, hemos recopilado un total de 1,148 taxa (1,125 especies, 7 hbridos, 16 taxa inf raespecficos) pertenecientes a 514 gneros de 160 familias; ms del 85% de los taxa documentados fueron autctonos. Comparado con otros 3 condados del centro-este de Mississippi, el condado de Oktibbeha tiene la segunda flora ms numerosa. El nmero de taxa (67) listados para el estado (en peligro, amenazada, o de atencin especial) documentados en este trabajo excede con mucho a los de cualquier otro condado de la regin. Tres especies introducidas, Ilex cornuta Lindl. & Paxton, Mahonia bealei (Fortune) Carrire, y Nandina domestica Thunb., se citan en estado naturalizado por primera vez en Mississippi. Tambin se describen 16 comunidades vegetales diferentes pertenecientes a 5 categoras de habitat: bosques de tierras bajas, bosques de meseta y praderas, habitats acuticos, reas de filtracin, y habitats influenciados por el hombre. Se aporta una descripcin detallada de la vegetacin asociada a cada una de estas comunidades. Wir untersuchten die Flora des Verwaltungsbezirks Oktibbeha im Bundesstaat Mississippi, Vereinigte Staaten von Amerika, im Zeitraum Februar 1994 bis 1996. Der Verwaltungsbezirk umfat 118 Quadratkilometer im Mittelosten Mississippis und gehrt, von West nach Ost, zu 3 physiographischen Regionen (Interior Fiatwoods, Pontotoc Ridge und Black Prairie), weshalb die Flora sehr artenreich ist. Aufgrund unserer Freilandarbeit, sowie eines umfangreichen Studiums der Fachliteratur u n d zahlreicher Herbariumsbelege in IBE u n d MISSA, waren wir in der Lage 1.148 Taxa (1.125 Arten, 7 Hybriden und 16 Unterarten oder Varietten) aus 514 Gattungen und 160 Familien zu katalogisieren. 85% aller Taxa waren in Mississippi beheimatet. Der Verwaltungsbezirk Oktibbeha hat im Vergleich zu 3 anderen Verwaltungsbezirken im Mittelosten Mississippis die zweitgrte Flora. Die Anzahl der Arten auf der Roten Liste Mississippis (vom Aussterben bedroht oder von besonderem Belang) bersteigt mit 66 weit die aller anderen Verwaltungsbezirke in der Region. Drei eingeschleppte Arten, Hex cornuta Lindl. & Paxton, Mahonia bealei (Fortune) Carrire und Nandina domestica Thunb. werden hier zum ersten Mal von Mississippi erwhnt. Im weiteren Verlauf beschreiben wir auerdem im Detail 16 verschiedene Pflanzengesellschaften in 5 Lebensraumkategorien: Auenwlder, Hochlandwlder und Prairien, Aquatische Lebensrume, Sickerstellen und vom Menschen beeinflute Lebensrume.
41968065|Euchiton is treated apart from Gnaphalium primarily on the basis of its tendency for stolon production and cypselar surfaces with paired, non-mucilaginous epidermal papillae. Three species of Euchiton are recorded in North America: E. sphaericus (naturalized in California and Oregon), E. gymnocephalus (naturalized in California and Oregon), and E. involucratus (apparent waif in California and Massachusetts, the first published report of this species in North America). The first two species also are naturalized in Hawaii. A nomenclatural and ecological summary is presented for each species and a key clarifies their identifications, which have been confused in North America. Euchiton Se trata como diferente de Gnaphalium primariamente en base a su tendencia a la produccin de estolones y superficie de las cipselas con papilas epidrmicas pareadas y no mucilaginosas. Se han citado tres especies de Euchiton en Norte Amrica: E. sphaericus (naturalizada en California y Oregn), E. gymnocephalus (naturalizada en California y Oregn), y E. involucratus (aparentemente abandonada en California y Massachusetts, es la primera cita de esta especie en Norte Amrica). Las dos primeras especies estn tambin naturalizadas en Hawaii. Se presenta un resumen nomenclatural y ecolgico de cada especie y una clave clarifica sus identificaciones, que han sido confusas en Norte Amrica.
41968095|Eight taxa are reported as new to continental United States and the state of Florida: Alstonia scholaris, Bromelia pinguin, Costus pulverulentus, Enydra fluctuans, Eucalyptus torelliana, Hygrophila difformis, Khaya senegalensis, and Oxalis triangularis var. papilionacea. The reports for the nonnative BerberIs bealei and Cannaglauca and the native Rudbeckia auriculata are the first for Florida. The occurrence of Didiplis diandra in Florida is verified. Se citan ocho taxa como nuevos para los Estados Unidos continentales y el estado de Florida: Alstonia scholaris, Bromelia pinguin, Costus pulverulentus, Enydra fluctuans, Eucalyptus torelliana, Hygrophila difformis, Khaya senegalensis, y Oxalis triangularis var. papilionacea. Las citas de las no nativas Berberis bealei y Canna glauca junto con la autctona Rudbeckia auriculata son las primeras para Florida. Se verifica la existencia de Didiplis diandra en Florida.
41968056|Se describe y se propone a Portulaca rzedowskiana como especie nueva para la ciencia. De acuerdo con el material examinado, este taxon se encuentra distribuido en sitios con pastizal y matorral subtropical perturbado de la parte norte del estado de Michoacn. Se caracteriza principalmente por ser de hbito perenne con raz suberosa, por poseer hojas aplanadas a subrollizas, lanceoladas, en ocasiones oblongo-lanceoladas a oblanceoladas y por el oprculo de la cpsula que es de forma campanulada. Portulaca rzedowskiana is described and proposed as a new species. According to examined material this taxon is found in grasslands and disturbed subtropical scrub in the north part of the Mexican state of Michoacan. It is distinguised mainly by its perennial habit with suberous root, by its flat to subterete lanceolate leaves, sometimes oblong-lanceolate to oblanceolate in shape, as well as by the campanulated operculum of the capsule.
41968102|Including an extensive system of dunes, interdunal ponds, and wetlands, the Nags Head Woods Ecological Preserve (Dare Co., North Carolina) comprises one of the best remaining examples of mid-Atlantic maritime deciduous forests. This study presents additions to the flora of the preserve and the larger Outer Banks, based on recent collections. Thirty-four taxa have not previously been reported for the preserve, five have not been reported for the Outer Banks, and two have been rediscovered. La Nags Head Woods Ecological Preserve (Dare Co., North Carolina), que incluye un sistema extensivo de dunas, lagunas interdunares, y humedales, comprende uno de los mejores ejemplos restantes de bosques caducifolios martimos atlnticos. Este estudio presenta adiciones a la flora de la reserva y los mayores Outer Banks, basado en colecciones recientes. Treinta y cuatro taxa no haban sido citados previamente de la reserva, cinco no haban sido citados de los Outer Banks, y dos han sido redescubiertos.
41968063|Senecio spribillei W.A. Weber, a new, putatively narrow endemic species of Asteraceae, is described from a nunatak in the Rocky Mountains of northwestern Montana. It is distinguished from its nearest relative, Senecio neowebsteri Blake, by glabrous foliage, broader and shorter leaf laminae, wingless petioles, coarser marginal dentation, smaller, racemose capituli and minute ray flowers. Se describe Senecio spribillei W.A. Weber, una nueva especie endmica de Asteraceae, de un nunatak en las Montaas Rocosas del noroeste de Montana. Se diferencia de su pariente ms prximo, Senecio neowebsteri Blake, por sus hojas glabras, lmina foliar ms ancha y ms corta, peciolos sin alas, dientes del margen con dientes ms juntos, captulos racemosos ms pequeos y ligulas diminutas.
41968055|A general account is provided of the orchid gatherings from the 1994 Conservation International survey of southern New Ireland, an area identified by environmental assessment as one of Papua New Guinea's major terrestrial unknown regions. One new species (Dendrobium archipelagense) and one new variety (Dendrobium vexillarius J.J. Sm. var. hansmeyerense) are described and illustrated. Several distributional records are reported. Illustrations are provided for most of the cited taxa.  1994  Dendrobium archipelaaense  D. vexillarius J.J. Sm. var. hansmeyerense  2  
41968077|A description of two new infraspecific taxa in Liatris elegans is presented. Liatris elegans var. bridgesii, var. nov., occurs on the Carrizo and adjacent Eocene sand formations in central Texas. Liatris elegans var. kralii, var. nov., occurs on the Fall Line Sandhills and coastal plain of Alabama and Georgia to the northern panhandle of Florida. The newly described taxa are similar to each other in their creamwhite to yellow (vs. anthocyanin-colored) phyllary apices but they are widely separated geographically and each is distinct in other morphological features; they are viewed here as having independent origins. Liatris elegans var. flabellata is reduced to a form of L. elegans var. elegans, while Liatris elegans var. carrizana is maintained for southern-central Texas populations. Liatris elegans var. elegans is widespread on the coastal plain from South Carolina to eastern Texas. Se presenta la descripcin de dos nuevos taxa infraspecficos en Liatris elegans. Liatris elegans var. bridgesii, var. nov., se da en el Carrizo y formaciones arenosas adyacentes del Eoceno en el centro de Texas. Liatris elegans var. kralii, var. nov., aparece en la Fall Line Sandhills y llanura costera de Alabama y Georgia hasta el estrecho de Florida. Los nuevos taxa descritos se parecen entre si por sus pices de los filarios de blanco-crema a amarillo (vs. color de antociano) pero estn ampliamente separados geogrficamente y se diferencian por otras caractersticas morfolgicas; Se ven aqu con dos orgenes independientes. Liatris elegans var. flabellata se ha reducido a una forma de L. elegans var. elegans, mientras que Liatris elegans var. carrizana se mantiene para las poblaciones del sur-centro de Texas. Liatris elegans var. elegans es comn en la llanura costera desde Carolina del Sur al este de Texas.
41968068|The most common weedy Echinochloa species in EuropeE. colona (L.) Link, E. crus-galli (L.) Beauv., E. hispidula (Retz.) Nees ex Royle, E. oryzoides (Arduino) Fritsch, E. oryzicola (Vasing.) Vasing. are for the first time analyzed regarding the micromorphology of lemma and caryopsis, the anatomy of the caryopsis and the size of the starch grains. New potentially valuable characters are the size of the caryopsis, the pattern of surface variation of the caryopsis coat, and the size of the starch grains. A cautionary approach is suggested towards the taxonomic utility of the silica bodies shape. Based on the new characters, the relationships between the species are analyzed. Some nomenclatural issues involving E. oryzicola, E. oryzoides, and E. hispidula are also discussed. For the first time, E. colona is recorded from Romania. Las especies ms comunes de Echinochloa en Europa que son E. colona (L.) Link, E. crus-galli (L.) Beauv, E. hispidula (Retz.) Nees ex Royle, E. oryzoides (Arduino), Fritsch, E. oryzicola (Vasing.) Vasing. han sido analizadas por primera vez mediante micromorfologa del lemma y del caripside, la anatoma del caripside y por el tamao de los granos de almidn. Los nuevos caracteres que se pueden considerar de gran valor son el tamao del caripside, la variacin en el patrn de la superficie de la cubierta del caripside y el tamao de los granos de almidn. No se sugiere como herramienta taxonmica la forma de los cuerpos silceos. Basndose en los nuevos caracteres, se analiza la relacin entre las especies. Algunos tpicos de nomenclatura que involucran a E. oryzicola, E. oryzoides y E. hispidula son tambin discutidos. Por primera vez E. colona se cita de Rumania.
41968093|A newly discovered population of Opuntia corallicola is reported. This new population is in Miami-Dade County, Florida, 145 km north of what was believed to be the last remaining population in the wild. Se informa de una poblacin recientemente descubierta de Opuntia corallicola. Esta nueva poblacin est en el Condado Miami-Dade, Florida, 145 km al norte de lo que se pensaba que era la ltima poblacin que creca silvestre en la naturaleza.
41968079|Certain populations of more or less tomentose Packer a (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) in southeastern North America have recently been treated as P. paupercula var. appalachiana based on evidence from a common garden, canonical discriminate analyses of morphological characters and flowering date, a preliminary RAPDs analysis, and crosses. Previously they had been treated as disjuncts of P. plattensis, a species of the Great Plains, which may have migrated into the mid Appalachians during the post-glacial Hypsithermic Period and survived there as relicts. However, P. plattensis is tetraploid with n - 46 and x-23. Our two chromosome counts of the new variety from North Carolina and from Virginia are n -22 and n - ca. 44, respectively, a diploid and a tetraploid, both with x -22. Statistical analyses of pollen diameter provide evidence that the other individuals in the two populations are diploid and mostly tetraploid, respectively. Hybridization with P. aurea may be involved in the origin of the tetraploid. Thus, cytological evidence supports other data showing that these populations may be more closely related to P. paupercula. Ciertas poblaciones de Packer a (Asteraceae: Senecioneae) ms o menos tomentosas del sureste de Norte Amrica han sido tratadas recientemente como P. paupercula var. appalachiana basndose en evidencias procedentes de un jardn comn, anlisis cannico discriminante de caracteres morfolgicos y datos florales, un anlisis preliminar de RAPDs, y cruces. Previamente haban sido tratados como disyuntas de P. plattensis, una especie de las Grandes Llanuras, que podra haber migrado a los Apalaches medios durante el periodo hipsitrmico post-glacial y sobrevivido all como relicto. Sin embargo, P. plattensis es tetraploide con n - 46 y x -23. Nuestros dos recuentos cromosomticos de la nueva variedad de Carolina del Norte y de Virginia son n -22 y n -ca. 44, respectivamente, un diploide y un tetraploide, ambos con x -22. Los anlisis es tadsticos del dimetro del polen evidencian que los otros individuos de las dos poblaciones son diploides, y preferentemente tetraploides, respectivamente. La hibridacin con P. urea puede ser la causa del origen del tetraploide. As, la evidencia citolgica apoya otros datos que muestran que estas poblaciones pueden estar ms emparentadas con P. paupercula.
41968105|Based on field work and morphological analysis of herbarium specimens, Viburnum ozarkense Ashe is reinstated as a distinct species. Recognition of the occurrence and distribution of V. ozarkense has been compromised by its reduction to synonymy under Viburnum molle Michx. A morphological characterization of V. ozarkense and V. molle, a key to species, and a distribution map are provided. This research supports the recognition of V. ozarkense as an endemic shrub of the Interior Highlands of Arkansas, Missouri and Oklahoma. Basados en trabajo de campo y anlisis morfolgico de especimenes de herbario, Viburnum ozarkense Ashe se repone como una especie distinta. El reconocimiento de la ocurrencia y distribucin de V. ozarkense ha estado comprometido por su reduccin a sinnimo de Viburnum molle Michx. Se ofrecen una caracterizacin morfolgica de V. ozarkense y V. molle, una clave de especies, y un mapa de distribucin. Esta investigacin apoya el reconocimiento de V. ozarkense como un arbusto endmico de las montaas Ouachita y Ozark de Arkansas, Missouri y Oklahoma.
41968062|Schistocarpha calzadana B.L. Turner, sp. nov., is described from south-central Oaxaca (Mpio. Santiago Juxtlahuaca) and south-central Guerrero, Mexico. It is closely similar to S. bicolor but can be distinguished by a number of features including those of the leaf, size and congestion of the capitulescence, and number and size of ray florets. A re-evaluation of the Mexican taxa has resulted in the submergence of S. longiligula into S. platyphylla. A revised key to the Mexican species is provided, along with maps showing their distribution. Se describe Schistocarpha calzadana B.L. Turner, sp. nov., del centro-sur de Oaxaca (Mpio. Santiago Juxtlahuaca) y centro-sur de Guerrero, Mxico. Es muy semejante a S. bicolor pero puede diferenciarse por varios caracteres de la hoja, tamao y aglomeracin de la capitulescencia, as como el nmero y tamao de las lgulas. Una re-evaluacin de los taxa mexicanos ha dado como resultado la inclusin de S. longiligula en S. platyphylla. Se ofrece una clave revisada par alas especies mexicanas, junto con mapas de su distribucin.
41968074|Stachys cordata Riddell is the correct name for the species usually called S. nuttallii Shuttlew. ex Benth. Stachys cordata Riddell es el nombre correcto para la especie usualmente conocida como S. nuttallii Shuttlew. ex Benth.
41968058|Una especie de maguey, Agave ovatifolia Starr & Villarreal de la Sierra de Lampazos en el norte de Nuevo Len es propuesta como nueva. Es ubicada en la seccin Parryanae de subgnero Agave y se discute su relacin con A. havardiana Trel. y A. parrasana Berger. Se presenta una ilustracin de la planta y una clave parcial y modificada de la seccin Parryanae (Gentry 1982:526). A new species, Agave ovatifolia Starr & Villarreal from the Sierra de Lampazos in northern Nuevo Leon is described and illustrated. It belongs in the section Parryanae of the subgenus Agave, and its relationship to A. havardiana Trel. and A. parrasana Berger is discussed. A partial, modified key to section Parryanae (Gentry 1982:526) is provided.
41968091|The Mapim Biosphere Reserve is located at the boundaries of the Mexican states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, and Durango in the part central of the Chihuahuan Desert. It extends over 342,387 ha. within an endorreic basin locally known as the Bolsn de Mapim. Elevation varies between 1000 and 1480 m. Weather is very arid mostly with summer rains, the average annual precipitation is 264 mm. Vegetation types are mostly xerophytic scrub and halophytic grassland. The vascular flora is composed of approximately 71 families, 242 genera, 403 species and 426 taxa approximately. Families with the greatest diversity are Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cactaceae, and Fabaceae. Genera with the greatest number of species are Sporobolus, Opuntia, Aristida, and Acacia. I recorded 31 species endemic to the Chihuahuan Desert. La Reserva de la Biosfera de Mapim, se ubica en el lmite de unin de los estados de Chihuahua, Coahuila y Durango en la parte central del Desierto Chihuahuense, conforma una extensin aproximada de 342,387 ha y constituye una cuenca endorreica, denominada Bolsn de Mapim. La altitud vara entre los 1000 y 1480 m, su clima es muy rido con lluvias en verano y la precipitacin es de aproximadamente 264 mm anuales. Los tipos de vegetacin se clasifican como matorral xerf ilo y pastizal halfilo. La flora est constituida de aproximadamente 71 familias, 242 gneros, 403 especies y 426 taxa. Las familias con mayor diversidad son Asteraceae, Poaceae, Cactaceae y Fabaceae. Los gneros Sporobolus, Opuntia, Aristida y Acacia son los que presentan el mayor nmero de especies. Se registran 31 especies endmicas al Desierto Chihuahuense.
41968089|An annotated, vouchered checklist is provided of the vascular plant taxa of the 284 hectares Hickory Creek Unit of the Big Thicket National Preserve, Tyler County, in southeast Texas. The Hickory Creek Unit consists of four plant communities: wetland pine savanna, upland pine savanna, pond, and baygall. Four hundred one taxa are documented and their community affiliations are given. Previous lists for this unit numbered over 500 taxa. We believe that the discrepancy is the result of the larger lists being, in part, "conceptual" (what could be there, not what was actually there). Se ofrece un catalogo anotado, con pliegos testigo de los taxa de plantas vasculares de las 284 hectareas de la Hickory Creek Unit de la Big Thicket National Preserve, Condado de Tyler, en el sureste de Texas. La Hickory Creek Unit consiste en cuatro comunidades vegetales: sabana hmeda de pinos, sabana en tierras altas de pinos, estanque, y matorral de Ilex coricea. Se documentan cuatrocientos un taxa y se da la filiacin a su comunidad. Los listados previos de esta unidad contenan ms de 500 taxa. Creemos que la discrepancia es el resultado de que las grandes listas fueron en parte "conceptuales" (lo que puede estar all, no lo que est actualmente all).
41961029|Se estudian y describen las caractersticas de la epidermis foliar en ambas superficies, de los taxones del Grupo de especies Solatium sessile, representados en Venezuela a saber: Solanum chlamydogynum Bitter, S. obovalifolium Bentez, S. oppositifolium Ruiz & Pav, 5. sessile Ruiz & Pav, S. triste Jacq. y S. turgidum S. Knapp. Se utilizaron segmentos de aproximadamente 1 cm de la porcin media de hojas secas (especimenes de herbario) o frescas y fijadas en FAA al 70%. Fueron aplicadas tcnicas anatmicas convencionales para macerado y tincin. Se evalan las siguientes variables: presencia, tipo, dimensiones y ubicacin de estomas; presencia, tipo, longitud, ubicacin y densidad de tricomas; forma y grosor de la pared de las clulas epidrmicas normales e ndice estomtico. Los resultados muestran diferencias en algunas de las caractersticas anatmicas consideradas, especialmente las referidas a los tipos tricomticos y a la ubicacin de estomas. Dichos resultados se comparan y han permitido la separacin de las especies mediante una clave. Epidermal characteristics of leaf blades were studied and described from taxa belonging to the species Group containing Solanum sessile represented in Venezuela by the following species: Solanum chlamydogynum Bitter, 5. obovalifolium Bentez, 5. oppositifolium Ruiz & Pav, S. sessile Ruiz & Pav, S. triste Jacq. and S. turgidum S. Knapp. Middle portions of leaf blades were sampled from herbarium specimens and from fresh plant material fixed in FAA 70%. Conventional anatomical procedures for macerations and staining were used. The following criteria were evaluated: presence, type, dimension and location of stomata; presence, type, length, location and density of trichomes; shape and thickness of the wall of normal epidermal cells, and stomatal index. Results show there are differences in some anatomical characteristics between species especially with regards to trichome types and the location of stomata. These characteristics can be used to identify collections of Solanum to the species level. A key to the species of Solanum section Geminata using these characters is presented.
41960995|A new species, Chaptalia hidalgoensis L. Cabrera & Nesom, is described and illustrated. It is known only from the type collection made in Mun. Zimapan, Hidalgo. The occurrence of Chaptalia mexicana Burkart is documented here, with description and illustration, apparently for the first time since the type was collected by Ehrenberg in 1840. The recent collection was made in Mun. Pinal de Amoles, Quertaro. Both of these Mexican species appear to be members of sect. Chaptalia. Una nueva especie, Chaptalia hidalgoensis L. Cabrera & Nesom, se describe e ilustra; sta se le conoce nicamente de la coleccin tipo del Mun. Zimapan, Hidalgo. Tambin documentamos la existencia de Chaptalia mexicana Burkart, proporcionando una descripcin completa e ilustracin; aparentemente esta especie no se haba vuelto a colectar desde la colecta tipo de Ehrenberg en 1840. Esta coleccin reciente es del Mun. Pinal de Amoles, Quertaro. Ambas especies mexicanas parecen ser miembros de la seccin Chaptalia.
41961042|This report documents the occurrence and distribution of the Uvularia perfoliata and U. sessilifolia in the state of Texas. A key to species, notes, distribution (including a map), and a list of exsiccatae are presented. Se cita y se documenta la presencia y distribucin de Uvularia perfoliata y U. sessilifolia en el estado de Texas. Se presenta una clave de especies, notas, distribucin (incluyendo un mapa), y una lista de exsicatas.
41961024|This study documents type specimens for names associated with the twining vine Trachelospermum difforme. Although not cited in the literature, a holotype of Echues difformis Walter was discovered in the Thomas Walter herbarium of the Natural History Museum, London. Types and nomenclatural history are discussed for other synonyms and combinations. Se documentan tipos para nombres asociados con la enredadera Trachelospermum difforme. Aunque no citado en la literatura, fue descubierto un holotipo en el herbario de Thomas Walter en el Museo de Historia Natural, Londres. Se dan tipos e historia de nombres para los sinnimos y combinaciones.
41961016|Xanthisma incisifolium (I.M. Johnston) Nesom, comb. nov. (Machaeranthera pinnatifida var. incisifolia = Machaeranthera incisifolia), and Xanthisma glaberrimum (Rydb.) Nesom & O'Kennon, comb. nov. (Machaeranthera pinnatifida var. glaberrima), are transferred at specific rank to the genus Xanthisma, newly expanded by Morgan and Hartman to include species segregated from Machaeranthera sensu stricto. Xanthisma incisifolium (I.M. Johnston) Nesom, comb. nov.(Machaeranthera pinnatifida var.incisifolia = Machaeranthera incisifolia), y Xanthisma glaberrimum (Rydb.) Nesom & O'Kennon, comb. nov. (Machaeranthera pinnatifida var. glaberrima), se transfieren con rango especfico al gnero Xanthisma, ampliado de nuevo por Morgan y Hartman para incluir especies segregadas de Machaeranthera sensu stricto.
41961003|The Psidium salutare complex is revised with keys, descriptions, maps, and illustrations and is considered to consist of P. laruotteanum (with no additional subspecific taxa) and P. salutare (with a total of five varieties). This complex ranges from eastern temperate South America to Mexico and Central America. The following taxa are lectotypified: Calycolpus parviflorus Sagot, Myrtus acutata O. Berg, Myrtus blanchetiana O. Berg, Myrtus cuspidata O. Berg, Myrtus cuspidata var. tetramera O. Berg, Myrtus incana O. Berg, Myrtus mucronata Cambess., Myrtus nivea O. Berg, Myrtus pubescens O. Berg, Myrtus rigida O. Berg, Myrtus sellowiana O. Berg, Myrtus sericea var. fruticosa O. Berg, Myrtus suffruticosa O. Berg, Myrtus suffruticosa var. latifolia O. Berg, Psidium guayabita A. Rich., Psidium pohlianum O. Berg, Psidium salutare var. laxum O. Berg and Psidium salutare var. subalternum O. Berg. The following new combinations are made: Psidium salutare var. decussatum (DC.) Landrum, Psidium salutare var. mucronatum (Cambess.) Landrum, Psidium salutare var. pohlianum (O. Berg) Landrum, and Psidium salutare var. sericeum (Cambess.) Landrum. Se hace una revisin del complejo de Psidium salutare con claves, descripciones, mapas, e ilustraciones. El complejo incluye P. laruotteanum (sin taxa subspecficos adicionales) y P. salutare (con un total de cinco variedades). Este complejo se encuentra desde el este de Sur Amrica templada hasta Mxico y Centro Amrica. Se seleccionan lectotipos para los siguientes taxa: Calycolpus parviflorus Sagot, Myrtus acutata O. Berg, Myrtus blanchetiana O. Berg, Myrtus cuspidata O. Berg, Myrtus cuspidata var. tetramera O. Berg, Myrtus incana O. Berg, Myrtus mucronata Cambess., Myrtus nivea O. Berg, Myrtus pubescens O. Berg, Myrtus rigida O. Berg, Myrtus sellowiana O. Berg, Myrtus sericea var. fruticosa O. Berg, Myrtus suffruticosa O. Berg, Myrtus suffruticosa var. latifolia O. Berg, Psidium guayabita A. Rich., Psidium pohlianum O. Berg, Psidium salutare var. laxum O. Berg y Psidium salutare var. subalternum O. Berg. Se hacen las siguientes combinaciones nuevas: Psidium salutare var. decussatum (DC.) Landrum, Psidium salutare var. mucronatum (Cambess.) Landrum, Psidium salutare var. pohlianum (O. Berg) Landrum, y Psidium salutare var. sericeum (Cambess.) Landrum.
41961040|The occurrence of Polygonum aviculare subsp. rurivagum in North America is confirmed. The taxon is a rare adventive from Europe growing in sunny, dry and trampled ruderal habitats. La presencia de Polygonum aviculare subsp. rurivagum en Norteamrica es confirmada. Es un taxon raro originario de Europa que crece en lugares ruderales, soleados, secos y pisoteados.
41961021|The following new names and combinations in Solidago are proposed: Solidago subsect. Multiradiatae, Solidago subsect. Humiles, Solidago ser. Auriculatae, Solidago ser. Odorae, Solidago ser. Drummondiani, S. altissima subsp. gilvocanescens, S. kralii, S. lepida subsp fallax, S. lepida var. salebrosa, S. odora subsp. chaptmanii, S. patula subsp. strictula, S. puberula subsp. pulverulenta, S. rugosa var. cronquistiana, S. sempervirens subsp. azorica, S. sempervirens subsp. mexicana, S. speciosa subsp. pallida, S. stricta subsp. gracillima, S. velutina subsp. californica, and S. velutina subsp. sparsiflora. Se proponen los siguientes nombres y combinaciones nuevos en Solidago: Solidago subsect. Multiradiatae, Solidago subsect. Humiles, Solidago ser. Auriculatae, Solidago ser. Odorae, Solidago ser. Drummondiani, S. altissima subsp. gilvocanescens, S. kralii, S. lepida subsp fallax, S. lepida var. salebrosa, S. odora subsp. chapmanii, S. patula subsp. strictula, S. puberula subsp. pulverulenta, S. rugosa var. cronquistiana, S. sempervirens subsp. azorica, S. sempervirens subsp. mexicana, S. speciosa subsp. pallida, S. stricta subsp. gracillima, S. velutina subsp. californica, y S. velutina subsp. sparsiflora.
41961014|Two species of Liatris series Graminifoliae are described for the first time and illustrations and distribution maps are provided for both. Liatris savannensis Kral & Nesom, sp. nov., is similar to L.graminifolia but differs in its larger heads with more numerous florets and broader, erose-lacerate phyllary margins. It occurs on the western coast of peninsular Florida, south of the known range of L.graminifolia. Liatris patens Nesom & Kral, sp. nov., is similar to L.gracilis in its consistently pedunculate heads and hirtellous-strigose stems and peduncles but differs in longer peduncles and larger heads with more numerous florets; it is similar to L.graminifolia in head size and number of florets but differs in its hairy stems and peduncles and longer peduncles. Liatris patens occurs in southeastern Georgia and adjacent South Carolina, where it apparently is allopatric in range with its close relatives L.graminifolia and L. gracilis. Se describen por primera vez dos especies de Liatris serie Graminifoliae y se aportan ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin para ambas. Liatris savannensis Kral & Nesom, sp. nov., es similar a L.graminifolia pero se diferencia por sus cabezuelas ms grandes con flsculos ms numerosos y mrgenes de los filarios ms anchos y lacerados. Aparece en la costa oeste de la pennsula de Florida, al sur del rea conocida de L.graminifolia. Liatris patens Nesom & Kral,sp.nov., es similar a L.gracilis por sus cabezuelas pedunculadas, y tallos y pednculos hirto-estrigosos pero se diferencia por tener pednculos ms largos y cabezuelas ms grandes con muchos ms flsculos; es similar a L.graminifolia por el tamao de las cabezuelas y nmero de flsculos pero se diferencia por sus tallos pelosos, y pednculos pelosos y ms largos. Liatris patens aparece en el sureste de Georgia y parte adyacente de Carolina del Sur, donde aparentemente es aloptrica con sus parientes cercanos L.graminifolia y L.gracilis.
41961005|In connection with the treatment of Ixora for the Flora Fanerogmica do Estado de Sao Paulo, Flora Ilustrada Catarinense and Flora de Gois e Tocantins, it was necessary to undertake a taxonomic study of the taxa occurring in Central and Southern Brazil. Five native species occur in the state of Sao Paulo, and 12 taxa originally described by Mller Argoviensis are here treated as synonymous with the recognized species. Only one native species occurs in the state of Santa Catarina. Full typification, synonymies, brief descriptions, specimens cited, and a key to the Ixora of Sao Paulo are here presented. En conexin con el tratado de Ixora por la Flora Fanerogmica do Estado de So Paulo, la Flora Ilustrada Catarinense y la Flora de Gois e Tocantins fue necesario realizar un estudio taxonmico de los taxa presentes en Brasil central y meridional. Cinco especies nativas ocurren en el estado de Sao Paulo y doce taxa originariamente descritos por Mller Argoviensis son tratados aqu como sinnimos de especies reconocidas. Solamente una especie nativa ocurre en el estado de Santa Catarina. Se presentan aqu tipificaciones y sinonimias completas, descripciones, especmenes citados y una clave para las especies de Ixora de Sao Paulo.
41961023|A new subspecies of Polygonum sawatchense Small is described and illustrated for the forthcoming treatments of the genus Polygonum (Polygonaceae) in Flora of North America and Jepson Manual, Flora of California: Polygonum sawatchense subsp. oblivium. Polygonum sawatchense is typified and its taxonomy and distribution in North America are discussed. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva subespecie de Polygonum sawatchense Small para los futuros tratamientos del gnero Polygonum (Polygonaceae) en la Flora de Norteamrica y el Jepson Manual, Flora de California: Polygonum sawatchense subsp oblivium. Polygonum sawatchense se ha tipificado y se discute su taxonoma y distribucin en Norteamrica.
41961010|A new combination is reported here for an infraspecific taxon in Eurybia from North America: Eurybia glauca (Nutt.) G.L. Nesom var. pulchra (S.F. Blake) Brouillet, comb. nov. Se realiza una nueva combinacin para un taxon infraspecfico en Eurybia de Norte Amrica: Eurybia glauca (Nutt.) G.L. Nesom var. pulchra (S.F. Blake) Brouillet, comb. nov.
41961051|A newly recognized population of the dangerous invasive fern Lygodium microphyllum has been found in Orange County in central Florida. This population of the weed is known to have persisted within a cypress swamp for almost 15 years, during which time the area experienced single or multi-night freezes of -2.5 to -5.5C This finding indicates that the weed could live in other USDA Cold Hardiness Zone 9 areas such as southern Texas, which the fern may be able to reach via its wind-borne spores. Se encontr en el Condado de Orange, en el centro de la Florida, una poblacin reconocida recientemente del helecho invasivo y peligroso, Lygodium microphyllum. Se sabe que esta poblacin de maleza ha persistido durante 15 aos en una cinaga de ciprs donde fue encontrado, durante tal periodo de tiempo el rea experiment heladas de -2.5 hasta -5.5C durante una o ms noches. Esta observacin indica que la maleza podra vivir en otras reas de la Zona de Resistencia al Fro (USDA) Numero 9, tal como el sur de Tejas, rea que el helecho puede alcanzar por las esporas llevadas por el viento.
41961006|A new section of Baccharis is described: sect. Punctatae, including six species formerly placed in sect. Aristidentes (B. bigelovii, B. crassicuneata, B. mexicana, B. sulcata, B. thesioides, and B. zamoranensis). Baccharis palmeri is excluded from sect. Aristidentes while the South American B. hirta is added. Six species (B. auriculigera, B. huairacajensis, B. klattii, B. maxima, B. volubilis, and B. zumbadorensis) are added to sect. Tubulatae. A key is provided to differentiate these allied sections, as well as the related sect. Bogotenses. Se describe una nueva seccin de Baccharis: sect. Punctatae, la cual incluye seis especies previamente ubicadas en la seccin Aristidentes (B. bigelovii, B. crassicuneata, B. mexicana, B. sulcata, B. thesioides y B. zamoranensis). Baccharis palmeri es excluida de la seccin Aristidentes, mientras que la especie sudamericana B. hirta es agregada a ella. Seis especies (B. auriculigera, B. huairacajensis, B. klattii, B. maxima, B. volubilis y B. zumbadorensis) son agregadas a la seccin Tubulatae. Se provee una clave para diferenciar estas secciones afines, incluyendo asimismo la seccin Bogotenses.
41961019|Solidago faucibus, sp.nov., is described from two disjunct areas of the Appalachian Mountains: South Carolina and a contiguous area of Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. The species is a decaploid (2n = 90) and has its affinities with the Solidago arguta group. It is distinctive in its extremely large leaves, especially on basal off-shoots, generally shorter inflorescence branches, large capitulae, uniformly pubescent achenes, and in forming large clonal (few-flowering) patches. Population variation, distribution, and habitat are discussed. Solidago faucibus, sp. nov., se describe de dos reas disyuntas de los Montes Appalaches en Carolina del Sur y un rea contigua de Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, y West Virginia. La especie es un decaploide (2n = 90) y tiene afinidades con el grupo de Solidago arguta. Se diferencia por sus hojas extremadamente grandes, especialmente en los renuevos basales, generalmente ramas de la inflorescencia ms cortas, captulos grandes, aquenios uniformemente pubescentes, y en formar grandes cspedes clonales (que producen pocas flores). Se discute la variacin poblacional, distribucin, y hbitat.
41960992|Se describe como especie nueva y se ilustra a Ipomoea tacambarensis (Convolvulaceae), que se encuentra en la depresin del Balsas en el estado de Michoacn, Mxico. Esta planta, aunque de apariencia arbustiva, es una hierba perenne que alcanza hasta 2.2 m de alto. Es similar a Ipomoea stans Cav, pero se distingue por su mayor tamao (de hasta 2.2 m de alto), las hojas ms grandes (de hasta de 35 cm de largo) y las inflorescencias multifloras. Ipomoea tacambarensis (Convolvulaceae) from the Balsas depression in the state of Michoacn, Mexico, is described and illustrated. Although shrub-like in appearance, it does not undergo considerable secondary growth, and is thus really a robust perennial herb to 2.2 m tall. It is very similar to Ipomoea stans Cav., but it is distinguished by its greater size (to 2.2 m tall vs. to 1 m tall), longer leaves (to 35 cm long vs. to 11 cm long) and many flowered inflorescence (vs. flowers solitary).
41960991|A new species, Castilleja albobarbata Iltis & Nesom, is described from localities in Sierra de Manantln and Sierra Cacoma of Jalisco, Mxico. It differs from C. integrifolia primarily in features of vestiture and is geographically disjunct from the nearest populations of C. integrifolia by about 450 kilometers. Se describe una especie nueva, Castilleja albobarbata litis & Nesom, de la Sierra de Manantln y Sierra Cacoma de Jalisco, Mxico. Se diferencia de C. integrifolia principalmente por las caractersticas del indumento y est separada geogrficamente unos 450 kilmetros de la poblacin ms prxima de C. integrifolia.
41961012|Brazoria enquistii M.W. Turner sp. nov. from the central mineral region of Texas (Mason, Llano and Burnet counties) is described. It is similar to B. truncata (Benth.) Engelm. & A. Gray from which it differs in having longer floral bracts with more pronounced ciliation, shorter internodes, and distinctions in the lobes of the calyx. Its habitat and edaphic preferences, unique to the genus, are also discussed. Descriptions, photographs, dot-maps, and keys to species are presented. Se describe Brazoria enquistii M.W. Turner sp.nov.de la regin mineral central de Texas (condados de Mason, Llano y Burnet). Se asemeja a B. truncata (Benth.) Engelm. & A. Gray de la que se distingue por tener las brcteas florales ms largas con ciliacin ms destacada, los entrenudos ms cortos, y unas distinciones en los lbulos del cliz. Su habitat y preferencias edficas, nicos en el gnero, tambin se discuten. Se ofrecen descripciones, fotos, mapas de distribucin, y clave de especies.
41961008|The ultrabasic flora of the Kamiali Wildlife Management Area is described from a recent series of floristic surveys. The general account and checklist also incorporates information from earlier collections. Two new species are presented: Psychotria bulilimontis (Rubiaceae), and Trichadenia sasae (Salicaceae). Other taxa of special interest are briefly discussed.   2Psychotria bulilimontis()  Trichadenia sasae ()
41961037|During recent botanical explorations of Saurashtra, Gujarat, India, the narrowly endemic plant species Tephrosia jamnagarensis was rediscovered after a lapse of 3 decades. A full description of the species is provided along with photographs; a key to closely related species is included. Durante exploraciones botnicas recientes en Saurashtra, Gujarat, India, la especie endmica Tephrosia jamnagarensis fue redescubierta despus de un intervalo de tres dcadas. Se ofrece una descripcin completa de la especie junto con fotografas y se incluye una clave para las especies relacionadas ms prximas.
41961049|Nine species are reported as new to the flora of Arkansas: Agalinis nuttallii Shinners (Scrophulariaceae), Azolla caroliniana Willd. (Azollaceae), Crataegus thermopegaea Palmer (Rosaceae), Cyrtomium falcatum (L.f.) K. Presl (Dryopteridaceae), Nerium oleander L. (Apocynaceae), Polygala alba Nutt. (Polygalaceae), Punicagranatum L. (Punicaceae), Ricinus communis L. (Euphorbiaceae), and Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi (Anacardiaceae). They are a mixture of extinct, overlooked, or urban exotic-escaped species, some of which are of special concern as they pose new problems for urban poison control workers. Literature and herbarium work uncovered that 12 Arkansas species previously excluded actually have known and valid vouchers, and they are re-instated: Acacia farnesiana (L.) Willd. (Mimosaceae), Arabisglabra (L.) Bernh. (Brassicaceae), Canavalia ensiformis (L.) DC. (Fabaceae), Cladium jamaicense Crantz (Cyperaceae), Eragrostis trichodes (Nutt.) Wood (Poaceae), Halesia diptera Ellis (Styracaceae), Lygodesmia juncea (Pursh) D. Don (Asteraceae), Prosopis glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa (Mimosaceae), Rhynchospora colorata (L.) Pfeiffer (Cyperaceae), Rosa canina L. (Rosaceae), Sagina procumbens L. (Caryophyllaceae), and Trifolium stoloniferum Muhl. (Fabaceae). Another 13 species previously excluded and/or re-excluded from Arkansas were recently and erroneously re-instated, requiring re-exclusion. Another 76 species are here excluded, being reported erroneously as being from Arkansas, based either on literature reports that lack supporting voucher specimens or on a variety of clerical errors. These 21 additions and 89 subtractions to the Arkansas flora point to problems in achieving a uniform basis of deciding which plants to include in a flora and what constitutes sufficient documentation for known and valid vouchers. Se citan nueve especies nuevas para la flora de Arkansas: Agalinis nuttallii Shinners (Scrophulariaceae), Azolla caroliniana Willd. (Azollaceae), Crataegus thermopegaea Palmer (Rosaceae), Cyrtomium falcatum (L.f.) K. Presl (Dryopteridaceae), Nerium oleander L. (Apocynaceae), Polygala alba Nutt. (Polygalaceae), Punica granatum L. (Punicaceae), Ricinus communis L. (Euphorbiaceae), y Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi (Anacardiaceae). Son una mezcla de extintas, pasadas por alto, o especies urbanas exticas-escapadas, alguna de las cuales son de especial inters ya que causan nuevos problemas a los trabajadores del control de venenos urbanos. Con el trabajo bibliogrfico y de herbario se descubri que 12 especies de Arkansas previamente excluidas tienen actualmente testigos conocidos y vlidos, y son re-instauradas: Acacia farnesiana (L.) Willd. (Mimosaceae), Arabis glabra (L.) Bernh. (Brassicaceae), Canavalia ensiformis (L.) DC. (Fabaceae), Cladium jamaicense Crantz (Cyperaceae), Eragrostis trichodes (Nutt.) Wood (Poaceae), Halesia diptera Ellis (Styracaceae), Lygodesmia juncea (Pursh) D. Don (Asteraceae), Prosopis glandulosa Torr. var. glandulosa (Mimosaceae), Rhynchospora colorata (L.) Pfeiffer (Cyperaceae), Rosa canina L. (Rosaceae), Sagina procumbens L. (Caryophyllaceae), y Trifolium stoloniferum Muhl. (Fabaceae). Otras 13 especies excluidas previamente y/o re-excluidas de Arkansas fueron reciente y errneamente re-instauradas, y necesitan una re-exclusin. Otras 76 especies se excluyen aqu, por haberse citado errneamente de Arkansas, basadas tanto en citas bibliogrficas que carecen de pliegos testigo o en varios errores administrativos. Estas 21 adiciones y 89 substracciones a la flora de Arkansas apuntan los problemas de poner a punto una base uniforme para decidir que plantas incluir en una flora, y que constituye suficiente documentacin para los pliegos testigo conocidos y vlidos.
41961033|Se analizan algunos aspectos de la ecologa, distribucin y estado de conservacin de Mammillaria theresae Cutak (Cactaceae), una especie endmica a una pequea rea de la Sierra de Coneto, localizada en el centro del estado de Durango (Mxico) al oriente de la Sierra Madre Occidental y en el lmite occidental del Desierto Chihuahuense. Por su condicin de serrana aislada, la Sierra de Coneto es de inters ecolgico y fitogeogrfico; es la nica localidad conocida para M. theresae y para un gnero recientemente descrito (Megacorax, Onagraceae). Mammillaria theresae es altamente apreciada por coleccionistas de especies exticas; se conoce localmente con los nombres de peyote y peyotillo, y su poblacin est siendo mermada debido a la ampliacin de un camino. Se evalu el estado actual de la poblacin de M. theresae mediante mustreos de vegetacin y monitoreo de 126 individuos en siete sitios. La especie crece en una superficie de 1.7 ha en manchones distribuidos en un rea de 2.5 km, principalmente sobre sustrato rocoso. Debido a su distribucin restringida, tamao de poblacin y disturbio y fragmentacin de su habitat, M. theresae califica en la categora de en peligro de extincin. La informacin generada puede ser aplicada en el diseo de un plan para la proteccin de la especie We analyzed some aspects of the ecology, distribution, and conservation status of Mammillaria theresae Cutak (Cactaceae), a narrow endemic to the Sierra de Coneto in central Durango, Mexico. Because its isolation, this sierra has ecological and phytogeographical importance. It is located at the east of the Sierra Madre Occidental and on the western boundaries of the Chihuahuan Desert, and it is the only known locality for M. theresae and for a genus recently described (Megacorax, Onagraceae). Mammillaria theresae is a highly appreciated species which is locally known as peyote and peyotillo. Its population is being severely affected mainly due to the construction of a road. We evaluated the present situation of the species as well as the environmental factors with which it is related. We studied the population size from seven plots sampled across its distribution area. Density, cover and frequency of M. theresae and its associated species were measured, and 126 individual plants were monitored to record its fenology and dispersal mechanisms. The species grows over 1.7 ha distributed over approximately 2.5 square km along an elevational range between 2180 and 2320 m a.s.l. Because its restricted distribution, size of the population, and increasing destruction and fragmentation of its habitat, it is considered as an endangered species. This information can be used to design a plan to protect the species from further decline.
41961045|Andropogon glomeratus (Walt.) B.S.P. var. glaucopsis (Elliott) Mohr is reported for Louisiana. A key to separate the Louisiana taxa in the A. virginicus complex is provided. Se cita Andropogon glomeratus (Walt.) B.S.P. var. glaucopsis (Elliott) Mohr de Louisiana. Se aporta una clave para separar los taxa del complejo A. virginicus en Louisiana.
41961022|The pappus in the goldenrod genus Solidago (Asteraceae: Astereae) was examined in 75 species and compared with variation in 14 species of 12 related genera in subtribe Solidagininae in the narrow sense following Nesom (2000) and three species of asters of two genera basal to the North American Clade of the tribe. Solidago has been described as having a simple pappus consisting of one whorl of barbellate bristles with the exception of a few species in several sections, sometimes treated as distinct genera. Species of Solidago sect. Corymbosae (Oligoneuron) have long been recognized as having a biseriate pappus with clavate bristles similar to that of other genera of the subtribe. However, nearly all species of Solidago displayed some evidence indicating the pappus bristles occur in two more or less heteromorphic whorls of bristles, here designated as the primary outer whorl and the primary inner whorl. A few species also occasionally had a third, much shorter secondary outer whorl of a few bristles. In the most heteromorphic species, the primary outer whorl of bristles was slightly shorter and had tips that gradually tapered. The primary inner whorl of slightly longer bristles had distinctly clvate tips up to several times as broad as the bristle below the tip. As well, the bases of the primary outer whorl were clearly external to those of the primary inner clvate whorl in some species. In contrast, most species in several subsections of the genus exhibited little evidence of a biseriate pappus or clavate bristle tips. The pappus of each species was scored on several traits: 1) non-clavate to distinctly clavate bristle tips, 2) evidence of alternating non-clavate and clvate bristles or shorter and longer bristles, and 3) evidence of overlapping primary outer and inner whorls of bristles. One species of Solidago had an atypically short pappus; the bristles of S. sphacelata were less than half the length of the cypsela body. The biseriate pappus of Brintonia discoidea was usually tinted with anthocyanotic pigments unlike any species of Solidago; the species has been included in Solidago by some authors. Se examin el vilano en 75 especies del gnero Solidago (Asteraceae: Astereae) y se compar con la variacin en 14 especies de 12 gneros relacionados de la subtribu Solidagininae en sentido restringido segn Nesom (2000) y tres especies de asterceas de dos gneros basales al ciado Norte Americano de la tribu. Solidago se ha descrito como poseedor de un vilano simple que consiste en un verticilo de sedas barbeladas, con la excepcin de unas pocas especies en varias secciones, a veces tratadas como gneros diferentes. Las especies de Solidago sect. Corymbosae (Oligoneuron) han sido reconocidas por presentar un vilano biseriado con sedas clavadas similares a las de otros gneros de la subtribu. Sin embargo, casi todas las especies de Solidago muestran algunas pruebas que indican que las sedas del vilano se sitan en dos verticilos ms o menos heteromrneos, que aqu se nombran como verticilo primario externo y verticilo primario interno. Unas pocas especies tambin tienen ocasionalmente un tercer verticilo, el verticilo secundario externo, mucho ms corto y de unas pocas sedas. En la especie ms heteromrfica, el verticilo primario externo de sedas era ligeramente ms corto y tena extremos gradualmente afilados. El verticilo primario interno, de sedas ligeramente ms largas, tiene extremos claramente clavados de hasta varias veces ms anchos que la propia seda debajo del extremo. As mismo, las bases del verticilo primario externo eran claramente externas a las del verticilo primario interno clavado en algunas especies. Por contra, la mayora de las especies de varias subsecciones del gnero mostraban pocas pruebas de un vilano biseriado o de extremos de las sedas clavados. El vilano de las distintas especies fue escrutado en varios aspectos: 1) extremos de las sedas de no-clavadas a distintamente clavadas, 2) evidencia de alternancia de sedas no-clavadas y clavadas o sedas ms cortas y ms largas, y 3) evidencia de solapamiento de los verticilos de sedas primario externo e interno. Una especie de Solidago tena un vilano atpicamente corto; las sedas de S. sphacelata eran menos de la mitad de la longitud del cuerpo de la cipsela. El vilano biseriado de de Brintonia discoidea estaba normalmente teido con pigmentos antocinicos, cosa que no ocurre en las especies de Solidago; la especie ha sido incluida en Solidago por algunos autores.
41961036|Quantitative methods were used to determine the transition zone between the eastern and western flora in Texas. The transition between the southeastern deciduous/coniferous forest region and the western plains/brushy-savanna is a 300 km wide area extending from around 95 degrees to 99 degrees west longitude. Across this area, eastern and western species drop out precipitously; this area is the range edge for the two floras. This finding agrees closely with earlier vertebrate biogeographic analyses. Se usaron mtodos cuantitativos para determinar la zona de transicin entre la flora oriental y occidental en Texas. La transicin entre la regin sur oriental de bosques deciduos/conferas y la occidental de llanuras/sabana arbustiva es un rea de 300 km de ancha que se extiende desde unos 95 grados a 99 grados de longitud oeste. A travs de esta rea, las especies orientales y occidentales se separan precipitadamente; esta rea es el extremo del rango de las dos floras. Este hallazgo concuerda en gran medida con anlisis biogeogrficos realizados previamente.
41961000|Arida mattturneri Turner & Nesom, sp. nov., is described from collections made near Ruidosa in Presidio County, Texas. The plants are perennial, lavender-rayed, and occur in gypseous soils along shallow perennial streams and seeps. It is a member of Machaeranthera sect. Arida, now segregated as the genus Arida, and is similar to Arida turneri in significant respects, especially the bipinnately parted leaves. The new species is illustrated by photographs. Se describe Arida mattturneri Turner & Nesom, sp. nov, a partir de colecciones hechas cerca de Ruidosa, en Presidio County, Texas. Las plantas son perennes, rayadas de lavanda, y aparecen en suelos yesosos a lo largo de arroyos permanentes poco profundos y lugares rezumantes. Es un miembro de Machaeranthera sect. Arida, ahora segregado como gnero Arida, y es semejante a Arida turneri en aspectos importantes, especialmente en las hojas bipinnado-partidas. La nueva especie se ilustra mediante fotografas.
41961017|A new goldenrod, Solidago arenicola, has been discovered from Blount County, Alabama. It is hereby described, figured, and contrasted with three other Solidago species, S. plumosa Small, S. simplex Kunth, and S. erecta Pursh, all of which have similar morphologies and are from the southeastern U.S. Una nueva vara de oro, Solidago arenicola, ha sido descubierta en el condado de Blount de Alabama. Aqu se describe, se ilustra y se contrasta con otras tres especies de Solidago, S. plumosa Small, S. simplex Kunth y S. erecta Pursh, que son del suroeste de los Estados Unidos y tienen morfologas similares.
41960999|Recent investigations of Machaeranthera s.l. incorporating molecular, morphological, cytological, and chemical evidence have supported relationships that do not conform to any recent circumscription of the genus. To bring the classification of Machaeranthera more in line with current understanding of its evolutionary history, revisions to its taxonomy are proposed. Machaeranthera is circumscribed to include two species, and other species that have been included in Machaeranthera are apportioned into three additional genera. Dieteria is revived to accommodate three of these species, Xanthisma is expanded to accomodate 16 more species, and the new genus Arida is proposed for those remaining. New combinations for the species in Dieteria, Xanthisma, and Arida are provided. Investigaciones recientes en Machaeranthera s.l. que incluyen datos moleculares, morfolgicos, citolgicos, y qumicos dan como resultado unas relaciones que no concuerdan con ninguna circunscripcin reciente del gnero. Para poner la clasificacin de Machaeranthera ms en lnea con el conocimiento actual de su historia evolutiva, se proponen revisiones de su taxonoma. Machaeranthera se circunscribe para incluir dos especies, y otras especies que se haban incluido en Machaeranthera se redistribuyen en tres gneros adicionales. Dieteria se rescata para acomodar tres de estas especies, Xanthisma se expande para incluir 16 especies ms, y se propone el nuevo gnero Arida para las restantes. Se realizan las nuevas combinaciones para las especies de Dieteria, Xanthisma, y Arida.
41960997|This paper presents a revised formal classification of the subfamilies and tribes of the Polemoniaceae based on a synthesis of new and old characters and on a traditional taxonomic approach. The genera are grouped into nine tribes and three subfamilies (Cobaeoideae, Polemonioideae, Acanthogilioideae). The five tropical and subtropical genera, which are basal in the family, fall into two primary groups: subfam. Cobaeoideae, containing Cantua, Cobaea, Bonplandia, and Loeselia; and subfam. Acanthogilioideae, containing Acanthogilia. The temperate herbaceous genera, which are derived, also fall into two primary groups. The subfam. Polemonioideae, related to and evidently derived from the Cobaeoideae, contains Polemonium, Collomia, Navarretia, Phlox, Linanthus, etc. The second main group of temperate herbaceous genera is the tribe Gilieae, which is related to the tribe Acanthogilieae and included in the same subfamily Acanthogilioideae with it. The Gilieae contains the genera Gilia, Eriastrum, Ipomopsis, etc. This system differs in numerous respects from the recent system of Porter and Johnson (Aliso, vol. 19(1), 2000), based on a molecular cladistic approach. Different goals and methods produce different results. It is suggested that other plant groups, which have been revised in recent times according to molecular cladistic evidence and criteria, should also be revised by taxonomic methods. Updated taxonomic classifications are needed for the useful features that they alone provide. En este trabajo se presenta una clasificacin formal revisada de las subfamilias y tribus de las Polemoniaceae basada en una sntesis de caracteres nuevos y viejos mediante un mtodo taxonmico clsico. Los gneros se agrupan en nueve tribus y tres subfamilias (Cobaeoideae, Polemonioideae, Acanthogilioideae). Los cinco gneros tropicales y subtropicales, que son bsales en la familia, quedan en dos grupos primarios: subfam. Cobaeoideae, con Cantua, Cobaea, Bonplandia, y Loeselia; y subfam. Acanthogilioideae, con Acanthogilia. Los gneros herbceos templados, que son derivados, tambin estn en dos grupos primarios. La subfam. Polemonioideae, relacionada y evidentemente derivada de Cobaeoideae, contiene a Polemonium, Collomia, Navarretia, Phlox, Linanthus, etc. El segundo grupo principal de gneros herbceos templados es la tribu Gilieae, que se relaciona con la tribu Acanthogilieae y est incluida tambin en la misma subfamilia Acanthogilioideae. Gilieae contiene los gneros Gilia, Eriastrum, Ipomopsis, etc. Este sistema difiere en numerosos aspectos del sistema reciente de Porter y Johnson (Aliso, vol. 19(1), 2000), basado en un mtodo cladstico molecular. Diferentes objetivos y mtodos producen resultados diferentes. Se sugiere que otros grupos de plantas, que han sido revisados recientemente con criterios y mtodos dadistas moleculares deberan revisarse tambin por mtodos taxonmicos. Las clasificaciones taxonmicas actualizadas se necesitan por las caractersticas que slo ellas pueden ofrecer.
41961054|Naturalized populations of the Asian amphibious species Rotala rotundifolia are documented for three peninsular Florida counties. Distinguishing characters and a comment on invasive potential are also provided. Se documentan las poblaciones naturalizadas de la especie Asitica anfibia Rotala rotundifolia para tres condados de Florida peninsular. Se presentan tambin caracteres distintivos y un comentario acerca del potencial de invasin.
41961048|An annotated list of 38 additions to the vascular flora of Cleveland County, Arkansas is presented. The additions presented were collected from Moro Bottoms Natural Area, a state-protected old-growth bottomland hardwood forest located in the northwest region of the county. Se presenta una lista comentada de 38 adiciones a la flora vascular de Cleveland County, Arkansas. Las adiciones presentadas se recolectaron en Moro Bottoms Natural Area, un bosque pantanoso viejo protegido por el estado, ubicado en la parte noroeste del municipio.
41961039|Plants previously considered Polygonum patulum Bieb in California are within the range of variation of Polygonum ramosissimum Michx. complex. The real Polygonum patulum is recorded now for the first time from Alabama, Illinois, Utah and Washington, where it has occurred as a rare ruderal. Las plantas consideradas previamente Polygonum patulum en California se encuentran dentro del rango de variacin del complejo de Polygonum ramosissimum. El verdadero Polygonum patulum es citado ahora por primera vez en Alabama, Illinois, Utah y Washington, donde ha aparecido como un ruderal raro.
41960993|Portulaca matthewsii is proposed and described as a new species. It belongs to subg. Portulaca sect. Catoclasis subsect. Conocarpae, and has been collected in the northern part of the "Sierra Gorda" Biosphere Reserve, in the Mexican state of Quertaro. The new taxon primarily differs from the known Mexican species of this subsection by the fibrous roots and by the stellate-tuberculate surface of the seed. Se propone y describe a Portulaca matthewsii como especie nueva para la ciencia. Este taxon se ubica en el subgnero Portulaca, seccin Catoclasis, subseccin Conocarpae, y ha sido colectada en la porcin norte de la Reserva de la Biosfera "Sierra Gorda", en el estado mexicano de Quertaro. La entidad nueva se diferencia de las especies de la subseccin conocidas para Mxico por la presencia de races fibrosas, as como por la superficie de la semilla que es estelulado-tuberculada.
41961007|Gentianella boliviana and G. inaequicalyx art recognized as species and the nomenclatural combinations are validated. Se reconocen como especies Gentianella boliviana y G. inaequicalyx, y se validan las combinaciones nomenclaturales.
41961001|Revision of the group of species formerly placed in Oerstedianthus Lundell revealed that the group is synonymous with Ardisia subgenus Graphardisia Mez. This paper incorporates those taxa in the subgenus, necessitating further revision of subgenus Graphardisia, including an emended description of the subgenus, a key to the species and subspecies, along with updated descriptions of the four added taxa and new illustrations for each. Four additional taxa are recognized, including one new species: Ardisia verdisepala Ricketson & Pipoly, and one new combination: Ardisia nigrescens subsp. donnellsmithii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly. Seven binomials are relegated to synonymy within A. tuerckheimii Donn. Sm. In addition, Ardisia nigrescens Oerst., A. nigrescens subsp. donnellsmithii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly and A. tuerckheimii Donn. Sm. are lectotypified. Una revisin del grupo de especies anteriormente clasificadas dentro del gnero Oerstedianthus Lundell revel que el grupo se ubica mejor dentro del gnero Ardisia subgnero Graphardisia Mez, y por lo tanto se relega el gnero a la sinonimia. El propsito del presente trabajo es para incorporar ese grupo dentro del subgnero, y actualizar su circunscripcin, claves para identificar las especies y subespecies, descripciones de ellas y nuevas ilustraciones para cada una. Se reconocen cuatro taxa adicionales, que incluye una especie nueva para la ciencia: Ardisia verdisepala Ricketson & Pipoly, y una nueva combinacin: Ardisia nigrescens subsp. donnellsmithii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly. Se relegan siente binomiales a la sinonimia bajo A. tuerckheimii Donn. Sm. Adems, se lectotipifican Ardisia nigrescens Oerst., A. nigrescens subsp. donnellsmithii (Mez) Ricketson & Pipoly y A. tuerckheimii Donn. Sm.
41968168|Thelypteris rhachiflexuosa Riba, described from Veracruz is recorded from Chiapas, where it was found in Northern Highlands. Additional data about distribution, habitat, and morphology are discussed. Thelypteris rhachiflexuosa Riba, descrito de Veracruz, es registrado para las Montaas del Norte de Chiapas. Se discute informacin sobre su distribucin, habitat y morfologa.
41968139|We describe in this paper the hybrid genus  Taxodiomeria Z.J. Ye, J.J. Zhang et S.H. Pan, gen. nov. (Taxodium Rich,  Cryptomeria D. Don) and the hybrid species  T. peizhongii Z.J. Ye, J.J. Zhang et S.H. Pan, sp. nov. (Taxodium mucronatum Ten.  Cryptomeria fortunei Hooibrenk ex Otto et Dietr.) (Taxodiaceae). The hybrid originated in Nanjing in 1963 and was introduced into Shanghai in 1975; it has been propagated vegetatively since then. These hybrids, about 2000 in all, were hardly known but are now big trees and highly valued for their fine shape, faster growth rate, and adaptation to urban environments compared to Taxodium and Metasequoia. Morphologically, the hybrid species strongly resembles Taxodium mucronatum, differing slightly in a few vegetative characteristics.  Taxodiomeria Z.J. Ye, J.J. Zhang et S.H. Pan, gen. nov. (Taxodium Rich.  Cryptomeria D. Don)  T. peizhongii Z.J. Ye, J.J. Zhang et S.H. Pan, sp. nov. (Taxodium mucronatum Ten.  Cryptomeria fortunei Hooibrenk ex Otto et Dietr.) (Taxodiaceae)  1963 1975  2000  (Taxodium)  (Metasequioa)   (Taxodium mucronatum) 
41968127|A new species of the South East Asian Genus Pteroceras Hassk is described, illustrated and compared to its closest relative Pteroceras johorense. Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Pteroceras Hassk. del sureste de sia, se ilustra y se compara con su pariente ms prximo Pteroceras johorense.
41968117|In the course of a cladistic analysis and systematic revision of Charianthus (Melastomataceae: Miconieae), it was discovered that one species, C. fadyenii (Hook.) Griseb., is unrelated to the other members of that genus, and this species is thus reassigned to Tetrazygia En el curso de un anlisis cladstico y revisin sistemtica de Charianthus (Melastomataceae: Miconieae), se descubri que una especie, C. fadyenii (Hook.) Griseb., no est relacionada a los otros miembros de este gnero y por ello es reasignado a Tetrazygia.
41968146|Pit membrane remnants in scalariform perforations of mature Illicium floridanum vessels of stems and roots from three sources were studied with scanning electron microscope (SEM). Several methods of preservation and microtechnical treatment were used; results for all of these methods, for the three sources, and for the two organs revealed similar patterns. The perforation pit membranes illustrated are believed to be relatively free of artifacts. Pit membrane presence in perforations of all collections of I. floridanum studied ranges from intact non-porose pit membranes to near-absence of any pit membrane fragments. However, the extreme conditions are relatively infrequent, and the most common condition is presence of less than 50% of the pit membrane; presence of more than 50% of the pit membrane is somewhat less common. The phylogenetic significance of pit membrane presence in perforations is considered a symplesiomorphic feature for angiosperms. Presence of pit membrane remnants in perforations is valuable in phylogenetic analyses of angiosperms. Se estudiaron al microscopio electrnico de barrido (SEM) restos de las membranas de punteaduras de las perforaciones escalariformes de vasos de tallos y raices de Illicium floridanum maduros procedentes de tres fuentes. Se usaron varios mtodos de conservacin y tratamientos microtcnicos; obteniendo patrones similares con todos los mtodos, para las tres fuentes y los dos rganos. Las perforaciones de las membranas de las punteaduras que se ilustran se cree que no tienen artefactos. La presencia de punteaduras de membrana en las perforaciones de todas las colecciones de I. floridanum estudiadas varan desde punteaduras intactas no-porosas hasta la casi ausencia de fragmentos de membrana. Sin embargo, las condiciones extremas son relativamente infrecuentes, y las condiciones ms comunes son la presencia de menos del 50% de membrana de la punteadura; la presencia de ms del 50% de la membrana de la punteadura es algo menos frecuente. El significado filogentico de la presencia de la membrana de la punteadura en las perforaciones se considera una caracterstica simplesiomorfica en angiospermas. La presencia de restos de la membrana de la punteadura en las perforaciones es valiosa en los anlisis filogenticos en angiospermas.
41968126|Preparation of a taxonomic treatment of the Myrsinaceae for the Flora Mesoamericana project resulted in the discovery of a new species, Stylogyne pucuroensis Ricketson & Pipoly, which is described and illustrated. Its closest relationship is with S. ardisioides A. DC Stylogyne glomeruliflora is removed from the project area. Al preparar un tratamiento taxonmico de la familia Myrsinaceae para Flora Mesoamericana, se descubri una especie nueva para la ciencia, Stylogyne pucuroensis Ricketson & Pipoly. Se describe, se ilustra y se discute el parentezco de la nueva especie. Se elimina la especie Stylogyne glomeruliflora como registro para Mesoamerica como resultado del estudio.
41968123|Ardisia escallonoides, Myrsine myricoides and Parathesis melanostricta (Myrsinaceae), are lectotypified, based on Schiede and Deppe collections housed at HAL. Se lecotipifican Ardisia escallonoides, Myrsine myricoides y Parathesis melanostricta (Myrsinaceae), en base a colecciones de Schiede y Deppe guardados en el herbario HAL.
41968159|A floristic inventory of the 3,755-ha Thurmond Ranch and immediate vicinity, located in southern Roger Mills County, Oklahoma, was conducted in 2001. Because of its unusual geologic and topographic setting, which has given rise to a heterogeneous environment and long history of human habitation, the site has been the subject of intense archeological and paleoclimatological research since the early 1980s. The inventory documented 85 families, 286 genera, and 470 species of vascular plants in the study area. The five most species-rich families, Asteraceae, Poaceae, Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae, and Cyperaceae, collectively account for 51% of the species. Non-native species constitute 10% of the total flora. Four North American species probably were introduced by Euro-Americans, and Native Americans may have introduced three species. Populations of four species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were discovered, and Epilobium leptophyllum is reported for the first time in Oklahoma. Collection data show a marked floristic difference between the Tertiary Ogallala Formation and the Permian redbeds along the ecotone. Nineteen major vegetation alliances were identified based on observational data, including three woodland alliances, seven shrubland alliances, and eight herbaceous alliances. Mixed-grass prairie plant communities dominate the study area landscape. Se realiz un inventario florstico de las 3,755-ha del Thurmond Ranch y alrededores, localizado en el sur del condado de Roger Mills, Oklahoma, en 2001. Debido a las inusuales caractersticas geolgicas y topogrficas, que dieron lugar a un ambiente heterogneo y larga historia de ocupacin humana, el lugar ha sido objeto de intensa investigacin arqueolgica y paleoclimatolgica desde principio de los 1980. El inventario document 85 familias, 286 gneros, y 470 especies de plantas vasculares en el rea de estudio. Las cinco familias ms ricas, Asteraceae, Poaceae, Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae, y Cyperaceae, tienen conjuntamente el 51% de las especies. Las especies no nativas comprenden el 10% de la flora total. Cuatro especies norteamericanas fueron introducidas probablemente por Euro-Americanos, y los nativos americanos puede que hayan introducido tres especies. Se descubrieron poblaciones de cuatro especies seguidas por el Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory, y Epilobium leptophyllum se cita por primera vez en Oklahoma. Los datos de coleccin muestran una clara diferencia floristica entre la formacin terciaria de Ogallala y las capas sedimentarias rojizas del prmico a lo largo del ecotono. Se identificaron diecinueve alianzas de vegetacin basadas en datos de observacin, que incluyen tres alianzas arbreas, siete arbustivas, y ocho herbceas. Las comunidades mixtas de pradera dominan el paisaje del rea de estudio.
41968152|The mitotic chromosome count for Toxicoscordion nuttallii (2n = 22), reported here, matches the number formerly documented for other species in the genus. A previous unvouchered report of 2n = 32 for this species, therefore, likely represents a misidentification, and a base number of x = 11 is synapomorphic for Toxicoscordion. An updated overview of this recently resurrected segregate genus is given. El recuento de cromosomas mitticos en Toxicoscordion nuttallii (2n = 22), citado aqu, concuerda con el nmero documentado anteriormente para otras especies del gnero. Un reporte previo, sin catalogar, de 2n = 32 para esta especie, probablemente representa una identificacin incorrecta y el nmero base de x = 11 es sinapomrfico para Toxicoscordion. Aqu se presenta una revisin de este gnero segregado recientemente resucitado.
41968125|A new infrageneric classification for the genus Parathesis is proposed. The genus is divided into two subgenera, Parathesis subg. Laterales Ricketson & Pipoly, and subg. Parathesis. Parathesis subgenus Laterales is further divided into sections Calophyllae Ricketson & Pipoly, and Laterales Ricketson & Pipoly. Parathesis subg. Parathesis is also further divided into sections Cubanae Ricketson & Pipoly, Parathesis, and Versatiles Ricketson & Pipoly. All 95 species are listed in their respective sections. Se propone una nueva clasificacin infragenrica para el gnero Parathesis. Se divide el gnero en dos subgneros, Parathesis subg. Laterales Ricketson & Pipoly, y subg. Parathesis. Se divide el Parathesis subgnero Laterales en secciones: Laterales Ricketson & Pipoly, y Calophyllae Rickeston & Pipoly. Se divide Parathesis subg. Parathesis en secciones, Cubanae Ricketson & Pipoly, Parathesis y Versatiles Ricketson & Pipoly. Se enumeran todas las 95 especies del gnero en sus secciones respectivas.
41968158|Big Branch Marsh National Wildlife Refuge is a U.S. Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service complex comprising approximately 5,870 ha (14,500 acres). A floristic survey was conducted to provide refuge staff with a checklist of vascular plant species, along with species abundance and habitat preference when one existed. Collecting trips made to the refuge from August 1999 through April 2002 yielded 563 infraspecific taxa of vascular plants representing 117 families and 309 genera. The four largest families are Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Asteraceae, and Fabaceae. Descriptions of salient plant communities are provided. El Refugio Nacional de Vida Salvaje de Big Branch Marsh es un complejo del Servicio del Departamento de Pesca Interior y Vida Salvaje de los Estados Unidos que tiene aproximadamente 5,870 ha (14,500 acres). Se realiz un estudio florstico para ofrecer al personal del Refugio un listado de las especies de plantas vasculares, junto con abundancia de especies y preferencia de habitat cuando existia. Los viajes de recoleccin al refugio de agosto de 1999 a abril de 2002 dieron 563 taxa infraespecficos de plantas vasculares pertenecientes a 117 familias y 309 gneros. Las cuatro familias ms grandes son Poaceae, Cyperaceae, Asteraceae, y Fabaceae. Se ofrecen descripciones de las comunidades vegetales ms importantes.
41968177|A rockhouse microhabitat located in the xeric savannah / woodland community of the West Cross Timbers of North Central Texas is discussed and an associated disjunct population of Arisaema triphyllum is reported. Se discute un microhabitat rocoso en la comunidad sabana / arbolado de West Cross Timbers en el centro-norte de Texas y se cita una poblacin disyunta asociada de Arisaema triphyllum.
41968156|One-hundred twenty-two species of seed plants, representing 95 genera and 35 families are documented for the 7,700 ha Mohawk Dune Field and its immediate surroundings, located in Yuma County, Arizona, USA. Three major habitats were studied: dunes, adjacent sand flats, and playa. The dunes (including interdune swales) support 78 species, of which 13 do not occur on the adjacent non-dune habitats. The adjacent non-dune habitats (sand flats and playa) support 109 species, of which 43 were not found on the dunes. The total flora has 81 annual species, or 66% of the flora. The dune flora has 63 annual (ephemeral) species, or 81% of the floraone of the highest percentages of annuals among any regional flora. Of these dune annuals, 53 species (84%) develop during the cool season. No plant taxon is endemic to the Mohawk region. There are 8 dune, or sand adapted, endemicsCryptantha ganderi, Dimorphocarpa pinnatifida, Dicoria canescens, Ditaxis serrata, Pleuraphis rgida, Psorothamnus emoryi, Stephanomeria schottii, Tiquilia plicata-all of which are found on nearby dune systems. Two of them (C. ganderi and S. schottii) are of limited distribution, especially in the USA, and have G2 Global Heritage Status Rank. There are four non-native species in the dune flora (Brassica tournefortii, Mollugo cerviana, Sonchus asper, Schismus arabicus), but only Brassica and Schismus seem to pose serious threats to the dune ecosystem at this time. The Mohawk Dune field is within the Lower Colorado Valley phytogeographic region of the Sonoran Desert and located within the Barry M. Goldwater Military Range. This unique dune system, largely unaffected by human activities, is recommended as a site for baseline studies of plant migrations and population dynamics affected by global climatic change. Ciento veintidos especies de espermatfitos, que representan 95 gneros y 35 familias se documentan para las 7,700 ha del Mohawk Dune Field y sus alrededores, en el condado de Yuma, Arizona, USA. Se estudiaron tres grandes habitats: dunas, arenales planos, y playas. Las dunas (incluyendo las depresiones interdunares) tienen 78 especies, de las que 13 no se dan en los habitats no dunares adyacentes. Los hbitats adyacentes no dunares (arenales planos y playa) tienen 109 especies, de las que 43 no se encontraron en las dunas. La flora total tiene 81 especies anuales, o el 66% de la flora. La flora dunar tiene 63 especies anuales (efmeras), o el 81% de la florauno de los porcentajes ms altos de anuales en las floras regionales. De estas anuales dunares, 53 (84%) se desarrollan durante la estacin fra.
41968161|We review the literature on West Gulf Coastal Plain ecoregions and examine the methodology used by ecoregion mappers. Ecoregion mapping has been done almost entirely without quantitative assessment. We suggest that quantitative descriptions should replace impressionistic descriptions. Hemos revisado la bibliografa de las ecorregiones de la West Gulf Coastal Plain y examinado la metodologa usada por los cartgrafos de ecorregiones. La cartografa ecorregional ha sido realizada casi totalmente sin evaluacin cuantitativa. Sugerimos que las descripciones cuantitativas deben reemplazar a las descripciones impresionistas.
41968121|Two new species of Parathesis, P. pseudocalophylla Ricketson & Pipoly from Chiapas, Mexico, and P. pseudocrassiramea Ricketson & Pipoly from San Jos, Costa Rica, are described and illustrated. Further revision of the genus has revealed the necessity of neotypifying P. rothschuhiana Mez. Se describen y se ilustran dos especies nuevas pertenecientes al gnero Parathesis, P. pseudocalophylla Ricketson et Pipoly, y P. pseudocrassiramea Ricketson et Pipoly, provenientes de Chiapas, Mxico y San Jos, Costa Rica. Adems, se neotipifica P. rothschuiana Mez.
41968118|A new combination is made for A Flora of the Chihuahuan Desert Region and for Flora of North America North of Mexico in the now more broadly constructed Acleisanthes (Nyctaginaceae): Acleisanthes lanceolata (Wooton) R.A. Levin var. megaphylla (Fowler & B.L. Turner) Spellenb. & J. Poole, comb. nov. This is based on evidence published recently by Levin (2000) showing that neither Acleisanthes nor Selinocarpus as traditionally treated is monophyletic, but together they form a well-defined clade in the Nyctaginaceae. We also provide a short review of the literature showing that Commicarpus somalensis (Chiov.) Lebrun & Stork is correctly an Acleisanthes (sensu lato), based on Selinocarpus somalensis Chiov. Due to need for consistency in level of infraspecific rank in treatments in Flora of North America North of Mexico Abronia umbellata Lam. subsp. breviflora (Standl.) Munz is recombined as Abronia umbellata Lam. var. breviflora (Standl.) L.A. Galloway, comb, et stat. nov. Se hace una combinacin nueva para "A Flora of the Chihuahuan Desert Region" y para "Flora of North America North of Mexico" en el gnero Acleisanthes, ahora construido mas ampliamente: Acleisanthes lanceolata (Wooton) R.A. Levin var. megaphylla (Fowler & B.L. Turner) Spellenb. & J. Poole, comb. nov. Esta combinacin resulta de la evidencia recientemente publicada por Levin (2000), demostrando que ni Acleisanthes ni Selinocarpus, como se han tratado tradicionalmente, son monofilticos, pero juntos forman un ciado bien definido en las Nyctaginaceae. Tambin, ofrecemos citaciones bibliogrficas declarando que Commicarpus somalensis (Chiov.) Lebrun & Stork es actualmente una Acleisanthes (sensu lato), basado en Selinocarpus somalensis Chiov. A causa de la necesidad de consistencia a nivel de categoras infraspecficas en los tratamientos de "Flora of North America North of Mexico" Abronia umbellata Lam. subsp. breviflora (Standl.) Munz se ha recombinado como Abronia umbellata Lam. var. breviflora (Standl.) L.A. Galloway, comb, et stat. nov.
41968148|The life cycle type of Grindelia lanceolata Nutt has been described as biennial, short-lived monocarpic perennial, and (polycarpic) perennial in the taxonomic literature. Plants of this species in middle Tennessee cedar glades clearly are monocarpic. However, field observations suggested that those from glades in northern Alabama are at least dicarpic, and further that they differ morphologically and flower later than those in Tennessee glades. The purpose of this study was to determine if differences in morphology, flowering phenology, and/or life cycle type of Tennessee and Alabama plants are retained when grown from seeds in a "common garden" - i.e., in a nonheated greenhouse in Lexington, Kentucky. Morphological differences (all statistically significant) between G. lanceolata plants from Tennessee and Alabama were measure in the following: (1) size of both rosette and stem leaves; (2) number of secondary basal stems; (3) height of primary stem; (4) number of capitula per plant; (5) number of ray and of disk flowers per capitulum; (6) diameter of capitulum; and (7) length of ray flower corolla . Tennessee plants began flowering about 1 month earlier than Alabama plants, and none of them produced basal rosettes after they flowered once (in their 2nd year), confirming that they are strictly monocarpic. Alabama plants also flowered first in their 2nd year; however, 66% of them have produced basal rosettes (which bolted and flowered) for five consecutive growing seasons, confirming that they are polycarpic. Also, individual Tennessee plants potentially can produce twice as many seeds as individual Alabama plants during a single flowering/fruiting period. These results strongly suggest genetic differences exist in vegetative and floral morphology, flowering phenology, and life cycle type between Tennessee and Alabama plants of G. lanceolata. We speculate that these differences could be associated with different ancestral geographic origins: Tennessee plants from a monocarpic race in the Ozarks and Alabama plants from a perennial race in the Southwest. El tipo de ciclo de vida de Grindelia lanceolata Nutt. ha sido descrito, en la literature taxonmica, como bianual, como perenne monocrpico de vida corta y como perenne (policrpico). Las plantas de esta especie presentes en claros calcreos del rea central de Tennessee son claramente monocrpicas. Sin embargo, observaciones de campo sugieren que aquellas de la zona norte de Alabama son, al menos, dicrpicas; y mas all, que difieren morfolgicamente y que florecen ms tarde que aquellas de los claros calcreos de Tennesssee. El propsito de este estudio fue determinar si las diferencias en morfologa, fenologa floral y/o tipo de ciclo de vida de plantas de Tennessee y Alabama se mantienen cuando las plantas crecen a partir se semillas en un "jardin comn" - i.e., en un vivero sin calefaccion en Lexington, Kentucky. Las diferencias morfolgicas (todas estadsticamente significativas) entre plantas de G. lanceolata de Tennessee y de Alabama incluyen: (1) el tamao de ambas clases de hojas, de roseta y de tallos; (2) nmero de tallos bsales secundarios; (3) altura del tallo principal; (4) nmero de captulos por planta; (5) nmero de flores radiales y de disco por captulo; (6) dimetro del captulo; y (7) longitud de la corolla de las flores radiales. Las plantas de Tennessee comenzaron a florecer aproximadamente l mes ms temprano que las plantas de Alabama y ninguna de ellas produjo rosetas bsales despus de haber florecido una vez (en su 2do ao), confirmando que son monocrpicas estrictas. Las plantas de Alabama tambin florecieron en su 2do ao; sin embargo, 66% de ellas sigui produciendo rosetas bsales (que desarrollaron tallo y florecieron) por cinco perodos de crecimiento, confirmando que son policrpicas. Adems, cada individuo de Tennessee puede producir potencialmente el doble se semillas que los individuos de Alabama durante cada perodo de floracin/fructificacin. Los resultados sugieren claramente que hay diferencias genticas en la morfologa vegetativa y floral, la fenologa floral, y los tipos de ciclo de vida entre plantas de G. lanceolata de Tennessee y de Alabama. Especulamos que estas diferencias pueden deberse a que estos dos grupos tengan diferentes orgenes geogrficos: las plantas de Tennessee, de una raza monocrpica en los Ozarks; y las plantas de Alabama, de razas perennes del sudoeste.
41968142|A new species, Festuca dentiflora E.B. Alexeev ex Stanik & P.M. Peterson from the Andes of Peru, is described and illustrated. The new species is a member of Festuca subg. Subulatae (Tzvelev) E.B. Alexeev sect. Glabricarpae E.B. Alexeev and is apparently closely related to Festuca caldasii (Kunth) Kunth from Ecuador and Colombia. A key to the species of Festuca sect. Glabricarpae is included. In addition, the taxonomic status and geographical origin of F. presliana is discussed. Se describe e ilustra una especie nueva de Festuca de los Andes de Per: F. dentiflora E.B. Alexeev ex Stank & P.M. Peterson. La nueva especie pertenece a Festuca subg. Subulatae (Tzvelev) E.B. Alexeev sect. Glabricarpae E.B. Alexeev, se considera estrechamente relacionada aparentemente con la especie F. caldasii (Kunth) Kunth de Ecuador y Colombia. Se presenta tambin una clave para la determinacin de las especies de Festuca sect. Glabricarpae. Adems, se discute el estatus taxonmico y origen geogrfico de F. presliana.
41968135|The morphology and anatomy of bracteoles were surveyed in 20 Amaranthus taxa in order to determine their taxonomic significance and role. Three types of bracteoles were distinguished: spinose, foliaceous and membranous. The bracteoles retain the C structure of the leaves, but they differ from the latter by the presence of well-developed sclerenchyma and the arch-shaped Kranz bundle-sheath. Protection and photosynthesis are the two functions of bracteoles inferred from their structure. Based on their structure, foliaceous and membranous bracteoles are considered symplesiomorphic, while spinose bracteoles are interpreted as synapomorphic. The spines present at the base of each leaf in A. spinosus L. are metamorphosed bracteoles. The shortness of bracteoles in the grain amaranths (A. caudatus L, A. cruentus L. and A. hypochondriacus L.) was found to be a reliable character, which separates them from their wild relatives (A. hybridus L. and A. powellii S. Watson). The structure of bracteoles may be significant for recognition of taxa in only a few cases: A. hybridus L. and A. powellii S. Wats.; A. powellii subsp. powellii and subsp. bouchonii (Thell.) Costea & Carretero and A. blitum L agg. La morfologa y anatoma de las bracteolas de 20 taxa de Amaranthus fueron examinadas para determinar su significado taxonmico y su funcin. Se diferenciaron tres tipos de bracteolas: espinosas, foliceas y membranosas. Las bracteolas retienen la estructura C de las hojas, pero difieren de estas ltimas por la presencia de un esclernquima bien desarrollado y en la forma arqueada de la vaina de los haces de tipo Kranz. Las dos funciones de las bracteolas son la proteccin y la fotosntesis segn se deduce de su estructura. Basndonos en su estructura, las bracteolas foliceas y membranosas son consideradas como simplesiomrficas, mientras que las bracteolas espinosas son interpretadas como sinapomrficas. Las espinas presentes en la base de cada hoja de A. spinosus L. son bracteolas metamorfoseadas. La cortedad de las bracteolas en los amarantos cultivados como pseudocereales (A. caudatus L., A. cruentus L. y A. hypochondriacus L.) fue encontrada como un carcter que los separa de sus parientes silvestres (A. hybridus L. y A. powellii S. Watson). La estructura de las bracteolas puede ser significativa para el reconocimiento de taxa slo en algunos casos: A. hybridus L. y A. powellii S. Wats.; A. powellii subsp. powellii y subsp. bouchonii (Tell.) Costea & Carretero y A. blitum agg.
41968133|This paper responds to Turner's inclusion of Glandularia verecunda and G. racemosa into G. quadrangulata. The latter has distinctive terminal appendages on the nutlets and the pericarp flares outward at the base; G. verecunda, is very similar vegetatively, has similar nutlets, but they lack the distinctive terminal appendage. Pollen/ovule ratios indicate that both taxa are facultative autogamous and both taxa have distinct ranges with limited areas of sympatry. No intermediates are known, and intermediate characteristics may not exist. They also differ in their flavonoid compliments supporting their recognition as distinct species. Glandularia racemosa, with larger corollas, a different nutlet type, and leaf structure, is a hexaploid (not tetraploid as in the other taxa) and represents a separate group within the genus and should not have been submerged into G. quadrangulata. Este artculo responde a la inclusin de Turner de Glandularia verecunda y G. racemosa en G. quadrangulata. Esta ltima tiene apndices terminales distintivos en las nculas y el pericarpo se acampana hacia el exterior en la base; G. verecunda, es muy similar vegetativamente, tiene nculas similares, pero le falta el apndice terminal distintivo. La relacin polen/vulos indica que ambos taxa son autgamos facultativos y ambos taxa tienen diferente distribucin con reas de simpatra limitada. No se conocen intermedios, y los caracteres intermedios puede que no existan. Tambin se diferencian en su dotacin de flavonoides que apoyan su reconocimiento como especies distintas. Glandularia racemosa, con corolas ms grandes, un tipo diferente de ncula, y estructura de la hoja, es un hexaploide (no tetraploide como en los otros taxa) y representa un grupo separado en el gnero y no debera haber sido incluida en G. quadrangulata.
41968173|New distribution records of Agalinis species are reported including Agalinis harperi Pennell new to Texas. Se citan nuevas localidades de especies de Agalinis incluyendo Agalinis harperi Pennell nueva para Texas.
41968162|The John D. Freeman Herbarium at Auburn University can trace its roots almost back to the foundation of the institution itself in 1856. By 1867 the campus boasted a natural history museum that housed botanical collections. This was most likely the first organized herbarium at Auburn University. Such notable former faculty as F.S. Earle, L.M. Underwood and especially P.H. Mell, Jr., surmounted early challenges, including a destructive fire in 1887, to establish and maintain a herbarium collection. By 1901, the herbarium housed over 40,000 specimens, including important collections from A.H. Curtiss, G.W. Carver, A.B. Langlois, and J. Darby. Tragically, the herbarium was again destroyed by fire in 1920. Despite this, AUA again emerged from the ashes to reestablish itself as an important state and regional herbarium. Growth at AUA from 1968-1995 was due to the efforts of the late John D. Freeman, who took the herbarium from obscurity to national recognition and quintupled the number of holdings during his tenure. The Freeman Herbarium now contains over 60,000 sheets and is one of the largest and most modern collections in Alabama. The herbarium currently houses 26 documented vascular plant type specimens that are catalogued. El Herbario John D. Freeman de la Universidad de Auburn puede rastrear sus races desde la fundacin de la universidad en 1856. En 1867 la ciudad universitaria disfrutaba ya de un museo de historia natural que albergaba colecciones botnicas. Es probable que ste no fuese el primer herbario organizado que tuvo la Universidad de Auburn. Los primeros profesores destacables como F.S. Earle, L.M. Underwood, y especialmente, P.H. Mell, Jr., vencieron desafos tempranos, incluso un incendio destructivo en 1887, que perjudic el mantenimiento de la coleccin del herbario. En 1901, el herbario albergaba ms de 40,000 especies, incluyendo colecciones importantes de A.H. Curtiss, G.W. Carver, A.B. Langlois, y J. Darby. Trgicamente, el herbario fue destruido una vez ms por un incendio en 1920. A pesar de la segunda tragedia, el herbario volvi a surgir de las cenizas para restablecerse como uno de los herbarios ms importantes del estado y de la regin. El crecimiento del herbario desde los aos 1968-1995, fue debido a los esfuerzos del ex-curador John D. Freeman, quien tomo el herbario desde sus penumbras hasta ser nacionalmente reconocido y quintuplic el nmero de colecciones durante su periodo como curador. Actualmente el herbario John D. Freeman cuenta con ms de 60,000 ejemplares y es uno de los herbarios ms grandes y modernos del estado de Alabama. Hasta la fecha el herbario alberga 26 ejemplares tipo de plantas vasculares documentadas que estn propiamente enumeradas y catalogadas.
41968154|The distinctive historical vegetation pattern of alternating tallgrass prairies on clay soils and oak woodlands/savannas on sandy soils in North Central Texas and East Texas has been described for more than a century. Many authors have attributed this pattern to relatively high levels of soil moisture available for tree growth on areas of sandy soil, and conversely, inadequate levels of soil moisture for tree growth on clay soils. However, this explanation is not consistent with present day observations of rapid invasion of clay soils by woody vegetation. We propose an alternative hypothesis, that the historical distribution of prairies and woodlands in North Central and East Texas can be explained by soil-dependent variations in grass biomass and resulting differences in fire frequency and intensity. El patrn histrico de vegetacin en el que alternan praderas con hierbas altas en suelos calcreos y robledales / sabana en suelos arenosos en el centro-norte y este de Texas ha sido descrito durante ms de un siglo. Muchos autores han atribuido este patrn a los niveles relativamente altos de humedad en el suelo disponible para el crecimiento de los rboles en reas de suelo arenoso, y por el contrario, niveles inadecuados de humedad en el suelo para el crecimiento de rboles en suelos calcreos. Sin embargo, esta explicacin no es consistente con las observaciones actuales de invasin rpida de suelos calcreos por vegetacin arbrea. Proponemos una hiptesis alternativa, que la distribucin histrica de las praderas y bosques en el centro-norte y este de Texas puede ser explicada por las variaciones dependientes del suelo en la biomasa de las gramneas y las diferencias resultantes en la frecuencia e intensidad del fuego.
41968153|The Raja Ampat district of Indonesian Papua is one of New Guinea's most unusual floristic environments. A recent rapid-assessment survey examined vegetation patterns across the district, characterizing the major plant communities and identifying existing biodiversity threats. Mangroves, beach forest, lowland hill forest, limestone karst, and ultrabasic (serpentine) woodland were the principal natural-growth habitats explored by the botanical team. Although several lowland areas are being degraded by concessional logging, most of the limestone communities remain in pristine condition. There are substantial prospects for future taxonomic discovery.       
41968128|A new species of Symplocaceae, Symplocos kothayarensis Sundaresan, Jothi, Rajkumar & Manickam from the Southern Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu, India is described and illustrated. Se describe y se ilustra una especie nueva de Symplocaceae, Symplocos kothayarensis Sundaresan, Jothi, Rajkumar & Manickam del suroeste de Ghats de Tamil Nadu, India.
41968150|The cultivated grain and the weedy Amaranthus L. species (section Amaranthus) originated in the Americas. The Spaniards conquered the New World in the 16th century. Consequently, the North American species of Amaranthus could not have been introduced in Europe before this date. However, the name of the amaranth existed long before its association with plants in the genus described by Linnaeus. Several everlasting plants were named "amaranth" by the ancient Greeks and Romans, and in the medieval times. Among these, Helychrisum spp. and Celosa argentea L. are the most common. The name "Amaranthus" has had multiple meanings and ramifications through time: botanical, ethnobotanical, religious, literary and philosophical. This paper explores this history of meanings of the name "Amaranthus." Las especies cultivadas como pseudocereales y las malas hierbas de Amaranthus L. (seccin Amaranthus) tuvieron su origen en las Americas. Los espanoles conquistaron el Nuevo Mundo en el siglo diecisis. Consecuentemente, las especies norteamericanas de Amaranthus no se pudieron haber introducido en Europa antes de esta fecha. Sin embargo, el nombre del amarantho existi mucho antes de su asociacin con plantas del gnero descrito por Linneo. Varias plantas fueron denominadas "amaranth" por los griegos y romanos antiguos, as como en los tiempos medievales. Entre stos, Helychrisum spp. y Celosa argntea L. fueron algunos de los ms comunes. El nombre "Amaranthus" ha tenido mltiples significados y ramificaciones a travs del tiempo: botnicos, etnobotnicos, religiosos, literarios y filosficos. Este artculo explora esta historia de significados del nombre "Amaranthus."
41968131|Packera texensis, sp. nov, is described and illustrated. It is endemic to the granitic sands of the Central Mineral Region within the Edwards Plateau of central Texas where it is known from four counties. Se describe y se ilustra Packera texensis, sp. nov. Es endmica de las arenas granticas de la "Central Mineral Region" en la Meseta Edwards del centro de Texas, de donde se conoce en cuatro condados.
41968140|A new species of Dioscorea, D. lisae Dorr & Stergios, is described and illustrated. Relationships, distinguishing characters, and sex distribution are discussed. Information also is provided on the ecology and geographical distribution of this new species. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Dioscorea, D. lisae Dorr & Stergios. Se discuten las relaciones, caracteres particulares y la distribucin del sexo. Adems, se presenta informacin de la ecologa y distribucin geogrfica de esta especie nueva.
41968143|Fourteen species of Packera are known to occur in Colorado. Recently published floras for the state have treated these species variously as Packera, Senecio and Ligularia. While preparing a treatment of this genus for the Flora of North America Project, the author discovered some confusion among the local botanists who rely on those floras for identifications of this difficult group. This paper presents descriptions for each of the species that occur in the state, comments on how to differentiate them in the field, and identification keys. Se conocen catorce especies de Packera en Colorado. Las floras del estado publicadas recientemente han tratado estas especies de modo diferente como Packera, Senecio y Ligularia. Mientras preparaba un tratamiento de este gnero para la Flora de Norte Amrica, el autor encontr confusin entre los botnicos locales que usan estas floras para las identificaciones de este grupo difcil. Este artculo presenta descripciones de las especies que viven en el estado, comentarios sobre como diferenciarlas en el campo, y claves de identificacin.
41968129|Se presenta una sinopsis del gnero Meliosma (Sabiaceae) en Costa Rica y Panam. Tres nuevas especies, Meliosma chiriquensis, M. clandestina y M. depressiva son descritas e ilustradas. A synopsis of the Costa Rican and Panamanian species of Meliosma (Sabiaceae) is presented here. Meliosma chiriquensis, M. clandestina, and M. depressiva are described and illustrated and their relationships are discussed.
41968137|Five new combinations are proposed in the genus Polygonum s. str. for the forthcoming treatment of Flora of North America: P. aviculare subsp. buxiforme, P. fowleri subsp. hudsonianum, P. humifusum subsp. caurianum, P. ramosissimum subsp. prolificum and P. striatulum var texense. The taxonomy of each taxon is briefly discussed and a diagnostic table is provided for the subspecies of Polygonum aviculare. Se proponen cinco nuevas combinaciones en el gnero Polygonum para el futuro tratamiento de este gnero en la Flora de Norteamrica: P. aviculare subsp. buxiforme, P. fowleri subsp. hudsonianum, P. humifusum subsp. caurianum, P. ramosissimum subsp. prolificum y P. striatulum var. texense. La taxonoma de cada taxon se discute brevemente y se incluye una tabla diagnstica para las subespecies de Polygonum aviculare.
41968145|The new combinations made here are: Panicum aciculare var. ramosum; Panicum aciculare var. neuranthum; Panicum acuminatum var. ferventicola; Panicum acuminatum var. thermale; Panicum commutatum var. equilaterale; Panicum ovale var. praecocius; and Panicum rigidulum var. abscissum. Se hacen las siguientes nuevas combinaciones: Panicum aciculare var. ramosum; Panicum aciculare var. neuranthum; Panicum acuminatum var. ferventicola; Panicum acuminatum var. thermale; Panicum commutatum var. equilaterale; Panicum ovale var. praecocius; y Panicum rigidulum var. abscissum.
41968164|Additions to the vascular floras of four states are reported herein: Colorado (Calibrachoa parviflora, Chamaesyce prostrata, Gleditsia triacanthos, Oenothera engelmannii, Oenothera laciniata, Trianthema portulacastrum, and Veronica persica); Iowa (Deschampsia danthonioides); Kansas (Alternanthera caracasana, Carex albicans var. australis, Carex swanii, Carum carvi, Catharanthus roseus, Cyperus diandrus, Dichanthelium dichotomum subsp. dichotomum, Dichanthelium polyanthes, Elyhordeum montanense, Erigeron canus, Geranium dissectum, Geranium molle, Hibiscus syriacus, Phyllanthus urinaria subsp. urinaria, Pyrus calleryana, Sagina apetala, Sedum sarmentosum, Silphium radula, and Tridens flavus var. chapmanii); and Oklahoma (Epilobium leptophyllum). Se hacen adiciones a la flora vascular de cuatro estados: Colorado (Calibrachoa parviflora, Chamaesyce prostrata, Gleditsia triacanthos, Oenothera engelmannii, Oenothera laciniata, Trianthema portulacastrum, y Veronica prsica); Iowa (Deschampsia danthonioides); Kansas (Alternanthera caracasana, Carex albicans var. australis, Carex swanii, Carum carvi, Catharanthus roseus, Cyperus diandrus, Dichanthelium dichotomum subsp. dichotomum, Dichanthelium polyanthes, xElyhordeum montanense, Erigeron canus, Geranium dissectum, Geranium molle, Hibiscus syriacus, Phyllanthus urinaria subsp. urinaria, Pyrus calleryana, Sagina apetala, Sedum sarmentosum, Silphium radula, y Tridens flavus var. chapmanii); y Oklahoma (Epilobium leptophyllum).
41968120|A new species of Yucca from the series Rupicolae is described from Jasper and Newton counties in eastern Texas. Series Rupicolae is distinguished by its characteristically denticulate leaves and beaked fruits. This new species, Yucca cernua, sp. nov. is described, illustrated, and distinguished from other acaulescent species in ser. Rupicolae. The combined characteristics of a tall flowering scape; the tendency of the branches of the inflorescence to recurve and droop as they lengthen; the moderately to densely floccose inflorescence; large leaves typically growing erect; relatively short capsules, pistils, and stamens; unique habitat; and disjunct distribution distinguish this species from other acaulescent species in ser. Rupicolae. The rarity of this species warrants its consideration as a candidate for state and federal regulatory protection. Also included is a key of the entire or denticulate, nonfiliferous leaved North American species of Yucca. Se describe una nueva especie de Yucca de la serie Rupicolae de los condados Jasper y Newton en el Este de Texas. La serie Rupicolae se distingue por las hojas denticuladas y frutos picudos. Esta nueva especie, Yucca cernua sp. nov., se describe, se ilustra y diferencia de las otras especies de la serie Rupicolae. Un conjunto de varias caractersticas distingue esta especie de las otras especies acaulescentes de la serie Rupicolae. Estas caractersticas son la presencia de un escapo alto con flores, la tendencia de las ramas de la inflorescencia a retorcerse y colgar cuando se alargan, la inflorescencia de mediana a densamente flocosa, cpsulas, pistilos y estambres relativamente cortos, las hojas grandes que tpicamente se desarrollan de forma erecta, un hbitat nico, y su distribucin disyunta. La rareza de esta especie justifica su consideracin como candidata para la regulacin de proteccin estatal y federal. Tambin se incluye una clave de todas las especies de Yucca norteamericanas con hojas denticuladas y filferas.
41968166|Two species of Corchorus (Tiliaceae) are reported for Mexico: Corchorus olitorius L. of Asian origin and C. trilocularis L., native of the tropics of Africa and Asia. The first species was introduced into Brazil and the Antilles toward the end of the 19th century and is now recorded for Mexico from the state of Sinaloa. The second species is known from Veracruz and Chiapas, Mexico, and as well as Panama and Ecuador. The exchange and trade of seeds from other continents could be an important way for their introduction and that might explain the presence of these two species in Mexico. At present six species of Corchorus art known to occur in Mexico. A dichotomous key for the identification of the Mexican species of the genus is provided, as well as descriptions of the two species, a map of geographic distributions for these species in America, and their vernacular names. Se dan a conocer dos nuevos registros de especies alctonas del gnero Corchorus (Tiliaceae): Corchorus olitorius L. de origen asitico y C. trilocularis L., nativa de los trpicos de frica y Asia. La primera especie fue introducido a Brasil y a las Antillas desde finales del siglo 19, en nuestro pas se reporta por primera vez del estado de Sinaloa; la segunda especie se registra de Veracruz y Chiapas, Mxico, ademas de Ecuador y Panam, se desconoce la fecha exacta de su arribo al continente americano. Se propone que el intercambio y comercio de semillas provenientes de otros continentes, puede ser una va importante para su introduccin, lo que podra explicar su presencia en Mxico. En la actualidad son seis las especies reconocidas de este gnero para Mxico. Se proporciona una clave dicotmica para separar de el gnero Corchoruse Mxico, as como la descripcin de las dos especies, un mapa de distribucin geogrfica para estas especies en Amrica y sus nombres comunes.
41966482|Keys, distributions, and taxonomic and nomenclatural notes are given for seven genera and 16 species of Lythraceae occurring in southeastern United States. Changes in the treatment of southeastern Lythraceae include recognition of the adventive ROTALA INDICA (Willd.) Koehne in Louisiana, uniting of AMMANNIA TERES Raf. of the United States with the Caribbean A. LATIFOLIA L., acceptance of the monotypic genus DIDIPLIS, and presentation of evidence for uniting LYTHRUM ALATUM Pursh and L. LANCEOLATUM Ell. as LYTHRUM ALATUM var. LANCEOLATUM (Ell.) T. & G. ex Rothrock, a previously overlooked combination. The chromosome number of CUPHEA GLUTINOSA Cham & Schlect. is reported for the first time.
41966579|A new interpretation of the Polygala grandiflora complex is presented based upon morphological, statistical, distributional, cytological, and palynological evidence. Evidence indicates that the complex consists of a single species with three infraspecific taxa. A probable phylogeny, descriptions, and a key to members of the complex are provided. The new combination Polygala grandiflora subsp. krugii (Chodat) Nauman is proposed.
41966587|Distribution information was obtained for two proposed endangered species, Schoenolirion wrightii and Bartonia texana. Eighteen current populations of Schoenolirion wrightii were observed with 10 located in Texas, five in Arkansas and three in Alabama. This taxon occurs in prairie-like openings among woodland which are likely a result of edaphic factors. Bartonia texana, in contrast, is generally encountered on gentle forested slopes with seeps and springs and occasionally along banks of shallow clear running creeks. Nine populations were found in five East Texas counties. Additional populations of both species are likely to exist. Findings indicate that these two species are more abundant and more widely distributed than originally suspected.
41966583|Numerical techniques were used to clarify the taxonomic relationships between two closely related grasses, Digitaria ciliaris and Digitaria bicornis. Principal component analysis illustrated distinct specimen clusters, whereas a correlation phenogram showed a distinct dissimilarity between the species and high degree of similarity among populations within the species. A multiple discriminant analysis procedure showed that there were no misclassifications of the specimens. Digitaria bicornis was found to have a shorter distance to the first lateral nerve on the lemma of the lower floret, a longer second glume, and a shorter first glume. Minor characters included a shorter main axis and a longer average rachis length. The length of the second glume, main axis, and rachis were characters previously not considered as taxonomically important. A nested analysis of variance showed these characters to have more than 70 percent of the measured morphological variation due to differences between species.
41966582|A new species, Erigeron tephropodus Nesom, is recognized from Oaxaca. Erigeron lepidopodus (Robinson and Fernald) Nesom is transferred from Aster to a more natural position. Description and illustrations are given for both.
41966581|The following taxa are reported new to ARKANSAS: Hypoxis longii; OKLAHOMA: Aristida roemeriana, Eragrostis refracta, Gymnopogon brevifolius, Panicum hirticaule, Paspalum langet, Paspalum notatum, Carex albursina, Carex careyana, Carex hitchcockiana, Hymenocallis caroliniana, Fatoua villosa, Chenopodium glaucum, Mirabilis gigantea, Ranunculus sardous, Camelina sativa, Cardamine hirsuta, Alchemilla microcarpa, Kubus cuneifolius, Melilotus indica, Hibiscus moscheutos, Samolus cuneatus, Lithospermum multiflorum; and from TEXAS: Hypoxis longii and Rudbeckia triloba. Isoetes butleri, type location in Oklahoma, has been recollected for the first time in over 100 years from that state.
41966598|The genus Stachys is well represented in North America. Within southeastern United States, seven species occur in a variety of habitats, some taxa very localized,some quite widespread. Field and herbarium study reveal the generally high variabilityamong these species, thus warranting the characterization of Stachys as a"difficult" genus taxonomically. Future studies on the cytology and breeding systemsat work within Stachys will be necessary for an understanding of these species'interrelationships.
41966602|The very large, mainly tropical American genus Mikania is represented in the United States by three species, none of which are endemic. These include M. scandens of much of the eastern United States, M. batataefolia of southern peninsular Florida, and M. cordifolia of Florida, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
41967549|Astragalus tennesseensis Gray ex Chapman (Fabaceae) is a cedar glade endemic that was first collected in Alabama by Professor Thomas P. Hatch in the 1850s. Evidence is presented that suggests his specimen was collected in Colbert County rather than in Lauderdale County, Alabama. The historic distribution of A. tennesseensis in Alabama was confined primarily to the Moulton Valley of the Interior Low Plateau. Recent field surveys have documented seven extant populations of this species in Alabama. Without protection, these populations likely will decline, and the species possibly could be extirpated from the southern portion of its historic range.
41967538|Quercus laceyi Small, a white oak (Quercus sect. Quercus) described in 1901 from limestone hills on the southern part of the Edwards Plateau of Texas, has been treated as a synonym of Quercus glaucoides Mart. & Gal. in recent literature. However, Q. laceyi is clearly a species distinct from Q. glaucoides, based on vegetative, floral, fruit, and embryological characters. In addition to the Edwards Plateau, Q. laceyi is found on limestone mountains of Nuevo Leon and Coahuila, Mexico, but does not overlap in distribution with Q. glaucoides sensu stricto. The latter species has a natural distribution in central and southern Mexico, from San Luis Potosi south to Oaxaca. Quercus glaucoides is the type species of subsection Glaucoideae, a group of about 30-35 species in the southwestern United States, Mexico, and Central America, which share the synapomorphy of fused cotyledons. Quercus laceyi, on the other hand, has free cotyledons, and is probably more closely related to the lobed-leaf white oaks (e.g., Quercus alba L.) of the eastern United States. A key and descriptions are provided for the two species. Quercus laceyi Small, un encino blanco (Quercus sect. Quercus) descrito en 1901 de colinas calizas en la parte sur de la Planicie Edwards en Texas, ha sido tratado como sinnimo de Quercus glaucoides Mart. & Gal. en la literatura reciente. Sin embargo, con base en caracteres vegetativos, florales, fructferos y embriolgicos, es obvio que se trata de dos especies distintas. Quercus laceyi se encuentra tanto en la Planicie Edwards como en las montanas calcareas de Nuevo Leon y Coahuila, Mxico, y su distribucin no coincide con la de Q. glaucoides. Esta ultima especie tiene una distribucion natural en el centro y sur de Mxico, desde San Luis Potos hacia el sur hasta Oaxaca. Quercus glaucoides es la especie tipo de subseccin Glaucoideae, un grupo de alrededor de 30-35 especies en el suroeste de los Estados Unidos, Mxico y Amrica Central, que presentan cotiledones fusionados como sinapomorfismo. Quercus laceyi, por otra parte, tiene cotiledones libres, y probablemente est ms relacionada con los encinos blancos de hoja lobulada (e.g., Q.alba L.) del este de los Estados Unidos. Se prove una clave y descripciones para las dos especies.
41967563|A literature review and statistical analyses of the traits used to distinguish C. strictum Herbert from C. americanum L. show that the species cannot be reliably separated. Crinum strictum is therefore considered to be conspecific with C. americanum.
41967552|A population of Wild Red Rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) was discovered in the Everglades National Park in south Florida. It has been growing in the area since at least 1959. This is the first occurrence of this species in the United States. Previous reports of its occurrence in the United States were evaluated as incorrect. Una poblacion de arroz rojo silvestre (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) fue descubierto en el Parque Nacional Everglades en el sur de Florida. Ha estado creciendo en el area desde por los menos 1959 Es la primera ocurrencia de esta especie en los Estados Unidos. Registros previos de su occurrencia en los Estados Unidos fueron evaluados como incorrectos.
41967561|Field work in the southeastern United States has resulted in a number of noteworthy Carex records. Carex conjuncta, C. ormostacbya, and C. vestita are reported new to Delaware, Virginia, and Alabama, respectively. Carex austrina, C. brevior, C. bullata, C. gravida, C. byalina, C. mitchelliana, C. molesta, C. oklabomensis, C. oligocarpa, and C. torta are reported new to Mississippi. Carex oxylepis var. pubescens is reported new to Alabama and Mississippi. Also, additional range extensions are presented for C. barrattii, C. bromoides, C. elliottii, C. byalina, C. jamesii, C. meadii, C. microdonta, C. mitchelli-ana, C. picta, C. seorsa, C. socialis, C. stricta, and C. willdenowii in several southern states.
41967532|Seventy-nine genera of the Paniceae are recognized as occurring in the Old World. For each genus a complete set of taxonomic data was collected and based on observations of all available specimens. The data were analyzed to construct a bracketed key for the genera. The fifty most diagnostic characters were selected and used in the production of fully comparative descriptions for the genera.
41967533|Croton alabamensis, formerly known only from Alabama in Bibb and Tuscaloosa counties, with one report from Coffee County, Tennessee, has been found in Texas in Coryell and Travis counties. The Texas plants are here described as C. alabamensis var. texensis. As in Alabama the plants occur in dense local populations generally as understory shrubs beneath hardwood dominated forest and typically grow in shallow soils over limestone. The possibility that a long distance dispersal event was responsible for the present distribution is discussed. Croton alabamensis, anteriormente conocido solo de los condados Bibb y Tuscaloosa, Alabama, con un reporte del Condado Coffee, Tennessee, ha sido encontrado en los condados de Coryell y Travis en Texas. Las plantas de Texas se describen aqu como C. alabamensis var. texensis. Como en Alabama, las plantas ocurren en poblaciones locales densas generalmente como arbustos del sotobosque debajo de bosque predominantemente caducifolio y tipicamente crecen en suelos poco profundos sobre un substrato de piedra caliza. Se discute la posibilidad de un evento de dispersion a larga distancia como responsable de la presente distribucin exhibida por este taxn.
41967541|The relationship between Portulaca pilosa L. and P. mundula I.M. Johnston has been reevaluated. Herbarium and live material from Mexico, the Caribbean and the United States were analyzed and the results were correlated with chromosome numbers from the same regions. No consistent morphological characters permit the separation of the two taxa when the entire geographical range is considered. The conclusion again, is that the correct name for the species is P. pilosa L., with P. mundula I.M. Johnston as a synonym. La relacin entre Portulaca pilosa L. y P. mundula I.M. Johnston a sido reevaluada. Materiel de herbario y materiel vivo de Mexico, el Caribe y 105 Estados Unidos de America fueron analizados y los resultados correlasionados con el numero de cromosomas de las misma regiones. Ningun caracterstico morfologico compatible con la separacion de Los dos taxos pudo ser determinado cuando la region geogrphica entera fue considerada. La conclucion otra vez, es que para nombrar la especie correctament se usa P. pilosa L. y que P. mundula I.M. Johnston es sinnimo.
41967529|The South American species, Clitoria arborescens R. Br. in Ait., reported as new to India by Bhaumik and Das in 1983 was a misidentification. The plant belongs to a variety of Clitoria mariana L. which is newly described as var. orientalis Fantz. Centrosema virginianum (L.) Benth. reported by Subramanian in 1961 was a misidentification for Centrosema pubescens Benth. The authors question the validity of the conclusion proposed by Almeida and Almeida that Clitoria annua J. Graham (the name with priority) is equivalent to Clitoria biflora Dalz., but have no evidence to refute it. Clitoria vaupellii J. Graham is best treated as ambiguous since there is a lack of evidence as to its identity.
41967560|Field and herbarium studies have yielded six species of Cyperus (Cyperaceae) new to Mississippi, U.S.A.: Cyperus aggregates, C. difformis, C. ovatus, C. oxylepis, C. pilosus, and C. tbyrsiflorus. At least one of these, C. difformis, has potential to be a serious threat as an agricultural weed. Additionally, significant range extensions for other species of Cyperus and Kyllinga are reported. Locality and habitat data are provided for all species reported.
41967545|A new species, Bupleurum sicbuenense, from Wenchuan District of northwestern Sichuan Province of China, is diagnosed, described and figured, and compared with the two most similar species, B. malconense Shan et Y. Li and B. cbaisboui Shan et Sheh. Besides, a key is given for distinguishing the five most closely related species of the genus.
41967564|During the teaching of the squash technique to two students, Smith and his students accumulated a list of chromosome numbers of Arkansas vascular plants. Eight new numbers are herein reported, with comments on certain of the numbers.
41967534|A new species, Mirabilis bintoniorum, belonging to the subgenus Mirabilis, is described and illustrated. It is known from only one collection obtained from dense woods in the vicinity of Villa Victoria, District Coalcoman, Michoacan, Mexico. Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie, Mirabilis hintoniorum, perteneciendo al subgnero Mirabilis. Se conoce de una sla colecta del bosque cerca de Villa Victoria, District Coalcomn, Michoacn, Mxico.
41967557|An aquatic weed, Nomapbila stricta, new to North America, was discovered in San Felipe Springs, east of Del Rio, Texas, 0.2 mi., Val Verde Co., Texas, where it was well-established and vigorously reproducing by subsurface stolons. The species was apparently recently introduced from the paleotropics and should be carefully monitored by ecologists interested in aquatic ecosystems in the southwestern U.S.A. and adjacent Mexico.
41967565|Chromosome numbers of 26 species of flowering plants from the U.S.A. and Mexico are reported: 21 species of Asteraceae, representing 18 genera; and one species each of the families Acanthaceae (Ruellia corzoi), Cochlospermaceae (Amoreuxia wrightit), Lobeliaceae (Lobelia cardinalis), and Passifloraceae (Passiflora tenuiloba). The count for Amoreuxia wrigbtii (2n = 12) is a first report for the genus. Significant counts among the Asteraceae include Cbaetymenia peduncular is (2n = 18) and Wedelia mexicana (2n = 24), the former being a first report for the genus.
41967556|Tragus roxburghii Panigr. has recently been identified from a herbarium specimen from the Dominican Republic. This represents the first record of this species in the New World. Four species of Tragus are now known to have been introduced into the New World. A key to separate these species is provided, with a description of T. roxburgbii and its distribution in the New World.
41967005|Raunkiaer's life-form designations were used to produce several spectra for the flora of a recently exposed mudflat located on the Scioto River, Delaware County, Ohio. These spectra contain a high percentage of hemicryptophytes, which confirms previous life-form studies of eastern North American floras. However, the high percentage of therophytes (annual plants) in the spectra of a mudflat flora has not previously been reported for this phytoclimatic region, and suggests that localized factors such as disturbance may play a significant role in the determination of life-forms in specific habitats. Altering Raunkiaer's method to include species abundance values had little impact on the resulting spectra calculated for the mudflat flora.
41967007|Fimbristylis brevivaginata, a. new species of perennial fimbristyloid sedge endemic to sandstone and granitic glades in northeastern Alabama and piedmont Georgia, is diagnosed, described, and figured. Differences between it and its closest morphological relatives, F. puberula (Michx.) Vahl (vars.) and F. caroliniana (Lam.) Fern., are given.
41967004|Illicium floridanum f. album is described as a rare albino form of the Florida anise. Differences between the typical form with reddish purple flowers and the form with white flowers are detailed. The cultivar 'Semmes' is described as a clonal selection derived from I. floridanum f. album as the wild progenitor. The cultivar was introduced to the nursery trade as a select horticultural plant in 1988.
41966993|Tetraneuris linearifolia var. arenicola var. nov. is described from South Texas, where it is endemic and restricted to habitats of sandy soil. Morphologic, cytologie, and chemical data are all consistent with its recognition as a variety of T. linearifolia. Se describe una nueva variedad endmica, Tetraneuris linearifolia var. arenicola, del sur de Tejas, restringida a los habitatas de sustrato arena. Datos morfolgicos, citolgicos y qumicos son consistentes con reconocimiento de este taxn como una variedad de T. linearifolia.
41966990|The genus Venegasia is treated taxonomically. A single species V. carpesioides is recognized. It is largely confined to chaparral type vegetation of southern California and northern Baja California, Mexico. A map showing its distribution is provided. Possible relationships of this well-marked, isolated, genus are discussed and it is concluded that, on morphological grounds, its closest relatives axtjamesiantbus and Arnicastrum, small relictual genera of the southeastern U.S.A. and Mexico, respectively.
41966983|Liatrts regimontis (Small) Schumann and L. graminifolia var. smallii (Britton) Fernald & Griscom are two names used for a taxon that is widely distributed in the southeastern United States. Diagnostic features of the type of Liatris virgata Nuttall are compatible with those of the holotypes of the two previous taxa. Principal components analysis shows that the type of L. virgata is included in the continuous range of morphological variation of a sample of specimens previously determined as L. regimontis or L. graminifolia var. smallii. Nuttall's name has priority and is the correct name for this taxon. The unusual, environmentally induced inflorescence of the type of L. virgata probably caused botanists to disregard Nuttall's name for over 100 years. Liatris regimontis (Small) Schumann y L. graminifolia var. smallii (Britton) Fernald & Griscom son dos nombres de un taxon que es ampliamente distribuido en el sudeste de los Estados Unidos. Las caracteristicas diagnosticas del tipo de Liatris virgata Nuttall son compatibles a esas de los holotipos de los taxones anteriores. El anlisis de los componentes principales muestra que el tipo de L. virgata esta incluido dentro del rango de la variabilidad morfolgica de un muestreo de los especimenes anteriormente identificados como L. regimontis o L. graminifolia var. smallii por otros investigadores. El nombre de Nuttall tiene la prioridad y es el nombre exacto para este taxon. La florescencia extraa y inducida por el ambiente del tipo de L. virgata probablemente causo los botanistas no hacer caso del nombre de Nuttall por mas de cien anos.
41967000|Structure, organographic distribution and taxonomic importance of trichomes in sixteen species oiTephrosia Pers. are described for the first time based on LM and SEM studies. Trichomes are either unicellular or multicellular and categorized into unicellular, uniseriate filiform and uniseriate macroform. Taxonomic utility of stylar trichiferous condition in Tephrosia is emphasized once again in the Indian context. The taxonomic significance and circumscription of Tephrosia in relation to other genera within tribe Galegeae are discussed based on the distribution of trichomes. A key is presented to delimit the sixteen species studied utilizing organographic distribution of trichome types.
41967008|The genus Nyssa has been the subject of bibliographic and taxonomic confusion for more than two centuries. This revisionary research reviews the nomenclatural history, ecological research, and certain evolutionary relationships of the genus. In an associated study that combined foliar flavonoids with traditional taxonomic exomorphic features, habit, and habitat characteristics of the North American Nyssa, a distinct monophyly for five taxa was revealed. A clarification of species separation between N. sylvatica and N. biflora is expanded to include habitat and morphological features. A new key, new species descriptions, and recently compiled distribution maps of the five North American Nyssa species also are presented. The five North American Nyssa taxa are: Nyssa aquatka L., N. biflora Walt., N. ogeche Bartr. ex Marsh., N. sylvatica Marsh., and N. ursina Small.
41967006|Additional information is presented on the distributions, habitats, and associates of Aster section Patentes. Seven new counties are reported for A. georgianus, 28 for A. patens, and 16 for A. phlogifolius. Aster georgianus is described as a rare species of the southern United States, and deserving of additional studies to determine its federal status. Aster patens is a widespread species of the eastern United States and divisible into three geographic varieties. Aster phlogifolius, an Appalachian taxon, should be treated at the specific level because of consistent morphological, ecological, and physiological differences from A. patens. Se presenta informacin adicional sobre la distribucin, habitats, y especies asociades de Aster seccin Patentes. Siete nuevos condados son reportados para A. georgianus, 28 para A. patens, y 16 para A. phlogofolius. Se describe Aster georgianus como una especie rara de el sur de los Estados Unidos, la cual merece estudios adicionales para determinar su estado legal federal. Aster patens es una especie de amplia distribucin de el oriente de los Estados Unidos y que se divide en tres variedades geogrficas. Aster phlogifolius, un taxn de los montes Apalaches, debe ser tratado al nivel de especie debido a las diferencias consistentes de morfologa, ecologa y fisiologa sobre A. patens.
41966988|Carex rhynchoperigynium, a new species of section Hymenochlaenae, is described from the Nonoalco area of northeast Hidalgo, Mexico. It differs from its putative closest relatives (C.conspeeta, C. brunnipes y and C. ixtapalucensis) in having: purple, basal, bladeless sheaths and purple lower leaf sheaths as opposed to brown; perigynia pale green turning brown with age, not green and neither red-dotted nor purple-mottled; and wider achenes. The new species was found locally frequent in the spray of a waterfall. An updated key to the species of Mexican and Central American Hymenochlaenae is included..
41966985|A comprehensive study of character significance and generic similarity is presented for genera of the Paniceae. A computerized database consisting of 102 recognized genera recorded 285 characters was constructed and analyzed by the DELTA system. The minimum combination of significant characters required to distinguish each genus within the Paniceae is given in form of diagnostic descriptions. Distribution and use of characters within the diagnosis are discussed. Presence of shared significant characteristics are used to defined generic groups. Morphological similarities among genera within the groups are fully analyzed.
41966979|Recent collecting in Mexico has uncovered a novelty in Ipomoea (Convolvulaceae), I. gesnerioides, from the arid Tehuacn valley of Oaxaca. It is closely related to I. bombycina Benth. & Hook., section Bombycospermum (Presl) Austin, but differs by producing basally terete stems, mostly terminal inflorescences, and larger, broadly urceolate corollas 3 - 3.5 cm long and 1.5 - 2 cm broad. Se reconoce una nueva especie del Valle de Tehuacn, Oaxaca, Ipomoea gesnerioides. Parece ser relacionada con I. bombycina, sect. Bombycospermum, de la cual se distingue por tallos bsales rollizos, inflorescencias usualmente terminales y corollas urceoladas, 3 -3.5 cm de largo.
41966996|An evaluation of available literature, as well as the historical connections and an original photograph from the herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem (B) shows that Agavescabra Salm-Dyck cannot be an older name for A. asperrima Jacobi, as interpreted by Gentry, but rather belongs to the complex of A. parryi Engelm. Because of A. scabra Ortega, A. scabra Salm-Dyck becomes an illegitimate younger homonym and A. wislizeni Engelm. again is legitimate. The three subspecies described by Gentry for A. scabra Salm-Dyck are here combined with A. asperrima. To equalize species rank Agave neomexkana Wooton & Standley is treated as a new subspecies of the variable A. parryi. Eine Auswertung der verfgbaren Literatur, sowie die historischen Zusammenhnge und ein bisher unverffentlichtes Originalphoto aus dem Herbarium Berlin-Dahlem (B), zeigen, da Agave scabra Salm-Dyck kein lterer Name fur A. asperrima Jacobi sein kann, wie Gentry interpretierte, sondern vielmehr dem Komplex um A. parryi Engelm. zuzuordnen ist. Wegen A. scabra Ortega ist A. scabra Salm-Dyck allerdings ein illegitimes, jngeres Homonym, wodurch A. wislizeni Engelm. wiederum legitim wird. Die drei von Gentry fur A. scabra Salm-Dyck beschriebenen Subspezies werden mit A. asperrima neu kombiniert. Im Interesse einer Angleichung des Artranges innerhalb der Gattung Agave, wird A. neomexkana Wooton & Standley neu als Subspezies der variablen A. parryi statuiert.
41966999|Since its circumscription in 1880, Phyllostylon has been attributed with between one and three species. A morphological reevaluation of the genus justifies the recognition of two species, Phyllostylon brasiliense, restricted to eastern coastal Brazil, and P. rhamnoides, ranging from Mexico to Paraguay and the West Indies. Descriptions of the two species, notes on the type specimens, and a map are included. Desde su delimitacin en 1880, a Phyllostylon se le han asignado entre una y tres especies. La reevaluacin morfolgica del gnero permite reconocer dos especies, Phyllostylon brasiliense restringida al este de Brazil, y P. rhamnoides que abarca desde Mexico hasta Paraguay y las Antillas. Se incluye la descripcin de las dos especies, notas sobre los ejemplares tipos y un mapa.
