20649699|A list of 108 endemic taxa from Atlantic Central Africa occuring in Cameroon is given. Among these, 72 (67%) are epiphytes, 7 (6%) are facultative epiphytes and 29 (27%) are terrestrial. These figures may present important local variations: from lowland to montane forest, the proportion of epiphytes decreases with about 20%. Fourty three (40%) taxa are known only from Cameroon and the specific endemism for Orchidaceae in this country is ca. 8.8%. Two genera, Gastroida R.Br. and Ossiculum P.J.Cribb & Laan, are endemic to Cameroon. The species Polystachya bipoda Stvart, Ancistrorhynchus obovata Stvart inedit., Cyrtorchis submontana Stvart inedit., Tridactyle anthomoniaca (Rchb.f.) Summerh. subsp. nana P.J.Cribb & Stvart, Ancistrorhynchus crystalensis P.J.Cribb & Laan and Polystachya kubalae Szlach. & Olsz. are newly recorded for the flora of Cameroon. Twenty four taxa were not recorded in Cameroon by Szlachetko & Olszewski (1998, 2001a & 2001b), but were already cited in the literature as present in Cameroon. For each taxon, exhaustive or thorough literature is provided, as well as the distribution in Atlantic Central Africa, a list of specimens known from Cameroon and an assessment of the conservation status. According to IUCN criteria, 4% of the taxa are Least Concerned (LC), 29% are Critically Endangered (CR), 24% are Endangered (EN) and 35% are Vulnerable (VU).
20649700|Two analyses are carried out for a reconstruction of the phylogeny of the large angiosperm family Rubiaceae. The position of Luculia and Coptosapelta, unresolved or sister to all other Rubiaceae in most of the recently published results, is reanalysed by using five plastid and three nuclear DNA regions sequenced for selected Rubiaceae taxa. A supertree is constructed for more than 500 species in 300 genera, i.e. ca. 50% of the genera known in the family. The supertree is derived from four source trees based on rbcL, rps16, trnL-trnF and atpB-rbcL, the latter with 106 newly generated sequences. The results are confronted with the morphological, anatomical and biogeographical knowledge of the family and discussed in the light of other molecular phylogenies. It is proposed to recognize only two subfamilies, Cinchonoideae (raphides mostly absent; secondary pollen presentation common) and Rubioideae (raphides present; heterostyly common). Luculia and Coptosapelta are found to be basal to the rest of the Cinchonoideae, which are divided in two newly recognized supertribes, Ixoridinae and Cinchonidinae. Also in the subfamily Rubioideae, two major clades may be distinguished and are recognized as supertribes Psychotriidinae (predominantly woody) and Rubiidinae (predominantly herbaceous); the genus Colletoecema and the tribes Urophylleae, Ophiorrhizeae, Lasiantheae and Coussareeae are basal Rubioideae falling outside these two supertribes. Four alliances are spotted as groups for which major problems exist with regard to relationships and tribal delimitation: three neotropical groups, viz. the Calycophylleae/Condamineeae alliance, the Catesbaeeae/Chiococceae complex and the Rondeletieae alliance, and the pantropical Spermacoceae s.lat. The cladogenesis of Rubiaceae depicted by the supertree is strongly correlated with the present geographical distribution of taxa. The results are summarized in a conspectus of the family enumerating the tribes and listing all their genera for which the inclusion is corroborated by DNA sequences. Newly recognized tribes and subtribes are the Henriquezieae-Posoqueriinae, the Palicoureeae and the Rubieae-Theligoninae and -Kelloggiinae. Some tribes are reduced to subtribes, viz. Virectarieae (subtribe of Sabiceeae), Bertiereae (subtribe of Coffeeae) and Isertieae (subtribe of Cinchoneae). Novel positions are proposed for the genera Aulacocalyx, Calycosiphonia, Cremaspora, Crossopteryx and Morelia.
20649719|Psychotria kwewonii (Rubiaceae) from the forests of Liberia, Cte d'Ivoire and Ghana is described and illustrated, and its possible affinities discussed.
20649716|Mantalania longipedunculata De Block & A.P.Davis (Rubiaceae), was recently described from le Sainte Marie, Madagascar, based on a single collection in fruit. Due to the large-scale destruction of native forest on le Sainte Marie, the species was suspected of being critically endangered or even extinct. However, during a recent field trip to the type locality, M. longipedunculata was rediscovered. The species description is emended, particularly with regard to flower characters.
20649712|A new species of Bertiera (Rubiaceae) from Cameroon and Gabon, Bertiera heterophylla Nguembou & Sonk, is described and illustrated. This new species belongs to the subgenus Bertiera and appears to be closely related to Bertiera bicarpellata. Bertiera heterophylla differs from B. bicarpellata in having lateral branches with terminal inflorescences while on the main stem, the inflorescences are axillary.
20649708|This study is based on 598 phytosociological relevs and 1021 plant species taken during an extensive vegetation survey in the Republic of Benin. Site selection was primarily directed towards forest reserves to understand the potential vegetation patterns countrywide. Distributional patterns assessed by means of numerical analyses suggested a meaningful subdivision of Benin into ten phytogeographical districts (PDs). Chorological analysis proved to be valuable as a complementary approach to the characterisation of the phytosociologically-defined districts and allowed their merging into three major phytochorological zones, namely the Guineo-Congolian and Sudanian regions, linked by the Guineo/Sudanian transition zone. The phytogeographical patterns described were consistent with the hypothesis of water availability-driven variation in species and chorotype compositions. While the climate in terms of several climate elements was the primary factor, rainfall considered alone failed to explain the observed patterns. The biogeographical particularities of the PD Pob in southern Benin were elucidated by the exclusive presence of many Guineo-Congolian endemic genera. The PDs Bassila and Atacora Chain turned out to be of great ecological and biogeographical relevance within the Sudanian regional centre of endemism. Evidence is provided for a former floristic connection of these PDs to the West African Forest Blocks. The results show how the phytosociology approach through numerical analyses of a large dataset constitutes an effective methodological tool for clarifying phytogeographical patterns at meso-scale. Moreover, phytosociology and chorology appear as complementary approaches to phytogeography.
20649710|Verbena brasiliensis, of South American origin, is reported for the first time from Sukhumi, Georgia. The species is shortly described and depicted. The spread of this weedy to invasive species outside its area of origin is discussed.
20649714|Since our 2001 Malagasy Peperomia expedition, several new species have been described in this genus. Three more are presented here: Peperomia ankaranensis, Peperomia erythrocaulis and Peperomia richardsonii. /// Depuis notre expdition Malgache de Peperomia 2001, plusieurs nouvelles espces ont t dcrites dans ce genre. Trois en plus sont prsentes ici: Peperomia ankaranensis, Peperomia erythrocaulis et Peperomia richardsonii.
20649709|Fifteen names of taxa in the genus Elaphoglossum Schott ex J. Sm. (Elaphoglossaceae) are here lectotypified in order to stabilize the names. All these names apply to leptosporangiate ferns from the Neotropics. The typification allows a correct nomenclature of the Neotropical Elaphoglossum species. Specimens designated as lectotypes are kept in the three herbariums of Berlin (B), Brussels (BR) or Paris (P).
20649715|Arisaema siangense G. Gusman is described as a new species from northeast India. A. siangense is a member of section Sinarisaema Nakai; its morphological characters are discussed in relation to other species of this section considered closely related to A. siangense.
20649717|Aframomum wuerthii from Nyungwe National Park is described as new species, the third of the genus for Rwanda. It is related to A. angustifolium but differs in the carmin- red and membranaceous scales and bracts, and in the white petals.
20649711|The effect of exotic tree species on the flora of their undergrowth was investigated in an afforested site of Sm in Benin. The main vegetation in the area consists of timber tree plantation and fallow. Widely distributed species were in the majority (68.8% of spectrum) compared to guineo-congolian species (16.9% of spectrum). These plantations were poor in indigenous species and housed an undergrowth quite different from the native flora surrounding the plantations. This impoverishment of the original floristic diversity was related to ecological effects (shallows, litter amount, soil acidity, competition, allelopathy, etc.) induced by exotic trees (Acacia auriculiformis, Acacia mangium, Casuarina equisetifolia and Eucalyptus camaldulensis). In the Acacia plantation, undergrowth was covered by Acacia pods, stems, phyllodes and a litter amount of 21.05 t MS/ha. The Casuarina equisetifolia plantations presented also a high amount of litter and low plant species richness in the undergrowth. Eucalyptus camaldulensis plantations negatively influenced flora diversity through soil acidification and allelopathy. Casuarina equisetifolia alone or in association with Acacia auriculiformis increased the floristic diversity of the undergrowth. /// Une tude d'impact des essences exotiques plantes en futaies sur la flore de leur sousbois a t effectue dans le primtre de reboisement de Sm au Bnin. Les espces  large distribution gographique dominent (68,8% du spectre pondr) dans le primtre tandis que celles de l'lment base Guino-Congolais y sont peu reprsentes (16,9% du spectre pondr). Les plantations sont pauvres en espces indignes et abritent une flore de sous-bois diffrente de celle de la vgtation naturelle du primtre. Cette rduction de la diversit floristique originelle du milieu d'tude est relative aux effets cologiques (ombrage, litire abondante, pH acide du sol, concurrence, alllopathie, etc.) lis pour l'essentiel aux plantations d'essences exotiques (Acacia auriculiformis, Acacia mangium, Casuarina equisetifolia, Eucalyptus camaldulensis). Dans les plantations d'Acacia, le couvert arborescent est plus dense et le sous-bois est peu clair; les gousses, les tiges, les phyllodes d'Acacia forment une litire paisse plus abondante (21,05 t MS/ha). Les peuplements de Casuarina equisetifolia prsentent au sol une paisse couche de ramilles d'cailles et d'aiguilles qui tout comme l'abondante masse de litire d'Acacia, favorise peu le dveloppement du sous-bois. Eucalyptus camaldulensis exerce des effets plus accuss sur la flore par l'acidification du sol et entre autres l'alllopathie. Par comparaison, Casuarina equisetifolia seul ou en combinaison avec Acacia auriculiformis est plus favorable  la diversit floristique.
20649713|In order to compile a catalogue of non-native vascular plants in Belgium the main Belgian public herbaria were revised. During this revision a few cases were encountered where the nomenclature had to be improved. In the present paper Helenium clementii (Asteraceae) is described as a new nothotaxon. In addition, the following new combinations are made: Dysphania pseudomultiflora (Chenopodiaceae), Leptochloa parviflora and Medicago monantha subsp. incisa.
20649718|A species of the genus Inga Mart., Inga edulis Mart. native to Brazil, was introduced twice in Congo-Brazzaville, viz. in 1980 and 1991. The species seems well adapted to the ecological conditions of its new environment and is on the way to naturalisation. /// En provenance du Brsil, Inga edulis Mart., une espce du genre Inga Miller (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae), introduite au Congo-Brazzaville au cours des annes 1980 et 1991, s'est bien adapte aux nouvelles conditions cologiques du Congo et est sur le point de se naturaliser.
3668569|The 124 species of myxomycetes collected by the authors in the years 1999-2001 from the Hunan Province in Southern China are listed with three other species reported in the literature. Some information on their substrata and distribution is given.
3668558|Patterns of ecological succession have been demonstrated for decomposer communities, but the details of such patterns with respect to the role of eumycetozoans have not been addressed. Successional patterns can be inferred from a sequence of closely located sites which differ only in age, but are controlled for other sources of variation. Hawai'i, the largest and youngest of the Hawaiian Islands, offers an ideal site for such studies, consisting of variously-aged landforms underlain by similar substrates, and influenced by similar climates and biotic communities. Soil/litter samples were collected from nine montane mesic sites of similar elevation and rainfall, but ranging in substrate age from 67 to 10,000 ybp. Samples were processed to recover dictyostelid (cellular) slime molds according to established protocols. Results suggest that slightly different assemblages of dictyostelids occupy the soil/litter derived from different-aged parent materials. The density and species diversity of dictyostelids was higher in soil/litter samples from the youngest sites. The time necessary for dictyostelids to colonize a site is less than 67 years. It is hypothesized that colonization of the soil/litter by dictyostelids is followed by the arrival of predators, particularly nematodes, which adversely affect the density and species diversity of soil amoebae in general, and dictyostelids in particular.
3668561|Palm trees (Arecaceae) are specialized ecosystems which host a wide variety of organisms, including Myxomycetes. Copernicia prunifera (Miller) H.E. Moore (wax palm), Mauritia flexuosa L.f. (buriti palm) and Astrocaryum vulgare Mart. (tucum palm) were selected to study incidence, richness and species diversity of myxomycetes in savanna, riverine forest and secondary forest at Sete Cidades National Park (45-415 S and 4130-4140 W, 480 m alt., 6,221.48 ha), Piau State, northeastern Brazil. Fructifications were searched for on both dead and live trunks, leaves, spathes and inflorescences. The specimens are preserved in the Herbarium UFP (Department of Botany, Federal University of Pernambuco). Myxomycetes were found both in dry and rainy seasons, and the highest abundance and diversity of taxa were observed during the rainy period. A high incidence of myxomycetes (70-100%) was registered, with a diversity index of 5.23 (M. flexuosa), 4.25 (C. prunifera) and 5.05-2.94 (A. vulgare). The highest occurrence was registered on petiole, followed by leaf sheath, leaf blade and spathe, being rare on inflorescence and trunk. A total of seven families, sixteen genera, forty-four species and one variety was identified. The most frequent species were Arcyria cinerea (Bull.) Pers., A. denudata (L.) Wettst., Hemitrichia calyculata (Speg.) M.L.Farr, H. serpula (Scop.) Rostaf. ex Lister, Metatrichia vesparia (Batsch) Nann.-Bremek. ex G.W.Martin & Alexop., Physarum nucleatum Pers. and Stemonitis fusca Roth. Comments and geographical distribution of these species in Brazil are presented.
3668564|Nivicolous myxomycetes are an ecological group of species growing in alpine and subalpine regions of the world near to the melting snow. Extensive field work was done in the mountain areas of the Iberian Peninsula from 1991 to 2002 which demonstrates the richness and variety of the myxobiota in this Mediterranean region. Among the areas with optimum conditions of geography, climate and vegetation, 123 localities were sampled from ten mountain ranges. Almost 1500 field collections were made and a first list of 48 different species is presented here. The altitudinal distribution and phenology of the sporulation of these myxomycetes are analyzed. Working hypotheses on how abiotic factors can influence the development of nivicolous species and some adaptative characters of these species are also presented.
3668568|This study examines the diversity and ecology of myxomycetes on seven native tree species in Hunan Province, south-central China. All the trees are being cultivated within less strictly protected parts of Badagongshan National Nature Reserve and similar forest reserves. Community data were collected for epiphytic bryophytes and lichens and corticolous myxomycetes. The data on myxomycetes were acquired by cultivating bark samples in moist chambers. Over 80% of the 200 moist chambers yielded identifiable myxomycete specimens, representing 33 different taxa. There were clear differences in epiphyte community composition between the studied tree species. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) was used to produce graphical depictions of community relationships and habitat variables. The three tree species with neutral or slightly acid bark had similar epiphyte communities, while each of the other four species grouped separately. The main trend in myxomycete diversity contrasted with those of epiphytic bryophytes and lichens. Species richness of myxomycetes was highest on relatively acidic bark with a high water retention capacity, while the diversities of epiphytic bryophytes and lichens were highest on less acidic and relatively smooth bark. Data on epiphyte community composition can be used to develop simple and cost-effective methods for preserving biodiversity in local forestry. It can assist in the choice of an optimal tree species composition for forest plantations in buffer zones of nature reserves and in other areas where maintaining biodiversity is a major concern.
3668566|Data are presented on the results obtained from moist chamber cultures prepared with bark samples of three tree species from the United Kingdom and from Spain, which were watered with simulated acid rain. Both the number and variety of myxomycetes were found to be adversely affected by the constant acidification of the substrate, in spite of the buffering action demonstrated by the bark. The average number of species per culture also decreased with increasing acidity. Although some species appeared in acidified cultures at all the tested pH values, most species appeared only at three or fewer of those values. Of the myxomycetes that appeared across the pH range tested, fewer individuals within each species appeared at pH 3 and 4. This study lends further support to the idea that corticolous myxomycetes are susceptible to alterations in pH, and that the pH changes are buffered to some extent on the living tree, either by the microflora or by the bark.
3668567|In 1974-1975 moist chamber cultivations with bark of living trees were made in the Botanical Garden of the University of Helsinki, chosen to represent a polluted area in the centre of Helsinki. At present, in 2002, the air in the area has improved. The concentrations of sulphur dioxide and lead have clearly decreased and average concentrations of nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide have diminished. 28 years ago the pH of the tree barks varied from 2 to 9. It was now more stable varying from 3 to 7. In 1974-1975 only six species of myxomycetes emerged on the barks of living trees. Now, 28 years later, 14 species were identified. During the same period the number of corticolous lichen species increased from two to 18.
3668571|Comparative light microscope (LM) and scanning electron microscope (SEM) observations were made from type specimens and field collections of Diachea subsessilis and D. deviata. The objective was to determine the taxonomic validity of D. deviata. Observations indicate that Diachea subsessilis and D. deviata are conspecific. Diachea deviata was described from an aberrant, prematurely dried collection. Developmental variation was seen in fruiting body size and shape, stalk length, peridium iridescence and texture, and branching patterns of the capillitial threads. Reticulate spore wall ornamentation was a constant character even under unfavorable environmental conditions. A composite species description of D. subsessilis is presented based mostly on SEM observations of specimens from various geographical regions.
3668554|Afrothismia saingei, a new species of Burmanniaceae (tribe Thismieae) from Mt. Kupe in South-West Cameroon is described and illustrated. It differs from the other species of the genus Afrothismia by the size of its flower, the long, distinctly heteromorphic tepals with fringed basal extensions, the dorsal invagination of the perianth tube and the unique shape of the internal flange.
3668559|A critical updating of myxomycete records from the Hawaiian Islands has resulted in 102 identified species. In addition, two or three specimens may represent undescribed taxa and are commented upon. Licea rufocuprea, previously known from Japan and the United States, is reported from Hawaii based upon a previously misidentified specimen. Several species that are common in tropical and warm-temperate regions are found in Hawaii. Since most myxomycete species are widespread it is difficult to discuss myxomycetes from a biogeographical point of view. Many species tend to occur wherever substratum and microclimate are suitable.
3668562|One surprising result from recent studies carried out in Neotropical moist forests is that myxomycete biodiversity seems to be greatest in microhabitats located above the ground, whereas in temperate and boreal forests it is greatest in microhabitats associated with the forest floor. Myxomycetes appear to be organisms adapted to highly fluctuating conditions of environmental moisture, but continuously high moisture levels apparently do not favor their growth and development. In addition to their apparent displacement from forest floor (relatively moist) to aerial (relatively drier) microhabitats, the majority of the myxomycetes encountered in Neotropical moist forests are characterized by a phaneroplasmodium, which is robust, can achieve considerable size in some species, and appears to tolerate the two extremes of the moisture gradient better than the other types of plasmodia found in myxomycetes. The objective of the present study, which is still ongoing, was to investigate the quantitative ecology and distributional relationships of myxomycetes associated with aerial litter microhabitats in tropical forests of northern Queensland, Australia. More than 90% of the 69 moist chamber cultures prepared with samples of aerial litter collected from two study sites yielded some evidence (either plasmodia or fruiting bodies) of myxomycetes. Didymium squamulosum was the single most abundant species, with Physarum compressum and Physarum pusillum also important. All three of these are among the more characteristic myxomycetes associated with aerial litter in Neotropical forests, which suggests that the aerial litter microhabitat may support compositionally similar assemblages of species in the tropical moist forests of Australia.
3668560|During the period of 1995 to 2002, biotic surveys for mycetozoans (slime moulds) were carried out in a number of study areas in Central and South America to document more completely the species associated with tropical forests and other ecosystems in this region of the world. Primary emphasis of these surveys was on myxomycetes; more limited data were obtained for dictyostelids and protostelids, two other groups of mycetozoans that share some of the same microhabitats as myxomycetes. The body of data represented by the more than 8,000 field and moist chamber collections of myxomycetes accumulated during these surveys have provided evidence for a number of ecological patterns not previously reported for myxomycetes. The most important of these are that (1) both overall abundance and species richness of myxomycetes appear to be lower in tropical forests than in temperate forests, (2) species richness and [especially] relative abundance increase with decreasing moisture conditions, and (3) in tropical forests, distinct assemblages of myxomycetes are associated with microhabitats that have no counterparts in temperate forests. The most extensive of the latter is the aerial litter (dead but still attached plant parts) microhabitat, where myxomycetes appear to be especially abundant and diverse. Most of the dictyostelids recovered from samples collected in the various study areas are cosmopolitan forms or species known to have tropical or subtropical affinities. However, one new species (Acytostelium minutissimum), several other forms that possibly represent undescribed species, and a number of species not previously known from the Neotropics also were recorded. For the most part, the species of protostelids associated with Neotropical forests are the same as those found in temperate regions of the world, and species richness in this group appears to be highest in mesic but not wet habitats. Microhabitat trends of particular species of protostelids appear to vary with habitat. Overall in tropical montane habitats, protostelids are more abundant in aerial microhabitats than in ground microhabitats while in mesic habitats they are present in both types of microhabitats, but with some species displaying a preference for one or the other.
3668565|The Myxobiota diversity of the Garajonay National Park (Gomera, Canary Islands) is presented, with preliminary results of a chorological and ecological evaluation. Seventy-one species are registered, twenty of these are reported for the first time in the Canaries. A greater biodiversity is observed in the damp shady zones of the evergreen forest than in areas occupied by introduced vascular plant species or communities of xerophytic scrubs. With regard to the substrate, the ligno-corticolous group is the best represented. Among the myxomycetes of Garajonay National Park, the dominant chorological element is the Holarctic.
3668563|The number of occurrences and areas of fructification colonies of myxomycetes were investigated on decaying wood of deciduous broadleaf and coniferous wood in a natural temperate forest in the Nishikuma ravine (900-1200 m alt.) in Kochi prefecture, Southwest Japan. Forty-seven species of wood-inhabiting myxomycetes were found from 397 collected samples. In the progression of decay, the species of myxomycetes changed on both kinds of wood. The number of recorded species increased and reached their maximum on rather decayed wood and strongly decayed wood of both kinds of wood. They decreased on hard wood and brittle and spongy wood. The distribution pattern of eight species (Physarum viride, Lycogala epidendrum, Arcyria cinerea, Cribraria cancellata and others) on both kinds of wood had something in common. The common species on both kinds of wood were placed regularly according to the state of decay. On the strongly decayed and softer wood, the species distribution was obviously different in terms of species and colony sizes.
3668555|The neotropical shrub genus Ronabea Aubl. has long been included by most authors in Psychotria L. (Psychotrieae), but differs from that genus in characters of the seeds, pyrenes, stipules, and inflorescence arrangement. As shown by morphological features and molecular studies, Ronabea is better placed in the recently described tribe Lasiantheae. It is here circumscribed to comprise three species: Ronabea emetica (L.f.) A. Rich., Ronabea isanae (J.H. Kirkbr.) C.M. Taylor, comb. nov., and Ronabea latifolia Aubl.
3668553|Besides a brief description of Heisteria parvifolia, its distribution is reviewed on the basis of voucher material as well as literature data. Traditional uses are listed. An analysis of the oil contained by its seeds is provided. Results are discussed regarding available data concerning a Brazilian species, Heisteria silvanii.
3668557|The activities of the first tree canopy biodiversity survey for cryptogams (myxomycetes, macrofungi, mosses, liverworts, and lichens) are reviewed. The All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory under the rubric of Discover Life in America represents a research effort to survey all life forms in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The double rope climbing method is described and illustrated. The public understanding of biodiversity was emphasized through print, exhibitions, and the television media. Student research experiences in the GSMNP resulted in the discovery of a new species of Diachea and an unusual epiphytic habitat for the fern Polypodium appalachianum. Students also experienced night field trips to collect myxomycetes with a flashlight and observation and photography of slugs feeding on the immature sporangial stages of the myxomycete Stemonitis axifera. Preliminary results suggest that the myxomycetes are the only group of targeted tree canopy organisms that are restricted to the bark and epiphytes of living trees. Ninety-five myxomycete species were harvested, mostly from moist chamber cultures derived from bark samples taken from the tree canopy. Bark samples were taken from: Juniperus virginiana, Fraxinus americana, Quercus alba, Liriodendron tulipifera, Acer rubrum, and Pinus strobus. Over 500 moist chamber cultures resulted in 52 new myxomycete records from the tree canopy. Seven new records were collected from ground sites. The total myxomycete species now known from the Park is 212. Bark sample characteristics such as pH, tree height, and water holding capacity were analyzed for different tree species to determine their relationship to myxomycete species assemblages. Occurrence and abundance of certain myxomycete species are related to differences in bark pH. Fieldwork during the summer of 2000 resulted in 191 lichen taxa collected from the tree canopy with 83 taxa new to the Park. Tree canopy species of lichens, macrofungi, mosses, and liverworts were also known from ground sites.
3668570|A survey of the biosystematic studies in the myxomycetes indicates that the currently recognized morphospecies are generally species complexes consisting of a number of genetically isolated regional allopatric and/or sympatric biological species and numerous small (rarely large) apomicitic clones. Other variations include a single biological species with or without apomictic clones, or apomictic clones without a biological species. Stalk and sporangial color, columella shape, and sporangial cluster morphotypes, which are produced by variations at a few genes, also occur within a genetic group. Biotypes that have small plasmodia, rapid life cycles, and dwarf or reduced numbers of sporangia can be isolated from ephemeral or low nutrient habitats and are also part of a larger genetic group. This information indicates that many of the recently described species are probably based on restricted clonal lines, which should not be recognized at the species level. Also, some commonly accepted morphospecies are only morphological variants, which can be found within a single biological species. Thus, the description of new species should be based upon an extensive collection of specimens so that these variations and small clonal populations can be excluded.
3668491|The wide variety of forms in myxomycetes, with regard to fructifications as well as the plasmodium, offers a fascinating field for the study of pattern formation. The manner of disposition of the fructifations over the substratum seems to be fairly constant for a given taxon. The evolution from the sessile form to the stipitate, and the subsequent elongation of the stipe has necessitated a strengthening of the stipe and balancing of sporangial weight. These have been achieved in different ways in the different taxa. And then, the spore ornamentation is so diverse that mycological terms seem inadequate to describe them, and the adoption of palynological terms has been suggested. The chemical nature of the different parts of the fructification and of the pigments, is as yet only partially understood. Despite widespread investigations, the metamorphosis of the living, pulsating plasmodium into the exquisitely sculptured, hibernating fructifications remains enigmatic. Morphogenesis in fungi is said to occur within a network of factors which include metabolic processes, macromolecular structures, the mechanical, chemical and electrical field within the organism, and the extracellular matrix; and this would also be true for myxomycetes. For a better understanding of these interactions, we must appeal for a closer collaboration of general myxomycologists with physicists, chemists and molecular biologists.
3668500|The taxonomy of the New World species of Azolla has been the subject of much debate and remains unsatisfactory. Since 1944 most authors, mainly Americans, recognize four species: A. caroliniana, A. filiculoides, A. mexicana and A. microphylla. The present study is based on a comprehensive review of the literature and on original observations, by optical and scanning electron microscopy, of numerous samples cultivated in our laboratory as well as herbarium exsiccata. Observation of the type specimens confirms the opinion of some authors that A. caroliniana and A. microphylla are synonyms of the previously described A. filiculoides. The ferns named A. caroliniana and A. microphylla by most authors, including the American taxonomists in their recent works, are different from their type specimens. The study also shows that the Mettenius conception, proposed as early as 1867, has to be rehabilitated: two species only exist in America. According to the priority rule they must be named A. cristata and A. filiculoides.
3668492|Through several separate studies made in our laboratory we have found that in routine cultures myxomycete plasmodia are invariably associated -- closely and tenaciously -- with one bacterial species, and thus monoxenic. The association is not species-specific, but the bacteria in most cases belong to the Enterobacteriaceae. The bacteria can be easily isolated and grown in pure culture, but this is not always true for the plasmodium. From parallel studies conducted with monoxenic plasmodial structures and pure cultures of the bacterial associate, we find that the monoxenic plasmodia can fix atmospheric nitrogen, produce extracellular enzymes and degrade certain types of wood and litter, and also tolerate high concentrations of various chemical pollutants, while the bacterial associates in pure culture exhibit none of these properties. Thus the association confers on the organism certain properties not manifest in the individual partners. As a result of some of our natural observations we presume this to occur in nature, and ascribe to the myxomycetes a positive role in the recycling of nutrients on the forest floor.
3668497|Arthur Lister (1830-1908) and his daughter, Gulielma (1860-1949), are closely associated with the myxomycete collections at the Natural History Museum (BM), which they used for the three editions of the Monograph of Mycetozoa. The working notebooks of the Listers, with coloured sketches, letters and postcards from correspondents around the world and other memorabilia, are an important adjunct to the collections. There are additional sketchbooks and the working illustrations for a fourth edition of their work.
3668499|As one component of the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) being carried out in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, an ongoing survey of dictyostelid cellular slime molds has yielded a combination of previously reported species together with additional Park records as well as a number of species possibly new to science. As results from previous studies conducted elsewhere in the world have indicated, there appear to be assemblages consisting of particular species of dictyostelids characteristically associated with certain habitats. This certainly seems to be true in the Park. In many cases, the distribution pattern of a given species can be related to the differences that exist from place to place for such environmental parameters as elevation, soil pH and the overall moisture regime. In this paper, we report on the current status of the ATBI dictyostelid survey and discuss some of the more interesting and/or unusual species discovered thus far.
3668496|During the 1991 to 1993 field seasons, samples of soil/litter for isolation of dictyostelids (cellular slime moulds) were collected from four different watersheds on the Fernow Experimental Forest in Tucker County, West Virginia, in the eastern United States. Myxomycete plasmodia recovered from these same samples were subjected to fusion tests, which revealed that one genetic strain of a single species, as yet unidentified, occurred over a total area of at least <tex-math>$1.3\ km^{2}$</tex-math>.
3668494|About thirty Belgian collections (BR, GENT, private herbaria) were assembled for this study. The revision results in the recognition of four species in the Belgian flora: Oligonema flavidum (the commonest species), O. schweinitzii, O. fulvum and O. intermedium (rare). Belgian material of the latter species was previously confused with O. aurantium, from which O. intermedium has only recently been separated. The taxonomic treatment includes a key to species, generic and specific descriptions, illustrations (peridium insides, capillitium, spores) habitat data and comments.
3668502|Ipomoea beninensis Akogninou, Lisowski & Sinsin and Thunbergia atacorensis Akogninou & Lisowski, two novelties found in Benin, are described, illustrated and discussed. Despite the relatively dry climate in this part of West Africa (the "Dahomey Gap"), it appeared that undescribed species not only occur in gallery forest but also in low dry forest adjacent to a main road.
3668501|Diversity and distribution of plant species at 105 sites (63 in the Oases of the Western Desert and 42 in the Nile land) of seven major irrigated croplands in Egypt was surveyed using stratified sampling technique. These sites were distributed as follows: twelve in Siwa Oasis, fifteen in Bahariya Oasis, fifteen in Farafra Oasis, seven in Dakhla Oasis, fourteen in Kharga Oasis, fifteen in Faiyum Governorate and 27 in central Delta region. A total of 328 species belonging to 212 genera and 59 families were recorded. The highest numbers of species were found in the Faiyum Governorate and Bahariya Oasis while those of Kharga and Dakhla Oases were the lowest. The families with the highest number of species (60% of the total) were Poaceae (53 species), Asteraceae (37 species), Fabaceae (29 species), Cyperaceae (ninteen species), Chenopodiaceae (fifteen species), Brassicaceae (thirteen species), Caryophyllaceae (twelve species), Euphorbiaceae and Polygonaceae (ten species each). Six alien weedy species were recorded for the first time. In this study, five main habitat types were recognised which are supported by spatial analysis: i, farmlands (including irrigated crop-fields and orchards); ii, canal banks; iii, reclaimed lands; iv, waste lands (including moist and abandoned saline field plots but not salt marshes) and; v, water bodies. TWINSPAN and DCA analyses of 105 sites & 186 species of frequency percentages >5% showed six site groups, with the Nile land and the Oases croplands as clearly separated agro-ecosystems.
3668495|A world-wide dichotomous key to species of myxomycetes growing on the bark of living trees and vines is provided. It includes two hundred and sixty-three myxomycete taxa plus two common and morphologically similar but unrelated corticolous organisms (Acrasiales and Myxobacteria). One needed new combination is provided: Reticularia simulans (Rostaf.) D.W.Mitch. for Enteridium simulans.
3668493|Populations of cellular slime molds (CSM) isolated from fifteen separate collections by the first four authors were compared from Puerto Rico, St. John, Virgin Islands, and San Salvador, Bahamas. These islands differ in size as well as number of forest habitats. The island populations in turn were compared to those of an optimal mainland habitat at Tikal, Guatemala. Our main objective was to determine what effects habitat diversity, area and insular environment have on CSM diversity. Although other studies have investigated species-area relationships, most have focused on either animals or plants. Our purpose has been to determine how a specific group of microorganisms, the cellular slime molds, responds to island biogeography. In addition, we were also interested in finding endemic examples of speciation in the Caribbean. Two endemics were found: Polysphondylium luridum from Puerto Rico and St. John and P. equisetoides from San Salvador. The latter species is described as part of this paper.
3668498|Samples of tree bark and dung of large herbivores were collected by the second author and subsequently sent to the first author for culturing in moist chamber. Results of these cultures are listed and include eleven spp. that are new to Tanzania. Specimens are preserved in the herbarium of the first author. Localities and substrates are cited with Myxomycete species arranged alphabetically.
3668503|Based on material from Katanga (Congo-Kinshasa), a new species of the genus Sopubia (Scrophulariaceae) is described, compared with related species, and illustrated. It is named in honor of Professor Paul Duvigneaud with some remarks on the taxonomic results of his work. /// Sur base de matriel en provenance du Katanga (Congo-Kinshasa), une nouvelle espce du genre Sopubia (Scrophulariaceae) est dcrite et illustre, par comparaison avec des espces voisines. Elle est nomme d'aprs le Professeur Paul Duvigneaud, avec quelques remarques sur les rsultats taxonomiques de ses travaux.
3668514|The author prepares a revision of Tarenna in Madagascar and assembles in this precursor a number of novelties in preparation for a check-list of the Rubiaceae of Madagascar and the Comores. Tarenna capuroniana is described as a new species from northern Madagascar. Chomelia alleizettei is transferred to Tarenna. Ixora drakei, I. rotundifolia, Tarenna richardii and T. verdcourtiana are placed in the synonymy of Tarenna grevei, and I. nigrescens and I. hildebrandtii in the synonymy of T. sechellensis. A list of the currently accepted Malagasy Tarenna species with their synonymy and types is provided. An identification key is given.
3668512|A revision of Sherbournia G.Don is given, based mainly on a study of the herbarium specimens at BATA, BM, BR, BRLU, K, LBV, MO, P, SCA, WAG and YA. The general part gives a survey of the history of the genus and comments upon fruit morphology. The distribution maps of the species show the characteristic pattern of a strictly Guineo-Congolian genus. The taxonomic part gives keys and complete species treatments (synonymies, descriptions, distributional data, critical notes). The detailed examination of the specimens resulted in one novelty: Sherbournia batesii (Wernham) Hepper subsp. kivuensis Pauwels & Sonk. Some taxonomic changes are made: Sherbournia streptocaulon (K.Schum.) Hepper var. situtunga N.Hall should not be maintened as a variety. Sherbournia bignoniiflora (Welw.) Hua var. brazzaei N.Hall, Amaralia palustris Wernham and Amaralia ekotokicola Wernham are synonymous with Sherbournia bignoniiflora (Welw.) Hua. The subdivision of S. hapalophylla (Wernham) Hepper is reconsidered and two subspecies are proposed in stead of three varieties: S. hapalophylla subsp. hapalophylla and S. hapalophylla subsp. wernhamiana (N.Hall) Sonk & Pauwels. According to those changes, S. hapalophylla var. henrihuana N.Hall is put into synonymy with S. hapalophylla subsp. hapalophylla.
3668511|A new species of Duosperma, D. clarae, is described from Katanga, D.R. Congo. It is the sixth species of that genus to be identified in the Congo. Study of the pollen clearly confirms that the new species belongs to Petaliidinae (Acanthoideae-Ruellieae) and to Duosperma. After Elytraria acaulis (Nelsonioideae), D. clarae is the second species and the second subfamily of Acanthaceae in which orbicules ('Ubisch bodies'; sporopollenin corpuscles covering the inner wall of the anthers) are recorded. Habit and pollen grains are illustrated and the distribution map of the species, with a short description of its habitat, is given. /// Une nouvelle espce de Duosperma, D. clarae, est dcrite du Katanga, R.D. Congo. C'est la sixime espce du genre identifie au Congo. L'tude du pollen confirme l'appartenance de cette nouvelle espce aux Petaliidinae (Acanthoideae-Ruellieae) et au genre Duosperma. Aprs Elytraria acaulis (Nelsonioideae), D. clarae est la deuxime espce et la deuxime sous-famille d'Acanthaceae dans laquelle des orbicules ('corpuscules d'Ubisch'; corpuscules de sporopollnine garnissant la paroi interne des anthres) sont dcouverts. La plante et le pollen de l'espce sont illustrs et sa carte de distribution ainsi qu'un aperu des conditions de son habitat sont donns.
3668510|Desmid samples were collected from Australia's Northern Territory and the northeastern part of Western Australia. The tropical, northern part of Australia appears to be extraordinarily rich in desmid taxa but relatively poorly documented. From the present investigation some twenty taxa, interesting from a taxonomic or biogeographical point of view, are discussed separately. Six species and one variety new to science are described: Cosmarium dichotomum, C. lineogranulosum, C. porosum, C. spinoscrobiculosum, Euastrum scrobiculosum, Micrasterias archeri and Staurastrum sinuatum var. croasdaleae.
3668509|The gleba of white truffles recently collected in Luxembourg was found hosting a very rare hypocrealean species of the Bionectriaceae family: Battarrina inclusa (Berk. & Broome) Clem. & Shear. The brief published descriptions are completed. For the first time for about 150 years since the discovery of the species, the spore ornamentation is accurately illustrated. /// Les auteurs commentent et dcrivent des rcoltes luxembourgeoises rcentes de truffes blanches  glba colonise par une trs rare espce d'Hypocrale de la famille des Bionectriaces: Battarrina inclusa (Berk. & Broome) Clem. & Shear. Les descriptions sommaires publies de l'espce sont compltes. L'ornementation des spores est illustre de manire prcise pour la premire fois, prs d'un sicle et demi aprs la dcouverte de l'espce.
3668513|The present paper describes the piscicultural station of Mutimbuzi situated near Bujumbura town. The waters have a constantly high temperature, a neutral to basic pH, and correspond to calcium-magnesium bicarbonate type. Variations of temperature, pH and ionic composition have been observed for the period between December 1991 and June 1992. 77 planktic taxa have been observed in three ponds. The Euglenophyceae are represented by 39 taxa, the Chlorophyceae by 25, the Cyanophyceae by 12 and the Dinophyceae by one taxon. The algal distribution is heterogeneous within the same pond and differences in algal composition and distribution within the three ponds have been observed. The semi-quantitative study has indicated the dominant taxa and the algal successions for the study period. Only Anabaena spiroides can be considered as a constant species in the three ponds. Two socioecological groups have been clearly identified. /// Le prsent travail dcrit la station piscicole de Mutimbuzi situe prs de la mairie de Bujumbura. Les eaux de cette station ont une temprature constamment leve, un pH neutre  basique; elles sont de type bicarbonat calcico-magnsique  dominance de calcium. Des fluctuations de temprature, pH, et de composition ionique ont t observes au cours de la priode de dcembre 1991  juin 1992. L'tude qualitative de la flore planctonique a rvl la prsence de 77 taxons dans trois tangs. Les euglenophyces sont reprsentes par 39 taxons, les algues vertes par 25, les algues bleues par 12 et les dinophyces par un taxon. Des diffrences dans la composition floristique au sein d'un mme tang et au sein des trois tangs ont t observes. L'tude semi-quantitative a permis de dterminer les taxons dominants et les successions algales pendant les sept mois d'tude. Seule Anabaena spiroides peut tre considre comme espce constante dans les trois tangs. Deux groupes sociocologiques ont t clairement identifis.
3668515|Thirty-two first records of mosses and liverworts are reported for Runion. Daltonia onraedtii Bizot is validated and reduced, together with D. dusenii Mll.Hal. and D. latimarginata Besch., to the synonymy of the American D. pulvinata Mitt. Daltonia stenoloma Besch. is placed in synonymy with D. angustifolia var. angustifolia Dozy & Molk. instead of var. strictifolia (Mitt.) M.Fleisch. Dicranoloma cataractarum Demaret & P.de la Varde and Dicranoloma onraedtii Bizot ex Bizot are placed in the synonymy of Blindia magellanica Schimp. ex Mll.Hal. Macromitrium gimalacii Bizot & Onr. is reduced to a synonym of Macrocoma lycopodioides (Schwgr.) Vitt. A new combination Weissia borbonica (Bizot & Onr. ex Onr.) Arts comb. nov. has been made to accommodate Astomum borbonicum Bizot & Onr. ex Onr.
3668576|The informations here published are related to 328 taxa (species and subspecies): 129 for the volume I, 174 for the volume II, 25 for the families and genera which are not retained by Strid. The adopted order follows that of the Flora of Strid (1986, Strid & Kit Tan 1991). The field work was done from 1981 to 1991; every mountain of Greece was visited one to three times (the Mount Athos excluded). Herbarium samples exist for each of the published data. Some species were new for Greece at the time of the discovery and by reference to Flora Europaea (Aster bellidiastrum, Dryopteris affinis subsp. affinis, Hieracium cf. humile, Hypericum umbellatum, Ribes alpinum), some stations seems to be separated from the main area; some observations corroborate old mentions from the literature. It is specified if an observation is new for the cited mountain or for the district and if the area of that species is significantly widened or not. Those informations appear in chapter 6.1. A list of the biotopes to be visited by priority appears in chapter 6.3.
3668578|Gardenia epiphytica (Rubiaceae) from the forests of Gabon and Cameroon is described and illustrated. It is the fourth record of an epiphytic species in afrotropical Rubiaceae.
3668575|Phytosociological, ecological and dendrometric surveys have been done in the forest plantations of Djigb and Lama in south-Benin. The factorial analysis of correspondence helps to identify two Chromolaena odorata communities: one on the "terre de barre" (ferralitic soil) and the other on the black cotton soils. At 5% of probability level, there is no significant difference between the specific diversity of the two Chromolaena odorata communities: the mean value of the species richness is 33 per relev on the "terre de barre" against 31 on the black cotton soils; the Shannon index value is 1.6 on the "terre de barre" against 2.2 on the black cotton soils; the evenness coefficient of Pielou is respectively 0.48 and 0.44 on "terre de barre" and the black cotton soils. From the specific combination of the Chromolaena odorata communities within the study area, we deduce that these communities can be used to identify general soil-types. However, due to the important variability of plantation productivity within these communities, they can not reliably be used to identify forest sites. /// Les plantations forestires  Chromolaena odorata dans les secteurs de Djigb et de la Lama au sud-Bnin ont fait l'objet d'investigations phytosociologique, cologique et dendromtrique. L'analyse factorielle des correspondances sur un ensemble de 19 relevs a permis d'objectiver l'identification de deux groupements vgtaux  Chromolaena odorata qui caractrisent respectivement la terre de barre et les vertisols. Au seuil de probabilit de 5%, il n'existe pas de diffrence significative entre la diversit spcifique de ces deux groupements. En effet, sur la terre de barre, le groupement vgtal  Chromolaena odorata possde en moyenne 33 espces par relev contre 31 espces pour celui de la Lama; l'indice de Shannon a pour valeur 1,6 sur la terre de barre contre 2,2 sur les vertisols; le coefficient d'quitabilit de Pielou vaut 0,48 sur la terre de barre contre 0,44 sur les vertisols. A partir de la combinaison spcifique des communauts vgtales  Chromolaena odorata, nous dduisons que ces communauts peuvent servir  identifier les types gnraux de sols. Cependant, en raison d'importantes variations des niveaux de productivit des plantations au sein de ces communauts, celles-ci n'ont pas de valeur indicatrice fiable vis--vis des stations forestires.
3668574|Margaritopsis C. Wright has recently been shown to be an older name for Chazaliella E.M.A.Petit & Verdc. and Chytropsia Bremek. and to be a pantropical genus. In the Neotropics this group, apart from three unusual species in Cuba, has long been included variously in Psychotria L. subg. Psychotria and Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria Steyerm. Margaritopsis in its newly expanded circumscription is distinguished from Psychotria by its characteristic stipules that become indurated and then fragmented, its often flattened costate internodes, its red fruits, and its pyrenes with smooth flat ventral surfaces and dehiscence via two marginal slits. The 27 neotropical species of Margaritopsis are listed and keyed here and the 22 necessary new nomenclatural combinations are made. One species is newly described here: M. inconspicua is a low shrub of the central and western Amazon basin that has previously been confused with M. astrellantha (Wernham) L.Andersson.
3668579|The new species B. kisimbae, restricted to copper outcrops of the Tenke-Fungurume area in Upper-Katanga, is close to B. botryoidea A.Robyns but its leaves are generally shorter (3-8 rather than 8-12 cm), and spaced along the stem attaining 5-11 cm of length instead of being clustered at the top of a short (1-4 cm) stem; the upper face of the lamina is flat and pubescent instead of rolled inwards and glabrous; the lower face is entirely and densely papillose instead of only papillose on the sides of cavities between the veinlets.
3668577|Seasonal lakes are a characteristic landscape element of the semi-arid Sahel zone in West Africa; their vegetation has a significant economic importance and is intensively used; water levels are subjected to large fluctuations. Based upon the example of Burkina Faso, the ephemeral, herbaceous vegetation of standing, seasonal freshwater lakes was studied. Field survey with phytosociological relevs took place at eleven lakes. The vegetation is classified into floristically and ecologically well defined units: several associations and rank-free communities are documented, most of them can be found with subassociations or in fragmentary and floristically impoverished forms. Duration of flooding, height of inundation, and utilisation intensity are the most important differentiating factors. The plant communities are integrated into the existing syntaxonomical scheme of West African wetland vegetation. They can be grouped into two phytosociological alliances: Sagittario guayanensis-Nymphaeion maculatae (vegetation of nutrient rich shorelines with muddy substrate) and Brachiario muticae-Cynodontion dactyli (dense swards at sandy, wet places with an eutrophication through animals). The plant communities are presented in a constancy table. Their distribution, ecological and floristic relationships are described and discussed in a larger geographical context.
20649730|A complete revision, including a key to the species, drawings and distribution maps, of the tropical African Annonaceae genus Annickia (= Enantia Oliv., non Falc.) is presented. The exact phylogenetic position of this genus within the family has long been, and in fact still is, unclear. The status of four species, A. ambigua, A. atrocyanescens, A. kwiluensis and A. olivacea, has been elucidated. All four refer to the same species: A. ambigua. One new combination, A. affinis (Exell) Versteegh & Sosef, was needed. The well-known A. chlorantha, the bark of which is reputed for its anti-malarial activity, appears to be a rare species confined to southern Nigeria and Cameroon. It has been frequently confused with the more widespread A. affinis. The genus Annickia now comprises eight species, several of which show interesting distribution patterns.
20649731|Strombosia fleuryana, a new species from Ngomo on the Ogoou River in West Gabon is described and illustrated. The species is distinguished from the other Strombosia species of Lower Guinea by its leaves with very short petioles and by the subsessile flowers. A key to all Strombosia species of Lower Guinea is presented.
20649728|From the Netherlands four desmid species are newly described: Cosmarium calculus, C. jugatum, C. medioretusum and Roya closterioides. The names of eight taxa are newly given or recombined: Closterium tortitaenioides, Euastrum biscrobiculatum, Staurastrum crassangulatum, S. hirsutum var. arnellii, S. reductum, Staurodesmus cuspidatus var. divergens, Std. extensus var. malaccensis and Std. incus var. indentatus. Taxonomic affinities, habitat characteristics and regional distribution data are dealt with.
20649732|New combinations and new synonyms for the genus Coptosperma are assembled here in preparation for a revision of the Malagasy representatives of the genus and a check-list of the Rubiaceae of Madagascar and the Comores. Ixora pachyphylla, I. sessiliflora as well as Enterospermum 'bernerianum', E. borbonicum, E. coriaceum, E. humblotii and E. madagascariensis are transferred to the genus Coptosperma. Ixora linearifolia is newly placed in the synonymy of C. nigrescens.
20649729|The soil algal flora of limed and unlimed sessile oak (Quercus petraea (Matt.) Lieb.) and Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) forest plots situated in the Belgian Ardenne was investigated. Chlorophyta (61 taxa) were by far the most diverse group, followed by Xanthophyta (ten taxa), Bacillariophyta (three taxa), Cyanophyta (two taxa) and Euglenophyta (one taxon). Elliptochloris incisiformis Hoffmann et Kostikov, Elliptochloris perforata Hoffmann et Kostikov and Dicranochaete terrestris Hoffmann et Kostikov are described as new taxa.
20649738|The Leguminosae (Caesalpinioideae, Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae) of Angola were revised and a catalogue of the taxa endemic to the country is presented together with distribution maps. Up to present, 1016 taxa belonging to 166 genera of Leguminosae have been recorded for the flora of Angola. There are 144 native genera and 863 native species. The endemism is c. 19%, with 185 taxa endemic to Angola, consisting of 165 species and 20 infraspecific taxa. The genera Crotalaria and Indigofera have the highest number of endemics, with 46 and 20 species, respectively. Hula is the province where more endemic taxa occur, with 83 taxa (44%) recorded. As shown by the data analysed, 39 endemic taxa (20%) are only known from the type specimens and 77 (41%) have not been collected since 1960. A total of 93 names that were recorded in the Flora 'Conspectus Florae Angolensis' as endemics, are either synonyms of widespread taxa or are now known to occur also elsewhere.
20649741|Strombosia retivenia S.Moore (Olacaceae) from Nigeria, hitherto treated as a synonym of Diogoa zenkeri (Engl.) Exell & Mendona (Olacaceae), proved to represent a distinct species of that genus. The combination Diogoa retivenia is made. As a consequence Diogoa is no longer monospecific. The two Guineo-Congolese species are geographically separated. Their distributions are mapped. The wide gap in the distribution of Diogoa zenkeri is discussed. Diogoa retivenia, as well as the main distinguishing features of D. zenkeri, are illustrated. A key to the two species is provided. D. zenkeri is lectotypified.
20649740|Ongoing molecular studies of the subfamily Lamioideae have demonstrated that several genera do not correspond to monophyletic groups as currently circumscribed. Leucas R.Br. and Otostegia Benth. are particularly problematic in this respect. To confront the issue of monophyly taxonomically, the genus Rydingia A.-C.Scheen & V.A.Albert is described here with four species formerly assigned to Otostegia. The number of species of Moluccella L. is increased to three with the recognition of Moluccella aucheri (Boiss.) A.-C.Scheen which is transferred from Otostegia. The number of species of Isoleucas O.Schwartz is increased to two with the recognition of Isoleucas somala (Patzak) A.-C.Scheen, which is transferred from Otostegia. It was also necessary to distinguish two different groups of Leucas: 1) Leucas sensu stricto and 2) the "African Leucas clade", which preliminarily may be referred to as Leonotis (Pers.) R.Br. sensu lato due to nomenclatural priority.
20649739|Surirella bifrons var. intermedia O.Mll. and Surirella fuellebornii O.Mll., including its infraspecific taxa, were re-evaluated using historical East African material collected in the early 20th century from which Otto Mller described more than 100 new diatom taxa. In addition, material from the Hustedt Diatom Collection together with material collected during the past decades in the region of the African Great Lakes was studied. The investigation of the original material of Surirella bifrons Ehrenb. in the Ehrenberg Collection allowed to elevate Surirella bifrons var. intermedia to species rank: Surirella kusberi nom. nov. The variation observed in the material studied supported the abandonment of taxonomic recognition of Surirella fuellebornii f. subconstricta O.Mll. and var. constricta O.Mll. On the other hand, var. tumida Hustedt and var. elliptica O.Mll. are here elevated to species rank: Surirella crawfordii nom. nov. and Surirella friedelhinziae nom. nov. respectively. Finally, Surirella fuellebornii var. worthingtonii H.Bachm. was found to belong within the variability of Surirella malombae O.Mll.
10.2307/3668750|This study represents a first attempt to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships in the genus Dictyota by means of an RFLP analysis of the amplified Internal Transcribed Spacer 1 of the ribosomal region (ARDRA-ITS1). To overcome DNA extraction problems, a new protocol based on a combination of a CTAB method and a Sephaglass Bandprep Kit is presented. Seven species, mostly including more than one specimen, were included. Padina boergesenii was used as an outgroup. The inferred phylogenetic picture was congruent with the morphological-anatomical data. Specimens belonging to the same species invariably group together and differences among geographically isolated populations are reflected in the tree. Parsimony-based bootstrap and jackknife supports for basal nodes are generally very low and phylogenetic relationships between species are poorly resolved. This poor resolution can probably be attributed to the considerable variation in length of the ITS1 region among the species. This variation causes difficulties in sequence alignments and calls into question the use of this marker as a general tool in the genus.
10.2307/3668751|A cladistic analysis of 5S nuclear ribosomal DNA non-transcribed spacer (5S-NTS) sequences representing 55 Saintpaulia accessions and one Streptocarpus outgroup taxon is presented. All formally described and potential Saintpaulia taxa are included except for S. 'mafiensis' and the possibly extinct S. inconspicua. Most notably, Saintpaulia shumensis, the highest elevation species in the Usambara Mountains, is resolved, albeit with marginal parsimony jackknife support, as the sister taxon to all remaining members of the Usambaras/lowland clade, which is otherwise poorly structured. It is hypothesized that Saintpaulia shumensis may show a relictual distribution in the Usambaras, as there appears to be a phylogenetic trend from higher to lower elevation among the major clades of Saintpaulia. Further issues discussed include the implications of intra-individual nucleotide polymorphism and the narrow genetic basis for drastic differences in trichome morphology, a cardinal characteristic for Saintpaulia taxonomy.
10.2307/3668747|A new evergreen species of Arisaema from Thailand, A. omkoiense, is described and illustrated. The relationships, geographical distribution and cultural requirements are discussed.
10.2307/3668748|The name in karone, a language of the Lower Casamance Country (Senegal), of 86 plants are recorded. Most of these plants are used by man. /// Le nom en karone, une langue de la Basse Casamance (Sngal), de 86 espces vgtales a t enregistr. La plupart de ces espces sont utilises par l'homme.
10.2307/3668749|Aulacocalyx mapiana is described as a new species from Banyang Mbo, south-western Cameroon. Its relationship within the genus is discussed and a key is provided to all four species occurring in Cameroon.
10.2307/3668752|Perenniporia subdendrohyphidia is described based on a collection originating from Cameroon. The species is compared with Perenniporia dendrohyphidia from which it differs by having a pure white pore surface, smaller, oblong to oblong-ellipsoid, non-dextrinoid basidiospores, and narrower vegetative hyphae. Both P. dendrohyphidia and P. subdendrohyphidia are characterized by possessing dendrohyphidia in their dissepiments.
10.2307/3668754|Relationships among 40 species of the tribe Psychotrieae were estimated by cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in the rps16 intron (cpDNA). One strongly supported clade was found to include the genera Chazaliella, Chytropsia, Margaritopsis and Readea, and a number of species presently referred to Psychotria. It is suggested that this group should be treated taxonomically as one genus, the correct name of which would be Margaritopsis. The names Chazaliella, Chytropsia and Readea thus become synonyms of Margaritopsis. Margaritopsis in this broad sense is diagnosed by non-caducous stipules which are often marcescent, becoming papyraceous when old, by a greenish (rather than reddish or brownish) drying colour, planoconvex pyrenes with horny endocarp and distinct, marginal germination slits, and seeds with pale testa without an ethanol-soluble pigment. With this circumscription, Margaritopsis has ca. 10 species in the neotropics, ca. 25 in Africa, ca. 12 in New Caledonia and Fiji, and a few in SE Asia. It is doubtful if it occurs in The Philippines, New Guinea, Australia, Samoa or Hawaii. Three new combinations are made, Margaritopsis membranacea (Gillespie) L.Andersson, M. astrellantha (Wernh.) L.Andersson, and M. abrupta (Hiern) L.Andersson.
10.2307/3668753|Systematic research on the genus Panicum in the main Belgian public herbaria and some smaller private herbaria revealed a considerable number of new and other interesting data. Sixteen taxa have been recognized in the course of the present study: P. bulbosum*, P. capillare (incl. the subspecies capillare and barbipulvinatum*), P. chloroticum*, P. clandestinum, P. coloratum*, P. cf. decompositum*, P. dichotomiflorum (incl. the varieties dichotomiflorum and geniculatum), P. hillmanii*, P. hirticaule*, P. laevinode, P. miliaceum (incl. the subspecies miliaceum and ruderale*), P. schinzii and P. virgatum*. Several taxa (marked with * above) -- in part ancient and exclusive records of wool aliens originating in the Vesdre valley -- remained unidentified so far and are thus first mentioned for the Belgian adventitious flora. At present the following taxa are becoming more or less naturalized: P. capillare subsp. capillare, P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. schinzii (partially as noxious weeds in maize fields). Regularly introduced with cereals (incl. oil-seeds or commercial seeds) are P. chloroticum, P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. miliaceum subsp. miliaceum. Much rarer but fairly recent casuals are P. capillare subsp. barbipulvinatum, P. clandestinum, P. hillmanii, P. hirticaule and P. miliaceum subsp. ruderale. Misinterpretation within the genus led to numerous wrong identifications. P. compressum, P. flexile and P. repens need to be omitted from the Belgian adventitious flora lists. P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. schinzii have widely been confused; the majority of the P. dichotomiflorum collections actually belonged with P. schinzii. P. hillmanii and P. chloroticum are closely related and much confused with P. capillare and P. dichotomiflorum s.l. respectively. P. texanum is regarded as a member of the genus Urochloa, following recent nomenclatural insights. The present paper provides a dichotomous identification key for the genus Panicum in Belgium as well as additional chorological, taxonomic and nomenclatural remarks.
10.2307/3668726|The Mounts Kouff region is located in the central part of Benin between 1 40 and 2 30 N, and 8 25 and 9 15 E. This study dealt with the plant communities of the protected area of Wari Maro and Mounts Kouff. The vegetation is composed of savannah, woodland and patches of dry forests. The aim of this study is to determine the phytogeographical position of the Mounts Kouff region within Benin and western Africa. Between 1996 and 1998, floristical surveys were carried out. Some 159 phytosociological relevs were done. They resulted in 954 herbarium specimens corresponding to 584 species. Species of the Sudanian base element represent 16.1% of the total flora spectrum of Mounts Kouff region. Species of two of the three endemic genera to sudanian regional centre of endemism (RCE) were collected, i.e. Vitellaria paradoxa and Pseudocedrela kotschyi. The species present in both Sudanian and Zambesian RCE made up 13.5% of the phytogeographical spectrum and those of the Guineo-Congolian element accounted for 11.3% of the spectrum. They mostly belonged to gallery forests and dry forests because of the position of this region which is located in the most southern part of the Sudanian RCE close to the regional transition zone of Guinea-Congolia/Sudania. The other species widespread in several RCE's within continental african phytochoria represented 33% of the spectrum. Species of wide distribution represented 25.2% of the spectrum. This vegetation is entirely located into the Sudanian RCE as defined by White, with an important contribution of Guineo-Congolian species. /// La rgion des Monts Kouff est situe au centre du Bnin entre 1 40 et 2 30 N et 8 25 et 9 15 E. Elle regroupe les forts classes de Wari Maro, des Monts Kouff et les terroirs villageois environnants. La vgtation est compose de savanes, de forts claires et d'lots de forts denses sches ou denses semi-dcidues. L'objectif de la prsente tude est d'analyser le spectre phytogographique des espces recenses dans les Monts Kouff au sein des principales formations. Des inventaires floristiques et 159 relevs phytosociologiques effectus dans cette rgion de 1996  1998, rsultent une collection de 954 chantillons d'herbier correspondant  584 espces qui constituent les donnes de base de cette tude. Les espces de l'lment base soudanien reprsentent 16,1% du spectre brut de la florule totale de la rgion des Monts Kouff. Deux des trois genres endmiques du centre rgional d'endmisme (CRE) soudanien ont t rcolts; il s'agit de Vitellaria paradoxa et Pseudocedrela kotschyi. 13,5% des espces sont rpandues  la fois dans les CRE soudanien et zambsien; 11,3% appartiennent  l'lment guinen et se dveloppent dans les forts-galeries et forts denses sches ou semi-dcidues. Ces dernires sont situes dans la zone la plus mridionale du CRE soudanien en contact sud avec la zone de transition guino-congolaise/soudanienne. Les espces plurirgionales africaines reprsentent 33% du spectre brut. Il s'agit surtout des espces afrotropicales. Les taxons  plus large distribution constituent 25,2% du spectre brut. Au vu de ce qui prcde, on peut conclure que la rgion des Monts Kouff est situe entirement dans le Centre rgional d'endmisme soudanien (CRE) dfini par White avec une contribution importante des espces guinennes.
10.2307/3668693|Different opinions on the generic delimitation of Hyacinthaceae are reviewed with emphasis on sub-Saharan taxa. Morphological characters used for identification of genera as well as results from DNA-sequencing data are discussed in relation to different generic delimitations proposed by various authors. Recommendations on the generic delimitation of the family are put forward. The use of a wide generic concept is suggested with emphasis on the use of qualitative characters as diagnostic characters for genera. /// Diffrentes opinions concernant la dlimitation gnrique chez les Hyacinthaceae sont passes en revue. L'accent est mis sur les taxons sub-sahariens. Les caractres morphologiques utiliss pour l'identification des genres ainsi que les rsultats obtenus par squenage d'ADN sont discuts et mis en relation avec les dlimitations gnriques proposes par divers auteurs. Des recommandations pour la dlimitation gnrique au sein de la famille sont avances. L'utilisation d'un concept gnrique largi et celle de caractres qualitatifs pour la diagnose des genres sont proposes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668672|The Centro de Botnica of the Institue for Tropical Scientific Research (IICT) has a herbarium with about 240,000 specimens from sub-Saharan Africa. Most of them were collected in former Portuguese colonies. The Centre develops activities in areas such as taxonomy, phytogeography and ethnobotany. Studies for the publishing of the Conspectus Florae Angolensis, the Flora of Cape Verde Islands, and the Flora of Mozambique are being made, in co-operation with Angolan, Cape Verdean and Mozambican researchers. Studies on the flora, the vegetation and the ethnobotany in Guinea-Bissau are being undertaken in co-operation with governmental and private entities. In Cape Verde Islands and in So Tom and Prncipe, studies on vegetation and land use are being undertaken. The Centre supports Master and Ph.D. theses and trains technicians from Portuguese speaking African countries, contributing to the development of the botanical studies in these countries. /// Le Centre de Botanique de l'Institut pour la Recherche Scientifique Tropicale (IICT) possde un herbier d'environ 240.000 specimens provenant d'Afrique sub-saharienne. La plupart de ces chantillons ont t rcolts dans les anciennes colonies portugaises. Le Centre dveloppe des activits dans des domaines tels que la taxonomie, la phytogographie et l'ethnobotanique. Des tudes sont ralises en collaboration avec des chercheurs angolais, capverdiens et mozambicains dans le cadre de la publication de Conspectus Florae Angolensis, de la Flore des Iles du Cap-Vert et de la Flore du Mozambique. Des tudes sur la flore, la vgtation et l'ethnobotanique sont menes en Guine-Bissau en collaboration avec des entits gouvernementales et prives. Dans les les du Cap-Vert ainsi qu' So Tom et Prncipe, des tudes sur la vgtation et l'occupation du sol sont entreprises. Le Centre supporte des thses de matrise et de doctorat et forme des techniciens lusophones originaires de pays africains, contribuant ainsi au dveloppement des tudes botaniques dans ces pays. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668716|Only recently, ethnobotany has caught the interest of actors involved in the sustainable management of natural resources based on local ecological knowledge. In the perspective of conceiving a website for the African Ethnobotany Network (AEN), a preliminary study was undertaken in order to assess how ethnobotanical data are presented on the Internet. Fifty-two sites were analyzed, as well as the links they propose. The information offered on these sites appears to be heterogeneous and incomplete. Ethnobotanical data are generally presented as a compilation of plant uses. No sites were found discussing theoretical concepts, historical background, or methodological approaches. Bibliographic sources given are incomplete and texts cited may rarely be consulted interactively. This disappointing assessment does not convey the impression that ethnobotany is a dynamic and well-anchored discipline. These shortcomings underline the urgent need to conceive an innovative website enabling a richer exchange of information among members of the AEN, and contributing to present ethnobotany as a substantial scientific discipline. /// L'ethnobotanique n'a que tout rcemment suscit l'intrt des dcideurs uvrant pour une gestion durable des ressources naturelles qui tienne compte des savoirs populaires. Dans la perspective de concevoir un site internet pour le Rseau Africain d'Ethnobotanique (RAE), une tude a t pralablement mene afin de voir comment l'information ethnobotanique est traite sur internet. Cinquante-deux sites ont t analyss, de mme que les liens qu'ils proposent. L'information qu'ils dispensent s'avre htroclite et lacunaire. Les donnes nonces comme "ethnobotaniques" ne sont souvent que des compilations d'usages de plantes. Aucun des sites consults n'aborde les concepts thoriques, la mise en perspective historique de la discipline ou les mthodologies d'enqutes. Les rfrences bibliographiques sont incompltes et ne permettent que rarement un accs interactif aux textes cits. Ce bilan dcevant ne contribue gure  faire valoir l'ethnobotanique comme une science bien tablie et dynamique. Il est urgent de concevoir un site internet innovant, qui soit une plateforme d'change entre membres du RAE, et qui rhabilite l'ethnobotanique en tant que vritable discipline scientifique.
10.2307/3668741|Three samples of Equato-Guinean rain forest have recently been studied under the project of CUREF (Conservacin y Utilizacin Racional de los Ecosistemas Forestales de Guinea Ecuatorial). The rain forest of the Altos de Nsork region, in the eastern part of Equatorial Guinea, has been studied by the present author by 1 km long transects. The two other studies have been carried out by others at the rio Muni's estuary (southwestern part of the country) and in the Ndote reserve (central-western part). A total of 9970 trees with DBH  30 cm, belonging to 341 species determined at least to genus, were found on 93.5 ha. To take the vegetation variability of each site into account, a phytosociological table was established using TWINSPAN with twenty surveys of 160  10 m for DBH  10 cm trees, chosen in homogeneous parts of transect. The following species were found to be prominent in the zone near the coast: Desbordesia glaucescens, Calpocalyx heitzii, Alstonia congensis, Sacoglottis gabonensis, Anthostema aubryanum, Erythrophleum ivorense, Caloncoba glauca, Lophira alata, Croton oligandrus, etc. The species found to have a continental distribution included: Millettia laurentii, Sindoropsis letestui, Entandrophragma congoense, Celtis tessmannii, Dialium pachyphyllum, Dialium spp., Allanblackia floribunda, etc. Because of the abundance of these species, Nsork represents the most continental part of the lowerguinean atlantic region. The forests of the rio Muni's estuary show a huge biodiversity because of their intermediate position and their rich habitat diversity. /// Trois inventaires dans les forts denses de Guine Equatoriale ont rcemment t tudis au sein du projet CUREF (Conservacin y Utilizacin Racional de los Ecosistemas Forestales de Guinea Ecuatorial). Les forts denses de la rgion des Altos de Nsork, dans l'Est de la Guine Equatoriale, ont t tudies par le prsent auteur sur des transects de 1 km de long. Les deux autres tudes furent menes par d'autres dans l'estuaire du rio Muni (au Sud-Ouest du pays) et dans la rserve de Ndot (Centre-Ouest). Un total de 9970 arbres  DBH  30 cm, appartenant  341 espces dtermines au moins jusqu'au genre, fut relev sur 93,5 ha. Afin de tenir compte de la variabilit de la vgtation dans chaque site, un tableau phytosociologique a t ralis en utilisant TWINSPAN avec vingt relevs de 160  10 m, pour les arbres  DBH  10 cm, choisis sur des tronons homognes de transect. Les espces suivantes sont apparues prdominantes dans la zone proche de la cte: Desbordesia glaucescens, Calpocalyx heitzii, Alstonia congensis, Sacoglottis gabonensis, Anthostema aubryanum, Erythrophleum ivorense, Caloncoba glauca, Lophira alata, Croton oligandrus, etc. Les espces  distribution continentale comptent parmi elles: Millettia laurentii, Sindoropsis letestui, Entandrophragma congoense, Celtis tessmannii, Dialium pachyphyllum, Dialium spp., Allanblackia floribunda, etc. Du fait de l'abondance de ces espces, Nsork reprsente l'extrmit continentale du domaine bas-guinen atlantique. Les forts de l'estuaire du rio Muni prsentent une forte biodiversit du fait de leur position intermdiaire et de leur importante richesse en habitats.
10.2307/3668694|The delimitation of the large and very variable paleotropical genus Tarenna sensu lato has been much debated. A detailed study of the morphological, anatomical and palynological characters of the different groups within this genus results here in the exclusion of circa fifty species from Madagasar or continental Africa. These possess unilocular drupaceous fruits with a single suborbicular to ellipsoidal and usually ruminate seed, a character combination not found in other representatives of Tarenna sensu lato. The genus name Coptosperma is revived to accommodate this group of species, occurring in Eastern and Southern Africa, Madagascar, the Mascarenes, the Seychelles and the Comoros. /// La dlimitation du genre palotropical Tarenna sensu lato, vaste et trs variable, a t l'objet de nombreux dbats. Une tude dtaille de caractres morphologiques, anatomiques et palynologiques des diffrents groupes au sein du genre conduit ici  l'exclusion d'environ cinquante espces de Madagascar ou du continent africain. Les fruits de ces espces sont des drupes uniloculaires  graine unique suborbiculaire  ellipsode et gnralement rumine, une combinaison de caractres qui est absente chez les autres reprsentants du genre Tarenna sensu lato. Le nom gnrique Coptosperma est rhabilit pour ce groupe d'espces prsentes en Afrique orientale et australe,  Madagascar, dans les Mascareignes, les Seychelles et les Comores.
10.2307/3668740|Guinea-Bissau is included in the Guinea-Congolia/Sudania regional transition zone. In order to characterize the environmental framework contributing to the phytogeography of this country the available data on the geology, soils and climatic features of his territory have been summarized and related with the vegetation data. In spite of being a small country, it shows some significant heterogeneity in flora and vegetation from north to south and from coastal to inland regions. The coastal western part of the country has humid to moderately humid climate and mostly deep soils. In the southwestern region develops probably the northernmost dry to sub-humid Guinean forests supporting a phytogeographic Guinean affinity of the region. In the inner eastern part of the country with a sub-humid climate and most of the soils shallow, the vegetation is mainly savanna and woodland and this region seems to have a Sudanese affinity. /// La Guine-Bissau fait partie de la zone de transition rgionale guinocongolaise/soudanienne. Afin de caractriser le cadre environnemental contribuant  la phytogographie de ce pays, les donnes disponibles relatives  la gologie, aux sols et aux conditions climatiques de son territoire ont t rsumes et mises en relation avec les donnes de vgtation. Bien qu'tant un petit pays, la Guine-Bissau est caractrise par une htrognit significative de sa flore et de sa vgtation tant du nord au sud que des rgions ctires vers l'intrieur de son territoire. La partie occidentale ctire du pays bnficie d'un climat humide  modrment humide et est caractrise par des sols gnralement profonds. C'est dans la rgion sud-ouest que se dveloppent probablement les forts guinennes sches  sub-humides les plus septentrionales, preuve de l'affinit guinenne de la rgion. Dans la partie orientale intrieure du pays, caractrise par un climat sub-humide et par des sols pour la plupart superficiels, la vgtation consiste principalement en savanes et en forts claires. Cette rgion semble possder une affinit soudanienne. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668680|The database FLOTROP, an initiative of Cnrs and Cirad, is intended to compile observations on the flora and vegetation of rangelands of northern tropical Africa, i.e. from the Saharo-Sahelian to the Sudanian zone. Its consultation allows elaborate output, i.e. cartographic or in relation to interpretative models. March 15, 2000, the database contained 15,000 listings distributed over 70 years, between latitude 4 and 25 north and from Cabo Verde to Somalia, and coming from more than 100 observers. The authors present a complete analysis of its sampling rate and its corresponding space variation. The importance of keeping observations, even old ones, in the database is stressed. /// La base FLOTROP initie par le Cnrs et le Cirad est destine  rassembler les observations sur la flore et la vgtation des pturages d'Afrique tropicale septentrionale, c'est--dire de la zone saharo-sahlienne  la zone soudanienne. Lors de consultations, elle permet des sorties labores, cartographiques ou en relation avec des modles interprtatifs. Au 15 mars 2000, la base porte sur 15 000 relevs rpartis sur 70 ans, entre les latitudes 4 et 25 N, du Cap-Vert  la Somalie et provenant de plus de 100 observateurs; les auteurs prsentent une analyse complte du taux d'chantillonnage correspondant et de sa variation spatiale. Ils insistent fortement sur l'importance de sauvegarder les observations mme anciennes dans la base de donnes.
10.2307/3668669|A floristic study was carried out on terrestrial weed species of Kampala (Uganda). The aim of the study was to identify weed species, to determine their life forms and their phytogeographical distribution and to compile a checklist. An inventory was made throughout the man-made habitats of Kampala and voucher specimens were collected and deposited at the Herbarium of the Department of Botany of Makerere University (MHU). Three hundred and thirty-one species, belonging to 204 genera and 64 families, were identified. The most important families are Asteraceae (45 spp.), Poaceae (44 spp.) and Papilionaceae (33 spp.). Most of the species are therophytes (38.7%) and of pantropical distribution (48.9%). /// Un inventaire floristique des plantes adventices a t ralis  Kampala en Ouganda. Cette tude avait pour objectif d'identifier ces espces, de dfinir et de discuter leurs types biologiques et phytogographiques. Un herbier de rfrence a t constitu et conserv  l'Herbarium du Dpartement de Botanique de l'Universit Makerere (MHU). Au total, 331 espces ont t identifies. Elles sont rparties en 64 familles et 204 genres. Les familles les plus importantes sont: Asteraceae (45 espces), Poaceae (44 espces) et Papilionaceae (33 espces). Parmi les types biologiques, les throphytes forment le groupe le plus important (38,7%). Le spectre gographique, par contre, est domin par des espces pantropicales (48,9% du total).
10.2307/3668698|The phylogeny of Cyperus and allied genera in Cyperaceae tribe Cypereae has been reconstructed using parsimony analysis of a combined data matrix, composed of plastid DNA (rbcL, trnL intron and trnL-F intergenic spacer) sequences and morphological data. Tribe Cypereae are resolved into a strongly supported clade that is defined by the Cyperus-type embryo and absence of perianth segments. Cyperus, sensu stricto, is not monophyletic as other cyperoid genera are embedded within it. The cyperoid taxa resolve into two clades, which are diagnosed by the eucyperoid (C3) and chlorocyperoid (C4) anatomy. Key generic morphological characters are optimised on the phylogeny. /// La phylognie du genre Cyperus et des genres allis de la tribu des Cypereae au sein de la famille des Cyperaceae a t reconstruite en utilisant l'analyse de parcimonie d'une matrice combine de donnes composes de squences d'ADN du plastide (rbcL, trnL intron et trnL-F intergenic spacer) et morphologiques. La tribu des Cypereae constitue une clade bien diffrencie qui est dfinie par l'embryon typique des Cyperus et l'absence de segments au niveau du prianthe. Cyperus, sensu stricto, n'est pas monophyltique car d'autres genres cyprodes y sont ancrs. Les taxons cyprodes constituent deux clades diagnostiques par leur anatomie eucyprode (C3) et chlorocyprode (C4). Les caractres morphologiques cls des genres sont optimiss sur l'arbre phylognique. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668668|The flora and distribution of epiphytes was surveyed on quickset hedges in the Bafou village (1400-2800m above sea level) situated at the Mount Bambouto area (west Cameroon) using Johansson's methodology (1974). The study area was divided into three areas (northern, central and southern part) according to the altitude. The factor analysis shows that the central and the southern regions of the study site were similar as far as the floristic composition is concerned. Because of this fact, two major regions were recognized within the study area: region I (central and southern parts) and region II (northern part). All together, 68 species were recorded on 746 individuals of 12 host tree species (phorophytes). Among the 68 species, 58 species are present in region I while 31 species are in region II. In region I, 46.6% of the species are Monocotyledons, Dicotyledons are represented by 29.3% of the species and Pteridophytes by 24.1%. The largest family among the 16 families present in this region I is the Orchidaceae which is represented by 46.6% of the species. In region II, Dicotyledons are the most abundant group and are represented by 48.4% of the species. Monocotyledons and Pteridophytes are in the same proportion and each of those groups is represented by 25.8% of the species. Among the 14 families present in this region, the Orchidaceae is the most abundant group with 25.8% of the species. In region I, two phorophytes, Cola anomala and Dracaena arborea, are the richest in species and carry 35 and 34 species of epiphytes, respectively. In region II, Dracaena arborea, Spathodea campanulata and Cola anomala with 21, 17 et 16 epiphytes respectively are the richest in species. Otherwise Croton macrostachyus and Ficus chlamydocarpa are the poorest in the two regions. A detailed analysis of the distribution of epiphytes on Cola anomala in the northern, central and southern parts of the study site with the number of epiphytes as the dependent variable and the circumference of the phorophyte as a co-factor shows a significant difference between the three parts of the study site (F = 5,56; d.f. = 2; P < 0,0054). Furthermore, the number of epiphytes and the circumference of the phorophyte appeared correlated in the different parts of the study site (<latex>$P<10^{-6}$</latex>). The examination of the stratification of the epiphytes on Cola anomala tree shows that the species richness is different within the five strates recognized here. /// La distribution des piphytes vasculaires a t tudie sur les haies vives du village Bafou (1400-2800 m d'altitude) situ dans la rgion des monts Bambouto (Ouest Cameroun). La mthodologie utilise est celle de Johansson (1974). Le territoire d'tude a t subdivis en trois ensembles (Nord, Centre et Sud) en fonction de l'altitude. L'analyse factorielle des correspondances nous a permis de constater que le Centre et le Sud sont floristiquement semblables. Ceci a permis la reconnaissance de deux rgions: la rgion I (Sud et Centre) et la rgion II (Nord). Au total, 68 espces d'piphytes ont t recenses sur 746 individus appartenant  douze espces-supports (phorophytes). Parmi les 68 espces d'piphytes rencontres, 57 sont signales dans la rgion I et 31 dans la rgion II. Dans la rgion I, 46,6% des espces sont des Monocotyldones. Les Dicotyldones et les Ptridophytes sont reprsentes respectivement par 29,3% et 24,1% des espces. Les Orchidaceae avec 46,6% des espces, sont de loin la famille la mieux reprsente parmi les 16 familles signales. Dans la rgion II, les Dicotyldones sont les plus nombreuses et reprsentent 48,4% des espces. Les Monocotyldones et les Ptridophytes, en proportion gale, reprsentent chacune 25,8% des espces. Parmi les 15 familles prsentes dans cette rgion, les Orchidaceae sont encore les mieux reprsentes avec 25,8% des espces. Dans la rgion I, Cola anomala et Dracaena arborea sont les phorophytes les plus riches en espces et portent respectivement 35 et 34 espces. Dans la rgion II, Dracaena arborea, Spathodea campanulata et Cola anomala avec respectivement 21 espces, 17 espces et 16 espces, sont les phorophytes les plus riches en espces. Croton macrostachyus et Ficus chlamydocarpa sont les phorophytes les plus pauvres dans les deux rgions de la zone d'tude. Une analyse plus pousse de la distribution des piphytes sur Cola anomala dans le Nord, le Centre et le Sud de la zone d'tude avec le nombre d'piphytes comme variable dpendante et comme co-facteur la circonfrence du phorophyte montre une diffrence entre ces trois parties du site (F = 5,56; d.d.l. = 2; P < 0,0054). Par ailleurs dans ces diffrentes parties, le nombre d'espces d'piphytes et la circonfrence du phorophyte sont deux variables significativement associes (<latex>$P<10^{-6}$</latex>). L'tude de la stratification des piphytes sur Cola anomala permet de constater que la richesse spcifique est diffrente dans les cinq strates reconnues.
10.2307/3668706|This paper presents a preliminary inventory of edible macromycetes found in six Sudano-Guinean vegetation types from the protected forest areas of Wari-Maro in Benin (West Africa). Thirty edible species were found in 18 fixed plots (three per vegetation type). Edibility data were obtained from local populations and the literature. Mushroom productions were assessed per species and per plot using the number of produced carpophores and fresh weight (kg/ha). Edible macromycetes from the studied areas are for 86.6% ectomycorrhizal taxa belonging to Lactarius, Russula and Amanita. The total macromycetous fresh weight production of one season varies from 0.2 to 225.0 kg/ha, depending on the forest type. Open forests, i.e. savanna and woodland savanna, dominated by Caesalpiniaceae yield qualitatively and quantitatively more edible taxa than the denser and rivulet associated or riverain forest types lacking Caesalpinioid trees. Lactarius gymnocarpoides, forming ectomycorrhiza with Isoberlinia doka, is the most common and abundant species in the savannas and woodland savannas. Specific productions of the edible taxa are affected by host tree composition reflected in the forest type. Most species produce quantitatively more fresh weight in the first two months of the rainy season (June-July). Species showing a continuous production throughout the rainy season are rare. The study illustrates that the edible macromycetes from Wari-Maro forest have substantial importance as a renewable non timber forest product (NTFP). The limitations and the main factors, necessary for a succesful valorisation of these NTFP, are discussed. /// Cette tude donne l'inventaire des macromyctes comestibles, trouvs dans six types de formations forestires de la fort classe de Wari-Maro (Bnin, Afrique de l'Ouest) en rgion Soudano-guinenne. Un total de 30 espces comestibles a t obtenu dans 18 placeaux (trois par formation), les donnes de comestibilit ont t obtenues de la population locale et de la littrature. Le nombre de carpophores et la biomasse frache ont t quantifis par espce et par formation. Les macromyctes comestibles sont  86,6% des espces ectomycorhiziennes appartenant principalement aux genres Amanita, Lactarius et Russula. En une saison la production totale, toutes espces confondues, varie de 0,2  225 kg MF/ha suivant la formation forestire. Les formations ouvertes (savane arbustive, savane arbore et les diffrents facis de la fort claire  Isoberlinia doka) domines par les Caesalpiniaceae fournissent le plus d'espces comestibles, tant en richesse spcifique qu'en biomasse frache. Par contre, les formations denses fermes (fort dense de plateau et fort riveraine) pauvres en Caesalpiniaceae enregistrent les plus faibles productions. Lactarius gymnocarpoides, espce symbiote d'Isoberlinia doka, est la plus abondante de la mycoflore des formations  caractre de fort claire. Les productions spcifiques varient d'une formation  une autre. Quelques cas spcifiques sont traits. Les productions des espces sont le plus souvent concentres en dbut de la saison des pluies (juin-juillet). Les espces  production plus tale sont peu frquentes. L'tude dmontre que les potentialits des macromyctes de la fort classe de Wari-Maro, en tant que ressource forestire comestible ou produit forestier non-ligneux (PFNL), sont normes. Les facteurs importants pour le succs de la valorisation des ressources mycologiques dans la rgion sont abords.
10.2307/3668710|An ethnobotanical inquiry allowed to establish an inventory of plants (wild and cultivated) daily used by the autochtonous riverine people of the Lossi forest. The study deals with the edible useful plants. The dietary potential of the forest as well as the impact of picking on conservation of phytogenetic resources and their sustainable exploitation are evaluated. Translated by the journal. /// L'enqute ethnobotanique, auprs des populations autochtones et riveraines de la fort de Lossi, a permis d'inventorier quelques plantes utiles (cultives et sauvages) dont elles se servent au quotidien. Cette tude couvrant le volet alimentaire a conduit  valuer le potentiel alimentaire de cette fort et l'impact de la cueillette sur la conservation du patrimoine phytogntique et son exploitation soutenue.
10.2307/3668725|Woodland occurs in the Sudanian region of northern Benin where the tree stratum is dominated by Isoberlinia tomentosa or Monotes kerstingii at about 10 N. The objective of this study is to characterize floristic composition of herbaceous strata of woodland on the view point of life forms and species geographical distribution. Data were collected in relev plots of <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> that had permitted to distinguish three plant associations. Species richness varied from 48 to 67 in the herbaceous stratum compared to 17 or 18 tree species per <tex-math>$1000\ m^{2}$</tex-math> in tree layer. Therophyte species were the most abundant (34 to 44%), but according to herbaceous strata structure defined by biovolume, hemicryptophyte species were the most abundant (77 to 94%). According to species distribution the base-element abundance varied from one association to another. The abundance of the base-element was low in disturbed stations due to the impact, when abundance of large spreading species was higher. Phanerophyte species abundance was higher among the base-element species than therophyte and geophyte species. While considering widely distributed species, therophyte species abundance was the highest (54 to 63%). This study shows that better of cattle grazing better understanding can be obtained of species richness and ecological patterns in Sudanian woodland using the abundance figures of respectively therophytic and phanerophytic species. /// La rgion soudanienne du Nord du Bnin est celle o l'on rencontre les forts claires qui sont pour la plupart domines au niveau de la strate arborescente par Isoberlinia tomentosa ou Monotes kerstingii  partir de 10 N. Cette tude dont l'objectif est de caractriser la composition floristique de la strate herbace des forts claires soudaniennes du point de vue structural et de leurs types biologique et phytogographique a t conduite dans trois associations diffrentes dans des placeaux de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> en moyenne. La richesse spcifique de la strate herbace varie entre 48 et 67 espces contre 17 ou 18 espces d'arbres sur <tex-math>$1000\ m^{2}$</tex-math> au niveau de la strate arborescente. Les throphytes sont les types biologiques les plus abondants (35  44%), alors que du point de vue structural ce sont plutt les hmicryptophytes cespiteux basiphylles qui contribuent le plus au biovolume de la strate herbace (77  94%). Du point de vue chorologique, l'abondance des espces de l'lment-base soudanien varie d'une association  l'autre. La valeur de l'lment-base est plus faible dans les stations perturbes par une forte intensit de passage des troupeaux bovins o l'on note aussi une contribution plus forte des espces  large distribution. Les phanrophytes sont plus reprsentatifs dans le cortge floristique de l'lment-base soudanien devant les throphytes et les gophytes. Dans le cortge des espces  large distribution ce sont plutt les throphytes qui sont les plus abondants et y contribuent entre 54 et 63%. On peut dduire de cette tude que les espces throphytes et phanrophytes traduisent par leur abondance, respectivement, la richesse spcifique et l'amplitude cologique des forts claires soudaniennes.
10.2307/3668666|In the Ivory Coast, the Sapotaceae comprise fifteen genera with the following distribution: African, eleven; pantropical, two (Chrysophyllum, Manilkara); paleotropical, one (Mimusops); afro-neotropical, one (Pouteria). At species rank, 43 Sapotaceae, all African, have been reported from different vegetation types in the country. They are trees or shrubs, but a single liana also occurs: Chrysophyllum welwitschii. Thirty-six of these species (83.7%) come from rain forest. The sudano-zambezian region counts five species, among them the very common "Karit" (Vitellaria paradoxa). Two shrubs are from the transition between rain forest and savanna: Mimusops andongensis and Pouteria alnifolia. Nine species are West African endemics. Three of them only occur in the Ivory Coast. Six Sapotaceae became rare or endangered due to the unfortunate degradation of the plant cover. Translated by the journal. /// La famille des Sapotaceae compte, en Cte d'Ivoire, quinze genres dont la chorologie est la suivante: africain, onze; pantropicaux, deux (Chrysophyllum, Manilkara); palotropical, un (Mimusops); afro-notropical, un (Pouteria). Au niveau spcifique, 43 Sapotaceae, toutes africaines, ont t rpertories dans les diffrentes formations vgtales du pays. Ce sont des arbres ou des arbustes; une seule espce lianescente est connue chez les Sapotaceae ivoiriennes: Chrysophyllum welwitschii. Parmi ces plantes, 36 (83,7%) proviennent de la fort dense humide. La rgion soudanozambzienne est caractrise par cinq espces, dont le Karit (Vitellaria paradoxa), trs abondant. Dans la zone de contact de la fort dense et de la savane, on note la prsence de deux arbustes: Mimusops andongensis et Pouteria alnifolia. Neuf espces sont endmiques ouest-africaines. Parmi elles, trois sont propres  la Cte d'Ivoire. Suite  la dgradation intempestive du couvert vgtal en Cte d'Ivoire, six Sapotaceae sont devenues rares ou en voie d'extinction.
10.2307/3668721|This work is the first analysis of the totality of the plant biodiversity inventories made in the Odzala National Park. It deals especially with habitat diversity and phytogeographical groups based ou the correctly determined species of the curent flora. The global taxonomic list consists of 1141 species belonging to 125 families. Forest habitat is the most diversified with 806 species reaching 71% of the total, of wich 537 belong to the "fort de terre ferme". Grassy habitat includes 335 species reaching 29% of the total, 143 species belonging to the savanna. At the phytogeographical groups level, the basic Guineo-Congolian element is the most important with 666 species (58% of the flora). Species with very broad geographical area follow with 271 species (24% of the flora). Correlation between habitat and phytogeographical groups has been established. The predominance of the basic Guineo-Congolian element in forest sites where the human influence is lesser displays the stability of these habitats. The importance of species with very broad geographical area in grassy habitats illustrates the secondary or substitution character of these sites, mainly created by human activities. /// Ce travail constitue une premire analyse de la totalit de donnes cumules jusqu'ici, sur la biodiversit des plantes inventories dans le Parc National d'Odzala (PNO). L'analyse porte essentiellement sur les habitats et la diversit des groupes phytogograhiques, et concerne les espces correctement dtermines. Au total 1141 espces appartenant  125 familles ont t inventories. Les habitats forestiers sont les plus diversifis avec 806 espces soit 71% du total, dont 537 appartiennent aux forts de terre ferme. Les habitats herbeux hbergent 335 espces soit 29% du total, dont 143 espces appartiennent aux savanes. Au niveau des groupes phytogograhiques, les espces de l'lment-base guino-congolais sont les plus importantes avec 666 espces (58% de la flore). Les espces  large distribution gographique suivent avec 271 espces (24% de la flore). Il a t tabli une corrlation entre l'habitat et le groupe phytogograhique. La prdominance des espces de l'lment-base guino-congolais dans les sites forestiers tmoigne de la stabilit de ces derniers o. l'influence humaine est moindre. L'importance des espces  large distribution gographique dans les habitats herbeux illustre le caractre secondaire ou de substitution de ces sites conscutif aux activits anthropiques.
10.2307/3668684|The comparison of the grass flora of Cte d'Ivoire and Niger with those several other countries of West Africa shows that the local floras are only partially valid for the neighbouring countries. This study underlines the scientific and practical interest of the regional floras. /// La comparaison des flores des Poaceae de Cte d'Ivoire et du Niger avec celles de plusieurs autres pays d'Afrique de l'Ouest, a montr qu'elles n'ont qu'une validit partielle pour les pays avoisinants. Cette tude met en vidence l'intrt scientifique et pratique des flores rgionales.
10.2307/3668673|The Flora of Tropical East Africa, a project started in 1949, is to be finished in 2006. Over twelve thousand species in 249 families will be accounted for; this relatively small region encompasses a large number of highly diverse habitats, which results in a rich biodiversity. A brief overview of habitats is given, and local endemism is discussed. The second section deals with the strategy of the Flora; its use and its users, and its raison d'tre. Also discussed are some possible action plans for when the Flora has been finished, and a trial family is treated for a suggested new Flora of Tropical Africa. /// La 'Flora of Tropical East Africa', un projet qui a dbut en 1949, sera termine en 2006. Environ 12.000 espces rparties au sein de 249 familles y auront t traites; cette rgion relativement petite est caractrise par une riche biodiversit, rsultat de la diversit des habitats qu'elle renferme. Un bref aperu des habitats est donn et l'endmisme local est discut. La seconde partie concerne la stratgie de la Flore, son utilisation et ses utilisateurs ainsi que sa raison d'tre. Quelques plans d'action envisageables aprs finalisation de la Flore sont galement discuts et le traitement d'une famille  titre exemplatif prfigure ce que pourrait tre une nouvelle Flore d'Afrique Tropicale. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668733|A plant collecting expedition to Nyika National Park, Malawi/Zambia, was completed from 22 March to 10 April 2000 by more than twenty botanists from the southern and eastern African countries of Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The expedition formed part of the SABONET Project which is aimed at developing a strong core of professional botanists, taxonomists and plant diversity specialists competent to inventory and conserve the botanical diversity of the southern African region. During this expedition, 3,343 plant numbers were collected, with preliminary results indicating many new distribution and locality records both for Nyika National Park and the Flora Zambesiaca area. /// Une expdition dans le Parc National Nyika, Malawi/Zambie, en vue de rcolter des chantillons de plantes, a t mene du 22 mars au 10 avril 2000 par plus de vingt botanistes d'Afrique australe et de l'est originaires du Malawi, du Mozambique, d'Afrique du Sud, de Tanzanie, de Zambie et du Zimbabwe. L'expdition entrait dans le cadre du Projet SABONET dont l'objectif est de dvelopper un noyau fort de botanistes professionnels, de taxonomistes et de spcialistes de la diversit vgtale, comptents pour inventorier et conserver la diversit botanique de l'Afrique australe. Au cours de cette expdition, 3.343 chantillons botaniques ont t rcolts. Les rsultats prliminaires indiquent de nombreuses nouveauts quant  la distribution des taxons ainsi que de nouvelles localits de rcolte tant pour le Parc National Nyika que pour la zone couverte par la Flora Zambesiaca. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668664|Numerous botanists have taken an interest in the flora of the copper-containing rocky outcrops of South Central Africa (Katanga, Zambia, Zimbabwe); some botanical collectors came by chance to these sites, while others, and among these the botanists Duvigneaud, Malaisse and Wild, have dedicated sites with copper-containing rocks a sustained interest. According to the number of collections made on these sites, some have been very well prospected, whilst others are still almost totally unknown from a botanical point of view. Moreover, the original vegetation of some sites is still intact, while mining activities in other sites have deeply influenced the vegetation, leading sometimes to total destruction and what appears to be extinction of five local endemic taxa. Maps showing the position of sites in South Central Africa are provided to demonstrate the degree of botanical exploration of the different outcrops; one set shows the total exploration, the other shows the activities of Duvigneaud, Malaisse and Wild. Based on these maps of exploration, and on maps of the degree of alteration of the sites, conclusions are drawn on the current knowledge of the sites and their flora, and on the need for future study of undercollected sites. /// De nombreux botanistes se sont intresss  la flore des gisements cuprifres d'Afrique centro-australe (Katanga, Zambie, Zimbabwe). Alors que certains se sont rendus fortuitement sur de tels sites, d'autres, (et parmi ceux-ci, particulirement les botanistes Duvigneaud, Malaisse et Wild) y ont consacr beaucoup d'intrt. Compte tenu du nombre de spcimens d'herbiers raliss sur gisements cuprifres, certains sites ont t particulirement bien herboriss tandis que d'autres restent pratiquement mconnus voire totalement inconnus d'un point de vue botanique. De plus, la vgtation originelle de certains sites est toujours intacte, tandis que, pour d'autres sites, l'activit minire a profondment modifi la vgtation, amenant parfois  une destruction totale de celle-ci, voire, dans un cas,  la disparition de cinq taxons endmiques locaux. Des reprsentations cartographiques montrant la localisation des sites sont avances pour reprsenter l'exploration botanique des diffrents gisements par l'ensemble des rcolteurs puis, respectivement, par Duvigneaud, Malaisse et Wild. La consultation des cartes d'exploration d'une part, ainsi que de celle ayant trait au degr d'altration des sites d'autre part, a permis d'mettre des conclusions relatives  la connaissance des diffrents gisements et de leur flore et de dgager la ncessit d'orienter des tudes futures vers les sites peu connus d'un point de vue botanique.
10.2307/3668663|The career of Paul Deuse started in Belgium in the "Hautes-Fagnes" during the post-war period, but came to its full expansion in Central Africa. Field worker, phytosociologist, trained as an ecologist and a palynologist, teacher, and endowed with a good experience of how to manage a field station and a museum, P. Deuse left Belgium in 1953 for a first three-month tour in Congo. From 1954 to 1956, he worked as temporary researcher for the "Institut pour la Recherche scientifique en Afrique centrale (I.R.S.A.C.)" in Mabali (Congo belge), where he prepared a doctoral thesis on the vegetation of the moorish "esobe" of the lake Tumba. After submitting his thesis at the "Universit de Lige" (1957), he was appointed senior research worker at the "I.R.S.A.C." and sent to Astrida (now Butare), in order to make a study of the peat bogs of the Ruanda-Urundi till 1959. After the independance of Congo, he returned to Astrida in July 1960, where he cut down on his research in pollen analysis to assume the responsability of Director of the I.R.S.A.C. Center till the independance of Rwanda. After that, the situation of the research center of Butare became still more difficult until the signature of the "convention belgo-rwandaise" end 1964, which founded the "Institut national pour la Recherche scientifique (I.N.R.S.)" of Rwanda, with P. Deuse as Director. P. Deuse was also part-time assistant lecturer (1961-1965) at the "Centre universitaire de Rumuri" (Bujumbura, Burundi), and senior lecturer (1963-1971) at the "Universit nationale du Rwanda" (U.N.R.). A part of the herbarium specimens gathered by P. Deuse before 1955 (406 nos.) are preserved in BR. In 1957 he started a herbarium in Astrida, with duplicates dispatched to Lwiro (LWO). The herbarium of Butare became the "Herbier national du Rwanda" (HNR) in 1965. After the death of P. Deuse, from 1977 onward, the I.N.R.S. was managed by the Government of Rwanda. In 1994, due to the genocide, the research center of Butare was sacked. /// Si la carrire de Paul Deuse a dbut en Belgique dans les Hautes-Fagnes  l'aprs-guerre, c'est en Afrique centrale qu'elle a connu son plus grand dveloppement. Homme de terrain, phytosociologue, cologiste et palynologue de formation, enseignant, nanti aussi d'une bonne exprience de gestion d'une station de terrain et d'un muse, il quitta la Belgique en 1953 pour un premier priple de trois mois au Congo. De 1954  1957, il fut chercheur temporaire au Centre de l'Institut pour la Recherche scientifique en Afrique centrale (I.R.S.A.C.)  Mabali (Congo belge), o il prpara une thse de doctorat sur la vgtation des "esobe" tourbeux du lac Tumba. Suite  la dfense de sa thse  l'Universit de Lige (1957), il fut nomm chercheur senior  l'I.R.S.A.C.  Astrida (aujourd'hui Butare), pour y effectuer l'tude des tourbires du Ruanda-Urundi, jusqu'en 1959. Aprs l'indpendance du Congo, il revint  Astrida en juillet 1960, o ses recherches en palynologie furent fort limites en raison de ses fonctions de directeur du Centre I.R.S.A.C. jusqu' l'indpendance du Rwanda. Ds ce moment, la situation du Centre de Butare devint de plus en plus difficile jusqu' la signature de la convention belgo-rwandaise, fin 1964, par laquelle fut fond l'Institut national pour la Recherche scientifique (I.N.R.S.) au Rwanda, dont P. Deuse devint directeur. P. Deuse fut aussi charg de cours  temps partiel (1961-1965) au Centre universitaire de Rumuri (Bujumbura, Burundi) et professeur ordinaire (1963-1971)  l'Universit nationale du Rwanda (U.N.R.). Les spcimens d'herbiers rcolts par P. Deuse avant 1955 sont en partie (406 nos.) conservs  BR. En 1957, il commena un herbier  Astrida, dont les doubles taient envoys  Lwiro (LWO). En 1965, l'herbier de Butare devint l'"Herbier national du Rwanda" (HNR). Aprs le dcs de P. Deuse,  partir de 1977, la gestion de l'I.N.R.S. fut reprise par le Gouvernement rwandais. En 1994, au moment du gnocide, le Centre de recherches fut saccag.
10.2307/3668742|Western Cameroon has one of the richest floras in Tropical Africa. This paper examines the subject of the phytogeographic delimitation of the area. The Cross River-Sanaga River interval is known to be of importance in primate geography. Is it also important for plants? The characteristics of the area may be more a product of the Cameroon Highlands than of the flora of lowland Guinea: more work is needed to decide this. /// Le Cameroun occidental possde une des flores les plus riches d'Afrique tropicale. Cet article envisage la dlimitation phytogographique de la rgion. L'intervalle entre les rivires Cross et Sanaga est rput pour son importance en gographie des primates. Est-il galement important pour les plantes? Les caractristiques de la rgion peuvent la rattacher aux hautes terres du Cameroun plutt qu' la flore guinenne de basse altitude: d'autres tudes sont ncessaires pour statuer  ce propos. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668708|The identification of plants by indigenous people is based on recognising systems, which vary from one area to another. In order to understand the system used by the Malink, an ethnobotanical study was carried out in some villages of the Department of Sgula (in the north of Ivory Coast). After an inventory of the useful wild species in the area (scientific name, utilisation and ecology), vernacular names (in Dioula) were particularly investigated by the means of their local signification and etymology. This information was analysed and reveals various ways of identification and designation based on analogical or manner characters (morphology, gustatory, olfactory, onomatopeia, etc.). The Malink system takes into account botanical characters and ecological factors (habitat). These different recognising approaches are presented and discussed. /// La reconnaissance des plantes par les populations indignes est base sur des systmes taxonomiques qui peuvent varier d'un territoire  l'autre. Pour mieux comprendre le systme utilis par les Malink, une tude ethnobotanique a t conduite dans des villages du Dpartement de Sgula (au nord de la Cte-d'Ivoire). Suite  un inventaire des espces sauvages utilises dans la rgion (noms scientifiques, usages et cologie), les appellations vernaculaires (en langue Dioula) ont fait l'objet d'une tude approfondie relative aux significations locales et  l'tymologie de ces appellations. L'analyse de ces informations rvle l'existence de diffrentes mthodes d'identification et de dnomination, bases sur des caractres analogiques et imitatifs (morphologique, gustatif, olfactif, onomatopique, etc.). Le systme Malink tient compte de caractres botaniques et de critres phytogographiques, notamment l'habitat. Ces diffrentes approches de reconnaissance sont prsentes et discutes.
10.2307/3668696|Data on the amount of mucilage in mericarps of 400 species of Lamiaceae subfam. Nepetoideae has been obtained by tests and gathered from literature. The relative frequency of myxodiaspory (the condition of having mucilaginous diaspores) has been calculated for groups of species with similar biological characteristics, and the differences tested for statistical significance. The following results have been obtained: 1) Species that grow in dry habitats are more often myxodiasporic than species that grow in moist or damp habitats. However, myxodiaspory seems not to be more frequent in dry habitats in arid floristic regions than in dry habitats in more humid regions. 2) Species with small nutlets are more often myxodiasporic than species with large nutlets. However, most of the myxocarpic species with large nutlets are more strongly myxodiasporic than the myxodiasporic species with small nutlets. 3) Annuals are more often myxodiasporic than perennials. 4) Species with a reticulate or overall hairy nutlet surface are not myxodiasporic. 5) Tropical Africa has a particularly high relative frequency of myxodiaspory. These results suggest that the biological importance of myxodiaspory is primarily associated to the ability of the mucilaginous diaspores to adhere to animals or to the ground. However, the results do not support the prevailing view that atelechory is more important than epizoochory as a function of myxodiaspory. /// Des donnes sur la quantit de mucilage dans le pricarpe de 400 espces de Lamiaceae subfam. Nepetoideae ont t obtenues lors d'essais et rassembles  partir de la littrature. La frquence relative de myxodiasporie (prsence de diaspores mucilagineuses) a t calcule pour des groupes d'espces prsentant des caractristiques biologiques similaires et les diffrences ont t testes statistiquement. Les rsultats suivants ont t obtenus: 1) Les espces qui poussent dans des habitats secs sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que celles rencontres dans des habitats humides. Nanmoins, la myxodiasporie ne semble pas tre plus frquente dans les habitats secs des rgions floristiques arides que dans les habitats secs des rgions plus humides. 2) Les espces  petits nucules sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que les espces  grands nucules. Nanmoins, la plupart des espces myxocarpiques  grands nucules sont plus fortement myxodiasporiques que les espces myxodiasporiques  petits nucules. 3) Les annuelles sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que les prennes. 4) Les espces prsentant une surface du nucule rticule ou totalement poilue ne sont pas myxodiasporiques. 5) La frquence relative de myxodiasporie est particulirement leve en Afrique tropicale. Ces rsultats suggrent que l'importance biologique de la myxodiasporie est principalement associe  la capacit qu'ont les diaspores mucilagineuses  adhrer aux animaux ou au sol. Cependant, les rsultats ne rejoignent pas l'opinion gnrale selon laquelle l'atlchorie est plus importante que l'pizoochorie du fait de la myxodiasporie. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668703|Symbiotic methods for germinating Eulophia Lindl. and Polystachya Hook. seeds from terrestrial and epiphytic habitats respectively were established. Cultures, initiated from the seeds were grown on 2% oats medium and germination medium, alone, or oats medium supplemented with <tex-math>$10\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> banana fruit homogenate and <tex-math>$0.2\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> activated charcoal. The highest germination/differentiation, which took place after 7 days of inoculation, was obtained on the 2% oats medium with glucose (<tex-math>$2\ g.L-^{-1}$</tex-math>) and <tex-math>$NH_{4}NO_{3}4H_{2}O$</tex-math> (<tex-math>$1.0\ mM.L^{-1}$</tex-math>) as a source of inorganic nitrogen and supplemented with the additives. Development of protocorms in compatible orchid-fungus combination took place after the second subculture (30 days) from which seedling developed. Irrespective of the fact that the orchids showed possible specificity patterns at population level with their fungal partners in their natural habitats the in vitro symbiotic seed germination also showed significant tendency towards fungal specificity. Since germination took a shorter time by this technique to develop protocorms, propagation of endangered orchids could be done and used for ex situ conservation programmes. /// Des mthodes symbiotiques de germination pour Eulophia Lindl. et Polystachya Hook. provenant d'habitats terrestres et piphytiques ont t tablies. Les cultures inities  partir des graines se sont dveloppes sur un milieu  2% d'avoine et sur milieu de germination seul, ou sur milieu d'avoine enrichi d'homognat de banane  <tex-math>$10\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> et de charbon de bois  0,2 <tex-math>$g.L^{-1}$</tex-math>. La meilleure germination et diffrentiation qui se produit aprs sept jours d'inoculation a t obtenue sur le milieu  l'avoine  2% avec du glucose (<tex-math>$2\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math>) et <tex-math>$NH_{4}NO_{3}4H_{2}O\ (1.0mM.L^{-1})$</tex-math> comme source de nitrogne inorganique et enrichi avec les additifs. Le dveloppement des protocormes dans une combinaison orchide-champignon a eu lieu aprs la seconde subculture (30 jours), dans laquelle des plantules se sont dveloppes. Indpendamment du fait que les orchides montraient de possibles modes spcifiques au niveau de la population avec leur champignon partenaire dans leur habitat naturel, la germination symbiotique in vitro a montr elle aussi une tendance significative  la spcificit du champignon partenaire. Comme la germination a pris un temps plus court par cette technique pour dvelopper des protocormes, la propagation d'orchides menaces pourrait tre ralise et utilise dans des programmes de conservation ex situ. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668702|Vascular epiphytism in Upper Katanga is approached for the first time. It concerns holoepiphytes and occasional epiphytes but not lianas. Some 127 taxa were encountered. Orchidaceae takes the top position with 79 species. Their distribution regarding the five main woody vegetation units (open forest or woodland, dry evergreen forest, gallery forest, mountain forest, swampy forest) has been recorded by a weekly survey made during twenty years. Regarding diversity, gallery forests take the pole position with 14 taxa restricted to this unit as well as 50 other taxa occurring in other units as well. This is tremendous, notably according to the heavy anthropogenic pressure on this ecosystem, of which the expanse is continuously reduced and which covers far below 1% of the country. Open forests or woodlands, mainly of wetter miombo type, occur in second position with respectively 7 and 48 taxa. Other main vegetation units take a tiny part regarding epiphytic orchid biodiversity. With 36 taxa, pteridophyte diversity is in second position, as in African rain forests. The flowering periods of orchids are tackled. The phenological spectrum is saturated, whilst the phenogram indicates seasonal trends, with a maximum in November-December. Finally, epiphytic diversity confirms to be a suitable information for forest vegetation monitoring. /// Une tude des plantes vasculaires piphytes du Haut-Katanga est effectue pour la premire fois. Elle concerne les holopiphytes et les piphytes occasionnels mais ne considre pas les lianes. Cent vingt-sept taxons furent dnombrs. Les Orchidaceae occupent la premire position avec 79 espces. Leur distribution en fonction des cinq units majeures de vgtation (forts claires ou savanes boises, forts denses sches, forts galeries, forts de montagne et forts marcageuses) a fait l'objet d'une exploration hebdomadaire pendant une vingtaine d'annes. Du point de vue de la diversit, les forts galeries viennent en position de tte avec 14 taxons  distribution limite  cette formation vgtale et 50 autres taxons galement prsents dans d'autres units. Ceci est remarquable, compte tenu de la pression anthropique que subit cet cosystme dont la superficie se rduit sans cesse et qui couvre aujourd'hui bien moins qu'un pour cent du territoire. Les forts claires et savanes boises occupent la deuxime position avec respectivement 7 et 48 taxons. Les autres units majeures de vgtation jouent un rle mineur au point de vue de la diversit en Orchides piphytes. Avec 36 taxons, les Ptridophytes viennent en seconde position, tout comme elles le font dans les forts denses humides africaines. Les priodes de floraison des orchides sont abordes. Le spectre phnologique est satur, tandis que le phnogramme indique l'existence d'une saisonnalit, avec un maximum en novembre-dcembre. La diversit des piphytes se confirme tre un outil performant pour le suivi de la dynamique des formations forestires.
10.2307/3668727|A phytosociological investigation was carried out on fourteen inselbergs from continental Equatorial Guinea. Results are (i) eight vegetation units, (ii) the unequal distribution of those eight units on the different inselbergs, (iii) the high species diversity, (iv) the presence of rare species and plant formations, of species with a disjunct distribution and of mountain species at a low altitude (600-750 m). Twelve differentiating factors that may partially explain the existing differences between the fourteen sites have been recognized. /// L'tude phytosociologique de quatorze inselbergs de Guine Equatoriale continentale a permis de mettre en vidence (i) huit groupements vgtaux, (ii) la rpartition ingale de ces groupements sur les diffrents sites, (iii) la grande richesse spcifique de la vgtation des inselbergs, (iv) la prsence d'espces et de formation vgtales rares, d'espces  aire de distribution disjointes, ainsi que d'espces montagnardes  basse altitude (600  750 m). Douze facteurs de diffrenciation pouvant expliquer partiellement les diffrences existant entre la vgtation des quatorze sites ont t reconnus.
10.2307/3668705|Perenniporia centrali-africana sp. nov. is described based on two Cameroon collections. The species is characterised by a sessile, slightly to broadly decurrent basidiocarp, a sulcate, brown to dark brown pileus, yellowish brown vegetative hyphae, and truncate, dextrinoid basidiospores. The species is compared with P. tephropora, P. mundula, and P. inflexibilis, also occurring in tropical Africa. /// Perenniporia centrali-africana sp. nov. est dcrite sur base de deux collections en provenance du Cameroun. L' espce est caractrise par un basidiocarpe sessile, lgrement  largement dcurrent, un pileus sulqu brun  brun fonc, des hyphes vgtatives brun-jauntre et des basidiospores tronques dextrinodes. L'espce est compare  P. tephropora, P. mundula et P. inflexibilis, galement prsentes en Afrique tropicale. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668743|Recent botanical inventory work on the island of Mayotte (Comoro Archipelago) makes it possible to identify and describe the last remaining vestiges of natural vegetation. The floristic data are used to analyze the territory's floristic affinities with Africa and Madagascar, and to propose hypotheses regarding the origin of its flora, which is characterized by a relatively high number of families and species for an area of that size, and a low level of endemism. Species of Malagasy origin are three times more numerous than those of African affinity. Based on these characteristics, coupled with Mayotte's geological history, we hypothesize that the origin and establishment of the island's flora involved the following steps: an initial wave of migration largely from Madagascar at the end of the Tertiary, a reduction in this original species component during recent volcanic eruptions (-0.5 MA), followed by a reconstitution of the flora by Malagasy elements, and finally a very recent addition (until -10,000 years) of African species, which continues today, especially in coastal and dry components of Mayotte's vegetation. /// Des inventaires botaniques rcents de l'le de Mayotte (Archipel des Comores) ont permis d'identifier et de dcrire les derniers vestiges de vgtation naturelle de l'le. Les donnes floristiques sont utilises pour analyser les affinits de la flore avec celle d'Afrique et de Madagascar et pour proposer des hypothses sur son origine. La diversit floristique est caractrise par un nombre de familles et d'espces lev pour une le de cette taille et un endmisme faible. Les espces d'origine malgache sont trois fois plus nombreuses que celles d'origine africaine. Ces caractristiques et l'histoire gologique de Mayotte permettent d'avancer une hypothse sur l'origine et l'tablissement de la flore sur l'le: une premire vague de migration d'origine essentiellement malgache  la fin du Tertiaire; ce stock ancien d'espces a d considrablement se rduire lors du volcanisme explosif rcent (-0,5 MA) suivi par une reconstitution de la flore  partir d'lments malgaches, puis un apport trs rcent d'espces africaines ( partir de -10 000 ans) qui perdurent surtout dans la composante ctire et sche de la vgtation de Mayotte.
10.2307/3668712|The need for conservation measures for the vulnerable endemic tree Gilletiodendron glandulosum was assessed in southwestern Mali based on the value of Gilletiodendron forest to biodiversity conservation and on present and foreseeable levels of its use by the indigenous Maninka people. Using basic forestry methods, structure and composition of Gilletiodendron forest were analyzed. Additionally, Maninka names and uses of characteristic plants were recorded. Of 121 woody species collected, ten are new records for Mali. The vegetation is overwhelmingly dominated by Gilletiodendron glandulosum, although Grewia bicolor (Tiliaceae) and Hippocratea indica (Celastraceae) are also important. This plant community is a type of Sudano-Guinean gallery forest with a relatively low absolute level of plant diversity, but an apparently high contribution to gamma biodiversity in Mali. Thus, Gilletiodendron forest is an edaphic community which may be a relict of a past moister climate period. Use of Gilletiodendron forest plants by the Maninka is low, although the endangered shrub Vepris heterophylla (Rutaceae) appears locally overharvested. Due to its economic value, Gilletiodendron glandulosum has the potential for overexploitation if human population growth continues or if the transportation infrastructure in western Mali improves to provide access to larger markets. No current conservation measures specifically benefit Gilletiodendron forest, although it is passively protected due to its occurrence in marginal areas within the Maninka land use system. /// La ncessit de mesures de conservation de Gilletiodendron glandulosum, une espce d'arbre endmique et vulnrable du sud-ouest du Mali a t value sur base de la valeur des forts  Gilletiodendron dans le cadre de la conservation de la biodiversit ainsi qu'en fonction de son utilisation actuelle et prvisible par le peuple indigne Maninka. A partir de mthodes classiques, la structure et la composition de forts  Gilletiodendron ont t analyses. Par ailleurs, les noms Maninka et les utilisations de plantes caractristiques ont t enregistrs. Parmi les 121 espces ligneuses collectes, dix sont nouvelles pour le Mali. La vgtation est trs nettement domine par Gilletiodendron glandulosum mais Grewia bicolor (Tiliaceae) et Hippocratea indica (Celastraceae) sont galement des espces importantes. Cette communaut vgtale est du type fort-galerie soudano-guinenne et sa diversit absolue est relativement faible. Elle contribue nnamoins de faon importante  la diversit gamma au Mali. Ainsi, la fort  Gilletiodendron est une communaut daphique qui peut tmoigner d'une poque ancienne  climat plus humide. L'utilisation, par les Maninka, de plantes des forts  Gilletiodendron est faible, bien que Vepris heterophylla (Rutaceae), un arbuste menac, semble localement surexploit. En raison de sa valeur conomique, Gilletiodendron glandulosum prsente galement un risque de surexploitation si la population humaine continue  s'accrotre ou si les infrastructures de transport au Mali occidental permettent un accs plus ais aux grands marchs. Actuellement, aucune mesure de conservation ne protge la fort  Gilletiodendron mais elle bnficie d'une protection passive de par sa prsence dans les zones marginales au sein du systme agraire Maninka. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668676|De nombreux travaux de recherche, entre autres des inventaires botaniques, floristiques, cologiques, phnologiques et ethnobotaniques ont t raliss ou sont mens dans la Rserve de la Biosphre du Dja. Du point de vue institutionnel, ces travaux se font sous l'gide des organismes tatiques (universits, instituts divers), des O.N.G. et programmes nationaux et internationaux. Faute d'une action concerte entre ces diffrents intervenants, on essaye de faire le point des rsultats obtenus depuis quelques annes pour mettre en vidence les efforts fournis pour la connaissance botanique de la Rserve. /// A certain number of studies have been executed in the Dja biosphere reserve, among which botanical, floristic, ecological, phenological and ethnological inventories. At the institutional level, these researches are carried out by state institutes, NGOS, and national and international research programmes. Noting the lack of dialogue between actors, this article aims to take stock of the results obtained during the last ten years, offering a survey of the efforts made for a better botanical knowledge of this reserve.
10.2307/3668720|Twenty-seven abandoned farms of <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> each, grouped into five different age classes (0-2, 3-5, 6-10, 11-30 and >30 years) were assessed in 1995 in the Mount Cameroon area, along with three <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> of primary forest plots, in order to assess primary forest biodiversity recovery after shifting cultivation. Three distinct groups of woody species characterised agricultural fallows: pioneers, mid-successional species and shade-tolerant species. Harungana madagascariensis, Solanum torvum and Vernonia conferta were the common pioneer species in fallows less than 10 years; Cecropia peltata, Macaranga occidentalis, Musanga cecropioides and Polyscias fulva were the abundant mid-successional species in fallows between 11-30 years, and Cyathea maniniana, Dicranolepis sp., Dracaena sp., Homalium sp., Uvariodendron sp. were the most common shade-tolerant species in fallows over 30 years. Species richness increased slowly with age of fallows but remained below that of primary forest even after 30 years. /// Afin d'valuer le rythme de reconstitution de la biodiversit forestire sur les jachres agricoles, 27 champs abandonns de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math>, regroups en cinq classes d'ges (0-2, 3-5, 6-10, 11-30 et >30 ans) et trois parcelles de fort primaire de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> ont t tudis en 1995, dans la rgion du Mont Cameroun. Les rsultats ont permis de distinguer trois catgories d'espces ligneuses sur les jachres tudies: les pionnires, les espces de mi-succession et les espces d'ombre. Harungana madagascariensis, Solanum torvum et Vernonia conferta taient les espces pionnires les plus abondantes dans les jachres de moins de 10 ans; Cecropia peltata, Macaranga occidentalis, Musanga cecropioides et Polyscias fulva taient les espces de mi-succession les plus frquentes dans les jachres de 11  30 ans et Cyathea maniniana, Dicranolepis sp., Dracaena sp., Homalium sp. et Uvariodendron sp. taient les espces d'ombre les plus communes dans les jachres de plus de 30 ans. La richesse spcifique a augment avec l'ge des jachres, mais est reste en-dessous de celle de la fort primaire, mme aprs 30 ans. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668719|Using The Braun-Blanquet approach, a phytosociological assessment has been done in the natural undergrowth of teak plantations in south and central Benin. In order to study the phytogeographical spectrums, 108 relevs were submitted to factorial correspondence analysis. The classification variable used was the number of species per phytogeographical type. The results help to identify three phytogeographical groups from south to north. Group I is identified in south Benin; group II is located in north-central Benin, and group III holds an intermediate position between the first two groups. The variance analysis of the phytogeographical types highlights significant gradients at 5% level of probability. The most relevant gradient is that of the guineo-congolian species: 17 as mean number of guineo-congolian species in group I and respectively 1 and 10 for groups II and III. Therefore, the richness of guineo-congolian species decreases progressively from the south to north-central Benin. The species richness shows also a significant gradient at 5% level of probability. /// Un inventaire phytosociologique a t fait selon la mthode de Braun-Blanquet dans le sous-bois naturel des plantations de teck (Tectona grandis) du sud et du centre Bnin. Afin d'tudier les gradients du spectre phytogographique dans cette zone, 108 relevs phytosociologiques ont t soumis  l'analyse factorielle des correspondances. La variable de classification utilise est le nombre d'espces de chaque type phytogographique. Les rsultats de l'analyse factorielle des correspondances ont permis d'identifier trois groupes phytogographiques situs du sud au nord. Le groupe I est situ dans le sud-Bnin; le groupe II occupe le centre-nord Bnin et le groupe III occupe une position intermdiaire entre les deux groupes prcdents. L'analyse de la variance des types phytogographiques des trois groupes a permis de mettre en vidence des gradients significatifs dont le plus remarquable est celui des espces guino-congolaises: le nombre moyen (17) par relev des espces guino-congolaises du groupe I est significativement suprieur au seuil de probabilit de 5%  ceux des deux autres groupes (respectivement 1 et 10). La baisse de la richesse en lments guinocongolais se fait progressivement du sud au centre-nord Bnin; la richesse spcifique montre galement un gradient significatif au seuil de probabilit de 5% entre les trois groupes identifis.
10.2307/3668700|Bacteria have been reported to inhabit the leaf galls of some paleotropical genera of Rubiaceae. Cultivation of these bacteria has not been succesful to date. The use of contemporary macromolecular methods permitted the identification of these bacterial symbionts. The rather low similarity levels towards Burkholderia glathei (Proteobacteria ), the closest validly named neighbour, indicated that these symbiotic bacteria represent novel taxa within the genus Burkholderia. This paper reports on phylogenetic analysis of the bacterial 16S rDNA as a tool for classification of bacteriophilous plants. /// La prsence de bactries dans les galles foliaires de certains genres palotropicales de Rubiaceae a t mentionne. L'utilisation de techniques macromolculaires modernes a permis l'identification de ces symbiontes bactriens. Les niveaux de similarit relativement faibles par rapport  Burkholderia glathei (Proteobacteria ), le voisin valide le plus proche, indiquent que ces bactries symbiotiques reprsentent des taxons nouveaux au sein du genre Burkholderia. Cet article rend compte du fait que l'analyse phylogntique du 16S rDNA des bactries constitue un outil pour la classification des plantes bactriophiles.
10.2307/3668704|Seed germination is consistently poor for the majority of Disa species, with in vitro culture revealing a decrease in species germinability as one moves from the winter to the summer-rainfall areas of South Africa. In an effort to enhance seed culture as a means of promoting conservation in Disa, the seed testa is highlighted as a regulatory factor in germination. A prominent feature of the mature seed is the variable colour of the testa in the ten species investigated, attributable to different levels of phenolic compounds. Total leachable phenolic content correlates positively with germinability and by inference, with species distribution. NaOCl treatment enhanced germination in certain species by scarifying the testa and enhancing permeability to water. Similarly liquid cultures and culture media containing activated charcoal decrease the time taken to, and result in elevated levels of, synchronous germination. Culture of immature seed (before phenolic deposition has occurred) also hastens germination. Scanning electron microscopy has highlighted basic differences between species regarding seed size and testa cell arrangement. All features of the testa and its influence on germinability in the summer-rainfall Disas are explained as adaptations to environmental conditions. The authors speculate on the occurrence of coat-imposed dormancy within Disa species endemic to the summer rainfall areas of South Africa. /// La germination des graines de la majorit des espces de Disa est uniformment faible et la culture in vitro rvle une diminution de la germinabilit des espces lorsqu'on se dplace des rgions d'Afrique du Sud o un hiver est enregistr vers celles o sont observes des prcipitations estivales. Lors de la mise en valeur de la culture des graines pour la conservation des Disa, il est apparu que le tgument sminal constituait un facteur de rgulation pour la germination. La variabilit de coloration du tgument constitue un caractre remarquable des graines matures des dix espces tudies et est li  la quantit de composs phnoliques accumuls. Le contenu lessivable total des composs phnoliques est corrl positivement  la germinabilit et, par consquent,  la distribution des espces. Le traitement au NaOCl amlior la germination de certaines espces grce  la scarification du tgument et  l'augmentation de la permabilit  l'eau. Par ailleurs, des cultures liquides et dans des milieux contenant du charbon de bois activ diminuent le temps ncessaire  la germination et en amliorent la synchronisation. La culture de graines immatures (avant dpt du phnol) hte galement la germination. Des observations au microscope lectronique  balayage ont montr des diffrences inter-spcifiques tant en ce qui concerne la taille des graines que la disposition des cellules tgumentaires. Toutes les caractristiques du tgument et leur impact sur la germinabilit des Disa des rgions  prcipitations estivales sont expliques comme des adaptations aux conditions environnementales. Les auteurs spculent sur l'existence de dormance tgumentaire chez les espces de Disa endmiques des rgions  prcipitations estivales d'Afrique du Sud. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668691|Recent progress in the study of Xyridaceae in Africa is summarised. Three regional accounts have been published or are in press. The centre of diversity of the genus lies in the Zambezian Region but there are subcentres in montane and coastal regions, and on Kalahari Sand. Some suggestions for future work are made. /// Les rcents progrs dans l'tude des Xyridaceae d'Afrique sont rsums. Trois contributions rgionales ont t publies ou sont sous presse. Le centre de diversit du genre Xyris se trouve dans la Rgion Zambzienne, mais il existe des sous-centres dans les rgions ctires et montagnardes, et sur sable du Kalahari. Quelques suggestions sont amenes pour un futur travail. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668677|The paper analyses the distribution patterns of 556 species of vascular plants that occur primarily in mainland sub-Saharan African savanna. Eight percent of these species are known from only one one-degree square, whereas five percent are known from more than a hundred one-degree squares. The maximum number of savanna species per one-degree square is found in eastern Africa and the Angolan-Zambezian region. The same is the case for the highest average species richness per ten-degree squares. The Sudanian and Somalia-Masai regions have lower average numbers of savanna species than the Zambezian region. The highest number of species with restricted geographical range (endemics) is found in the same general area as the highest number of species per one-degree square, but not exactly in the same squares. The maximum number of savanna species is found in areas where the yearly temperature range is about 12 C, where the annual median rainfall is about 1100 mm, and/or where the mean altitude is about 1400-1500 m. Species richness increases with increasing absolute altitudinal range. The more altitudinal levels there are in a one-degree square, the higher is the richness of savanna species. /// L'article analyse les modles de distribution de 556 espces de plantes vasculaires rencontres essentiellement dans les savanes de la partie sub-saharienne du continent africain. Huit pourcents de ces espces ne sont connues que d'un degr-carr, alors que cinq pourcents sont connues de plus de cent degrs-carrs. Le nombre maximal d'espces savanicoles par degr-carr est enregistr en Afrique de l'Est et dans la rgion angolo-zambzienne. La mme observation s'applique  la richesse spcifique moyenne la plus leve par dix degrs-carrs. Les rgions soudanienne et Somali-Masai prsentent un nombre moyen d'espces de savane plus faible que la rgion zambzienne. Le nombre le plus lev d'espces  rpartition gographique limite (endmiques) est observ dans la mme rgion que le nombre le plus lev d'espces par degr-carr, quoique pas exactement dans les mmes carrs. Le nombre maximal d'espces savanicoles est enregistr dans les rgions o l'amplitude annuelle de temprature est d'environ 12 C, la moyenne annuelle des prcipitations avoisine 1100 mm, et/ou l'altitude moyenne est de 1400-1500 m. La richesse spcifique augmente avec l'accroissement du gradient altitudinal absolu. Plus le nombre de niveaux altitudinaux par degrcarr est lev, plus la richesse en espces savanicoles est importante. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668701|Species richness variation among Orchidaceae of So Tom (So Tom and Prncipe; gulf of Guinea) has been investigated using a grid map with 2 km square units. The factors studied were: rainfall and altitude. Disturbance and collection intensity were also considered. The species number in 2  2 km squares varies between 1 and 45. Five orchid diversity classes have been determined and applied to the vegetation of So Tom. The highest values of species numbers were found in submontane forests between 1000 and 1400 m above sea level. Altitude seems to be the most important factor to explain species richness variation, while rainfall below 2000 mm per year appears to be limiting. Disturbance generally reduces species richness. Interpretation of species richness is difficult as the 2  2 km grid is too coarse, especially in areas of marked relief. /// Les variations de la richesse spcifique des Orchidaceae de So Tom (So Tom et Prncipe; golfe de Guine) ont t tudies sur base d'une carte  maillage de 2km  2km. Les paramtres analyss sont la pluviosit et l'altitude. L'anthropisation du milieu et l'effort d'chantillonnage sont aussi abords. Les valeurs de richesse spcifique obtenues varient entre 1 et 45 taxons par maille. Cinq classes de diversit auxquelles nous avons associ les types de vgtation de l'le ont ainsi t reconnues. Les plus fortes valeurs de richesse spcifique ont t obtenues dans les forts submontagnardes entre 1000 et 1400 m d'altitude. L'altitude semble tre le paramtre le plus important pour expliquer ces variations de richesse spcifique, tandis que des prcipitations infrieures  2000 mm par an ont un rle limitant. L'anthropisation du milieu induit gnralement une diminution de la richesse spcifique. L'interprtation des variations de richesse spcifique est difficile en raison de la taille trop importante de la maille choisie, en particulier dans les zones fortement accidentes.
10.2307/3668689|A number of examples exist of Gnidia species closely resembling each another, and possibly being synonymous. Many such species have been established on the basis of other non quantitative differences in character variation, but no studies have tested the validity of morphometric data in distinguishing taxa in this genus. In addition, no studies in this group have tested the patterns in and relationships between character variation. Morphometric analyses of features of involucral bracts, inflorescences and flowers of Gnidia species were performed to investigate patterns of diversity among these organs. In addition, bracts were assigned to classes representing different levels of modification from the leaves, and inflorescences were classified according to flower number and whether capitate or spicate. Species were also scored as having either static infructescences or elongating infructescences. Floral tube lengths, lengths of tubes from flower bases to constrictions above the ovary, sepal lengths and numbers of flowers in inflorescences were measured using species representing the diversity of these characters in the genus. Chi-square analysis, discriminant analysis, univariate nested analysis of variance and correlations were used to test character variation and relationship. Gnidia species are discriminated by their floral tube lengths, lengths of tubes from flower bases to constrictions above the ovary, sepal lengths and flower number. Involucral bract modification is influenced by inflorescence type, and species with elongating infructescences have unmodified bracts. These findings suggest that bracts protect flowers, especially the floral tubes surrounding ovaries. Bracts are most different from leaves in species that concentrate reproductive investment in the production of many-flowered inflorescences. Total floral tube length and length of tube from flower base to constriction are positively correlated as are total tube length and sepal length. Sepal length and flower number per inflorescence are negatively correlated and there is no relationship between total tube length and flower number among species. These results demonstrate how morphometric analyses contribute to testing the validity of taxa, especially within pairs or small groups of similar species, and subspecific taxa. /// Nombreux sont les exemples de ressemblance troite entre espces de Gnidia, certaines d'ailleurs tant probablement synonymes. Beaucoup de ces espces ont t tablies sur base de diffrences non quantitatives relatives  certains caractres mais aucune tude n'a test la validit des donnes morphomtriques qui ont permis la distinction de taxons au sein du genre. Par ailleurs, aucune tude mene dans ce groupe n'a envisag de modliser la variation des caractres et de leurs relations. Des analyses morphomtriques des types de bractes involucrales, des inflorescences et des fleurs de diffrentes espces de Gnidia ont t ralises de manire  tudier et  modliser la diversit de ces organes. Les bractes ont galement t classes en fonction de leur degr de modification par rapport aux feuilles et les inflorescences distingues d'aprs leur caractre capit ou spicul et le nombre de leurs fleurs. Des espces ont aussi t diffrencies d'aprs l'longation ou non de leurs infrutescences. La longueur des tubes floraux, celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire, la longueur des spales et le nombre de fleurs par inflorescence ont t calcules sur des espces reprsentatives de la diversit de ces caractres au sein du genre. Un test Chi-carr, une analyse discriminante, une analyse de variance  un critre et de corrlations ont t utiliss pour tester la variation des caractres et leurs relations. Les espces de Gnidia sont discrimines d'aprs la longueur de leur tube floral, celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire, de la longueur des spales et du nombre de fleurs. La modification des bractes involucrales est influence par le type d'inflorescence et les espces possdant des infrutescences allonges prsentent des bractes non modifies. Ces rsultats suggrent que les bractes protgent les fleurs et, en particulier, les tubes floraux entourant les ovaires. Les bractes diffrent le plus des feuilles chez les espces qui consacrent majoritairement leur effort reproductif  la production d'inflorescences multiflores. La longueur totale du tube floral et celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire sont positivement corrles. Il en va de mme de la longueur totale du tube et de celle des spales. La longueur des spales et le nombre de fleurs par inflorescence sont corrls ngativement et aucune relation n'existe, au sein des espces, entre la longueur totale du tube et le nombre de fleurs. Ces rsultats dmontrent comment des analyses morphomtriques contribuent  tester la validit de taxons, particulirement au sein de paires ou de petits groupes d'espces similaires ou de taxons subspcifiques. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668695|Long, narrow corolla tubes have evolved several times in genera of southern African Lamiaceae, such as Plectranthus, Thorncroftia, Orthosiphon, Hemizygia, Stachys and Salvia. A study of the pollination of Plectranthus in KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape of South Africa showed a nemestrinid fly, Stenobasipteron wiedemanni, to be the pollinator of the four species that have long corolla tubes. The proboscis length of this fly (19-30 mm) corresponds to the corolla tube lengths of the flowers (20-33 mm). This fly is restricted to forest patches and woodlands along the eastern parts of southern Africa, while long-proboscid species of the nemestrinid genus Prosoeca occur mostly in grassland habitats. It is postulated that S. wiedemanni is the pollinator of Stachys tubulosa, Salvia scabra, Salvia repens var. keiensis and Hemizygia ramosa in forest and woodland habitats. Long-proboscid species of the nemestrinid genus Prosoeca are suggested as pollinators of Orthosiphon tubiformis, Thorncroftia longiflora, T. succulenta, Hemizygia rugosifolia, H. gerrardii and Salvia repens var. keiensis, in grassland habitats. Novel distribution maps for four long-proboscid fly species are provided. This paper aims to discuss the distribution of long-tubed members of the Lamiaceae in relation to that of long-proboscid flies by relating the biogeography of the flies to that of the plant species. /// Des tubes corollins longs et troits se sont dvelopps dans plusieurs genres sud-africains de Lamiaceae, comme Plectranthus, Thorncroftia, Orthosiphon, Hemizygia, Stachys et Salvia. Une tude de la pollinisation de Plectranthus au KwaZulu-Natal et dans l'Eastern Cape en Afrique du Sud ont montr qu'une mouche nemestrinide, Stenobasipteron wiedemanni, pollinisait quatre espces  longs tubes corollins. La longueur du proboscis de cette mouche (19-30 mm) correspond  celle du tube corollin des fleurs (20-33 mm). La prsence de cette mouche est limite aux lots forestiers et aux savanes arbores des rgions situes  l'est de l'Afrique australe, alors que les espces de nemestrides  long proboscis appartenant au genre Prosoeca se rencontrent principalement dans des milieux herbacs. Il est postul que S. wiedemanni est le pollinisateur de Stachys tubulosa, Salvia scabra, Salvia repens var. keiensis et Hemizygia ramosa dans les habitats forestiers et en fort claire. Les espces de nemestrides  long proboscis du genre Prosoeca sont supposes tre les pollinisatrices de Orthosiphon tubiformis, Thorncroftia longiflora, T. succulenta, Hemizygia rugosifolia, H. gerrardii et Salvia repens var. keiensis dans les milieux herbacs. De nouvelles cartes de distribution pour quatre espces de mouches  long proboscis sont tablies. Cet article a pour objectif de discuter la distribution de reprsentants  long tube de la famille des Lamiaceae en relation avec celle de mouches  long proboscis en comparant la biogographie des mouches  celle des espces vgtales. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668665|The paper is a review of the botanical collecting activity in Ethiopia and Eritrea, covering the period after the account by G. Cufodontis (published 1962, data recorded to ca. 1960). In connection with preparation of family accounts for the Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea, and through searches in Ethiopian herbaria, information on collectors has been recorded. The major developments since Cufodontis' account are the establishment and growth of the National Herbarium of Ethiopia (ETH), founded 1959, and the Herbarium of the Alemaya University of Agriculture (ACD), founded 1957, and the progress with the Ethiopian Flora Project since 1980. In close connection with the latter, ETH has grown to at least 72,000 collections. At the same time collections have been accumulating at the other Ethiopian and Eritrean institutions, including the herbaria of the Alemaya Agricultural University (ACD), the International Livestock Research Institute (ILCA) and the Asmara University, and at European and American herbaria. Ca. 275 collectors have been active in the region since 1960. Of these, ca. 160 have collected only during one year and in only one or two floristic regions. Ca. thirty-five have collected during several years in a few floristic regions. Ca. thirty have collected during one year in many floristic regions. Ca. twenty-five have collected for 3-8 years in more than five floristic regions. Ca. fifteen have collected for more than eight years in more than eight floristic regions. Ca. twenty-five scientists published ca. 100 new taxa and combinations from Ethiopia and Eritrea between 1960 and 1979. Ca. fifty scientists, including ca. ten at one time resident in Ethiopia, have published ca. 300 new taxa and combinations based on material from the Flora area between 1980 and 1996. This is a period during which the Ethiopian Flora Project has been active. /// L'article passe en revue la rcolte botanique en Ethiopie et en Erythre et couvre la priode faisant suite au rapport de G. Cufodontis (publi en 1962, donnes enregistres jusqu'aux environs de 1960). Les informations concernant les rcolteurs ont t rassembles paralllement  la prparation de travaux sur les familles pour la Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea ainsi qu' travers des recherches dans les Herbiers thiopiens. Les principaux dveloppements depuis le rapport de Cufodontis sont l'tablissement et la croissance du National Herbarium of Ethiopia (ETH), fond en 1959, et de l'Herbarium of the Alemaya University of Agriculture (ACD), fond en 1957, ainsi que les progrs raliss depuis 1980 dans le cadre du Ethiopian Flora Project. En troite collaboration avec celui-ci, ETH s'est enrichi d'au moins 72.000 chantillons. Au mme moment, des collections se sont accumules dans les autres institutions d'Ethiopie et d'Erythre, notamment les Herbiers de l'Alemaya Agricultural University (ACD), de l'International Livestock Research Institute (ILCA) et de l'Asmara University ainsi que dans les Herbiers europens et amricains. Environ 275 rcolteurs ont t actifs dans la rgion depuis 1960. Parmi ceux-ci, environ 160 ont rcolt uniquement durant une anne et dans une ou deux rgions floristiques seulement. Environ trente-cinq ont rcolt durant plusieurs annes dans un petit nombre de rgions floristiques. Une trentaine ont rcolt durant une anne dans plusieurs rgions floristiques. Environ vingt-cinq ont rcolt durant trois  huit ans dans plus de cinq rgions floristiques et environ quinze durant plus de huit ans dans plus de huit rgions floristiques. Environ vingt-cinq scientifiques ont publi une centaine de nouveaux taxons et de combinaisons pour l'Ethiopie et l'Erythre entre 1960 et 1979. Quinze scientifiques environ, y compris la dizaine qui rsidaient en Ethiopie  un moment donn, ont publi de 1980  1996 environ 300 nouveaux taxons et combinaisons bases sur du matriel de la rgion couverte par la Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea. Cette poque correspond  la priode durant laquelle l'Ethiopian Flora Project a t actif. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668678|Extraction of botanical information from the database "SIG IVOIRE" processed together with ecological maps, allow us to generate potential distribution maps for Cte d'Ivoire. Habitat Suitability and Environment Similarity methods are used and their respective applicability are discussed. Although the first one provides more accurate results, it needs more species distribution data. In the case of Cte d'Ivoire where these data are often not sufficiently abundant, we need to use the Environment Similarity method. By this mean, we propose potential distribution maps for the species of Sapotaceae and Moraceae. /// L'extraction des informations botaniques stockes dans la base de donnes "SIG IVOIRE" et l'utilisation conjointe de cartes cologiques, permettent de raliser des cartes de distribution potentielle des espces sur la Cte d'Ivoire. Les mthodes d'Habitat Suitability et d'Environment Similarity sont brivement compares. Il ressort que si la premire donne des rsultats plus pertinents, elle ncessite en revanche un plus grand nombre de localits-espce. Dans le cas de la Cte d'Ivoire o ces donnes sont souvent limites, on est contraint de lui prfrer la mthode base sur l'Environment Similarity. Celle-ci a t utilise pour dresser la cartographie potentielle des espces des Sapotaceae et des Moraceae.
10.2307/3668734|The line-transect method has been used for a biodiversity inventory of the Nyungwe Forest between June and August 1999. The results showed that large tracts of intact natural forest still exist. However, serious disturbance is due to destructive human activities. In total 172 tree and shrub species (dbh 10 cm), from 53 families, were found. Out of these, ten species were recorded for the first time: Trichosypha ulugurensis subsp. submontana (Anacardiaceae), Isolona lebrunii (Annonaceae), Discoclaoxylon hexandrum and Macaranga monandra (Euphorbiaceae), Casearia engleri (Flacourtiaceae), Leplaea mayumbensis (Meliaceae), Trilepisium madagascariense (Moraceae), Ardisia buesguenii and A. uregaensis (Myrsinaceae) and Calycosiphonia spathicalyx (Rubiaceae). The presence of Antidesma venosum (Euphorbiaceae) in Rwanda was confirmed. The inventory allowed to identify the sites of large species diversity and those of high human pressure on fauna and flora, information useful for the proposal of conservation measures for the natural forest of Nyungwe. /// La mthode de placette circulaire a t utilise pour l'inventaire de la biodiversit dans la fort de Nyungwe, Rwanda, entre juin et aot 1999. Les rsultats ont montr que d'importantes tendues de forts naturelles intactes existent mais elles font l'objet de fortes perturbations du fait des activits humaines. Au total 172 espces d'arbres et arbustes (dbh  10 cm), regroupes en 53 familles, ont t inventories. Parmi elles, dix espces y sont recenses pour la premire fois: Trichosypha ulugurensis subsp. submontana (Anacardiaceae), Isolona lebrunii (Annonaceae), Discoclaoxylon hexandrum et Macaranga monandra (Euphorbiaceae), Casearia engleri (Flacourtiaceae), Leplaea mayumbensis (Meliaceae), Trilepisium madagascariense (Moraceae), Ardisia buesguenii et A. uregaensis (Myrsinaceae) et Calycosiphonia spathicalyx (Rubiaceae). La prsence de Antidesma venosum (Euphorbiaceae) est galement confirme au Rwanda. L'inventaire a permis en outre d'identifier les sites  grande diversit spcifique et de forte pression humaine sur la faune et la flore, information qui servira au programme de conservation de la biodiversit de la fort naturelle de Nyungwe.
10.2307/3668688|Morphological, anatomical and morphometric studies of leaf and bract diversity among selected species of Gnidia (Thymelaeaceae) were conducted. Surface details of fresh and herbariumdried leaves and bracts were examined using Light Microscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy. Intraspecific and interspecific variation of leaves and bracts based on logarithmic transformations of linear data, was performed using Univariate Nested Analyses of Variance and Univariate Analyses of Variance. A Correlation Analysis was performed to test the correlation between leaf and bract ratios within species. Interspecific variation was examined further using Discriminant Analysis to maximise the separation of species on the basis of leaf and bract dimension data. Newly observed features of leaves and bracts include: hair ornamentation; specialisation of stomata; aerenchymatous-like tissue and reduced mesophyll. Homogenous groups of species were identified on the basis of their similarity of leaf length and width or bract length and width ratios. The species comprising the homogenous groups for leaf ratios are different from the species comprising the homogenous groups for bract ratios. There is no correlation between leaf and bract ratios, and the factors influencing leaf diversity appear to differ to those influencing bract diversity. Results also suggest that inflorescence organisation strongly influences bract diversity. /// Des tudes morphologiques, anatomiques et morphomtriques de la diversit des bractes et des feuilles dans une slection d'espces de Gnidia (Thymeleaceae) ont t menes. Les dtails de la surface de bractes et feuilles fraches ou d'herbier ont t examins au microscope optique et lectronique  balayage. La variation intraspcifique et interspcifique des feuilles et des bractes base sur les transformations logarithmiques de donnes linaires a t donne en utilisant les analyses de variance univaries et univaries hirarchises. Une analyse de corrlation a t excute pour tester la corrlation entre les dimensions des feuilles et des bractes au sein de l'espce. La variation interspcifique a t examine plus  fond en utilisant l'analyse discriminante afin d'optimaliser la sparation des espces sur base des dimensions mesures des feuilles et bractes. Les nouvelles caractristiques observes de feuilles et des bractes comprennent: ornemention des poils, spcialisation des stomates, tissu semblable  l'arenchyme et msophylle rduit. Des groupes homognes d'espces ont t identifis sur base de leur ressemblance quant au rapport de la longueur et de la largeur des feuilles et des bractes. Les espces comprenant les groupes homognes pour les rapports des feuilles sont diffrents des espces comprenant les groupes homognes pour les rapports des bractes. Il n'y a pas de corrlation entre les dimensions des feuilles et des bractes et les facteurs influenant la diversit des feuilles semblent diffrents de ceux qui influencent la diversit des bractes. Les rsultats suggrent aussi que l'organisation de l'inflorescence influence fortement la diversit des bractes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668738|An examination of hitherto published botanical monographs, together with notes from more recent collections, has identified a local centre of endemism focussed on the dissected plateaux inland of Lindi in SE Tanzania. The lowland forests on and around these plateaux contain between 40 and 91 vascular plant species which are not found elsewhere (depending on how rigorously the available data are interpreted), most of which have been collected less than three times and are limited to a single locality. The level of floristic endemism in this area is strikingly greater than in neighbouring areas, in spite of an apparent similarity in topography and vegetation. The full extent of the surviving remnants of forest is still poorly known, and an increased conservation initiative in this area is urgently required, together with further biological studies. /// Une tude des monographies botaniques publies jusqu' prsent, avec des observations tires de collections rcentes, a permis d'identifier un centre local d'endmisme sur les plateaux intrieurs de Lindi dans le sud-est de la Tanzanie. Les forts de basse altitude sur ces plateaux et dans leurs environs hbergent entre 40 et 91 espces de plantes vasculaires, qui n'existent pas ailleurs (selon la rigueur avec laquelle les donnes disponibles seront interprtes). La plupart de ces espces ont t rcoltes moins de trois fois et sont limites  une seule localit. Le niveau d'endmisme floristique dans cette rgion est nettement plus grand que dans les rgions voisines, malgr une similitude apparente dans la topographie et la vgtation. L'tendue complte des relictes forestires est encore peu connue; il est urgent que des mesures de conservation soient prises dans cette rgion et que les tudes biologiques y soient poursuivies. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668690|The caesalpinioid legume genus Berlinia Sol. ex Hook. f. & Benth. as currently circumscribed, comprises about 18 species in two generic sections. A preliminary test of the monophyly of Berlinia and an investigation of its taxonomic position with respect to putative close relatives, Isoberlinia, Anthonotha, Gilbertiodendron, Pellegriniodendron and Librevillea was undertaken using analyses of molecular and macromorphological data. Nucleotide sequence data from two regions of the genome, a chloroplast region, the trnL intron, and a nuclear region, the internal transcribed spacer of the nuclear 28-18s ribosomal gene (ITS), were subjected to separate phylogenetic analyses. Both regions were assessed for phylogenetic utility in species level studies. A combined phylogenetic analysis of ITS data (including coded indels) and macromorphological data was undertaken. TrnL data provided only limited phylogenetic resolution. ITS data provided resolution at genus and species level offering weak support for a monophyletic Berlinia with Isoberlinia weakly supported as sister to Berlinia. Based on the phylogeny inferred from the analysis of ITS data, it was possible to speculate that Isoberlinia may be a recently radiated genus, the monotypic genus Pellegriniodendron may be conspecific with Gilbertiodendron and the genus Anthonotha may be paraphyletic. Macromorphology provided weak support for a monophyletic Berlinia but no support for the monophyly of the Berlinia-Isoberlinia clade. The combined analysis (ITS with macromorphology) provided moderate support, for the monophyly of Berlinia as currently circumscribed and weak support for Isoberlinia as sister group. Indels provided synapomorphies for several clades in the phylogeny inferred from the combined analysis. This paper is an extension of a study recently published (Mackinder 2000 publ. 2001), from which it differs by the inclusion of sequence (ITS) and morphological data for an additional four taxa. /// Le genre Berlinia Sol. ex Hook.f. & Benth. (lgumineuse caesalpiniode) tel qu'il est actuellement dlimit, comprend environ 18 espces rparties au sein de deux sections gnriques. Un test prliminaire de la monophylie de Berlinia et une recherche de sa position taxonomique, par rapport  des genres proches comme Isoberlinia, Anthonotha, Gilbertiodendron, Pellegriniodendron et Librevillea, a t entreprise  l'aide de donnes provenant d'analyses molculaires et macromorphologiques. Les squences nuclotidiques de deux rgions du gnome, l'une chloroplastique, l'intron trnL, l'autre nuclaire, l'ITS du gne ribosomique 28-18s ont t soumises  des analyses phylogntiques distinctes. Une valuation de l'utilit phylognique des deux rgions dans le cadre d'tudes au niveau spcifique a t mene. Une analyse phylognique combine des donnes ITS (incluant les indels cods) et macromorphologiques a t entreprise. Les donnes trnL n'ont montr qu'une rsolution phylognique limite. Les donnes ITS ont permis des rsolutions aux niveaux gnrique et spcifique appuyant faiblement l'hypothse d'un genre Berlinia monophyltique et de Isoberlinia comme taxon-frre. Sur base de la phylognie dduite de l'analyse des donnes ITS, il a t avanc que Isoberlinia pouvait tre un genre rcemment diffrenci, que le genre monotypique Pellegriniodendron pouvait tre conspcifique de Gilbertiodendron et que le genre Anthonotha pouvait tre paraphyltique. La macromorphologie a faiblement appuy l'hypothse d'un genre Berlinia monophyltique et n'a pas soutenu celle de la monophylie de la clade Berlinia-Isoberlinia. L'analyse combine (ITS et macromorphologique) n'a apport qu'un soutien modr  la monophylie du genre Berlinia tel qu'il est actuellement dlimit et un faible support  Isoberlinia en tant que groupe-frre. Les indels ont fourni des synapomorphies pour plusieurs clades de la phylognie dduite de l'analyse combine. Cet article est une extension de l'tude rcemment publie (Mackinder 2000 publ. 2001) et dont elle diffre par l'intgration de donnes de squence ITS et morphologiques pour quatre taxons supplmentaires. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668713|Gnetum africanum and G. buchholzianum, generally called "eru", are species of Gnetaceae whose leaves are edible as vegetables. They constitute a very important commercial non-timber forest product in Central Africa particularly in Cameroon where they are traded as green vegetables in local and regional markets, and exported. The resource has been seriously threatened by unsustainable harvesting and the gradual disappearance of the forests in which they occur. In order to ensure and enhance the sustainability of these species, a production to consumption system of the species has been studied and efforts of conservation through cultivation initiated. This paper describes the importance of the species and reports on the achievements of its domestication initiatives so far /// Gnetum africanum et G. buchholzianum ou "eru" sont deux espces comestibles de la famille des Gnetaces. Leurs feuilles constituent un important produit forestier non-ligneux (PFNL) commercialis en Afrique Centrale, plus particulirement au Cameroun, et export comme lgume. Nanmoins, cette ressource est menace de disparition du fait de l'exploitation illicite et incontrlable de la part de la population et suite  la disparition progressive des forts. Afin d'assurer et d'amliorer la durabilit de ces espces, des techniques culturales particulires ont t adoptes comme mesures de conservation. Nous dcrivons dans cette tude l'importance de ces espces ainsi que les activits de domestication entreprises.
10.2307/3668685|The continental African species of Coptosperma, an Afromalagasy genus recently reestablished and enlarged, are revised. Thirteen taxa are recognized, for which eleven new taxonomic combinations are necessary; a new species from Somalia, C. somaliense, is described. The taxonomy of the species is surveyed, distribution maps are given and the chorology of the genus is discussed. /// Coptosperma est un genre afromalgache rcemment rtabli et largi. Les espces d'Afrique continentale sont revues. Treize taxons sont reconnus, pour lesquels onze combinaisons nouvelles sont proposes; une espce nouvelle de Somalie, C. somaliense, est dcrite. Un aperu de la taxonomie des espces, ainsi que des cartes de distribution sont donns. La chorologie du genre est discute.
10.2307/3668736|Plant surveys were undertaken in 1995 in the 1922 and 1959 lava flows in order to assess species richness on these lava flows on Mount Cameroon. A total of 128 species were recorded out of which 21 (16%) were only found on lava flow and nowhere else in other ecosystems in Cameroon; they could be considered as a contribution of the lava flows to the maintenance of overall species diversity of the mountain area. Also, apart from the lava flow area it is difficult to find in one area such a high diversity of ferns, orchids and even woody species such as Ficus species and Hymenodictyon biafranum. The physiognomy of the recovering vegetation on lava flow is dominated at different stages of succession by different groups of plants, which also illustrates the successional pathway. The bare rock is first inhabited by lichens and mosses, followed by ferns, then herbs and climbers with stunted woody pioneers, and finally by immature woody pioneers. Comparison of observed data on species composition, basal area and density of plants on the 1922 lava flow and similar parameters in the intact nearby rainforest indicated that the turnover time on lava flow in the Mount Cameroon environment is at least 300 to 600 years. /// Afin d'valuer la richesse spcifique sur des coules de lave, un inventaire a t ralis en 1995 sur celles de 1922 et de 1959 au Mont Cameroun. Parmi les 128 espces observes, 21 (16%) taient spcifiques sur les laves et n'taient pas retrouves dans les autres cosystmes du Cameroun; les coules de laves peuvent donc tre considres comme contribuant au maintien de la diversit floristique globale dans la rgion du Mont Cameroun. On note aussi qu'en dehors des zones couvertes de lave, il est difficile de trouver en un mme endroit une telle diversit de fougres, d'orchides et mme d'espces ligneuses telles que les Ficus et Hymenodictyon biafranum. La physionomie de la vgtation reconstitue sur les laves est domine lors de diffrentes phases par des groupes floristiques illustrant la succession. C'est ainsi que les roches sont d'abord domines par les lichens et mousses suivis par les fougres, les herbes, les lianes et quelques pionniers, et finalement par les pionniers ligneux immatures. La comparaison des observations relative  la composition spcifique,  la surface terrire et  la densit des plantes sur la coule de lave de 1922 d'une part, et dans une fort humide intacte  proximit d'autre part, a indiqu que la priode de rgnration sur coule de lave au Mont Cameroun est d'au moins 300  600 ans.
10.2307/3668671|The Southern African Botanical Diversity Network (SABONET) is a donor-funded capacity-building project involving southern African botanists. Incorporating ten southern African countries, the SABONET Project has involved the preparation of botanical inventories, national plant checklists, national and regional plant collecting expeditions, computerisation of herbaria, postgraduate support for herbarium staff, in-service training courses and the production of plant Red Data Lists. Regular monitoring and evaluation is an important component of the project. Support for staff attached to national botanical gardens in the region is scheduled to be mobilised in 2001/2. Since the project's inception in 1996, SABONET has made a significant contribution to the networking and capacity development of botanists in southern Africa and the ex situ conservation of the region's flora. This paper provides an update on the project progress to date, outlines some challenges and opportunities for the future and presents recommendations for similar future projects' design and implementation. /// SABONET: mise en valeur des aptitudes au sein des Herbiers et des jardins botaniques d'Afrique australe. Le rseau d'Afrique australe pour la diversit botanique (SABONET) est un projet financ par des donations et qui contribue  dvelopper le potentiel des Herbiers et jardins botaniques d'Afrique australe en impliquant des botanistes de la rgion. Le projet SABONET, qui couvre dix pays d'Afrique australe, intervient dans la prparation d'inventaires botaniques, la constitution de listes de plantes par pays, l'organisation d'expditions de rcolte tant nationales que rgionales, l'informatisation des Herbiers, le soutien dans la formation du personnel travaillant dans les Herbiers, l'organisation de cours et la production de listes rouges. Le suivi rgulier et l'valuation sont des composantes importantes du projet. Le soutien au personnel des jardins botaniques nationaux de la rgion est programm pour 2001/2. Depuis la mise en oeuvre du projet en 1996, SABONET a contribu de manire significative  la constitution et au dveloppement d'un rseau de botanistes en Afrique australe ainsi qu' la conservation ex situ de la flore de la rgion. Cet article fait tat de l'avancement du projet et, tout en soulignant ses dfis pour le futur, prsente quelques recommandations pour la conception et la mise en oeuvre de projets similaires. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668723|The Ngotto forest is located in the south-west of the Central African Republic. For a better knowledge of the phytodiversity of this forest and to understand the factors by which it is determined, a phytogeographical interpretation of the data gathered is proposed on the basis of systematics (level of the family), biological types, types of diaspores and the spectra of phytogeographical elements. White's phytogeographical typology (1983, 1986) is followed. The results show an equal contribution of endemic species, linking species and species with large distribution. The respective presence of Congolian and Guinean elements is also shown. /// La fort de Ngotto est situe dans le sud-ouest de la Rpublique Centrafricaine. Pour mieux connatre la phytodiversit de cette fort et comprendre son dterminisme, une interprtation phytogographique des inventaires forestiers disponibles est propose sur la base des spectres systmatique (au niveau de la famille), biologique, de types des diaspores et d'lments phytogographiques. La typologie phytogographique de White (1983, 1986) a t suivie. Les rsultats montrent une contribution quilibre des espces endmiques, des espces de liaison et des espces  large dispersion. Les contributions respectives des lments congolais et guinens sont galement mises en vidence.
10.2307/3668714|Garcinia lucida and Garcinia kola (Clusiaceae) are common well-known forest species among local population in Cameroon due to their various medicinal properties. A study of the traditional uses and the harvesting practices of these two species permits to draw together their medicinal, social and economic potentials in order to promote their utilisation and long-term exploitation. Traditional medicines and foods are the main important use categories. The seeds and the bark are the most commonly used parts of these plant species. The seeds are generally gathered under the crown of reproductive trees while the extraction of bark almost always involved ringbarking trees, the extraction of root involved logging of trees. The density of G. lucida varies from 17 to 314 stems per hectare. The average number of G. kola trees is 0.4 stems per hectare. The proportion of trees dying after debarking ranked between 5 and 43% according to the exploited stands of G. lucida. The proportion of debarked and logged trees for G. kola was estimated about 43%. The size-class distribution exhibited by these two species shows a selective exploitation of the largest trees. The quantity of G. lucida fresh bark harvested was estimated at 15 kg per day and per collector. These results indicate a high exploitation pressure using destructive harvesting techniques which could lead to the resource depletion in the future. /// Garcinia lucida et Garcinia kola (Clusiaceae) sont des essences bien connues des populations forestires camerounaises pour leurs nombreuses proprits mdicinales. Une tude des utilisations traditionnelles et des modalits d'exploitation de ces deux espces est faite au Cameroun. Elle permet d'examiner leurs potentialits socio-conomiques et mdicinales dans l'optique d'une valorisation et d'une exploitation soutenue de ces espces. La pharmacope et l'alimentation se classent au premier rang des diffrentes utilisations traditionnelles. Les organes les plus utiliss sont les graines, l'corce et la racine pivot pour de multiples usages. Les graines sont gnralement ramasses sous la couronne des arbres tandis que le prlvement de l'corce se fait trs souvent par annlation du pourtour de la tige et, l'extraction de la racine pivot par dracinement de l'arbre. La densit des arbres de G. lucida varie entre 17 et 314 tiges par hectare. Celle des individus de G. kola est en moyenne de 0,4 tige par hectare. Le pourcentage de mortalit de G. lucida aprs prlvement de l'corce varie entre 5 et 43% selon les sites exploits. Le nombre d'arbres de G. kola corcs ou dterrs pour l'exploitation de la racine, est de l'ordre de 43%. La structure diamtrique de ces espces montre une exploitation slective des plus grands arbres. La quantit d'corce de G. lucida rcolte est estime en moyenne  15 kg d'corce frache par personne et par jour. Ces rsultats indiquent qu'une forte pression d'exploitation, utilisant des techniques entranant l'limination des individus, est exerce sur ces espces et risque d'entraner  long terme l'puisement de la ressource.
10.2307/3668709|The Dja biosphere reserve is located in Cameroon, in the East and the South provinces. It has not yet been subject to forest logging. But the high processing of timber extraction and the hunting of large mammals around the reserve result in fragmentation of the forest. In the south of the Dja reserve, local populations use mainly plant species in the treatment of malaria. Ethnobotanical surveys have been conducted for the traditional usage of medicinal plants against malaria in the Mintom subdivision (south). In all, 34 therapeutic recipes have been prescribed by Fang (eleven households), Nzaman (nine), and Baka pygmies (one) based in the Mintom region. These recipes used 23 plant species in the treatment of malaria. To compare plant species, an index of endangerment (Iv with values between 1 and 3) is defined for each of them, based on an arbitrary scale used for each of the following ten parameters: (1) the popularity of species in the Fang ethnic group, (2) its popularity in the Nzaman ethnic group, (3) the part of the plant used, (4) its developmental stage, (5) the mode of harvesting (6), the pharmaceutical forms used, (7) the habitat of the plant, (8) the type of scattering of seeds, (9) the morphological type, (10) the frequency (abundance) of plants in the field. Fourteen species have endangerment index above 2. Four out of them are said to be more endangered, with Iv > 2.5. According to decreasing Iv values, these species are ranged as follows: Picralima nitida > Alstonia boonei > Rauvolfia vomitoria > Zanthoxylum heitzii. /// La rserve de biosphre du Dja est situe au Cameroun dans les provinces de l'est et du sud. Elle n'a jamais fait l'objet d'une exploitation forestire, mais le fort dploiement de cette activit dans la zone priphrique fragilise les forts du Dja par l'amplification de la dforestation et l'abattage du gros gibier. Ce fait tend  isoler biologiquement la rserve du reste du District Forestier du Dja. Dans le sud de la rserve, les populations ont essentiellement recours aux plantes mdicinales pour soigner le paludisme. Des enqutes ethnobotaniques ont t conduites sur l'usage traditionnel des plantes antipaludiques dans l'arrondissement de Mintom (sud). Au total, 34 recettes ont t prescrites par les Fang (onze mnages), Nzaman (neuf) et Baka (un) bass dans la rgion de Mintom. Ces recettes font intervenir 23 plantes dans le traitement du palu disme. Dans le but de comparer la fragilit des espces cites, un indice de vulnrabilit (Iv avec des valeurs de 1  3) est dfini pour chaque espce. Cet indice est calcul  partir d'un barme arbitraire appliqu  chacun des dix paramtres suivants: (1) la popularit de l'espce chez les Fang, (2) sa popularit chez les Nzaman, (3) le type d'organe vgtal utilis, (4) son stade de dveloppement, (5) le mode de rcolte, (6) les formes pharmaceutiques employes, (7) le biotope de la plante, (8) le type de dissmination des diaspores, (9) le type morphologique, (10) la frquence (abondance) des plantes dans le milieu. Quatorze espces ont des indices de vulnrabilit suprieurs  2. Quatre parmi elles peuvent tre considres comme trs vulnrables, avec des Iv > 2,5. Par ordre dcroissant de la valeur de Iv, ces quatre espces s'ordonnent comme suit: Picralima nitida > Alstonia boonei > Rauvolfia vomitoria> Zanthoxylum heitzii.
10.2307/3668718|The present survey concerns two galleries of the Biosphere Reserve of the "Mare aux Hippopotames", the Leyessa and Bala. A permanent plot of one hectare was installed in a representative part of each forest gallery. The plot has been subdivided into 100 quadrats of <tex-math>$100\ m^{2}$</tex-math> each. Every tree having more than 5 cm Diameter at Breast Height (DBH) was labeled by a label in aluminium; number, geographical coordinates, height, DBH, phenology and number of sprigs were noted, as well as miscellaneous observations (tree cut, dead, partly burned). Three species were mapped within the plot. For every forest, a list of trees DBH  5 cm was prepared. The Leyessa forest counts 392 trees belonging to 25 species and 17 families while the Bala forest amounts 461 trees distributed in 29 species and 21 families. Six important families are noted in this study: Bombacaceae, Caesalpiniaceae, Sterculiaceae, Combretaceae, Apocynaceae and Boraginaceae. Relative diversity, dominance and importance value of every family and every species are calculated for each forest. /// La prsente tude concerne les caractristiques floristiques de deux forts galeries de la rserve de biosphre de la Mare aux Hippopotames: Leyessa et Bala. Une parcelle permanente d'un hectare a t installe dans une partie reprsentative de chaque galerie forestire. La parcelle est subdivise en 100 placeaux de <tex-math>$100\ m^{2}$</tex-math> chacun. Chaque arbre de plus de 5 cm de Diamtre  Hauteur de Poitrine (DHP) est tiquet par une plaque en aluminium portant son numro. Pour chaque arbre, les coordonnes gographiques, la hauteur, le DHP, la phnologie et le nombre de brins ainsi que. des observations gnrales (arbre coup, arbre couch, arbre mort, arbre brl en partie) sont nots. La rpartition de trois espces au sein de la parcelle a t cartographie. Pour chaque fort, la liste des arbres de DHP  5 cm a t dresse. La fort de Bala avec 461 arbres rpartis en 29 espces et 21 familles est plus riche que la fort de la Leyessa qui compte 392 arbres appartenant  25 espces et  17 familles. Six grandes familles se dgagent de cette tude: les Bombacaceae, les Caesalpiniaceae, les Sterculiaceae, les Combretaceae, les Apocynaceae et les Boraginaceae. La diversit relative, la densit relative, la dominance et la "Family Importance Value" de chaque famille sont calcules pour chacune des forts et pour chaque espce ligneuse inventorie.
10.2307/3668697|The circumscription of the tribe Naucleeae has been under debate for a long time. This is the first study to test if the previous circumscriptions are supported as monophyletic. Parsimony analyses of the rbcL sequence data of Rubiaceae, followed by separate and combined analyses of the ITS, rbcL, and morphological data were performed in attempt to propose a new tribal delimitation for Naucleeae. Results did not support any of the previous delimitations of Naucleeae. All favoured a broader circumscription, which includes not only all members of Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale, but also Cephalanthus, Hallea, Mitragyna, and Uncaria, formerly placed in Naucleeae, Corynanthe and Pausinystalia. Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale were shown to be monophyletic without support in the morphology- and combined ITS-rbcL-morphology-based trees. The tribe Coptosapelteae sensu Andersson & Persson appeared polyphyletic. A new tribe Hymenodictyoneae is created to accommodate Hymenodictyon and Paracorynanthe. Descriptions and diagnostic features of the newly circumscribed Naucleeae and Hymenodictyoneae are provided. /// La dlimitation de la tribu des Naucleeae est sujette  dbat depuis longtemps. Cette tude est la premire  tester si les dlimitations prcdemment proposes sont monophyltiques. Des analyses de parcimonie de squences rbcL de Rubiaceae, suivies par des analyses spares et combines de donnes ITS, rbcL et morphologiques ont t ralises pour tenter de proposer une nouvelle dlimitation de la tribu des Naucleeae. Les rsultats ne confirment aucune des dlimitations prcdentes des Naucleeae et favorisent des limites plus larges incluant non seulement tous les membres des Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale mais aussi Cephalanthus, Hallea, Mitragyna et Uncaria, places anciennement dans les Naucleeae, Corynanthe et Pausinystalia. Il a t dmontr que les Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale taient monophyltiques mais sans confirmation par l'arbre morphologique ni par celui combinant les donnes ITS-rbcL et morphologiques. La tribu des Coptosapelteae sensu Andersson & Persson s'est rvle polyphyltique. Une nouvelle tribu, les Hymenodictyoneae, est cre pour recevoir Hymenodictyon et Paracorynanthe. Des descriptions et des caractres diagnostiques pour la tribu des Naucleeae redlimite et pour celle des Hymenodictyoneae sont fournis.
10.2307/3668670|The United Nations University/Institute for Natural Resources in Africa (UNU/INRA) conducted an assessment of the status of herbaria and capabilities in taxonomy and systematics in selected countries in West, East and southern Africa in 1999. The findings pointed to the fact that, except for very few institutions, the infrastructure and facilities were on the whole poor and inadequate, while there were few trained taxonomists. UNU/INRA has identified the way forward in capacity building through support to African centres of excellence for research and training. This paper shows results of the assessment and UNU/INRA's outlook on the future. /// L'Universit des Nations Unies/Institut pour les Ressources Naturelles en Afrique (UNU/INRA) a valu l'tat des herbiers et leurs potentialits en taxonomie et systmatique dans certains pays choisis d'Afrique occidentale, orientale et australe en 1999. Les rsultats ont mis en vidence qu' l'exception de quelques rares institutions, l'infrastructure et les amnagements taient insuffisants et inadquats et qu'elles disposaient de peu de taxonomistes forms. L'UNU/INRA a identifi la manire d'amliorer les comptences en soutenant les centres d'excellence africains impliqus dans la recherche et la formation. Cet article prsente les rsultats de cette valuation et les perspectives de l'UNU/INRA. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668711|A questionnaire was elaborated and submitted orally to Turumbu and Lokele peoples living in the Tshopo District, Democratic Republic of Congo, to know more about the native edible plants they use. For each indicated plant, the vernacular name, edible part, dietary use, frequency and preference of consumption was recorded. The study reveals the utilization of 70 species from 61 genus and 44 families. Thirty-three species are only used by the Turumbu, twelve species by the Lokele and 25 species by both. The methods for preparation are also described. The dietary use of some of these species is confirmed by data on other tribes from the region (Kumu, Wangenia, Foma, Batiabetuwa...) and from Central Africa. Twenty-one species are indicated for the first time in the region as edible. Most of the species are trees and occur in terra firma plant communities. The spontaneous plants with edible fruits are the most used by the Turumbu and Lokele tribes. Most species used as vegetable are eaten throughout the year, whereas availability of edible fruits depends on phenology. /// Un questionnaire sur les plantes alimentaires spontanes a t labor et soumis oralement aux informateurs Turumbu et Lokele du District de la Tshopo en Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo. Le but tait de connatre le nom vernaculaire de la plante, l'organe comestible, son mode de consommation, la frquence et la prfrence de consommation. L'tude a rvl l'utilisation de 70 espces appartenant  61 genres et 44 familles. Trente-trois espces sont exclusivement consommes par les Turumbu, douze espces par les Lokele et 25 espces sont consommes par les deux tribus; leurs modes de prparation ou d'emploi sont dcrits. L'usage alimentaire de certaines de ces espces a t confirm par d'autres tribus de la rgion (Kumu, Wangenia, Foma, Batiabetuwa...) et d'Afrique Centrale. Vingt-et-une espces sont signales pour la premire fois dans la rgion comme faisant l'objet d'habitudes alimentaires. La plupart des espces recences sont des arbres et proviennent surtout des formations vgtales de terre ferme. Les plantes  fruits comestibles sont fortement rprsentes dans la flore alimentaire sauvage des Turumbu et Lokele. La majorit des plantes lgumires sont consommes toute l'anne alors que la disponibilit des fruits dpend de la phnologie de chaque espce.
10.2307/3668731|Regeneration and succession processes in montane forests of Kenya and parts of Ethiopia were investigated. The slowly growing camphor tree, Ocotea usambarensis, regenerates mainly by suckers from old root systems. Undamaged seeds were very rarely seen, and, apparently are viable only for a few days. After natural breakdown of an old tree, the gap is filled by fast growing species, mainly Macaranga kilimandscharica and Neoboutonia macrocalyx, in the shade of which the young Ocotea suckers can establish. After the death of the secondary species, whose germination requires full sunlight and is inhibited in the shade, the Ocotea forest recovers. Large scale logging of Camphor trees predominantly destroys the regeneration of Ocotea and leads to secondary forest types, which regenerate in own cycles. The high number of big game was found to be without impact on the natural regeneration of Ocotea. The Cassipourea malosana dominated forest regenerates as a mosaic-climax without a single species becoming dominant. Cedar forests dominated by Juniperus procera regenerate most efficiently after fire. Without recurrent burning, the forests of the lower and middle part of the montane zone, regenerate to climax associations dominated by broad-leaved trees as Olea capensis ssp. hochstetteri, Olea europaea ssp. cuspidata and Podocarpus latifolius. On higher altitudes Juniperus procera always remains dominant even if fire does not occur for a longer time period. The high population density especially of buffaloes seems to inhibit successful regeneration in many parts of the Juniperion, due to intensive browsing and in particular trampling. The African Bamboo, Sinarundinaria alpina, shows a distinct growth cycle and can grow for extremely long periods in the vegetative state before flowering, especially so at the borders of its area. After flowering and dying of the bamboo, in most areas a dense Sambucus africana shrub is formed into which bamboo is invading from old rhizomes again. In Ethiopia, regeneration occurs directly, without an interspersed Sambucus stage. The uniform age of the Hagenia stands suggests that regeneration in these forests occurs suddenly after a disturbing event. Germination tests yielded, that Hagenia seeds are not germinating unless the competing undergrowth is removed. As fire is the only natural factor able to clear the grass layer of larger areas, it is assumed, that the reproduction of the subalpine forests depends on occasional burning. /// La rgnration et les modes de succession dans les forts d'altitude du Kenya et de parties de l'Ethiopie ont t tudis. La rgnration du camphrier, Ocotea usambarensis, espce  croissance lente, se produit principalement par drageonnement d'anciens systmes racinaires. Des graines intactes ont rarement t observes, et, apparemment, ne sont viables que quelques jours. Aprs la chute naturelle d'un vieil arbre, la troue est colonise par des espces  croissance rapide, principalement Macaranga kilimandscharica et Neoboutonia macrocalyx. Grce  l'ombrage qu'elles provoquent, les jeunes drageons de Ocotea peuvent se dvelopper. Aprs la mort des espces secondaires, dont la germination ncessite la pleine lumire et est inhibe par l'ombrage, la fort  Ocotea se rinstalle. L'exploitation  grande chelle des camphriers empche surtout la rgnration de Ocotea et conduit  la formation et au maintien de forts secondaires. Le nombre important de gros gibier n'a aucun impact sur la rgnration naturelle de Ocotea. La fort domine par Cassipourea malosana se rgnre comme une mosaque climacique, sans qu'une espce ne devienne dominante. Les forts de cdres, domines par Juniperus procera se rgnrent plus efficacement aprs le passage du feu. Sans incendies priodiques, les forts de basse et de moyenne altitude se rgnrent en associations climaciques domines par des arbres  feuillage dcidu comme Olea capensis ssp. hochstetteri, Olea europaea ssp. cuspidata et Podocarpus latifolius. A plus haute altitude, Juniperus procera est toujours dominant, mme si le feu ne svit pas durant de longues priodes. La densit leve des populations de buffles semble empcher la rgnration dans de nombreux endroits du Juniperion, en raison du broutage intensif et du pitinement. Le bambou africain, Sinarundinaria alpina, prsente un cycle de croissance diffrent et peut subsister au stade vgtatif pendant des priodes extrmement longues avant de fleurir, en particulier en bordure de son aire. Aprs la floraison et la mort du bambou, un bosquet dense  Sambucus africana se dveloppe. Il est ensuite  nouveau envahi par le bambou  partir d'anciens rhizomes. En Ethiopie, la rgnration a lieu directement, sans passage par le stade mlang  Sambucus. L'ge uniforme des peuplements de Hagenia suggre que la rgnration dans ces forts survient soudainement  la suite d'une perturbation. Des tests de germination ont dmontr que les graines de Hagenia ne germent qu' condition de supprimer le sous-tage concurrent. Le feu tant le seul facteur naturel pouvant claircir l'tage herbac sur de grandes surfaces, il est suppos que la reproduction des forts subalpines dpend des feux occasionnel. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668699|Molecular phylogenies have been generated to investigate relationships among species of Streptocarpus Lindl., the largest genus of Gesneriaceae in Africa. Of the around 146 species described, 77 have been included in a parsimony analysis using the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of ribosomal DNA. The studies show that Streptocarpus is paraphyletic and at least three other genera are nested within the genus. Incongruence occurs in relation to the subgeneric division. Streptocarpus is currently divided into two subgenera, Streptocarpella and Streptocarpus, mainly on morphological grounds; the former including basically caulescent species with a functional shoot apical meristem, while the latter includes mainly unifoliates and rosulates with an abnormal shoot apical meristem. On the African continent the geographic distribution of caulescent species of subgenus Streptocarpella ranges across tropical Africa from Sierra Leone to the Indian Ocean, while species of subgenus Streptocarpus occur in central and eastern parts of Africa. The molecular data suggest a southwards migration and "progressive latitudinal speciation" of subgenus Streptocarpus in Africa. Some evidence suggests an origin of the genus on Madagascar but this is equivocal. The subgeneric split probably occurred before interchange between mainland Africa and Madagascar ceased, after the geological separation of Madagascar, and is consistent with the hypothesis of a land bridge connection between 45-26Mya. /// Des phylognies molculaires ont t gnres afin d'tudier les relations entre espces chez Streptocarpus Lindl., le plus grand genre de Gesneriaceae en Afrique. Parmi les 146 espces dcrites, 77 ont t utilises dans une analyse de parcimonie en diffrences morphologiques; le premier regroupe des espces caulescentes  mristme apical fonctionnel, alors que le deuxime inclut principalement des espces dont les individus, unifolis ou en rosette, prsentent un mristme apical anormal. Sur le continent africain, la distribution utilisant l'ITS du DNA ribosomique. Les tudes montrent que Streptocarpus est paraphyltique et qu'il regroupe au moins trois autres genres. La division subgnrique est problmatique. Streptocarpus est actuellement divis en deux sous-genres, Streptocarpella et Streptocarpus, principalement sur base de gographique des espces caulescentes du sous-genre Streptocarpella s'tend des rgions tropicales de la Sierra Leone  l'Ocan Indien, alors qu'on trouve les espces du sous-genre Streptocarpus en Afrique centrale et orientale. Les donnes molculaires suggrent une migration vers le sud et une "spciation latitudinale progressive" du sous-genre Streptocarpus en Afrique. L'origine malgache du genre est envisage mais reste quivoque. La diffrentiation des sous-genres a probablement eu lieu avant que l'change entre le continent africain et Madagascar ait pris fin suite  la sparation gologique de Madagascar. Elle est en accord avec l'hypothse d'une connexion terrestre entre 45-26 Mya. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668728|'Chipya' is the term applied to a wooded grassland vegetation type specific to northern Zambia. Based on experimental evidence from Zambia's Kasanka National Park, this paper attempts to answer some of these key questions raised in chipya ecology. Can chipya be clearly defined floristically and edaphically, and if so, how do these factors relate to mateshi-chipya-miombo dynamics? The results from Kasanka National Park suggest that chipya can be differentiated from miombo by the absence of the fire-sensitive genera Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia and Uapaca, and by its luxuriant herbaceous layer comprising the indicator species Pteridium aquilinum, Smilax anceps and Aframomum alboviolaceum. In addition, chipya soils were shown to typically possess high organic matter, low phosphorus and low pH compared to miombo soils. Finally, the evidence in Kasanka National Park suggests that chipya arises from a mateshi-chipya regression driven by fire. There is no evidence that the fire-sensitive miombo genera Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia and Uapaca are part of the sequence. /// "Chipya" est le terme utilis pour caractriser un type de vgtation de savane arbore spcifique au nord de la Zambie. Sur base de rsultats exprimentaux obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka en Zambie, cet article tente d'apporter une rponse  certaines questions-cls souleves par l'cologie des chipya. Le chipya peut-il tre clairement dfini floristiquement et d'un point de vue daphique et, si c'est le cas, quel est l'impact de ces facteurs dans la dynamique mateshi-chipya-miombo? Les rsultats obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka suggrent que le chipya peut tre diffrenci du miombo par l'absence des genres Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia et Uapaca sensibles au feu, ainsi que par sa strate herbace luxuriante caractrise par les espces indicatrices que constituent Pteridium aquilinum, Smilax anceps et Aframomum alboviolaceum. Par ailleurs, les sols des chipya prsentent un taux lev en matire organique, une faible teneur en phosphore et des pH bas en comparaison des sols des miombo. Enfin, les rsultats obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka suggrent que le chipya provient d'une rgression mateshi-chipya provoque par le feu. Aucune preuve n'existe quant  l'appartenance  cette squence des genres Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia et Uapaca, lis au miombo et sensibles au feu. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668682|This paper presents a rationale and roadmap for producing new forms of floras using computer technologies while building upon the foundation of existing printed floras. Problems with existing printed floras and desirable characteristics of new electronic floras are outlined. Five technologies necessary for moving from one form of flora to the other are described, and the state-of-the-art in each is assessed. Experiments in machine markup of an existing flora are described. /// Cet article prsente la raison d'tre et constitue un guide pour la production de nouvelles formes de Flores, bases sur des Flores existantes et converties grce aux technologies informatiques. Les problmes rencontrs avec les Flores imprimes et les caractristiques recherches dans les nouvelles Flores lectroniques sont souligns. Cinq technologies ncessaires  la conversion d'une Flore d'une forme vers l'autre sont dcrites et l'tat d'avancement de chaque technique est valu. Des expriences de prparation du texte d'une Flore existante sont dcrites. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668687|Species and genus concepts and infrafamilial delimitations in the Aloaceae (subfamily Alooideae of the Asphodelaceae) have often been controversial. Arguments are mostly based on evidence obtained from vegetative and floral morphology, but data from other fields have also been used for speculating on taxonomic affinities within the Aloaceae. For the present study, nectar sugar composition (glucose, fructose, sucrose) was determined for representatives of Astroloba, Chortolirion, the three subgenera of Haworthia and for interspecific haworthioid hybrids and miscellaneous taxa. Two nectar types were distinguished in Haworthia and the two related genera: a Haworthia type (subg. Haworthia only, usually less than 50% sucrose) and a Hexangulares type (subg. Hexangulares, subg. Robustipedunculares, Chortolirion and Astroloba, usually more than 60% sucrose). Results support Uitewaal's subdivision of Haworthia in two main groups, but reveal little substantiation for infrasubgeneric groupings. /// Les concepts spcifiques et gnriques ainsi que les dlimitations infrafamiliales chez les Aloaceae (sous-famille Alooideae des Asphodelaceae) ont souvent fait l'objet de controverses. L'argumentation se base principalement sur des donnes de morphologie vgtative et florale mais des travaux dans d'autres domaines ont galement conduit  spculer sur des affinits taxonomiques au sein des Aloaceae. Dans la prsente tude, la composition du sucre nectarifre (glucose, fructose, sucrose) a t dtermine chez des reprsentants de Astroloba, Chortolirion, des trois sous-genres de Haworthia, chez des hybrides interspcifiques haworthiodes ainsi que chez divers taxons. Deux types de nectar ont t distingus chez Haworthia et chez les deux genres affins: un type Haworthia (subg. Haworthia seulement, gnralement moins de 50% de sucrose) et un type Hexangulares (subg. Hexangulares, subg. Robustipedunculares, Chortolirion et Astroloba, gnralement plus de 60% de sucrose). Les rsultats corroborent la subdivision de Uitewaal du genre Haworthia en deux groupes principaux mais rvlent le peu de bien-fond de groupements infra-subgnriques. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668744|Using a GIS based approach, a new map of African vascular plant species richness is presented. The underlying phytodiversity dataset comprises metadata on the floras of 450 geographical units in Africa and Madagascar, including the data records used by Lebrun and Barthlott and collaborators for their maps. 151 of these were selected as suitable to analyse correlation of species richness with different environmental parameters in a GIS and to generate the map of African phytodiversity. For the production of the map we used a weighted overlay of the raw data, an interpolation approach and a multiple regression model. Best correlation with species richness were found for annual sum of NDVI, number of dry months and water balance. Centres of high species richness in Africa are the Capensis, Eastern Madagascar, the coastal areas of SE Nigeria, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon, as well as the Drakensberg mountains, and the East African Mountains. These areas are also centres of high geodiversity. For one aspect of geodiversity, the topodiversity, we present a first map for Africa. /// Une nouvelle carte de la richesse en plantes vasculaires africaines est prsente sur base de l'utilisation de SIG. L'ventail de donnes sous-jacent sur la diversit vgtale comprend des mtadonnes sur les flores de 450 units gographiques d'Afrique et de Madagascar, incluant les donnes utilises pour leurs cartes par Lebrun et Barthlott et coauteurs. 151 de celles-ci ont t considres comme valables pour analyser la corrlation de la richesse en espces avec diffrents paramtres environnementaux dans le SIG et pour produire la carte de la phytodiversit africaine. Pour la production de la carte, nous avons utilis une couverture pondre des donnes brutes, une approche d'interpolation et un schma de rgression multiple. La meilleure corrlation avec la richesse spcifique a t trouve pour la somme annuelle des NDVI, le nombre de mois secs et la balance hydrique. Les centres de haute richesse spcifique en Afrique sont le Cap, l'est de Madagascar, les ctes du SE du Nigria, du Cameroun, de Guine quatoriale et du Gabon, de mme que les montagnes du Drakensberg et celles d'Afrique orientale. Ces rgions sont aussi des centres de haute godiversit. Pour un aspect de la godiversit, la topodiversit, nous prsentons une premire carte pour l'Afrique. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668722|Forest inventories have been made in the Altos de Nsork region, Equatorial Guinea. Within seven transects covering 33.5 ha, we have inventoried 3886 trees with DBH  30 cm (Diameter at Breast Height, measured at 1.3 m from the ground level), belonging to 226 species, and those with DBH  10 cm (689 trees belonging to 149 species) in eight sections of 160  10 m (1.28 ha). The comparison with other similar inventories made in central Africa showed a quite high biodiversity for the Nsork rain forests. This comparison also allowed us to indicate the characteristic species Engomegoma gordonii (3.2 stems / ha for the trees with DBH  30 cm; Olacaceae) and Stachyothyrsus staudtii (1.8; Caesalpiniaceae), and also the preferential species of the Nsork region as Coula edulis (4.4), Sindoropsis letestui (1.1), Dialium pachyphyllum (1.4), Allanblackia floribunda (3.9), Dacryodes buettneri (1.9),... The Nsork rain forest is marked by the abundance of the Burseraceae and the Olacaceae. Among the 74 emergent species (DBH  70 cm), the most abundant are: Aucoumea klaineana (3.1 stems / ha), Scyphocephalium mannii (1), Engomegoma gordonii (0.6), Coula edulis (0.5), Pterocarpus soyauxii (0.3), Sindoropsis letestui (0.2), Pentaclethra macrophylla (0.2) and Monopetalanthus letestui (0.2). In the lower trees stratum (DBH  10 cm) we find mainly Santiria trimera (61 stems / ha), Microdesmis puberula (45), Heisteria parvifolia (37), Dichostemma glaucescens (20) and Centroplacus glaucinus (9). The biodiversity seems to be highest in the lower trees stratum. /// Des inventaires forestiers ont t mens dans la rgion des Altos de Nsork, en Guine Equatoriale. Sept transects totalisant 33,5 ha ont permis de rpertorier 3886 arbres  DBH  30 cm (Diameter at Breast Height, c'est--dire diamtre mesur  1,3 m de hauteur), appartenant  226 espces, tandis que 689 arbres  DBH  10 cm, reprsentant 149 espces, ont t relevs sur huit tronons de 160  10 m (soit 1,28 ha). La comparaison avec d'autres inventaires similaires raliss en Afrique centrale a montr une biodiversit relativement importante dans les forts denses de Nsork. Cette mme comparaison nous a permis de mettre en vidence les espces caractristiques Engomegoma gordonii (3,2 pieds / ha pour les DBH  30 cm; Olacaceae) et Stachyothyrsus staudtii (1,8; Caesalpiniaceae), ainsi que des espces prfrentielles  la rgion de Nsork telles que Coula edulis (4,4), Sindoropsis letestui (1,1), Dialium pachyphyllum (1,4), Allanblackia floribunda (3,9), Dacryodes buettneri (1,9),... La fort tudie est marque par l'abondance des Burseraceae et des Olacaceae. Parmi les 74 espces d'mergents (DBH  70 cm), les espces les plus abondantes sont Aucoumea klaineana (3,1 pieds / ha), Scyphocephalium mannii (1), Engomegoma gordonii (0,6), Coula edulis (0,5), Pterocarpus soyauxii (0,3), Sindoropsis letestui (0,2), Pentaclethra macrophylla (0,2) et Monopetalanthus letestui (0,2). Quant  la strate arborescente infrieure (DBH  10 cm), on y retrouve principalement Santiria trimera (61 pieds / ha), Microdesmis puberula (45), Heisteria parvifolia (37), Dichostemma glaucescens (20) et Centroplacus glaucinus (9). La diversit tend  tre plus importante dans ces strates arborescentes infrieures.
10.2307/3668681|The Herbarium of Paris (P) houses one of the major reference collections of the African and Malagasy flora. The computerization of its holdings started in 1993 using the SONNERAT database, based on herbarium specimens, and building on a relational multitable model developed under ORACLE. The African and Madagascan collections were chosen as primary target group because of their importance for floristic work both inside and outside the "Laboratoire de Phanrogamie". Three different complementary approaches (taxonomic, geographic, loan management) were carried out and this first step helped to evaluate the system as well as to demonstrate both the feasibility of and the interest in the database approach. Nearly 90,000 African and Malagasy records are currently available on the internet (http://www.mnhn.fr/base/sonnerat.html). Internet accessibility allows researchers worldwide to locate and study the data about the computerized nomenclatural types deposited at P (18,000 thus far). The SONNERAT data are also available as a basis for species chorology analyses, which are of particular importance for biodiversity and conservation studies. /// L'Herbier de Paris (P) constitue l'une des collections de rfrence incontournables pour l'tude de la flore africaine et malgache. Le programme d'informatisation de ses collections a dbut en 1993 avec la mise en place de la base de donnes SONNERAT, base sur les spcimens d'herbier, fonctionnant sur un modle multi-table relationnel dvelopp sous ORACLE. Il a prioritairement t initi sur les collections africaines et malgaches en raison de l'importance des travaux floristiques en cours, tant au laboratoire de Phanrogamie qu' l'extrieur. Trois approches diffrentes et complmentaires ont t menes (groupe taxonomique, rgion gographique, gestion des prts). Cette premire tape a permis d'valuer le systme mis en place, et montr la faisabilit et l'intrt d'une telle dmarche. Prs de 90 000 enregistrements de plantes africaines et malgaches sont actuellement disponibles sur l'internet (http://www.mnhn.fr/base/sonnerat.html). L'accs par le WEB permet notamment aux chercheurs de localiser et d'accder aux donnes des types nomenclaturaux prsents  P (18 000 jusqu'  prsent). Ces donnes sont galement disponibles pour des tudes bases sur la chorologie des espces, en particulier dans le domaine de l'tude de la biodiversit et de sa conservation.
10.2307/3668667|Guinea-Bissau has several kinds of aquatic and wetland ecosystems. A first survey of the flora of these environments is attempted, including its distribution patterns within the taxonomical and chorological groups. More than 300 species, from 49 families, are listed, the Poaceae and Cyperaceae being the most representative families. The chorological analysis of the flora reveals that the species with wide distribution range are predominant -- half of them have a pluricontinental distribution, and one third are afrotropical. /// La Guine-Bissau possde diffrents types d'cosystmes aquatiques et de zones humides. Un premier aperu floristique de ces environnements est propos et prsente notamment les types de distribution au sein des groupes taxonomiques et chorologiques. Plus de 300 espces sont recenses; elles sont regroupes au sein de 49 familles parmi lesquelles les Poaceae et les Cyperaceae sont les plus reprsentatives. L'analyse chorologique de la flore rvle que les espces  large distribution sont prdominantes -- la moiti d'entre elles ont une distribution pluricontinentale et un tiers sont afrotropicales. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668737|The heathy, sclerophyllous vegetation type known locally in South Africa as 'fynbos' is not restricted to the Cape Floral Kingdom (CFK), but occurs throughout sub-Saharan Africa, Madagascar and the Mascarene Islands. The fynbos shrublands of these regions occur mostly in cool, montane environments where rainfall is high and soils are highly leached. Montane environments, however, are not the sole repositories of fynbos-type communities. Outcrops of Msikaba Formation (Pondoland) Sandstone in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, support similar shrublands, including many 'typical' fynbos genera and growth forms. The floristic and physiognomic resemblance of communities to the CFK, especially fragments of the high-altitude eastern (Afromontane) corridor extending into tropical East Africa, has prompted much speculation. A preliminary phytogeographical account is presented concerning the distribution of fynbos ('Cape') elements in the Drakensberg Alpine Region (DAR) and Pondoland Sandstone Region: two biotopes in southern Africa which share Cape elements. The significant sharing of Cape elements between biotopes suggests analogous growth environments. /// Le type de vgtation thermophile et sclrophylle localement connu en Afrique du Sud sous le nom de "fynbos" n'est pas restreint au Domaine floristique du Cap (CFK) mais existe  travers l'Afrique subsaharienne, Madagascar et les Mascareignes. Les fourrs du fynbos de ces rgions se trouvent principalement dans des environnements montagnards froids o les prcipitations sont leves et les sols trs lessivs. Les milieux montagnards ne sont cependant pas les seuls htes des communauts de type fynbos. Les sommets de Msikaba (Pondoland) au KwaZulu-Natal, en Afrique du Sud, portent des fourrs similaires, incluant de nombreux genres et formes biologiques typiques du fynbos. La ressemblance floristique et physionomique de ces communauts vis--vis du CFK, spcialement les fragments du corridor oriental afromontagnard s'tendant jusqu'en Afrique de l'Est ont suscit bien des spculations. Une contribution phytogographique prliminaire est prsente concernant la distribution des lments du fynbos dans la rgion alpine du Drakensberg (DAR) et dans la Rgion Grs du Pondoland, deux biotopes d'Afrique du Sud qui partagent des lments floristiques avec la Rgion du Cap. L'existence commune d'lments du Cap dans diffrents biotopes suggre des conditions environnementales de croissance analogues. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668686|Four species of Sabicea Aublet (Rubiaceae) are present in So Tom (Rpublique dmocratique de So Tom et Prncipe, gulf of Guinea): S. ingrata K.Schum., S. exellii G.Taylor, S. insularis (Wernham) G.Taylor and S. thomensis Joffroy. A principal component analysis undertaken for these species using morphological characters of herbarium specimens shows that S. insularis and S. ingrata cannot be easily separated. As a result the new combination S. ingrata var. insularis (Wernham) Joffroy is made. Distribution maps and an identification key for the four taxa of Sabicea in So Tom are presented. Relations between So Tom taxa and species of continental Africa are also discussed. /// Quatre espces du genre Sabicea Aublet (Rubiaceae) sont signales  So Tom (Rpublique dmocratique de So Tom et Prncipe, golfe de Guine): S. ingrata K.Schum., S. exellii G.Taylor, S. insularis (Wernham) G.Taylor et S. thomensis Joffroy. Une analyse en composantes principales base sur des caractres morphologiques mesurs sur chantillons d'herbier montre que S. insularis et S. ingrata sont difficilement sparables. Ainsi la nouvelle combinaison S. ingrata var. insularis (Wernham) Joffroy est propose. Les cartes de distribution et une cl de dtermination pour les quatre taxons de Sabicea de So Tom sont prsentes. Les relations entre les taxons de So Tom et les espces de l'Afrique continentale sont aussi discutes.
10.2307/3668729|Miombo woodland in Sengwa, dominated by Julbernardia globiflora, Brachystegia boehmii and Brachystegia spiciformis, exhibits clear small-scale patterning and variations in species composition. A hierarchical cluster analysis on species presence/absence data separated miombo woodland into eight sub-types, largely based on variations in the herbaceous and shrub species composition. Direct and indirect gradient analyses with variance partitioning showed that edaphic and disturbance factors accounted for 15.9% and 12.8% of the total variation in species composition, respectively, while their joint influence accounted for 3.1%. There was evidence that elephant-modified Brachystegia-dominated woodlands found on loose sands are being converted to Terminalia sericea-dominated woodland-thickets faster than the Julbernardia globiflora-dominated woodlands found on more compacted soils. It is concluded that fire and elephant herbivory have significantly influenced small-scale variations in species composition of miombo woodland in Sengwa while total exchangeable bases and silt significantly influenced natural floristic heterogeneity. /// La fort claire de type miombo  Sengwa, domine par Julbernardia globiflora, Brachystegia boehmii et Brachystegia spiciformis, montre clairement une diffrenciation  petite chelle et des variations dans sa composition spcifique. Une cluster analyse hirarchise sur les donnes de prsence/absence a permis de distinguer, au sein du miombo, huit sous-types largement bass sur les variations dans la composition en espces herbaces et arbustives. Des analyses de gradient directes et indirectes avec dcomposition de la variance ont montr que les facteurs daphiques et ceux lis aux perturbations intervenaient respectivement pour 15.9% et 12.8% dans la variation totale de la composition spcifique alors que leur influence conjointe tait de 3.1%. Il a t prouv que les forts claires modifies par l'action des lphants,  dominance de Brachystegia et sur sables meubles se sont converties plus rapidement en fourrs  Terminalia sericea que les forts claires domines par Julbernardia globiflora sur sols plus compacts. La conclusion de ces observations est que le feu et l'herbivorie due aux lphants ont influenc significativement les variations  petite chelle dans la composition spcifique du miombo de Sengwa alors que les bases totales changeables et le limon ont eu une influence significative sur l'htrognit floristique naturelle. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668732|The Simen Mountains, a U.N. World Heritage Site in N Ethiopia (Gonder Administrative region), include extensive high plateau areas (roughly 3200 m to over 4000 m), steep escarpments and lower-lying parts (locally known as "Kolla" or "Simen lowlands"; below 3000 to below 2000 m) and are known for their high biodiversity. The "Simen lowlands", primarily harbouring afromontane vegetation, are richest in species, whereas the afroalpine belt -- although the most spectacular part of the mountains -- is the poorest. Erica forests of the escarpments and some of the plateaux areas are also rather species-poor. In general, species diversity decreases with increasing altitude. At present, approximately 550 taxa of angiosperms are recorded. The mountains, primarily known to biologists for their rare and endangered animals (including the endemic Walia Ibex, Capra walie), also harbour endemic plant species (at least 12; e.g. Rosularia semiensis: afroalpine, or Maytenus cortii: afromontane). In addition to these, more than 30 taxa occurring in the Simen are Ethiopian endemics (e.g. the spectacular afroalpine Lobelia rhynchopetalum, or the afromontane Polyscias farinosa). Interesting phytogeographical affinities to SW Arabia are noteworthy, e.g. Dianthus longiglumis or Chlorophytum tetraphyllum (only known from the Simen and Ethiopian mountains, respectively, and Yemen). Numerous taxa, both from the afromontane and -alpine zone, show a distribution stretching from the Simen southwards to the tropical E African mountains (e.g. Psychotria orophila, afromontane, or Trifolium cryptopodium, afroalpine), sometimes also with an extension to the W African mountains (e.g. Galium simense). Others (primarily taxa occurring in the afromontane zone of the Simen) show wide distribution ranges extending to S Africa (e.g. Halleria lucida, to the Drakensberg). Widely distributed Sudanian or Sudano-Zambezian species occurring in the "Simen lowlands" include Sterculia setigera and Stereospermum kunthianum, respectively. The Simen is a historic plant collecting locality, and -- according to our present state of knowledge -- type specimens of ca. 220 afromontane and -alpine taxa of flowering plants (out of ca. 550 recorded; i. e. 40%!) originate from the Mountains (primarily collections made by W.G. Schimper in the past century). In the past few decades, however, plant collecting was largely impossible (socio-political problems in the North of the country!), so that the botanical knowledge of the Simen was much poorer than for the rest of the country. Only in recent years, botanical exploration restarted. It is thus not surprising that during expeditions carried out between 1996 and 1999 nineteen taxa (mostly afromontane elements) were newly recorded for the Simen and Gonder floristic region. /// Les Montagnes du Simen, situes au Nord de l'Ethiopie (rgion administrative de Gonder) et classes Patrimoine Mondial par les Nations Unies comprennent de vastes hauts-plateaux (approximativement 3200 m  4000 m), des escarpements abrupts et des zones basses (connues localement sous le vocable "Kolla" ou "Simen lowlands"; coins de 3000 m  moins de 2000 m) et sont rputes pour leur biodiversit leve. Les "Simen lowlands", couvertes principalement par une vgtation afromontagnarde, ont la richesse spcifique la plus leve, alors que la ceinture afroalpine -- bien que la partie la plus spectaculaire des montagnes -- est la plus pauvre. Les forts  Erica des escarpements et certaines zones de plateaux sont aussi relativement pauvres en espces. En gnral, la diversit spcifique diminue lorsqu'augmente l'altitude. Actuellement, environ 550 taxons d'angiospermes ont t enregistrs. Les Montagnes, principalement connues des biologistes pour leurs animaux rares et menacs (notamment Capra walie, endmique), abritent galement des espces de plantes endmiques (au moins 12; par exemple Rosularia semiensis: afroalpine, ou Maytenus cortii: afromontagnarde). Par ailleurs, plus de 30 taxons des Simen sont endmiques d'Ethiopie (par exemple Lobelia rhynchopetalum, afroalpine spectaculaire, ou Polyscias farinosa, afromontagnarde). Des affinits phytogographiques intressantes avec le SO de l'Arabie sont remarquables, par exemple Dianthus longiglumis ou Chlorophytum tetraphyllum (exclusivement connues respectivement des montagnes du Simen et d'Ethiopie, ainsi que du Yemen). De nombreux taxon de la zone afromontagnarde et afroalpine, prsentent une distribution s'tendant du Simen en direction du sud jusqu'aux montagnes tropicales d'Afrique de l'Est (par exemple Psychotria orophila, afromontagnarde, ou Trifolium cryptopodium afroalpine), parfois aussi avec une extension vers les montagnes d'Afrique occidentale (par exemple Galium simense). D'autres (principalement les taxons de la zone afromontagnarde du Simen) montrent une large distribution jusqu'en Afrique du Sud (par exemple Halleria lucida jusqu'au Drakensberg). Parmi les espces soudaniennes ou soudano-zambziennes largement distribues et qu'on retrouve dans les "Simen lowlands" figurent respectivement Sterculia setigera et Stereospermum kunthianum. Le Simen constitue une localit historique de collecte de plantes et, dans l'tat actuel de nos connaissances, des chantillons-types d'environ 220 taxons afromontagnards et afroalpins de plantes  fleurs (parmi environ 550 taxons enregistrs, soit 40%!) proviennent des Montagnes (principalement des rcoltes de Schimper au sicle dernier). Au cours des dernires dcennies, nanmoins, la rcolte de plantes est devenue impossible (problmes socio-politiques dans le Nord du pays!), et la connaissance botanique du Simen bien plus pauvre que celle du reste du pays. Ce n'est qu'au cours des dernires annes que l'exploration botanique redmarra et il n'est donc pas surprenant qu'au cours des expditions menes en 1996 et 1999, dix-neuf nouveaux taxons (pour la plupart des lments afromontagnards) furent enregistrs pour la rgion floristique du Simen et du Gonder. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668730|Of interest to botanists for nearly 150 years, the vegetation of African mountains has often been studied, but remains poorly understood. Lacunae in our knowledge of the systematics, ecology and biogeography of Afromontane plants are exemplified. The proposal to treat the ericaceous and afroalpine belts as a single entity under the term altimontane is addressed as a contribution towards the stabilisation of nomenclature in Afromontane vegetation. Information is needed to fulfil both intellectual and conservation requirements, and the difficulties of sustainable conservation in the absence of reliable data are discussed. /// Sujet d'intrt pour les botanistes depuis environ 150 ans, la vgtation des montagnes africaines a souvent t tudie mais demeure peu connue. Les lacunes tant dans notre connaissance de la systmatique, de l'cologie que de la biogographie des plantes afromontagnardes en sont la preuve. La proposition de considrer les ceintures  ricaces et afroalpine comme une seule entit dsigne sous le terme d'altimontagnarde est prsente comme une contribution  la stabilisation de la nomenclature de la vgtation afromontagnarde. Des informations sont ncessaires pour satisfaire les exigences tant intellectuelles qu'en matire de conservation et les difficults d'une conservation durable en l'absence de donnes fiables sont discutes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668724|For a phytogeographical analysis, 1706 more characteristic and frequent taxa of the climax and subclimax forests of the Kasai sector were chosen. It shows that widespread species from the Guineo-Congolian regional centre of endemism (R.C.E.) represent the major element (79% of the taxa) of the flora of this sector, wherein two groups may be distinguished: taxa from the Lower Guinean and taxa from the Congolian subcentre of endemism. Widespread taxa from other R.C.E.'s represent 14% of the total; they are in general ecologically plastic. Taxa from the Zambezian R.C.E. represent only 7% while only 5% of the species are endemic to the sector; these forests should be considered as a "prolongation" of the forests of the central Congo basin. The analysis of distribution patterns allows to distinguish widespread, central, northern, western and southern species in the sector. Species with a narrow area seem to be confined to the forest underlayers. /// Pour la ralisation d'une tude phytogographique, 1706 taxons parmi les plus caractristiques et les plus frquents des forts climaciques et sub-climaciques du Secteur du Kasai ont t choisis. L'tude montre que les espces  large distribution du centre rgional d'endmisme (C.R.E.) guino-congolais constituent l'lment dominant (79% des taxons) de la flore de ce secteur, au sein duquel deux groupes peuvent tre distingus: les taxons du sous-centre d'endmisme de Basse-Guine et ceux du sous-centre d'endmisme du bassin congolais. Les taxons  large distribution provenant d'autres C.R.E. constituent 14% de l'ensemble et sont, en gnral, cologiquement plastiques. Les taxons du C.R.E. zambzien reprsentent seulement 7% des taxons alors que 5% seulement des espces du secteur sont endmiques. Ces forts peuvent tre considres comme une "prolongation" des forts du bassin congolais. L'analyse des distributions permet de distinguer des espces largement distribues, centrales, septentrionales, occidentales et mridionales dans le secteur. Les espces  aire restreinte semblent tre confines dans les synusies infrieures des forts.
10.2307/3668674|Presentation, mid-term, of the collaboration between the Netherlands and Benin to produce the first comprehensive analytical Flora of Benin. Besides the Flora book itself, the project has a number of deliverables: a new herbarium building, some 20,000 new collections throughout the country, PhD-fellowships, training of staff and the production of dedicated publications. /// Prsentation  mi-parcours de la collaboration entre les Pays-Bas et le Bnin en vue de publier la premire Flore analytique concise de ce pays. En plus de la Flore elle-mme, le projet est  l'origine d'un nouveau btiment pour conserver l'Herbier national et les 20.000 nouveaux chantillons originaires de tout le pays et acquis pendant la dure du projet mais galement de deux projets de thse de doctorat, de la formation du personnel et de la publication d'articles. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668739|In this study the possibility of rainforest outside the postulated refuge areas is explored by assessing the presence of rainforest Caesalpinioideae in Lop forest savannah mosaic in Gabon. In this dry area twenty-six tree species of this subfamily were located. Their physiological ability to cope with drought stress and their impossible migration from the nearest postulated refuge area strongly suggests that these species remained in the Lop area during the last ice age. Extrapolating this observation and incorporating all refuge indicator species outside the postulated refuge area, supports the idea that small fragments of forest persisted during the last ice age acting as microrefugia. /// L'existence possible de la fort ombrophile  l'extrieur des aires-refuges prsumes est envisage dans cette tude par l'examen de la prsence des Caesalpinioideae dans la mosaque fort-savane  Lop au Gabon. Dans cette rgion sche, vingt-six espces d'arbres de cette sous-famille ont t signales. Leur capacit physiologique  faire face au stress hydrique et l'impossibilit qu'elles aient pu migrer  partir de l'aire-refuge prsume la plus proche suggrent que ces espces ont d subsister dans la rgion de Lop au cours de la dernire priode glaciaire. L'extrapolation de cette observation et la prise en compte de toutes les espces indicatrices d'un refuge hors de l'aire-refuge prsume conduisent  postuler que de petits fragments de forts ont persist au cours de la dernire priode glaciaire, constituant des micro-refuges. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668717|A phase of climatic disturbance and catastrophic destruction of Central African forests (in the region of south Cameroon, south Central African Republic, Gabon and Congo) occurred 2500 years BP (<sup>14</sup>C). This synchronous event for the different sites studied was manifested in either a brutal extension of the savannas, especially for the sites near the north (West Cameroon) and towards the south (Mayombe) of the Forest Domain, or a brutal extension of pioneer vegetation. Forest reinvasion began from 2000 years BP for some sites, or was a little later for others, according perhaps to the position of residual forests. This reinvasion still continues at the present time. Fires in the peripheral savannas can slow up this reinvasion, but in the long term the forests have continued to transgress into open regions. These major variations in the forest environment are illustrated by the history of two tree species of which numerous data have been able to be obtained: oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) and Okoum (Aucoumea klaineana). This massive disturbance which culminated about 2500 years BP is contextualised at the global and regional scale in the broader paleoclimatic framework of the upper Quaternary. Concerning climatic change and the dynamics of the monsoon on Central Africa, the key role which has always been played by Sea Surface Temperatures is shown. It is also shown that this vast disturbance which occurred alongside relatively "warm" regional and global conditions could be an "analog" to what could occur in Central Africa during the phase of "Global Warming" predicted for the 21st century. /// Une phase de perturbation climatique et de destruction catastrophique des forts d'Afrique centrale (secteurs Sud Cameroun, Sud Centrafrique, Gabon et Congo) est survenue vers 2500 ans BP (<sup>14</sup>C). Ce phnomne, synchrone pour les diffrents sites tudis, s'est traduit soit par une extension brutale des savanes, surtout pour les sites vers le nord (Ouest Cameroun) ou vers le sud (Mayombe) du Domaine Forestier, soit par une brutale extension des vgtations pionnires. La reconqute forestire a dbut ds 2000 ans BP pour quelques sites, soit elle a t plus tardive pour d'autres, suivant peut-tre la position des lots forestiers rsiduels. Cette reconqute forestire se poursuit encore  l'poque contemporaine. Les feux dans les savanes priphriques peuvent retarder cette reconqute mais, sur le long terme, les forts ont toujours transgress sur les milieux ouverts. Ces variations importantes du Domaine Forestier sont illustres par l'histoire de deux arbres pour lesquels de nombreuses donnes ont pu tre obtenues: le palmier  huile (Elaeis guineensis) et l'Okoum (Aucoumea klaineana). Cette vaste perturbation, qui a culmin vers 2500 ans BP, est replace dans le cadre paloclimatique plus gnral du Quaternaire rcent, au niveau global et rgional. Concernant les changements climatiques et la dynamique de la mousson sur l'Afrique centrale, on montre le rle cl qui a toujours t jou par les variations des Tempratures Marines de Surface. Enfin, on montre que cette vaste perturbation qui est survenue avec des conditions rgionales et globales relativement "chaudes" peut tre un "analogue" de ce qui pourrait se produire en Afrique centrale au cours de la phase de "Rchauffement Global" qui est prdite pour le XXIme sicle.
10.2307/3668735|Between 1990 and 2000 a number of vegetation surveys were undertaken on the Mount Cameroon area using mainly three methods: 0.25 ha sample plots, 20 m wide transects and rapid botanical surveys. A comparison of these methods in terms of data collected, operational characteristics and output relevance, revealed their strengths and weaknesses. The methods vary markedly in their ecological value (0.25 ha sample plots superior), taxonomic scope and rigour (rapid botanical survey superior) and logistic efficiency (transects superior). The combined outcome of all these surveys is discussed and recommendations made on the use of the rapid botanical survey in order to rapidly fill the remaining gaps on plant distribution. /// Durant la priode 1990-2000, une srie d'inventaires floristiques a t ralise au Mont Cameroun. Ces inventaires taient bass principalement sur trois mthodes: utilisation de placettes d'chantillonnage de 0,25 ha, de layons ou transects de 20 m de large et la technique d'inventaires botaniques rapides. Les points forts et les faiblesses des trois mthodes sont rvls par comparaison des types de donnes collectes, des caractristiques logistiques et des rsultats obtenus. Les mthodes varient nettement quant  leur valeur cologique (technique des placettes de 0,25 ha tant suprieure), leur rigueur et leur dimension taxonomique (technique d'inventaires botaniques rapides suprieure) et leur efficacit dans la ralisation des oprations (technique des transects suprieure). Les rsultats combins de tous ces inventaires sont discuts et des recommandations formules pour l'utilisation de la mthode d'inventaires botaniques rapides afin de combler rapidement les lacunes dans la connaissance de la distribution des plantes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668683|The herbarium ALF is devoted to the flora of especially Sahelian pastures; it comprises the best of the samples analysed by J.-P. Lebrun in Cirad-emvt. This herbarium is now on line. From a binary specific name, the software provides a list of synonyms, the specimen labels preserved in the herbarium or only analysed, the list of countries where this species was collected. Updates will be made gradually. /// L'herbier ALF est ddi  la flore des pturages surtout sahliens; il comporte les meilleurs des chantillons analyss par J.-P. Lebrun au Cirad-emvt. Cet herbier est maintenant en ligne. A partir d'un nom spcifique binaire, le logiciel fournit une liste de synonymes, les fiches des chantillons conservs dans l'herbier ou seulement analyss, la liste des pays o cette espce a t rcolte. Des mises  jour seront faites progressivement.
10.2307/3668715|AFlora is a database of ethnobotanical information collected in tropical Africa. Its purpose is to accumulate the information on plant use and nomenclature, and to facilitate effective information retrieval through Internet Web System. The information is specimen-based rather than taxon-based, and covers a whole range of man-plant relationships, direct and indirect, material as well as non-material uses. Graphic data (photographs) are also included in the database. In this paper, the structure of AFlora database, information included in each record, categorizations of uses and used parts are demonstrated, and some of the uses of the database for reference and comparative studies are discussed. /// AFlora est une base de donnes regroupant des informations ethnobotaniques collectes en Afrique tropicale. Son but est de regrouper l'information relative  l'utilisation des plantes et  la nomenclature et de faciliter une recherche documentaire efficace  travers le rseau Internet. L'information est base sur les chantillons plutt que sur les taxons et couvre la gamme complte des relations directes ou indirectes, matrielles ou non, entre l'Homme et les plantes. Des donnes graphiques (photographies) sont galement incluses dans la base de donnes. Dans cet article sont prsents la structure de la base de donnes AFlora, l'information relative  chaque enregistrement ainsi que les classifications en catgories en fonction des utilisations et des organes utiliss. Certaines utilisations de la base de donnes dans le cadre d'tudes de rfrence et comparatives sont discutes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668707|An ethnomycological study was undertaken amongst the Nagot people from central Bnin (West Africa). The results show that the ethnomycological knowledge from the Nagot people are through and rich. A list of nearly fifty edible macromycetes with their corresponding Nagot vernacular name and meaning, is given. Aspects concerning the local sources of information, the transmission of indigenous knowledge, attitudes, the role of edible fungi in diets, the importance of mushroom picking and the effect of gender, are treated. The way Nagot people delimit mushroom species, make vernacular names and recognize toxic species is discussed. /// Une tude ethnomycologique a t ralise auprs de la population Nagot du centre du Bnin (Afrique de l'Ouest). L'tude montre que les connaissances ethnomycologiques des Nagot sont profondes et riches. Une cinquantaine d'espces comestibles sont rpertories, leur(s) nom(s) en Nagot et la signification sont donns. Les aspects lis aux sources d'information, la transmission des connaissances endognes, l'attitude gnrale des Nagot, le rle des champignons sauvages dans l'alimentation, l'importance de la cueillette, le savoir et l'impact du sexe, sont traits. La notion d'espce chez les Nagot, la faon de former les noms vernaculaires et de faire la distinction entre espces dangereuses et comestibles, est discute.
10.2307/3668679|The authors start with a short recall of the concepts of diversity; then, sticking successively to alpha-diversity of zero order (local specific richness) and gamma-diversity of zero order (regional specific richness), they show how these concepts are approached by the software FLOTROP. Finally, the variability of results obtained by square degree in the eastern Chad and the origin of noted uncertainties are examined. /// Les auteurs commencent par un bref rappel des notions de diversit, puis, s'attachant successivement aux diversits alpha d'ordre nul (richesse spcifique d'une station) et gamma d'ordre nul (richesse spcifique rgionale), ils montrent comment ces notions sont abordes par le logiciel FLOTROP. Pour terminer, ils examinent la variabilit des rsultats obtenus par degr-carr du Tchad oriental et les origines des incertitudes notes.
10.2307/3668692|The taxonomy of Millettia Wight & Arn. is in need of revision. For Africa, sect. Efulgentes and Opacae are under review. The main distinction between both sections is the shininess of the leaves. In line with the treatments of Asian species the African material has been described and prepared for phylogenetic analysis. A brief overview with preliminary data is given. Full details are intended to be published in the forthcoming revision. /// La taxonomie de Millettia Wight & Arn. demande une rvision. Les sect. Efulgentes et Opacae sont en cours de rvision pour l'Afrique. La distinction principale entre les deux sections est la brillance des feuilles. Dans la ligne des traitements des espces asiatiques, le matriel africain a t dcrit et prpar pour l'analyse phylogntique. Un bref aperu avec donnes prliminaires est prsent. Les dtails seront publis dans la future rvision. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668621|Records are given of 35 Lactarius species (Basidiomycota, Russulales) from drier Zambezian miombo woodlands in Zimbabwe. Most of them represent the first records for this country and all of them are the most southern records of the species on the African continent. Lactarius albocinctus Verbeken, L. brachystegiae Verbeken & Sharp, L. carmineus Verbeken & Walleyn and L. emergens Verbeken are proposed as new taxa. Fully illustrated descriptions are given for the first time for Lactarius aurantiifolius, L. nonpiscis, L. phlebonemus (with typification), L. pulchrispermus, L. roseolus, L. subamarus, L. urens and L. volemoides. Local uses and vernacular names of some species are documented.
10.2307/3668619|The floral ontogeny of Galopina tomentosa is investigated. Inflorescences consist of pleiothyrses whose smallest elements are three-flowered cymes. The upper flowers of each cyme are subtended by a bract with two prophylls, functioning as bract of the smaller flowers, and are surrounded by a variable number of colleters. Sepals fail to develop, are present as two pairs of different size, or as a single lateral pair. The four petals arise as broad diagonally inserted lobes around a central depression. The stamen primordia emerge on the inner slopes of the cup-like flower primordium in the interstices of the large petal lobes. The gynoecium develops externally as two shallow stylar primordia whereas most of the ovary is embedded in the receptacular tissue. The two erect styles are lined on their inner side with stigmatic papillae. Placentation is strictly spoken central-basal; an apical septum is formed after ovule initiation by downward growth of tissue subjacent to the styles and connects postgenitally with the placenta. Sterilisation of one of the sexes occurs at the onset of ovule initiation in staminate flowers, and after anther development in pistillate flowers. Differences of morphs become manifest just before anthesis with reflexed petals in staminate flowers and erect petals in the pistillate forms. There is no trace of a nectary. The use of the terms 'early' and 'late' sympetaly is discussed for the Rubiaceae. It is shown that the nature of a 'corolla tube' is not necessarily homologous in the family and relates to fluctuations of three processes: the extent of growth of a meristematic zone common to stamens and petals (stamen-corolla tube), the growth of a petal tube sensu stricto, and postgenital fusion of filaments with the corolla. The development of a concave floral primordium determines the existence of a peripheral collar or 'early sympetaly.' Gynoecial development is compared with other Rubiaceae. It is suggested that ovaries arise along a common pattern in the family. Differences in position of placentation are related with the heterogenous nature of the septum that consists of a basal and apical section. The flower of Galopina tomentosa is characteristic for the wind-pollinated Anthospermeae with a strong tendency for reduction. A comparison is made with other Anthospermeae and with Theligonum in particular.
10.2307/3668614|After having mentioned the few taxonomic problems still to be solved, the author reviews the 27 species mentioned by error in Jebel Uweinat, the planted and cultivated species, as well as the 8 species whose presence in Uweinat is extremely doubtful. The spectrum of the families shows that about half of the flora consists of Gramineae (23 species), of Leguminosae sensu lato (10) and of Zygophyllaceae (9). The spectrum of the genera (66) shows that they are represented only by a very small number of species (1-4). The spectrum of the species (table 4) shows that the flora of Jebel Uweinat, a massif of 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup>, isolated in the Sahara in the heart of the vast Libyan Desert, in an area where rains are exceptional, is composed of only 87 species and infraspecific taxa. Such a small number reflects the very great poverty of the flora due to the extreme xeric conditions of the environment. From the comparison between these various spectra and those of Ennedi, the nearest massif to Jebel Uweinat (600 km South-West) but situated in the north of the Sahel where it rains for 2 months each year, it results that the flora of Jebel Uweinat is, for 2/3, similar to the flora of Ennedi but considerably impoverished by the excessive dryness, and, for 1/3, composed of eremitic species more specifically Saharan and well adapted to the xeric conditions. After having established the map of the botanical exploration of Jebel Uweinat (fig. 2), the author determines the degree of floristic exploration of the flora (fig. 3; 86 species found out of 87 after 52 days of prospection). In order to give a first outline of the composition of the vegetation, which is particularly scattered and very poor in species and individuals, the author classifies the species according to their total presence coefficient (PT) for the vegetation of the whole massif. In desert regions, this method gives indeed a better general view of the composition of the vegetation. This total presence coefficient is equal to the sum of the presences of each species in all the phytosociological relevs of the vegetation. The classification of species according to their total presence coefficient (table 11) shows that the 4 species most present in Jebel Uweinat are Fagonia indica var. indica (PT 132), Aerva javanica var. bovei (PT 127), Acacia tortilis sensu lato (PT 110) and Cleome chrysantha (PT 92). It appears in addition that 25 species were observed from 1 to 3 times only and this on a surface of 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup> methodically prospected during 70 days. The author comes to the conclusion that various species, all perennial, seem in the process of disappearing, such as Cocculus pendulus, various Convolvulus, Cullen plicatum, Helianthemum lippii var. lippii, Salvadora persica var. persica and Tamarix arborea. From the analysis of the classification of the families according to the sum of the total presence coefficients of their species (table 13), it arises that the 4 families most present in Jebel Uweinat are now Leguminosae sensu lato, closely followed by Zygophyllaceae and, then, Gramineae and Capparaceae. The author gives then an outline of the vegetation of the whole massif of Jebel Uweinat, based on the total presence coefficients and in which are listed the families, genera and species most present in Jebel Uweinat (table 14). The author applies then the principle of the total presence of the species according to the nature of the outcropping rocks, the altitude, the grazing and the biological types. In consequence of the extreme poverty of the flora, the existence of distinct floras according to the nature of the outcropping rocks does not appear at first sight in the field. But the analysis of the flora, using the total presence coefficients of the species, showed the existence of two distinct phanerogamic floras, whether on sandstones or on granites. If many species (30) are present as well on sandstone as on granite, there are also many species (44) present on sandstone and not on granite and relatively many species (12) present on granite and not on sandstone. Several distribution maps of species illustrate the various types of presence met according to the nature of the outcropping rocks (fig. 5-10). After having determined the altitudinal amplitude of the species present on granite or sandstone, the author's conclusion is that there are no specific levels, neither on granite nor on sandstone. On the other hand, in spite of the extreme poverty of the flora, the author has been able to determine uppermost altitudinal limits for groups of species. Three uppermost altitudinal limits and 4 groups of species were determined on granite (fig. 11), 4 uppermost altitudinal limits and 5 groups of species on sandstone (fig. 12). The author determines then the specific richness in function of the altitude on granite and on sandstone (fig. 15-16). The influence of the wild herbivores upon vegetation is then studied: gazelles (Gazella dorcas) and moufflons (Ammotragus lervia). The distribution map of these herbivores and their excrements (fig. 17) shows that they are more present on sandstones, which are characterized by the presence of a greater number of vegetable species and by total presence coefficients much higher than on granites. The list of the grazed species (43) is then given (table 24) and the spectrum by families of the grazed species is established (table 25). These species are mainly Gramineae and Leguminosae sensu lato, two families which represent more than half the sum of the total presence coefficients of the grazed species. Gazelles (one hundred approximately) are mainly present in the lower parts of the sandstones. They graze 34 species whose sum of the total presence coefficients reaches 861. They have therefore sufficient food and the pressure they presently put upon lowland vegetation seems relatively low. A certain balance between the hundred gazelles and the lowland vegetation seems to be reached. Moufflons (around fifty) are almost exclusively present in the higher parts of the massif, whether on sandstone or on granite, where the flora is poorer. They have only about 20 species to graze whose sum of the total presence coefficients only reaches 456. Moufflons are obviously in lack of food and the pressure they put on the high altitude vegetation seems very strong and results in overgrazing which leads to various altitudinal species becoming a rarity. This high altitude vegetation seems to be particularly fragile and its balance with the moufflons seems to be broken. It is therefore to fear that some altitudinal species might disappear. The author then reviews the non-grazed species (43) and gives the reasons of this non-grazing. The above-mentioned statistical data show that the selective pressure of the wild herbivores upon vegetation results not only in the overgrazing and the progressive rarefaction of certain grazed species, but also in the survival, if not the development, of many non-grazed species whose total presence coefficients appear among the highest of the massif. In order to draw up the biological spectrum of the whole vegetation, the species have been classified according to the various traditional biological types, to which is added the category of the pluriseasonal species. According to Gillet (1968:64-65), this category includes species appearing as therophytes but with some individuals behaving like chamaephytes or hemicryptophytes during the following season. These species are therefore remarkably well adapted to desert conditions, since their reproduction is always assured whatever the duration of the interpluvial periods. The total unweighted biological spectrum of the whole vegetation (table 26), based on the number of species which contains each biological type, shows that the therophytes are the most significant group (29%), followed by the pluriseasonal species (25.5%), the chamaephytes (19.8%) and the phanerophytes (11.7%). This spectrum, in which therophytes and pluriseasonal species are more numerous (54.5%) than other biological types, is characteristic of mountainous areas of central Sahara. The comparison between this unweighted spectrum and that of Ennedi (table 27) shows that from Ennedi to Jebel Uweinat, the increase in dryness results in a reduction in the percentage of the therophytes and phanerophytes and in a very strong increase in the percentage of the pluriseasonal species, which are remarkably adapted to xeric conditions. Next, the total weighted biological spectrum is determined (table 28), based now on the sum of the total presence coefficients of the species for each biological type. This spectrum shows that the most significant biological types are the pluriseasonal species (39%), the chamaephytes (28.1%), the phanerophytes (16.4%) and the therophytes (9.8% only). This weighted spectrum reflects the reality much better since it corresponds accurately to the state of the vegetation during the interpluvial periods, when most of the therophytes are inconspicuous, whereas pluriseasonal and ligneous species still persist. This fourth part ends in a toponymic map with the names of the main places of the Jebel (fig. 18). /// Aprs avoir mentionn les quelques problmes taxonomiques encore  rsoudre, l'auteur passe en revue les 27 espces signales par erreur au Jebel Uweinat, les espces plantes et cultives, ainsi que les 8 espces dont la prsence  Uweinat est fort douteuse. Le spectre des familles montre que prs de la moiti de la flore est constitue par des Gramineae (23 espces), par des Leguminosae sensu lato (10) et par des Zygophyllaceae (9). Le spectre des genres (66) montre que ceux-ci ne sont reprsents que par un trs petit nombre d'espces (1-4). Le spectre des espces (tableau 4) montre, lui, que la flore du Jebel Uweinat, vaste massif de 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup>, isol au Sahara au coeur de l'immense Dsert de Libye en une rgion o les pluies sont exceptionnelles, ne se compose  ce jour que de 87 espces et taxons infraspcifiques. Ce nombre si peu lev reflte bien la trs grande pauvret de la flore due aux conditions xriques extrmes du milieu. De la comparaison de ces divers spectres avec ceux de l'Ennedi, massif le plus proche du Jebel Uweinat ( 600 km au sud-ouest), mais situ dans le nord du Sahel et arros par des pluies pendant 2 mois chaque anne, rsulte le fait que la flore du Jebel Uweinat se prsente, pour ses 2/3, comme la flore de l'Ennedi mais trs considrablement appauvrie par suite de la scheresse excessive et, pour 1/3, compose d'espces rmitiques plus spcifiquement sahariennes et bien adaptes aux conditions xriques. Aprs avoir publi la carte de l'exploration botanique du Jebel Uweinat (fig. 2), l'auteur dfinit le degr d'exploration floristique de la flore (fig. 3; 86 espces sur 87 trouves aprs 52 jours de prospection). Afin de pouvoir donner un premier aperu de la composition de la vgtation, particulirement dissmine et trs pauvre en espces et en individus, l'auteur classe les espces selon leur coefficient de prsence totale (PT) pour l'ensemble de la vgtation de tout le massif. Cette mthode permet, en effet, en rgions dsertiques, de donner une meilleure ide gnrale de la composition de la vgtation. Ce coefficient de prsence totale est obtenu en totalisant la prsence de chaque espce dans tous les relevs phytosociologiques effectus. Le classement des espces, selon leur coefficient de prsence totale (tableau 11), montre que les 4 espces les plus prsentes au Jebel Uweinat sont Fagonia indica var. indica (PT 132), Aerva javanica var. bovei (PT 127), Acacia tortilis sensu lato (PT 110) et Cleome chrysantha (PT 92). Il apparat, d'autre part, que 25 espces n'ont t observes que de 1-3 fois seulement et cela sur une superficie de 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup> prospecte mthodiquement pendant 70 jours. L'auteur en conclut que diverses espces, toutes vivaces, semblent en voie de disparition, comme Cocculus pendulus, divers Convolvulus, Cullen plicatum, Helianthemum lippii var. lippii, Salvadora persica var. persica et Tamarix arborea. De l'analyse du classement des familles selon la somme des coefficients de prsence totale de leurs espces (tableau 13), il ressort que les 4 familles les plus prsentes au Jebel Uweinat sont, cette fois, les Leguminosae sensu lato, suivies de trs prs par les Zygophyllaceae et, ensuite, par les Gramineae et les Capparaceae. L'auteur donne, pour suivre, un aperu de la vgtation de l'ensemble du Jebel Uweinat bas sur les coefficients de prsence totale et dans lequel figurent les familles, les genres et les espces les plus prsents au Jebel Uweinat (tableau 14). L'auteur applique ensuite le principe de la prsence totale des espces en fonction de la nature des roches affleurantes, en fonction de l'altitude, en fonction du broutement et en fonction des types biologiques. Par suite de l'extrme pauvret de la flore, l'existence de flores distinctes selon la nature des roches affleurantes n'apparat pas  premire vue sur le terrain. Par contre, l'analyse de la flore, grce  utilisation des coefficients de prsence totale des espces, a montr l'existence de deux flores phanrogamiques distinctes selon la nature grseuse ou granitique du substrat. Si de nombreuses espces (30) sont prsentes  la fois sur le grs et sur le granite, nombreuses par contre (44) sont les espces qui existent sur le grs et pas sur le granite et assez nombreuses (12) celles rencontres sur le granite et pas sur le grs. Plusieurs cartes de distribution d'espces illustrent les divers types de prsence rencontrs en fonction de la nature des roches affleurantes (fig. 5-10). Aprs avoir dfini l'amplitude altitudinale des espces prsentes sur le granite ou sur le grs, l'auteur arrive  la conclusion qu'il n'y a pas d'tages particuliers ni sur le granite, ni sur le grs. Par contre, malgr l'extrme pauvret de la flore, il a pu reconnatre des limites altitudinales suprieures pour des groupes d'espces. C'est ainsi que 3 limites altitudinales suprieures ont t reconnues sur le granite dlimitant 4 groupes d'espces (fig. 11). Sur le grs, 4 limites altitudinales suprieures et 5 groupes d'espces ont t mis en vidence (fig. 12). L'auteur dfinit ensuite la richesse spcifique en fonction de l'altitude dans la partie granitique et dans la partie grseuse du massif (fig. 15-16). L'influence des herbivores sauvages sur la vgtation est ensuite tudie, celle des gazelles (Gazella dorcas) et celle des mouflons (Ammotragus lervia). La carte de rpartition de ces herbivores et de leurs djections (fig. 17) montre qu'ils frquentent davantage les zones grseuses du massif caractrises par la prsence d'un plus grand nombre d'espces vgtales et par des coefficients de prsence totale nettement plus levs que dans la partie granitique. La liste des espces broutes (43) est ensuite dresse (tableau 24) et le spectre par familles des espces broutes tabli (tableau 25). Ces espces broutes sont principalement des Gramineae et des Leguminosae sensu lato, familles qui,  elles seules, groupent plus de la moiti de la somme des coefficients de prsence totale des espces broutes. Les gazelles (une centaine environ) sont surtout localises dans les parties infrieures de la zone grseuse du massif. Elles broutent 34 espces dont la somme des coefficients de prsence totale atteint 861. Elles ont donc suffisamment de nourriture et la pression qu'elles exercent actuellement sur la vgtation planitiaire semble relativement faible. Un certain quilibre entre la centaine de gazelles et le maintien de la vgtation planitiaire semble donc atteint. Les mouflons (une cinquantaine) sont, eux, presque exclusivement prsents dans les parties suprieures du massif, aussi bien grseuses que granitiques, l o la flore est plus pauvre. Ils n'ont  leur disposition qu'une vingtaine d'espces  brouter dont la somme des coefficients de prsence totale n'atteint que 456. Les mouflons manquent donc manifestement de nourriture et la pression qu'ils exercent sur la vgtation d'altitude semble trs forte et se traduit par le surbroutement qui conduit  la rarfaction de diverses espces d'altitude. Cette vgtation d'altitude semble donc particulirement fragile et son quilibre avec les mouflons semble rompu. Il est  craindre, ds lors, que certaines espces d'altitude viennent  disparatre. L'auteur passe ensuite en revue les espces non broutes (43) et donne les raisons de ce non-broutement. Il conclut en disant que les donnes chiffres prcites montrent que la pression slective des herbivores sauvages sur la vgtation se traduit non seulement par le surbroutement et la rarfaction progressive de certaines espces broutes, mais aussi par le maintien, sinon par le dveloppement, de nombreuses espces non broutes dont les coefficients de prsence totale figurent d'ailleurs parmi les plus levs du massif. Afin de pouvoir dresser le spectre biologique de l'ensemble de la vgtation, les espces ont t rparties selon les divers types biologiques classiques auxquels est ajoute la catgorie des espces plurisaisonnires. Selon Gillet (1968: 64-65), cette catgorie regroupe des espces qui se prsentent sous la forme de throphytes, mais dont certains individus se comportent,  la saison suivante, comme des champhytes ou des hmicryptophytes. Ces espces sont ainsi remarquablement adaptes aux conditions dsertiques, puisque leur reproduction est toujours assure quelle que soit la dure des priodes interpluviales. Le spectre biologique total brut de l'ensemble de la vgtation (tableau 26), bas sur le nombre d'espces que renferme chaque type biologique, montre que les throphytes constituent le groupe le plus important (29%), suivi par les plurisaisonnires (25,5%), par les champhytes (19,8%) et par les phanrophytes (11,7%). Ce spectre, au sein duquel les throphytes et les plurisaisonnires sont plus nombreux (54,5%) que les autres types biologiques, est caractristique des rgions montagneuses du Sahara central. La comparaison de ce spectre brut avec celui de l'Ennedi (tableau 27) montre que de l'Ennedi au Jebel Uweinat, l'augmentation de la scheresse se traduit par une diminution du pourcentage des throphytes et des phanrophytes et par une trs forte augmentation du pourcentage des plurisaisonnires, espces remarquablement adaptes aux conditions dsertiques extrmes. Le spectre biologique total pondr est ensuite tabli (tableau 28), bas cette fois sur la somme des coefficients de prsence totale des espces de chaque type biologique. Ce spectre montre que les types biologiques les plus importants sont les plurisaisonnires (39%), les champhytes (28,1%), les phanrophytes (16,4%) et ensuite seulement les throphytes (9,8%). Ce spectre pondr traduit beaucoup mieux la ralit sur le terrain puisqu'il correspond fidlement  l'tat de la vgtation en priode interpluviale o la plupart des throphytes ne sont plus visibles, mais o persistent les plurisaisonnires et les espces ligneuses. Cette quatrime partie se termine par une carte toponymique avec les noms des principaux endroits du Jebel (fig. 18).
10.2307/3668617|Four new taxa of Orchidaceae are described from So Tom: Liparis rosseelii Stvart (two collections), Bulbophyllum luciphilum Stvart (based one collection), Polystachya albescens subsp. principensis Stvart (sect. Caulescentes; based on ten collections) and Calanthe sylvatica var. geerinckiana Stvart (based on one collection).
10.2307/3668620|Wood of the Australian monotypic genus Monococcus is characterised by short, narrow vessel elements, simple and non-bordered perforation plates, alternate vessel pitting, short fibres with vestigial pit borders, scanty axial parenchyma, and multiseriate rays mainly composed of upright/square ray cells. Styloids are most abundantly present in the secondary phloem. Moreover, secondary growth produced by successive cambia occurs in woody stem parts. These data are compared to other Phytolaccaceae s.l. and a close relationship between Monococcus, Rivina and Petiveria (Rivinoideae or Rivinaceae) is confirmed. However, data on a wider range of taxa are required to support a separation of Rivinaceae from Phytolaccaceae s.s. on the basis of stem anatomy. The presence or absence of successive cambia represents useful taxonomic information for evaluating phylogenetic relationships in Phytolaccaceae s.l. and Caryophyllales.
10.2307/3668618|A new Rothmannia species (Rubiaceae-Gardenieae-Gardeniinae) named Rothmannia ebamutensis found in Banyang Mbo (Cameroon) is described. This species is characterized by its fruit with ten small ribs and covered with small white lenticels. The pedicel of the flower is 50-60 mm long. The species is limited to the submontane rain forest at the south-western part of Cameroon.
10.2307/3668616|Description of a new species, Rungia camerunensis. It is illustrated and a distribution map is given. /// Une nouvelle espce, Rungia camerunensis, est dcrite. Une illustration et la carte de distribution de l'espce sont donnes.
10.2307/3668615|This fifth part consists in the comparative study of the distribution areas of the 86 species known in Jebel Uweinat, a huge isolated massif, 1900 m high, situated in the heart of eastern Sahara, within the Saharo-Sindian regional zone. The purpose of this study is to determine the part of the flora of Jebel Uweinat which belongs to the Saharo-Sindian phytochorion and to estimate the importance of the neighbouring phytochoria. The author first reproduces the maps of the main phytochoria of Africa and S-W Asia (fig. 1-2) and also the map of the subdivisions of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (fig. 3). The species are then classified into Saharo-Sindian endemic species and into various types of linking species. There are 18 Saharo-Sindian endemic species, i.e. a fifth only (20.93%) of the flora of the massif. This low percentage confirms White's opinion according to whom this Saharo-Sindian phytochorion should be considered as a regional zone. Table 1 shows that 6 out of these 18 species are Saharan endemics, 6 are omni-Saharo-Sindian species and 3 Saharo-Arabian species. There are no species endemic to Jebel Uweinat, contrary to various higher Saharan mountains where some endemism exists. The 18 biregional linking species (20.93% of the flora) are mentioned in table 6. It shows that the biregional links between the Saharo-Sindian regional zone take place nearly exclusively with the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism (9 species; table 9) and with the Sahel regional transition zone (5 species; table 8), i.e. with tropical phytochoria situated south of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone. There is no biregional link with the Mediterranean regional centre of endemism, nor with the Indian continent, contrary to various higher Saharan mountains where a residual Mediterranean flora exists in altitude. Table 12, including the distribution of the 18 triregional linking species (20.93% of the flora), shows that 14 out of these 18 links take place with the Sahel regional transition zone and the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism (table 13), therefore confirming the close relations between the flora of Jebel Uweinat and these two tropical phytochoria. The Mediterranean regional centre of endemism is not included among these various triregional links, which confirms the absence of Mediterranean influence. The 22 linking species between more than three phytochoria of the Old World (25.58% of the flora; table 18) are distributed amongst 14 palaeotropical species (table 19) and 8 species, most of them scarcely present in Uweinat, distributed in palaeotropical and in warm temperate regions situated north of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (table 20). Finally, a group of 10 species (11.62% of the flora; table 21) consists of 6 pantropical species (table 22) and 4 subcosmopolitan ones (table 23). Most of these species are very rare in Uweinat and their introduction seems rather recent. The quasi-absence in Uweinat of subcosmopolitan weeds is worth mentioning. The author then undertakes the comparative study of the chorotypes of all species known in Uweinat and establishes the total unweighted chorological spectrum of the whole vegetation (table 24). The number of species of Jebel Uweinat present in phytochoria other than the Saharo-Sindian regional zone is specified (table 25 and fig. 4). It appears clearly that the species of Uweinat exist much more frequently in tropical phytochoria situated south of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone than in phytochoria situated north and east of this zone, like the Mediterranean, Irano-Turanian and Indian phytochoria. Among the various phytochoria situated south of this regional zone, it is in the Somalia-Masai and Sahelian phytochoria that the Uweinat species are more frequently present. It is clearly with these two phytochoria that the flora of Uweinat has the closest links. The total weighted chorological spectrum is then established taking into account the total presence coefficients (PT) of the species. This weighted spectrum (table 26) is more in accordance with the reality in the field since it takes into account the importance of the presence of the species. The links between Uweinat species and other phytochoria are then established taking now into account the importance of their presence in the field, i.e. taking into account the sums of the total presence coefficients of the species (table 27 and fig. 5). The resulting data indicate even more clearly the dominant importance of the existing connections between the flora of Jebel Uweinat, the flora of the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism and those of the Sahel regional transition zone, i.e. with the flora of two tropical phytochoria. The author then reviews the 7 Uweinat species with a discontinuous area (table 29). For 5 of them, the present area seems to be the remnant of a very old, dry and continuous tropical and subtropical area stretching from Sahara to South Africa through East Africa. From the comparative study of the areas of the species, it results that some areal limits appear within the Sahara (Saharan regional subzone, SS1, fig. 3) and within the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism. Within the Saharan regional subzone, three types of distribution have been noticed. Most of the Uweinat species are widely distributed within this regional subzone and are common through all the Sahara (table 30; fig. 6-7). A second group composed of 12 species (14% of the flora; table 31) is distributed in Sahara only south of a subhorizontal median areal limit situated a little north of the Tropic of Cancer (fig. 8-10). These species are distributed in dry tropical African regions and this subhorizontal areal limit through Sahara coincides with the northern limit of their area. This subhorizontal areal limit corresponds fairly well with the phytogeographical limit drawn by various phytogeographers between the Holarctic floral Empire and the Palaeotropical floral Empire. Finally, a third group includes species which, in Sahara, are distributed only east of areal limits situated in the eastern and western parts of Libya. These areal limits coincide with those of the vast Libyan desert (fig. 8). Five species (table 32), three of them being very common in Uweinat (Cleome chrysantha, C. droserifolia and Crotalaria thebaica), are only known east of an areal limit situated east of this desert (fig. 11). This desert seems therefore to constitute a barrier preventing the extension of some species further to the west. Finally, 6 other species (table 33), among which 3 eremitic species of Fagonia very wide-spread in Uweinat, are only known east of an areal limit situated west of this desert (fig. 12). This time, the same desert seems to constitute a barrier preventing the extension further to the east of some species only known west of it. Various phytogeographers have drawn one phytogeographical limit, either east (Eig 1931), or west (Drude 1897, Chevalier 1932) of this Libyan desert. Their phytogeographical limits coincide fairly well with our own areal limits. Our conclusions, contrary to these authors, seem to indicate the presence of two areal limits, one east, another west of this desert, as already suggested by Monod in 1957. The comparative study of the areas of species present in both Uweinat and the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism not only confirms the existence of an areal limit within this centre of endemism (fig. 13), but also shows that 2/3 of these species are known only north of this areal limit (table 34; fig. 14). It is therefore with the flora of the northern half of this centre of endemism that these species show most affinities. This areal limit, here also, coincides with a phytogeographical limit established by some phytogeographers. Considering the importance of this areal limit, it is worth asking whether a subdivision should not be recommended within this regional centre of endemism. In conclusion, according to this comparative chorological study, it appears that the present flora of Jebel Uweinat, except 1/5 of Saharo-Sindian species, is mainly a tropical African one, closely connected with the flora of the northern half of the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism and with the flora of the Sahel regional transition zone. This flora if nevertheless considerably impoverished by the increasing dryness of the climate and, in altitude, by overgrazing. Moreover the present work confirms the existence of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (fig. 1-3) as well as the fact that the Saharan regional subzone stretches on either sides of the Tropic of Cancer (fig. 3 and 8). On the contrary, this work does not confirm the existence in Africa of a vast phytogeographical Region called Sudano-Zambezian Region or Sudano-Angolan Region, but it confirms the existence of White's Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism which clearly extends beyond the Red Sea (fig. 13). As a conclusion, the interest of the comparative study of areas of species is emphasized in order to contribute to the subdivision of phytochoria in general and of the Saharan regional subzone in particular. At the end of this fifth part, some phenological data are given on the flora of Jebel Uweinat. /// Cette cinquime partie consiste en l'tude compare des aires de distribution des 86 espces que renferme la flore du Jebel Uweinat, vaste massif isol de 1900 m d'altitude, situ au coeur du Sahara oriental au sein de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne. Le but de cette tude est de dterminer la part de la flore du Jebel Uweinat qui appartient  la phytochorie saharo-sindienne et d'valuer l'importance des phytochories voisines. L'auteur reproduit tout d'abord les cartes des principales phytochories d'Afrique et du sud-ouest de l'Asie (fig. 1-2), ainsi que la carte des subdivisions de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (fig. 3). Les espces sont classes ensuite en espces saharo-sindiennes endmiques et en divers types d'espces de liaison. Les espces saharo-sindiennes endmiques sont au nombre de 18, soit un cinquime seulement (20,93%) de la flore de ce massif. Ce faible pourcentage confirme donc le bien-fond de considrer cette phytochorie saharo-sindienne comme une zone rgionale au sens de White. Le tableau 1 montre que 6 de ces 18 espces sont des endmiques sahariennes, 6 des espces omni-saharo-sindiennes et 3 des espces saharo-arabiques. Aucune espce n'est endmique au Jebel Uweinat, contrairement  divers massifs sahariens plus levs o existe un certain endmisme. Les espces de liaison birgionale, au nombre de 18 galement (20,93% de la flore), ont t groupes dans le tableau 6. Ce dernier montre que les liaisons birgionales entre la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne s'oprent presque exclusivement avec le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai (9 espces; tableau 9), ainsi qu'avec la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel (5 espces; tableau 8), c'est--dire avec des phytochories tropicales situes au sud de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne. Il n'y a aucune liaison birgionale avec le centre rgional d'endmisme mditerranen, ni avec le continent indien, contrairement  divers massifs sahariens plus levs o une flore mditerranenne rsiduelle existe en altitude. Le tableau 12 de la rpartition des 18 espces de liaison trirgionale (20,93% de la flore) montre que 14 de ces liaisons s'oprent avec la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel et avec le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai (tableau 13), confirmant ainsi les rapports troits de la flore du Jebel Uweinat avec ces deux phytochories tropicales. Le centre rgional d'endmisme mditerranen ne figure pas parmi ces diverses liaisons trirgionales, confirmant de la sorte l'absence d'influence mditerranenne. Les espces de liaison entre plus de trois phytochories de l'Ancien Monde, au nombre de 22 (25,58% de la flore; tableau 18), se rpartissent en 14 espces palotropicales (tableau 19) et 8 espces, la plupart peu prsentes au Jebel Uweinat, rpandues dans les rgions palotropicales et tempres chaudes situes au nord de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (tableau 20). Enfin, un groupe de 10 espces (11,62% de la flore; tableau 21) comprend 6 espces pantropicales (tableau 22) et 4 espces subcosmopolites (tableau 23). La plupart de ces 10 espces sont trs rares au Jebel Uweinat et semblent d'introduction rcente. La quasi-absence au Jebel Uweinat de "mauvaises herbes" subcosmopolites mrite d'tre souligne. L'auteur entreprend ensuite l'tude compare des chorotypes de toutes les espces du Jebel Uweinat et dresse le spectre chorologique total brut de l'ensemble de la vgtation (tableau 24). Le nombre d'espces du Jebel Uweinat prsentes dans d'autres phytochories que la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne est prcis (tableau 25 et fig. 4). Il ressort clairement que les espces du Jebel Uweinat se retrouvent beaucoup plus souvent dans les phytochories tropicales situes au sud de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne que dans les phytochories situes au nord et  l'est de cette zone, comme les phytochories mditerranenne, irano-touranienne et indienne. Parmi les diverses phytochories situes au sud, c'est dans les phytochories de la Somalie-pays Masai et sahlienne que les espces du Jebel Uweinat se retrouvent le plus frquemment. C'est bien avec ces deux phytochories que les rapports de la flore du Jebel Uweinat sont les plus troits. Le spectre chorologique total pondr est ensuite tabli en tenant compte des coefficients de prsence totale (PT) des espces. Ce spectre pondr (tableau 26) correspond beaucoup mieux  la ralit sur le terrain puisqu'il tient compte de l'importance de la prsence des espces. Les liaisons des espces du Jebel Uweinat avec d'autres phytochories sont ensuite tablies en tenant compte cette fois de l'importance de leur prsence sur le terrain, c'est--dire en tenant compte des sommes des coefficients de prsence totale des espces (tableau 27 et fig. 5). Les donnes obtenues traduisent plus clairement encore l'importance dominante des rapports existant entre la flore du Jebel Uweinat, la flore du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai et la flore de la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel, c'est--dire avec la flore de deux phytochories tropicales. L'auteur passe ensuite en revue les 7 espces du Jebel Uweinat dont l'aire est discontinue (tableau 29). L'aire actuelle de 5 d'entre elles semble le reste d'une trs ancienne aire tropicale et subtropicale sche continue qui devait s'tendre du Sahara  l'Afrique du Sud, via l'Est Africain. A la suite de l'examen compar des aires des espces, des limites arales sont apparues au sein du Sahara (sous-zone rgionale saharienne, SS1, fig. 3) et au sein du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai. Au sein de la sous-zone rgionale saharienne, trois types d'aires ont t constats. La plupart des espces du Jebel Uweinat sont largement rpandues dans cette sous-zone rgionale et sont communes dans tout le Sahara (tableau 30; fig. 6-7). Un deuxime groupe de 12 espces (14% de la flore; tableau 31) n'est rpandu par contre au Sahara qu'au sud d'une limite arale subhorizontale mdiane situe un peu au nord du Tropique du Cancer (fig. 8-10). Il s'agit d'espces rpandues dans des rgions tropicales sches africaines pour lesquelles cette limite arale subhorizontale au travers du Sahara constitue la limite septentrionale de leur aire. Cette limite arale subhorizontale correspond assez bien  la limite phytogographique tablie par divers phytogographes classiques entre l'Empire floral holarctique et l'Empire floral palotropical. Enfin, un troisime groupe comprend des espces qui, au Sahara, ne sont rpandues qu' l'est de limites arales situes dans l'est et dans l'ouest de la Libye, limites qui encadrent l'immense dsert de Libye (fig. 8). Cinq espces (tableau 32), dont 3 trs prsentes au Jebel Uweinat (Cleome chrysantha, C. droserifolia et Crotalaria thebaica), ne sont connues qu' l'est d'une limite arale situe  l'est de ce dsert (fig. 11). Celui-ci semble donc avoir constitu une barrire empchant certaines espces de s'tendre davantage vers l'ouest. Six autres espces enfin (tableau 33), dont 3 espces rmitiques du genre Fagonia trs prsentes galement  Uweinat, ne sont connues, elles, qu' l'est d'une limite arale situe  l'ouest de ce dsert (fig. 12). Ce dernier semble cette fois avoir constitu une barrire ayant empch certaines espces, existant  l'ouest de cette limite, de s'tendre davantage vers l'est. Divers phytogographes classiques ont tabli une limite phytogographique soit  l'est (Eig 1931), soit  l'ouest (Drude 1897, Chevalier 1932) de ce dsert de Libye, limites phytogographiques auxquelles correspondent assez bien nos limites arales. Nos observations semblent montrer plutt qu'il existe deux limites arales, l'une  l'est, l'autre  l'ouest de ce dsert, comme l'avait d'ailleurs suggr Monod en 1957. L'tude compare des aires des espces du Jebel Uweinat connues aussi dans le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai a non seulement confirm l'existence d'une limite arale au sein de ce centre d'endmisme (fig. 13), mais a montr que les 2/3 de ces espces n'taient connues qu'au nord de cette limite arale (tableau 34; fig. 14). C'est donc avec la flore de la moiti septentrionale de ce centre d'endmisme qu ces espces montrent le plus d'affinits. Cette limite arale, ici aussi, correspond  une limite phytogographique reconnue par divers phytogographes. Au vu de l'importance de cette limite arale, la question se pose de savoir s'il ne conviendrait pas d'tablir une subdivision au sein de ce centre d'endmisme. On peut conclure de cette tude chorologique compare que, hormis 1/5 d'espces saharo-sindiennes, la flore actuelle du Jebel Uweinat est avant tout une flore tropicale africaine, troitement lie  celle de la moiti septentrionale du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai et  celle de la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel, mais qu'elle est considrablement appauvrie par l'asschement progressif du climat et, en altitude, par l'action des herbivores. Le prsent travail a, d'autre part, confirm l'existence de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (fig. 1-3), ainsi que le fait que la sous-zone rgionale saharienne (SS1) s'tendait bien  cheval sur le Tropique du Cancer (fig. 3 et 8). Elle n'a pas confirm, par contre, l'tablissement d'une immense Rgion phytogographique africaine dnomme Rgion soudano-zambzienne ou Rgion soudano-angolane. Elle a montr, au contraire, le bien-fond de la reconnaissance d'un centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai, dont la prolongation au-del de la mer Rouge a t raffirme (fig. 13). En conclusion, l'intrt de l'tude compare des aires des espces est soulign dans le but d'apporter une contribution  la subdivision des phytochories en gnral et  celle de la sous-zone rgionale saharienne en particulier. Cette cinquime partie se termine par des considrations phnologiques sur la flore du Jebel Uweinat.
10.2307/3668651|Diatom studies of French running waters over more than twenty-five years revealed the recent appearance of a number of species which could not have been overlooked before because of their abundance or size. Their absence in modern European floras supports the idea of a recent introduction of these taxa in Europe. Their distribution and progression in France are examined according to available data. Taxa not yet found in France until 1990 but showing an important proliferation and rapid dispersal since that time are considered as invasives. This is the case, for example, for Gomphoneis minuta, a diatom originally described in North America, reported in Europe for the first time in the River Ardche in 1991 and presently occurring throughout southern France up to the Loire. Among the so-called exotic taxa, Navicula jakovljevicii, Achnanthes catenata, A. subhudsonis sensu lato and Nitzschia cf. tropica have probably been misidentified in the past. Their distribution must be reexamined from existing slides collections. A new species, Eolimna comperei, is described by light and electron microscopy; its recent discovery in France appears to be related to the introductions in Europe of a number of diatoms from other continents. The most remarkable taxa are of tropical origin and proliferate in summer. The abundance of Hydrosera triquetra in French estuaries and of Diadesmis confervacea in power plant discharges and various rivers in southwestern France, illustrates their recent acclimatization under temperate conditions. The study of the spatio-temporal extension of these as well as of less abundant forms of recent appearance, e.g. Capartogramma crucicula, Encyonema triangulum, Gomphoneis eriensis var. variabilis, Luticola mitigata, Luticola peguana, Nitzschia elegantula, Nitzschia dissipatoides or Gomphosphenia oahuensis, might provide indications of the warming of running waters in Western Europe due to the "greenhouse effect." /// Les investigations menes sur le rseau hydrographique franais depuis plus d'un quart de sicle ont permis de recenser dans les eaux courantes un certain nombre d'espces de diatomes qui n'auraient pas pu passer inaperues auparavant en raison de leur abondance ou de leur taille. Leur absence mme des flores europennes modernes semble conforter l'ide d'une apparition rcente. La localisation d'une quinzaine d'espces est dcrite ainsi que leur progression chaque fois que des donnes sont disponibles. Ont t considres comme "invasives", les espces non encore signales en France avant 1990 et qui ont donn lieu  de vritables prolifrations et dont l'extension est rapide dans les cours d'eau. C'est le cas en particulier de Gomphoneis minuta dcrit en Amrique du Nord, observ pour la premire fois en Europe dans l'Ardche en 1991, et qui colonise aujourd'hui toute la France mridionale jusqu' la Loire. Parmi les formes exotiques, Navicula jakovjlevicii, Achnanthes catenata, Achnanthes subhudsonis sensu lato ou Nitzschia cf. tropica ont probablement fait l'objet de confusions systmatiques par le pass et la confirmation de leur apparition rcente ncessite une consultation des collections existantes. Une nouvelle espce de Naviculaces, Eolimna comperei, est dcrite en microscopie photonique et lectronique. La dcouverte rcente en France de ce taxon est probablement aussi due aux introductions en Europe de diatomes originaires d'autres continents. Le cortge le plus remarquable est constitu par des formes connues comme tropicales qui prolifrent en France en priode estivale. L'abandance dans les estuaires franais d'Hydrosera triquetra ou celle de Diadesmis confervacea dans les rejets d'eau chaude de certaines centrales thermiques et dans diverses rivires du sud-ouest tmoigne d'une acclimatation rcente de ces taxons sous nos climats temprs. L'tude de leur progression en France, comme celle de formes moins reprsentes telles que Capartogramma crucicula, Encyonema triangulum, Gomphoneis eriensis var. variabilis, Luticola mitigata, Luticola peguana, Nitzschia elegantula, Nitzschia dissipatoides ou Gomphosphenia oahuensis d'apparition rcente, pourrait bien apporter dans un futur proche, des lments utiles aux scientifiques proccupes par "l'effet de serre" ou le rechauffement de notre plante.
10.2307/3668649|A total of 119 taxa, belonging to 23 different genera were recorded from 34 terrestrial moss samples in Northeast Greenland. The diatom flora is mainly composed of cosmopolitan taxa. The taxa with an arctic and/or alpine distribution constitute 32% of the total number of taxa observed, but constitute only 16% to the relative abundance. The mean number of diatom valves/g dried sample is 697.000487.000. Most important genera are Eunotia, Nitzschia and Pinnularia. Three assemblages are distinguished by a hierarchic-agglomerate cluster analysis and confirmed by a PCA-ordination. The Pinnularia obscura assemblage lives in the drier mosses. The distinction between the other two assemblages, the Fragilaria pinnata assemblage and the Eunotia fallax assemblage, is possibly due to differences in pH.
10.2307/3668653|The former distribution (1852-1943) in Flemish standing waters of diatoms included in the Red List for Germany and Central Europe is assessed through a survey of diatom assemblages from herbarium exsiccata of macrophytes and old samples. With few exceptions, a good historical representation of Red List taxa is observed in the Campine ecoregion only, as nutrient-poor non-alkaline waters are scarce elsewhere in Flanders due to edaphic conditions. The German list therefore does not appear to be optimal for general use in e.g. site evaluation, as it reflects the availability of a particular habitat much more strongly than habitat quality as such. Within the Campine region and where leached sandy topsoils are present, such applications are possible, however. This is illustrated by a comparison of historical and recent survey data showing that a considerable decline in Red List diatoms occurred here. This decline is especially apparent if relative abundance or abundance ranked data are considered, but less so at the level of species numbers. For regions with naturally more eutrophic waters, development of a specific list seems more appropriate. A more general case can be made to use only Red Lists compiled at the scale of ecologically more homogeneous regions (ecoregions) for applications that are sensitive to biogeographic bias. Whether the number of Red List diatoms, their percentage abundance, or both metrics should be considered in assessing biological impairment or conservation value depends on the water type in question. Accurate estimates of the number of taxa are, however, more difficult to obtain. The use of rank ratios may be considered to compare differently structured assemblages. Among the cryptobiota, diatoms appear to be an exceptionally accessible group for addressing historical changes in biodiversity.
10.2307/3668648|With the routine use of electron microscopy it has now become possible to obtain a detailed knowledge of the global distribution of silica-scaled chrysophytes. After the original opinion that they were restricted to cool temperate and subarctic environments has been abandoned, it is now clear that as a group they occur in all climates. Of the altogether 250 taxa, 19 taxa are definitely cosmopolitan, and further 34 taxa are widely distibuted. In addition, many more very small and insufficiently known species might belong in these groups. Others have specific distributions depending on suitable environment and on dispersal possibilities. The importance of investigation intensity and of available specialists for reaching correct conclusions is emphasized. Correct identifications are indeed necessary, but the species concept is inconsistent and purely morphological, and the use of molecular techniques in chrysophyte taxonomy and biogeography is only in its beginning.
10.2307/3668644|For more than a century Frustulia saxonica was considered to be an infraspecific variety of F. rhomboides. A search for the type of the basionym, Navicula rhomboides Ehrenberg, revealed that Navicula rhomboides is not a Frustulia. A lectotype is presented for N. rhomboides Ehrenberg. As a consequence twelve new nomenclatural transfers within the genus Frustulia have been proposed. From the original material of Frustulia saxonica Rabenhorst, type of the name of the genus, a lectotype is chosen from among the heteromorphic specimens which had been traditionally identified as F. rhomboides.
10.2307/3668643|Surirella brevicostata O. Mller is not a common taxon in tropical Africa. In this study, some morphometric studies could be effected on material from Lake Tanganyika, Lake Malawi (Nyassa) and Lake Malomba. Distribution patterns are given for these lakes, and, based on LM and SEM observations, an amended description of this taxon is presented. Some notes are also made on the rare varieties constricta and elongata.
10.2307/3668645|It is suggested that Euastrum species characterized by cells lacking a sharp apical incision and with broadly rounded lobes, capped with series of conical wall granules, are centred on Euastrum mononcylum. From this species, the other representatives of the group may be considered as being derived by reductions or elaborations in their morphology. Greatest species diversity is found in the tropics and especially tropical Africa. Most of the taxa under discussion seem to be confined to relatively small geographic regions, possibly related to failures in sexual reproduction, dispersal barriers, and their recent evolution. The relatively high percentage of endemic taxa, not only in the Euastrum group under discussion, but also in other genera, renders the desmids an algal group particularly susceptible to losses in biodiversity.
10.2307/3668642|Actinella comperei sp. nov. is described from Clarence Lagoon, an oligotrophic lake in the Tasmanian highlands (Australia). Its frustule morphology, as studied in light and scanning electron microscopy, is compared with that of other recently described Actinella species from Australasia. Actinella comperei differs from other Actinella species in valve shape, stria density and rimoportula arrangement. As most other species described from Australasia, A. comperei appears to be endemic to this region. Moreover, within Tasmania it has hitherto only been found in Clarence Lagoon, which holds several diatom species endemic to Tasmania, and at least one other species endemic to the lake (Biremis clarensis).
10.2307/3668646|Partial 16S rDNA sequences were determined for six Microcystis strains from lakes in the region of Pln (Northern Germany) assigned to four different species on the basis of their morphology. These sequences appear very similar to each other and to those of 71 Microcystis strains from four continents available in the databases. This great genotypic homogeneity, as measured by 16S rDNA sequence similarity (334 characters), is contrasting with the conspicuous morphological differences observed for the studied strains.
10.2307/3668650|Regular observations on the phytoplankton community have been made during two years along the Bia river, modified by the hydro-electric dam of Ayam, and another river without a dam (Ivory-Coast). 280 and 148 phytoplankton taxa have been observed in the Bia and Agnbi river respectively. For each taxon, a short description, an illustration and the observed distribution are given. The composition of the populations is compared and discussed. /// Des observations rgulires sur le plancton vgtal ont t effectues durant deux annes dans le cours de la rivire Bia modifie par le barrage hydrolectrique d'Ayam et dans une autre rivire sans barrage, l'Agnbi (Cte d'Ivoire). 280 et 148 taxons phytoplanctoniques ont t recenss respectivement dans les rivires Bia et Agnbi. Sont donns pour chaque taxon: une description sommaire, une illustration et la distribution observe. La composition des populations est compare et discute.
10.2307/3668654|The province North Brabant consists of 5083 km<sup>2</sup> between 40 m above and 1.5 m below sea level. Most of the land is in intensive agricultural use. Nature reserves consist of dune sands, heath, moorland pools and woods on very poor soils, bogs, low productive (wet) grasslands, stream valleys and a (former) estuary. There are 845 records of twenty charophyte species from 1986-1999. The majority of records were made in a small transition zone between the Pleistocene sand and loam area and the river and sea clay areas. Also the larger number of species (17) was found here. In the transition zone water quality varies considerably, due to the presence of seepage water of various age and origin. Some species are common to the Pleistocene area and the transition zone, others are common to the transition zone and both clay areas. At the loamy part of the Pleistocene area some species occur that grow in the transition zone and in the river clay area as well. In the dug off moor charophytes are only found at the edges of the area. In the former estuary, now a brackish lake, some species preferring slightly brackish to brackish water were found. Quite often charophytes are ephemeral, more so in shallow, eutrophic, and standing water, less so in opposite conditions. Charophytes are not protected by law. They may profit from conservation of rich sites and from nature improvement measures like digging pools for amphibians, restoration of moorland pools and removal of fertilised top soil. Charophytes may suffer from measures that have side effects such as reduction of surface water or deterioration of water quality.
20649775|Crotalaria arrecta Hemp & Polhill, a new species of Leguminosae (Fabaceae) from Kenya that was previously confused with C. rhizoclada Polhill, is described and illustrated.
20649770|In the present paper, a sequel to an earlier discussion on desmid algae from the Botswana Okavango Delta and the annexed Namibian Caprivi Strip, 25 taxa belonging to the genera Cosmarium, Xanthidium and Staurastrum are dealt with. Nine taxa are newly described: Cosmarium doidgei var. depressum, C. fuelleborniforme, C. haynaldii var. africanum, C. moremiense, C. okavangicum, C. permaculatum var. bituberculatum, C. pseudotus, Xanthidium micracanthum var. angustatum and Staurastrum okavangicum. The names of four taxa are newly given or recombined: Cosmarium fritschii, C. haynaldii var. ambadiense, C. taxichondrum var. pentachondrum and C. thomassonii. The majority of the taxa discussed can be characterized as African endemics.
20649771|This paper presents a preliminary list of the diatom flora from Guinea. Marine, brackish and freshwater sampling was conducted in ten sites, mainly in the vicinity of Conakry. The diatom flora consisted of 176 taxa (34 centric and 142 pennate) of which 90 can be considered as freshwater organisms whereas 86 are rather marine or brackish. Most of these taxa are reported for the first time from Guinea. Some rare or interesting taxa are illustrated in light and scanning electron microscopy. A new combination, Achnantidium minutissimum (Ktz.) Czarnecki f. inconspicuum (strup) Compre & Riaux-Gobin, is proposed. /// Une liste prliminaire de diatomes observes en Guine est prsente. Des chantillons marins, saumtres et d'eau douce provenant de dix sites de la rgion de Conakry ont t examins. La liste floristique comporte 176 taxons dont 34 centriques et 142 pennes se rpartissant aussi en 86 taxons marins ou saumtres et 90 taxons d'eau douce. La plupart des taxons observs sont nouveaux pour la Guine. Quelques taxons rares ou intressants sont illustrs par des photos au microscope optique ou au microscope lectronique  balayage. Une nouvelle combinaison, Achnanthidium minutissimum (Ktz.) Czarnecki f. inconspicuum (strup) Compre & Riaux-Gobin, est propose.
20649774|Crotalaria gracilipes O.Lachenaud, a new species from Central African Republic, is described and illustrated. In its sessile, trifoliolate leaves and lateral inflorescences with very slender peduncles, it is closely related to C. leptoclada Harms and C. sessilis De Wild. The diagnostic characters between the three species are discussed. /// Crotalaria gracilipes O.Lachenaud, nouvelle espce de Rpublique centrafricaine, est dcrite et illustre. Par ses feuilles sessiles et trifolioles et ses inflorescences latrales  pdoncule trs grle, elle est trs voisine de C. leptoclada Harms et C. sessilis De Wild. Les caractres distinctifs entre les trois espces sont discuts.
20649772|Three new species of Commelina L. (Commelinaceae) are described from south-central Africa. Commelina sphaerorrhizoma Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo, Zambia, Angola) is distinguished by its moniliform rhizome composed of spherical segments, glaucous leaves that are glabrous above and often have cordate-amplexicaul bases, blue flowers and very large, hairy seeds. Its rhizome is similar only to those of the yellow-flowered Commelina crassicaulis C.B.Clarke and C. welwitschii C.B.Clarke, but its one-seeded capsule locules suggest a different, as yet obscure relationship. Commelina orchidophylla Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo) is distinguished by its tuberous roots, orchid-like pair of large basal leaves that are white-tomentose beneath and appressed to the ground, and free-margined spathes. It may be related to other geophytes or hemicryptophytes with free-margined spathes such as Commelina hockii De Wild., C. scaposa C.B.Clarke and C. psuedoscaposa De Wild., but differs from all of them by its large, distinctively pubescent basal leaves. Commelina rosulata Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo) is distinguished by its basal rosette of large, glabrous leaves and clustered, subglabrous spathes with fused margins. It may be most closely related to Commelina transversifolia De Wild., C. grossa C.B.Clarke and C. grandis Brenan, and may be separated from them by its large, broad basal leaves. Commelina praecox T.C.E.Fr. is a new synonym of C. scaposa C.B.Clarke and C. bianoensis De Wild. is a new synonym of Commelina neurophylla C.B.Clarke.
20649773|The paper presents phytosociological analyses of savannah vegetation infested by Chromolaena odorata and Hyptis suaveolens in the Betecoucou region of the Guinea-Congolia/Sudania regional transition zone of Benin. Some 79 phytosociological plots were analysed according to the Braun-Blanquet method. A total of 199 species of vascular plants have been recorded belonging to 53 families. Hemicryptophytes (4.8%) and geophytes (3.9%) are less abundant in the colonised sites than in the non-colonised ones. The colonised sites are dominated by species that are therophytes (50.8%) or chamaephytes (39.9%). Species that are widely distributed (45.9%), mainly pantropical (26.7%) and paleotropical (18.3%) in distribution, are also more frequent in infested than in non-infested sites. On the contrary, African pluriregional elements, e.g. Sudano-Zambezian species (44.4%) and afrotropical species (16.6%) are more frequent in non-infested than in infested sites. Among the widely distributed species, those that are ruderal or nitrophilous are the most frequent. /// Une analyse phytosociologique des savanes envahies par Chromolaena odorata et Hyptis suaveolens a t effectue  Btcoucou situe dans la zone de transition rgionale guinocongolaise/soudanienne du Bnin. La collecte des donnes a t effectue suivant la mthode de Braun-Blanquet. Sur un total de 79 relevs phytosociologiques effectus, 199 espces ranges dans 53 familles ont t rpertories. Les hmicryptophytes (4,8%) et les gophytes (3,9%) sont moins abondants dans le groupement colonis qu'au sein du groupement non colonis. La physionomie du groupement envahi est dfinie par les throphytes (50,8%) ou les champhytes (39,9%). Sur le plan phytogographique, les espces  large distribution (45,9%) notamment les espces pantropicales (26,7%) et palotropicales (18,3%) sont plus abondants dans le groupement colonis qu'au sein du groupement non colonis. Par contre, le groupement non colonis contient plus d'espces  distribution continentale que sont les espces soudano-zambziennes (44,4%) et afro-tropicales (16,6%) qui dfinissent la physionomie de la vgtation. Parmi les espces  large distribution gographique, ce sont les espces rudrales et nitrophiles qui sont les plus reprsentes.
25746609|In order to preserve the biodiversity of Katanga mining sites before their exploitation, a special investigation was carried out in the Tenke-Fungurume mining concession. As a first result, a new species of Chlorophytum is described. C. unifolium is the third taxon of this genus described has having only one leaf, the two other ones being C. monophyllum Oberm. from S. Africa, Western Cape, and Anthericum monophyllum Baker, now synonym of C. subpetiolatum (Baker) Kativu, from Sudan. These two species have linear or linear-lanceolate leaf-blades, unlike the blades widely ovate and cordate at the base in C. unifolium. The conservation of the new species is critically endangered.
25746606|The genus Polysphaeria was only in 2007 recorded for the Gulf of Guinea Islands. A specimen collected on Bioko ('Fernando Po') by Mildbraed in 1911 remained unnamed in the Rubiaceae until 1967 when it was erroneously filed under Coffea. It is in fact Polysphaeria macrophylla K. Schum., also known from the African mainland (Liberia to Cameroon). Polysphaeria macrophylla is easily distinguished from all other species of the genus by the presence of swollen internodes inhabited by ants, an apparent feature overlooked in the past. The species is neotypified and illustrated, and a key to the Guineo-Congolian species of the genus is provided.
25746607|Sixty-four species are newly reported from the Republic of Congo. The occurrence of seven species reported without specimen citation by Sita & Moutsambot (1988), and which constitute important range extensions, is also confirmed and documented. The vascular flora of the Republic of Congo now includes about 4538 species, fifteen of which are endemic. Its diversity nearly compares with that of neighbouring Gabon (4710 species), which, however, has a much higher number of endemics (508 species). Soixante-quatre espces sont signales pour la premire fois de la Rpublique du Congo. La prsence de sept espces signales sans indication d'chantillons par Sita & Moutsambot (1988) et qui constituent d'importantes extensions de rpartition, est galement confirme et documente. La flore vasculaire de la Rpublique du Congo comporte environ 4538 espces, dont quinze endmiques. Sa diversit est donc presque comparable  celle du Gabon voisin (4710 espces), o le nombre d'endmiques est cependant beaucoup plus lev (508 espces).
25746605|The tropical African genera Brachystephanus Nees and Oreacanthus Benth. are revised. A detailed morphological survey indicates that only a single genus is involved, the name Brachystephanus having priority. A new taxonomic treatment is therefore proposed with Brachystephanus sensu lato divided into three sections: sect. Brachystephanus, sect. Oreacanthus and sect. Pseudoreacanthus. The closely allied American genus Stenostephanus Nees is compared using both available morphological and molecular data. In the newly circumscribed Brachystephanus, 32 taxa within 22 species are presented among which six new species, two new subspecies and two new varieties are described here, together with new combinations or names for four taxa and a new status for two taxa being formalised. Keys to identification and descriptions are presented for each taxon together with notes on habitat and ecology, distribution, phytogeographical considerations and herbarium specimen citations, supported in many instances by illustrations. Pollen analysis with accompanying SE micrographs is provided for 21 taxa. The occurrence of plietesial life cycles, myrmecophily and gynomonoecy within the genus are discussed, together with a summary of the conservation significance of Brachystephanus. Cet article prsente la rvision des genres d'Afrique tropicale Brachystephanus Nees et Oreacanthus Benth. Une tude morphologique dtaille montre qu'il s'agit en fait d'un seul genre, le nom de Brachystephanus tant prioritaire. En consquence, un nouveau traitement taxonomique est propos, divisant Brachystephanus sensu lato en trois sections:sect. Brachystephanus, sect. Oreacanthus et sect. Pseudoreacanthus. Une comparaison avec le genre amricain Stenostephanus Nees est prsente, base sur les donnes morphologiques disponibles et sur des donnes molculaires. Dans son acceptation nouvelle, Brachystephanus comprend 32 taxons inclus dans 22 espces parmi lesquelles six nouvelles espces, deux nouvelles sous-espces et deux nouvelles varits sont dcrites ici, en mme temps que sont dfinies de nouvelles combinaisons de noms pour quatre taxons ainsi qu'un nouveau statut pour deux taxons. Des cls d'identification et des descriptions sont prsentes pour chaque taxon, en mme temps que des notes sur l'habitat et l'ecologie, la distribution, des considrations phytogographiques et les citations des spcimens, supportes dans beaucoup de cas par des illustrations. Une analyse du pollen accompagnes d'images MEB est fournie pour 21 taxons. L'existence de cycles de vie plitsiaux, de myrmcophilie et de gynomonoecie dans le genre sont discutes. Un aperu sur l'importance de la conservation de Brachystephanus est donn.
25746611|A new Humularia is described, based on four specimens from Burundi and two from Tanzania. Humularia reekmansii P.Bamps is related to Humularia multifoliolata Verdc., also from Tanzania, but it differs mainly by the lower number and smaller size of the leaflets, and the shorter corolla.
25746612|Croton gratissimus Burch. var. gratissimus is recorded for the first time from the Democratic Republic of Congo at the base of the Kundelungu Mounts in Katanga. A description of the taxon and a key of the seven Croton species reported from Upper Katanga is given.
25746608|The taxonomic history of Santiria Blume is reviewed. A revision of the African material available in eight major herbaria (a total of 187 specimens) is carried out. The material shows that the morphological characters of vegetative and reproductive organs, except the shape of the fruit, tremendously vary in shape, dimensions or pubescence. Intermediate states make it impossible to distinguish different taxa. Consequently, Santiria trimera (Oliv.) Aubrv. is confirmed as the only species of the genus in Africa and therefore redefined. Seven taxa are newly relegated to its synonymy.
25746610|In 1903 and 1904, Georges Bronckart, a Belgian living in Indochina, corresponded with the orchid specialist Alfred Cogniaux. Five of his letters, in French, conserved in BR, are reproduced here. They deal with specimens send from Annam (Vietnam) to Belgium, ask for information on their identification, and make proposals for trade. The scanty biographical information on this orchid amateur is reviewed. Some Bronckart material became important for horiculture and hybridizing, e.g. Dendrobium bronckartii De Wild.
20649748|In October 2007, a selection of water bodies in the Okavango Delta (Botswana) and the southwestern part of the Zambezi Basin (Namibia) were sampled for desmid algae. In this paper 27 taxa belonging to the genera Penium, Closterium, Pleurotaenium, Triplastrum, Tetmemorus, Euastrum and Micrasterias are separately discussed and figured. Five taxa are newly described: Closterium okavangicum, Tetmemorus euastroides var. africanus, Euastrum attenuatum var. groenbladii, Euastrum okavangicum and Euastrum sudanense. The names of five taxa are newly given or recombined: Euastrum africanum, Euastrum compereanum, Euastrum fritschii, Euastrum scottii and Micrasterias schmidleana. The majority of the taxa discussed can be characterized as African endemics.
20649754|A new species from forests in Gabon and the Democratic Republic of Congo, Vangueria silvicola Lachenaud, is described and illustrated. It is very close to V. apiculata K.Schum. and V. volkensii K.Schum. by its apiculate flower buds, but differs in the shorter and acute calyx lobes, the corolla being entirely pubescent outside and with internal hairs not exceeding the throat, and the lighter coloured bark. It is the first species of Vangueria known from the Guineo-Congolian forest block. /// Une nouvelle espce des forts du Gabon et de la Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo, Vangueria silvicola Lachenaud, est dcrite et illustre. Elle est trs proche de V. apiculata K.Schum. et V. volkensii K.Schum. par ses boutons floraux apiculs, mais diffre par les spales plus courts et aigus, la corolle entirement pubescente  l'extrieur et  poils internes ne dpassant pas la gorge, et les rameaux  corce plus claire. C'est la premire espce de Vangueria signale du bloc forestier guino-congolais.
20649752|The inselberg vegetation in the southern part of Centre-Benin was investigated using floristic relevs within plots of 900 m each. A total of 108 floristic relevs were performed and 380 plant species recorded. Five types of vegetation were identified: dry forest, woodland, tree savannah, fallow, and meadow. The dry forest remnants are located on inselbergs with deep crevices and depressions between the hill tops. The crevices in rocky area constitute moist pockets. Savannah vegetations colonise the rocky that are covered with topsoil. The species richness ranges from 18 species in the meadows to 227 species in dry forest. Two plant species are to be confined to the studied inselbergs in Benin: Cordia millenii and Urera cameroonensis. The most important plant families were Leguminosae (in particular Papilionoideae), Poaceae, and Rubiaceae. /// La vgtation des inselbergs du secteur mridional du Centre-Bnin a t tudie  l'aide de relevs floristiques  l'intrieur de placeaux de 900 m. Au total, 108 relevs ont t effectus et 380 espces ont t inventories. Quatre types de vgtation sont identifis: la fort dense sche, la savane arbore, la prairie et la jachre. Les lots de fort dense sche sont localiss sur les inselbergs  anfractuosits profondes et dans les dpressions intra-rocheuses. Les anfractuosits rocheuses constituent donc des poches d'humidit. Les groupements de savane arbore sont situs sur les inselbergs  dalles rocheuses recouvertes de sols peu profonds. La prairie est localise sur les inselbergs  dalle dnude. La richesse spcifique varie de 18 espces en prairie  227 espces en fort dense sche. les Cordia millenii et Urera cameroonensis sont deux espces infodes  cet habitat saxicole au Bnin. Les familles les plus importantes, par ordre d'importance spcifique, sont les Leguminosae (surtout les Papilionoideae), les Poaceae et les Rubiaceae.
20649753|Pyrenacantha villiersii (Icacinaceae) is presented as the new name for the illegitimate P. cordicula Villiers from Cte d'Ivoire. The identity of Chlamydocarya tessmannii Engl. (Icacinaceae), treated as a nomen nudum under P. cordicula, and of P. acuminata Engl. is established.
20649750|In order to compile a "Catalogue of neophytes in Belgium (1800-2005)" collections of vascular plants in the main Belgian herbaria (public as well as private) were thoroughly revised. This revision considerably enlarged the current knowledge of the alien flora of Belgium and yielded numerous additional taxa. On the other hand it has been shown that in the "Nouvelle Flore de la Belgique, du G.-D. de Luxembourg, du nord de la France et des rgions voisines" a number of non-native vascular plants have been erroneously or doubtfully listed as having occurred spontaneously in Belgium. The present paper provides information on 30 non-native taxa that need to be omitted from future editions of the Flora of Belgium due to reidentification of herbarium collections. Furthermore several dubious records of non-native plants in Belgium have never been confirmed by herbarium collections and are therefore doubtful; they are listed here but have been omitted from the "Catalogue." Finally, some non-native taxa included in the "Nouvelle Flore" have indeed been recorded for the neighbouring territories covered by this Flora, but never for Belgium and therefore they were omitted from the "Catalogue." The importance of a thorough herbarium revision as the main basis for the compilation of a catalogue of non-native plants (in stead of literature data) is stressed. Such a revision surely is more time-consuming but, above all, much more accurate and reliable. As such, it yielded 20% additional taxa in the final catalogue. Inversely, almost 3% of the taxa of the original list of Belgian xenophytes needed to be omitted.
20649749|From the early sixties onwards, the fragility and exceptional biological richness of the forest ecosystem of Aubeville, situated in the Niari valley, has been acknowledged. The region figures on a list of critical sites that urgently need to be conserved. In spite of this status, the forest, of which the flora was very imperfectly known, has suffered from industrial wood exploitation (1953-1988), traditional exploitation of goods and services by locals, and finally, since 1988, from strong human pressure due to slash and burn agriculture. The present study, though incomplete, is the very first one to inventory the floristic diversity of Aubeville forest. As a result, 135 species are identified; they belong to 122 genera and 60 families. They are associated with crop plants and introduced plants. This flora marks three habitats that correspond to microclimatic variations of the mesoclimat. /// L'cosystme forestier aubevillois, dont la fragilit physique et l'exceptionnelle valeur de la biodiversit, au sein de la valle du Niari sont reconnues ds le dbut des annes soixante est inscrit sur la liste des sites critiques  protger prioritairement. En dpit de ce statut, cette fort, qui n'a pas livr les secrets de sa flore, a connu successivement et/ou concomitamment, l'exploitation industrielle de bois d'uvre (1953-1988), l'exploitation artisanale des biens et des services, par les populations locales, et enfin, depuis 1988, elle connat une forte pression anthropique due  la qute de nouvelles terres propices  l'agriculture itinrante sur brlis. Cette tude, quoique partielle, est la toute premire qui marque un intrt  l'inventaire et  la connaissance de sa biodiversit floristique. Au stade actuel des connaissances, 135 espces sont identifies pour 60 familles et 122 genres. Elles sont associes aux plantes cultives et aux spontanes. Cette flore marque trois habitats tenant  des variations microclimatiques au sein de ce msoclimat.
20649751|The African species of Crudia (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) are revised. Ten species, including two new ones, are recognized. The African species of the genus are confined to the Guineo-Congolian region. A key to the species is presented. To facilitate its use, the stipules of all species are illustrated. The fruits, as far as known, are illustrated as well and the distribution maps of all taxa are added.
20649760|In the Comoro Islands, Rubiaceae are one of the largest families of flowering plants, represented by 33 genera and sixty species. Among these genera, Coptosperma (Pavetteae, Ixoroideae) is represented by two widely distributed species, also occurring in Madagascar and continental Africa, and a third species new to science. Coptosperma mitochondrioides Mouly & De Block possesses large stipules of the "bec de canard" type and ribbed fruits. While this type of stipule is typical for many Malagasy Coptosperma species, ribbed fruits are very rare within the genus. Within the Comoro archipelago C. mitochondrioides is restricted to Mayotte, but the species is also known from northern Madagascar. The new species is described and illustrated and a key to the species of Coptosperma occurring in the Comoros is provided.
20649762|Twenty-five neotropical Asplenium taxa with nomenclatural types deposited in the herbaria B, BR and P are lectotypified.
20649761|This first checklist of the vascular plants of Pongara National Park in coastal Gabon comprises 385 taxa. The checklist is based on a botanical inventory carried out in 2006-2007 and on existing collections from the Park. Information on ecology and chorology is given for each species. Ninety-five species were collected in the littoral savannah, half of which belonged to Poaceae, Cyperaceae and Orchidaceae, and 356 species in the littoral forest, mainly Rubiaceae (33), Orchidaceae (15) and Euphorbiaceae (12). The savannah has a much higher percentage of widespread species than the forest. Eighty-three species are endemic to Lower Guinea, nine of which are endemic or near endemic to Gabon.
20649759|After the transfer in 2006 of two Anthonotha species to Englerodendron (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae), the larger, remaining part of the African genus Anthonotha is divided in two genera: Anthonotha sensu stricto and Isomacrolobium. Triplisomeris is synonymized under Isomacrolobium. The characters to separate the two genera are discussed and illustrated, and summarized in a table. For both genera a list of species is added. For Isomacrolobium it includes three new combinations.
10.2307/3668520|A list of 84 vascular plant species, collected in the Odzala National Park (Rp. Pop. Congo -- Congo-Brazzaville), not mentioned in Sita & Moutsambot's Catalogue of Plants from Congo-Brazzaville (1988) is given. Distribution maps and comments are provided for the most interesting species. A short phytogeographical outline of the region is also given. A new combination, Solenostemon giorgii (De Wild.) Champl. (Labiatae), is made and this species is lectotypified.
10.2307/3668521|The discovery of this rare plant at three localities in the Casamance area (Senegal) is reported. The ecological requirements of the species are surveyed. A new association (Bolboschoenetum grandispici) is described. /// La dcouverte en Casamance (Sngal) de trois localits nouvelles de la Cyprace rare Bolboschoenus grandispicus est discute. Des observations sur les exigences cologiques et sur la sociologie de cette espce sont donnes. Une association nouvelle (Bolboschoenetum grandispici) est dcrite.
10.2307/3668528|A revision of all the geofrutescent material of the genus Leptactina from the 'Flore d'Afrique centrale' area indicates that L. liebrechtsiana should be distinguished from L. benguelensis. It is endemic to southwestern Congo(-Kinshasa); a new division in two varieties is proposed. The taxonomic value of corolla trichomes in this group is examined. The geofrutescent taxa of the flora area are keyed out and their distribution is documented. The intraspecific variation of the two other species, L. benguelensis and L. epinyctios, is also discussed; the division of L. benguelensis in two subspecies is accepted, but a refinement of the defining criterions is proposed.
10.2307/3668527|A new species discovered during a revision of the west and central African material of the genus is described. Coffea dactylifera Robbr. & Stoffelen from the Central Forest District in Congo-Kinshasa has cave-domatia of which many have the opening elongated into a narrow, finger-like tubule which is recurved towards the midnerve. This type of domatia is unique, not only in Coffea or the Rubiaceae, but even in the angiosperms as a whole. Three other tentative novelties were delimited during the same revision but sufficient material is lacking for formal description; these are shortly discussed.
10.2307/3668524|The Madagascan species of Landolphia P. Beauv. (Apocynaceae) are revised. The six endemic species of Madagascar (one also occurring on Mayotte, another one on Mauritius as well) are presented with full descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps. A key to species is presented and a list of exsiccata is added. Numerous species are newly reduced to synonymy, especially of the widespread L. myrtifolia. /// Les espces de Landolphia P. Beauv. (Apocynaces) de Madagascar ont t revues. Six espces endmiques existent  Madagascar, dont une se trouve aussi  Mayotte, une autre  l'le Maurice. Elles sont presentes avec descriptions, illustrations et cartes de distribution. Une cl des espces est donne et une liste d'exsiccata est ajoute. De nombreuses espces sont nouvellement rduites en synonymie, surtout de L. myrtifolia, espce  large distribution.
10.2307/3668522|A new species of Sorindeia, S. ripicola, is described from Congo-Kinshasa. It was hitherto confused with Sorindeia sparanoi. The differences between the two species and their distribution maps are given. The new species' distribution and ecology is compared to that of Bridelia ripicola and other Euphorbiaceae.
10.2307/3668526|Description of Sorindeia oxyandra (Anacardiaceae) from Gabon, given with an illustration. /// Description de Sorindeia oxyandra (Anacardiaceae) du Gabon, accompagne d'une illustration.
10.2307/3668523|Plants grown in the tropical and subtropical greenhouses of the National Botanic Garden of Belgium (178 taxa belonging to 148 genera and 85 families) have been studied with regard to flowering and fruiting behaviour. The results are compared with other phenological data published in literature and with observations made on herbarium sheets at BR. Five types of behaviour are distinguished based on duration and frequency of flowering and fruiting periods. A calendar with the periods of maximum flowering is established. Flowering and fruiting periods are taken into account for their rhythm and are compared from year to year. Differences are related to the climatological data for the period studied or to the position of the plants in the greenhouses. A comparison of taxa of tropical and of subtropical origin shows that tropical taxa generally flower continuously or repeatedly while subtropical taxa have their main flowering period during the winter.
10.2307/3668525|Dactyladenia ndjoleensis from Ndjol, NW Gabon, is described and illustrated. /// Dactyladenia ndjoleensis en provenance de Ndjol, NW Gabon, est dcrite et illustre.
10.2307/3668519|Chemical analysis of plant material collected in the D.R. Congo and known at that moment as Sweetia brachystachya revealed very interesting akaloids. This tree species introduced from Central America and used as a fire-break should be named Acosmium panamense Benth.) Yakovlev and belongs to a primitive group of Fabaceae sensu stricto, the Sophoreae. Details on the introduction in central Africa are given.
10.2307/3668542|A morphological documentation of the African 'Chazaliella subcordatifolia' clearly shows that this species belongs to the genus Chassalia; therefore, the new combination Chassalia subcordatifolia (De Wild.) F.Piesschaert is made. The most characteristic features of the species are the short subherbaceous stems that arise from creeping stolons, the obovate leaves with cordate to subcordate leaf base, the dense indumentum on veins and young stems, the black didymous drupes, and the fleshy, red inflorescence axes. C. subcordatifolia is related to a group of monocaulous African Chassalia species with a strongly reduced habit. /// Une documentation morphologique de "Chazaliella subcordatifolia" dmontre que cette espce africaine fait partie du genre Chassalia; par consquent, la nouvelle combinaison Chassalia subcordatifolia (De Wild.) F.Piesschaert est faite. Chassalia subcordatifolia est caractrise par des tiges subherbaces ascendantes de stolons rampants, des feuilles oboves  base cordiformes ou subcordiformes, une pilosit dense sur les nervures et les tiges jeunes, des drupes noires et didymiques et des inflorescences  axes charnus et rouges. C. subcordatifolia est voisine d'un groupe de Chassalia monocaules africains  port rduit.
10.2307/3668541|A new species of Heterotis Benth. is described from Rio Muni: Heterotis obamae sp. nov. The distinguishing characters with the related Heterotis rupicola are given: longer 5-nerved leaf-blades, pentamerous flowers, longer sepals and petals, longer pedoconnective, and longer style. A key to the four species of Heterotis from Rio Muni is given.
10.2307/3668540|After the genus Scenedesmus, dealt with in a previous contribution, the study of the algal microflora of the pond and the piscicultural complex of the National Park of Banco continues with the Cyanophyta, Rhodophyta and Pyrrhophyta. While Cyanophyta, known to be of economical interest, are well represented in this biotope with twenty-five genera, forty identified species and three not yet identified taxa, Pyrrhophyta are present in lower number, with only three genera, three identified species and one taxon identified at the generic level only. Rhodophyta are represented by only one genus and one species. /// Aprs le genre Scenedesmus trait dans un article prcdent, l'tude taxinomique de la microflore algale de la mare et du complexe piscicole du Parc National du Banco se poursuit par les Cyanophytes, Rhodophytes et Pyrrhophytes. Si les Cyanophytes, qui prsentent un intrt conomique certain, sont bien reprsentes dans le milieu avec vingt-cinq genres, quarante espces dtermines et trois non dtermines au niveau spcifique, les Pyrrhophytes le sont moins, avec seulement trois genres, trois espces connues et un taxon dtermin seulement au niveau gnrique. Les Rhodophytes ne sont reprsentes que par un seul genre et une seule espce.
10.2307/3668544|A new species of Pseudocalyx from Congo-Kinshasa is described and illustrated. The species' distribution is mapped. It is endemic to the Kasai phytogeographical district, i.e. the occidental part of the Congolian domain of the Guineo-Congolian Region, and penetrates the Guinea-Congolia/Zambezia regional transition zone by its presence in gallery forests. /// Une nouvelle espce de Pseudocalyx du Congo-Kinshasa est dcrite et illustre. La distribution de l'espce est cartographie. Elle est endmique du district phytogographique du Kasa, c'est--dire de la partie occidentale du domaine Congolais de la Rgion Guino-Congolaise et pntre la zone de transition Guineo-Congolaise/Zambzienne par sa prsence en galeries forestires.
10.2307/3668546|This third part includes the study of the dicotyledons of the Jebel Uweinat, presented by alphabetical order of the families, from Nyctaginaceae to Zygophyllaceae. Besides keys to species, the following data are given for each species: the bibliographical references quoting specimens collected at Uweinat, the list of specimens collected by the author, the habitat, the frequency, the altitudes where the species has been observed, the biological type, the palatability and the detailed geographical distribution. /// Cette troisime partie comprend l'tude des dicotyldones signales au Jebel Uweinat, classes par ordre alphabtique de familles, des Nyctaginaceae aux Zygophyllaceae. Outre des clefs d'espces, les donnes suivantes sont indiques pour chaque espes: les rfrences bibliographiques mentionnant des chantillons rcolts  Uweinat, la citation des spcimens rcolts par l'auteur, l'habitat, la frquence, les altitudes auxquelles elle a t rencontre, le type biologique, l'apptibilit, ainsi que la distribution gographique dtaille.
10.2307/3668547|Seasonal fluctuations in the epilithic diatom flora at five stations along the Burundian coast of Lake Tanganyika were followed at monthly intervals between October 1985 and July 1986. Increased turbulence and sediment resuspension during the dry season, causing seasonality in the diatom composition of the littoral plankton communities, have lesser influences on the composition of the epilithic diatom communities than on the planktonic communities. Relatively, Gomphonitzschia ungeri was most abundant at the beginning of the wet season, followed by Cymbella minuta during the rest of the wet season.
10.2307/3668543|The single species of the genus Bovonia, B. diphylla Chiov. from Congo-Kinshasa is identified; it is found to be conspecific to Aeollanthus homblei De Wild. The latter name has to be applied for this taxon. /// L'unique espce du genre Bovonia, B. diphylla Chiov. du Congo(-Kinshasa) est identifie; elle s'avre tre la mme espce que Aeollanthus homblei De Wild. Ce dernier nom doit tre utilis pour ce taxon.
10.2307/3668539|The 5' half of the ndhF gene of 14 taxa was sequenced and analysed cladistically in order to elucidate the tribal delimitation and their relationships within the Caprifoliaceae. The cladistic analyses strongly support the traditional delimitation of the three tribes Lonicereae, Diervilleae and Linnaeeae, but with the genera Symphoricarpos and Triosteum being members of the Lonicereae. The phylogenetic position of the Diervilleae remains unresolved. The derived Linnaeeae are a sister group of the Valerianaceae-Dipsacaceae clade, suggesting that the Caprifoliaceae are paraphyletic.
10.2307/3668545|Five new Xyris species from Upper Katanga are described and brefly compared with supposed related species.
10.2307/3668609|A revision of the genus Salsola sect. Salsola resulted in the recognition of eighteen species and their regrouping into two sections, Salsola and Kali Dumort. The most important but hitherto neglected characters are the presence or absence of chlorenchyma in the stem cortex, the distribution of unicellular papilla-like hairs, anther structure and fruit types. A synopsis of the species and a chorological survey are given.
10.2307/3668590|The branching system of pseudobulbs in Calypso bulbosa and Malaxis monophyllos has been studied using the method of structural analysis. It has been shown that the pseudobulb of Malaxis monophyllos is a thickened internode of the main axis terminated with an inflorescence. The pseudobulb of Calypso bulbosa is a complicated organ consisting of two order axes and a base of the green leaf.
10.2307/3668593|Roots of selected species within the Araliaceae were inoculated with spores of Glomus albidum Walker & Rhodes, G. mosseae (Nicolson & Gerdemann) Gerdemann & Trappe and G. intraradices Schenck & Smith. After successful establishment of the endophytes, the structural characteristics of the mycorrhizas were investigated. Three groups with different morphotypes could be seen, depending on the plant species. The occurrence of these groups with distinctive mycorrhizal morphology lead us to discuss a possible series related to mycotrophy in the Araliaceae. In addition, data from roots collected from natural sites were used to support the results.
10.2307/3668603|An interpretation of the gynoecium at various stages of development is proposed in Convolvulaceae-Ipomoeae within an ontogenetical framework, that includes changes in fruit structure allowing a classification of ovaries at anthesis. In Ipomoea, all subgenera, which probably differ in pollination syndromes, exhibit an evolutionary acceleration in the formation of fruit features, linked with a weedy annual habit, whereas the genera Stictocardia and Turbina appear to retain archaic characters, such as a woody habit, and a non-globular ovary with a protruding nectariferous disk. /// Une interprtation htrochronique du gynce des Convolvulaceae-Ipomoeae est propose,  l'aide d'un cadre ontogntique incluant la fructification et permettant un classement des ovaires  l'anthse. Chez Ipomoea, tous les sous-genres, probablement dfinissables par les modalits de pollinisation, montrent une ralisation de plus en plus prcoce des structures du fruit, c'est  dire une acclration volutive, corrle  un port herbac et un cycle vgtatif annuel. Les genres Stictocardia et Turbina conservent des traits apparemment primitifs: port ligneux, ovaire non globuleux  disque nectarifere dvelopp.
10.2307/3668602|Structural and functional comparisons are made between the floral vasculatures of Annonaceae and Magnoliaceae. Cortical vascular systems (CVS) are prominent features in the receptacle. Annonaceous flowers exhibit a continuous trend for building a CVS strictly linked to the pollination process, especially in the transition from female to male stages and pollen presentation by the petals. Moreover, Magnoliaceae flowers build an inner CVS connected both to the pollination and fruiting processes. This additional vasculature results largely from the peculiar magnoliaceous gynoecium, which appears as an early morphogenetical unit, caused by the congenital fusion of the sterile lower regions of carpels, which are homologous with the mericarp stipes of Annonaceae. /// Impact fonctionnel de la vascularisation florale des Annonaceae et des Magnoliaceae, et consquence sur l'interprtation du gynce de ces dernires. Les vascularisations florales des Annonaceae et des Magnoliaceae sont compares tant du point de vue structural que fonctionnel. Les systmes corticaux rceptaculaires sont caractristiques dans ces deux familles. Les Annonaceae tendent  difier un systme strictement li aux processus de la pollinisation, notamment le passage de la phase femelle  la phase mle, ainsi que la prsentation du pollen par les ptales. Les Magnoliaceae construisent en outre un systme cortical interne, en relation avec la pollinisation et la nutrition du fruit. Cette vascularisation complmentaire est induite en grande partie par un gynce particulier, dont les stipes carpellaires, congnitalement souds, forment une unit morphogntique nouvelle.
10.2307/3668605|The pollen dimorphism of eight African heterostylous species of Oxygonum Burch. ex Campd. is described for the first time using light and scanning electron microscopy. The pollen grains are mostly 3-colporate, subprolate to prolate with semitectate-reticulate exine. The pollen grains from short-styled (thrum) flowers are larger than those from long-styled (pin) flowers, with the ratios of thrum/pin pollen size varying from 1.01 to 1.35 in polar axis, and 1.07-1.62 in equatorial diameter. O. sinuatum shows the most pronounced pollen dimorphism with respect to size and exine ornamentation. In other taxa, such as O. dregeanum, O. fruticosum and O. stuhlmannii, the pollen dimorphism is weak. In the thrum flowers the exine lumina are slightly larger than in the pin flowers. There is, however, no significant difference in shape and in the number of apertures. Pollen polymorphism as a significant component of heterostyly and its functional significance and evolution are briefly discussed. Moreover, heterostyly is reported here in four additional species of Oxygonum, i.e., O. alatum, O. fruticosum, O. pachybasis and O. tenerum.
10.2307/3668607|The variability in twenty morphological characters was studied in 54 local populations of the Lotus corniculatus L. complex in the European part of Russia and adjacent areas. Chromosome numbers were counted for samples taken from 15 locations. A tendency towards a clinal variation has been demonstrated for several characters, especially for leaflet indexes, indumentum density and flower length. Correlations between some morphological characters (leaflet size, indumentum density and others) and climate parameters have been revealed. On the basis of variability investigations and the results of a factor analysis, four species are distinguished in the complex occurring in the study area: L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. (2n = 12), L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. ex Willd. (2n = 12), L. ucrainicus Klok. (2n = 12), and L. corniculatus L. (2n = 24).
10.2307/3668599|The floral development of ten species of Anacampseros sect. Anacampseros (A. angustifolium, A. densifolia, A. filamentosa, A. lanceolata, A. lanigera, A. rufescens, A. schoelandii, A. subnuda, A. telephiastrum, A. crinita) shows major similarities with Talinum regarding the ontogeny of the bracts, perianth and gynoecium: two involucral bracts are incepted successively; five tepals are initiated in a 2/5 phyllotaxis; generally, a three-carpellate syncarpous ovary develops. On the basis of stamen initiation two groups of species are distinguishable: a first group comprises the multistaminate species marked by the initiation of a ring meristem, a sectorial inception of the first stamens and a secondary, centrifugal increase of stamens; a second group includes species with a low stamen number characterised by the absence of a ring meristem, the presence of a first complex 'whorl' and five outer alternitepalous stamens. It is suggested that the first 'whorl', being homologous with the inner 'whorl' of Talinum and Portulaca undergoes a reduction of the stamen number, running concomitant with a centrifugal increase of the remaining stamens. Nectariferous tissue differentiates at the adaxial base of the androecium. It is concluded that the nectaries of Talinum and Anacampseros are homologous. On the basis of floral developmental patterns a close phylogenetic relation among Anacampseros, Talinum and Portulaca is confirmed.
10.2307/3668608|A systematic study of the Viorna group of species (section Viorna sensu Prantl) in the genus Clematis L. (Ranunculaceae) has been attempted. Twenty-five species (out of a total of 76), sixteen from the Old World and nine from North America are compared by means of numerical analyses based on morphological, anatomical and palynological data. The following four subgenera are recognised: Campanella Tamura, Tubulosa T.Y.A.Yang nom. nov., Viorna A.Gray and Integrifolia (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov. Archiclematis Tamura is reduced from its generic status to a section within subgenus Campanella; Tubulosa is raised from sectional to subgeneric rank. The sections Integrifolia (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov., Baldwiniana (R.O. Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov., and Hirsutissima (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov. are all raised from subsectional rank, and together comprise the subgenus Integrifolia. A checklist of the Viorna group is included.
10.2307/3668591|Plants of Galanthus nivalis L. and G. woronowii Losinsk. with additional inflorescences or additional green leaves were selected for analysis. A formal method of interpretation has been developed. 1. Organs were positioned on diagrams. 2. Diagrams were transformed into axial schemes. Both monopodial and sympodial models were assumed to be equally valid. If necessary for the phyllotaxis correction, the phantom leaves were included in the interpretation. 3. Schemes were sub-divided into monopodial and sympodial groups. 4. Schemes, containing a minimum of phantoms, were compared by superposition. The results revealed that the sympodial model uniformly predicts a phantom prophyll at the base of the innovation bud. A morphological series of prophyll reduction in Amaryllidaceae is proposed. The previous sympodial scheme of Galanthus branching by Mller-Doblies (1971) is modified by the insertion of the phantom prophyll at the base of the main bud. New evidence on the prophyll reduction in Galanthus is obtained.
10.2307/3668597|From about 1993 to the present (1998), millions of plants of Fargesia murieliae, an ornamental bamboo, were flowering monocarpically in western Europe. All plants being ramets of a single genet, introduced in Europe about 80 years ago, the simultaneous flowering of all these ramets constitutes a single giant compound inflorescence. Flowering plants were subjected to different conditions of light intensity and temperature yielding different modes of development of flowering. Under low light intensity and high ambient temperatures (22-25C), reversion of flowering is ultimately observed by development of vegetative shoots from basal buds of flowering culms. Under conditions that induce oxidative stress (full sun and drought) flowering and senescence proceed rapidly. The process of senescence is linked to oxidative stress as measured in elevated activities of superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase in the semelauctant inflorescences. By strong photoreduction of catalase activity, high light intensity is directly responsible for inactivation of one of the major defence mechanisms of the cells, thereby effectively accelerating flowering and senescence. In blades of spathes subtending the semelauctant inflorescences (short paracladial zone), DNA replication as well as loss of DNA from nuclei is observed. As this phenomenon is observed in green spathes prior to the development of the terminal inflorescence, DNA replication is a very early marker for senescence. A role for extra DNA synthesis prior to senescence is suggested in cytokinin biosynthesis.
10.2307/3668600|Flower anatomy and ovule development is described in Comospermum yedoense and Eriospermum natalense. A close relationship between Comospermum and Eriospermum, earlier indicated by rbcL, now seems doubtful, as their seed hair types are not homologous and they differ in other respects. A relationship between Comospermum and Convallariaceae is well supported by both molecular data and several micromorphological characters, notably lack of phytomelan, chromosome number, and tenuinucellate ovules.
10.2307/3668598|A survey of inflorescence morphology was conducted as part of a phylogenetic analysis of the Aristolochiaceae. The two members of the subfamily Asaroideae, Saruma and Asarum, have monotelic inflorescences and sympodial growth. In contrast, polytelic inflorescences are the rule within the subfamily Aristolochioideae, where two types of synflorescences occur: thyrsic (if cymose partial florescences are present), and racemose (if only one ebracteate flower is formed at each node). The partial florescence (PF) is used to compare the taxa within the subfamily. Many-flowered PFs are common in most members of Aristolochia, although 1-flowered PFs occur in all species of A. subsect. Pentandrae, as well as in some members of A. subgen. Siphisia, A. sect. Diplolobus, and A. subsect. Hexandrae. Two types of racemose synflorescences are recognized: frondose (or frondulose) synflorescences, in A. rojasiana (formerly Euglypha) and A. subser. Hexandrae; and rami- or cauliflorous coflorescences (i.e. lateral racemes), in A. reniformis (formerly Holostylis) and A. subser. Anthocaulicae. Cauliflory appears to be independently acquired in different members of the Aristolochioideae. Two different structural (and perhaps functional) types of cauliflory are described: the first occurs when a cymose, often densiflorous, PF, develops late (in members of Thottea, Aristolochia subgen. Siphisia, A. subgen. Pararistolochia, and A. ser. Thyrsicae), and the second when flowering occurs exclusively in short, bracteose lateral racemes (in A. subsect. Anthocaulicae). Characters related to the position and structure of the PF and the specialization of lateral racemes for flowering were found to be informative for a preliminary phylogenetic analysis (Gonzlez 1997). The analysis generated a hypothesis of a transformation from thyrsic to racemose synflorescences, via a reduction in the number of flowers to one on each PF and the loss of the bract. Other derived characters are the frondulose or bracteose pherophylls, and the strictly lateral position of the coflorescences.
10.2307/3668595|Wood anatomy of 16 genera of the Pavetteae has been examined. Except for some general features of the Ixoroideae, such as solitary vessels, presence of fibre-tracheids, and the frequent occurrence of disjunctive ray parenchyma cell walls, diagnostic variation was found in axial parenchyma, rays, and crystal features. Special attention was given to the morphology of vestures associated with vessel pits and two vesture types were defined. The delimitation of an Ixora group is wood anatomically supported by the presence of small bands or lines of axial parenchyma, styloids or elongate crystals, predominantly uniseriate rays, and branched vestures that completely fill the pit chamber. It is suggested that these characters are derived. Wood of Duperrea is different in the ray composition and the presence of remarkable parenchyma bands; this corroborates an exclusion from the Pavetteae. Long chains of prismatic crystals in chambered axial parenchyma cells occur mainly in Bridson's informal group I of Tarenna, but are also present in Nichallea and Pavetta.
10.2307/3668610|Morphological and anatomical investigations confirm the reduction of Schickendantzia Pax to Alstroemeria L. Schickendantzia pygmaea (Herb.) Speg., a small herb growing in the Andean mountains, 3500-4400 m above sea level, was first described in the genus Alstroemeria. Particularly valuable in determining the correct taxonomic position are: the presence of axile placentation, a trilocular ovary, two inner usually spotted, upper tepals, a rhizome with some fleshy-starchy white roots, a six-ribbed loculicidal capsule, umbonate towards the apex with explosive dehiscence, light brown and globose seeds, the outer integument of seed coat dry, with a sculptured surface, ballistic dispersal and pollen grains with striato-reticulate sexine. Therefore, the family Alstroemeriaceae Dumort. should be considered as composed of three genera, Alstroemeria L., Bomarea Mirb. and Leontochir Phil.
10.2307/3668586|Evolutionary biology of flowers has undergone a revolution in the past twenty years. It began with the recovery of excellently preserved Cretaceous fossil flowers and was followed by the improvement of molecular techniques and their application in developmental genetics and systematics, which opened new avenues for evolutionary flower research. In turn, these new fields stimulated comparative floral studies, and traditional approaches in concert with the new ones are now greatly needed. Wilhelm Troll (1897-1978) was a prominent and influential plant morphologist of this century. He and his students were responsible for great advancements in comparative morphological (including floral) studies, although this did not include the addressing of evolutionary questions, since the foundations to understand bauplan evolution were not present at his time.
10.2307/3668592|For the first time attention is drawn to a neglected or overlooked character in Scleria (Cyperaceae), the presence of a genuine ligule. This ligule, present as a fringe of short hairs, is now recorded in five neotropical species of Scleria. A key to the so far known neotropical ligulated species of Scleria is given. The presence versus absence of a ligule, the shape, the density and length of the hairs are very useful diagnostic characters.
10.2307/3668587|Scientific terms should denote similar, comparable, or at the best homologous structures. At the onset of botanical terminology there was often only a very superficial similarity between objects for which the same name was used. Thus, the term "seed" was used for everything that produced a new plant (with the exception of suckers and the like). Later on the term "spore" was introduced by Ehrhart (1778), and in the course of time the differences between seed and spore were better understood. The term spore was first used in a very broad sense, too. It had to be clarified by the exclusion of gametes and zygotes and by the distinction of meio- and mitospores. Several botanical terms that point to analogous rather than homologous structures have been used for a long time. The German term "Eichen" (small egg) for "ovulum" was replaced by "Samenknospe" (seed bud) and finally by "Samenanlage" when it became clear that it was neither an egg nor a small bud. However, the term ovule was kept in English and French. According to the classical morphological view of Goethe (1790), the stamens are named "Staubbltter" and the carpels "Fruchtbltter" in German. No comparable terms exist in English or French. Several other examples are given in order to illustrate the complex connections between terminology and homology in describing and interpreting plant structures.
10.2307/3668585|As a result of his extensive work as botanist and morphologist Wilhelm Troll acquired a worldwide reputation. His scientific research and his activities as an academic teacher influenced not only morphology but also had marked effects on the development of other fields of botanic research, of biology and even beyond biology.
10.2307/3668589|The morphology, distribution and ecology of Cardamine trifida are described. The species has underground fleshy organs. Their origin was interpreted incorrectly by many researchers. The leaf origin of the underground organs is discussed in relation to the taxonomy of this species.
10.2307/3668588|Two exemplary case studies of functional morphology are presented. The first topic, underground plant mobility, illustrates the feedback effect of 'plant structure' and observation of their 'functional role'. Questions are raised in relation to both, 'plant structure' and its 'functional role'. Experiments are developed to obtain answers, and to prompt further questions resulting from these answers. This was shown in an exemplary way in the unusually geophilous strategies of Hemerocallis fulva, well adapted to fulfilling the function 'cryptical survival'. Thus, investigation of functional morphology is useful for a better understanding of plant behaviour. The second case study relates to dispersal of diaspores in Apiaceae. Wind tunnel experiments were carried out to analyze the 'flying ability' of winged or spiny mericarps. In general, winged diaspores fly better than spiny ones, except in the case of Daucus muricatus, the spiny diaspores of which fly better than the winged ones, e.g., of Prangos pabularia. Thus, this topic was useful in showing that functional approaches to 'plant structure' may reveal new perspectives in ecological understanding. However, 'form' and 'function' are frequent in botanical literature, showing that a dualistic treatment of plant structures is very helpful for a better understanding of plant biology. Besides 'underground plant movement' and 'dispersal' there are important topics such as 'floral ecology', 'biomechanics', and many more. All of these could be included in one category, which we propose to call 'plant construction'. Scientific work on 'plant construction' should be based on three basic principles: 1. The starting point of the investigation should be the specific form itself, 2. The scientific question should be functional, and 3. Scientific investigation should be based on targeted observation and experiment.
10.2307/3668601|A study on four species of the genus Phacelia (Hydrophyllaceae) was focused on flower and fruit development. A combination of morphological characters of the corolla and the gynoecium (including formation and distribution of crystals) is shown to be useful in segregating even closely related taxa within the genus. Half inferior ovaries, as demonstrated for two species, seem to be more frequent within the genus than previously assumed. Corresponding stages during early gynoecium development and characters of the nectary disc and corolla may underline a closer relationship between Hydrophyllaceae and Boraginaceae.
10.2307/3668594|In adult woody plants, there is a division of labour between innovation and reproduction: One particular group of meristems, buds or shoot sections guarantees the vegetative continuation, another one only functions for a short period of pollination or diaspore production. The reproductive elements originate from the purely vegetative shoot sections by different ways of segregation. The unit of extension (UE) is used as the reference matrix to describe different types of allocation: (1) terminal flowering in competition with the vegetative apex, (2) lateral inflorescence shoots occupying a vacant UE section, (3) "mixed" structure of 1 and 2, (4) partial or full displacement of strong lateral shoots, (5) accessory buds developing into both vegetative and reproductive organs, (6) long-term reproductive capacity by accessory or prophyll shoots which is widespread in tropical families, (7) alternation between a reproductive and a non-reproductive UE form, (8) insertion of an additional short-shoot-like reproductive UE. Also a change of arrangement is possible because the UE programme undergoes a regressive metamorphosis during tree ageing or at subordinate branches. At the branch level, the allocation is described by the "shoot chain" in terms of monopodial, ananthic-sympodial or anthetic-sympodial. Research is based upon temperate species but the results can be extrapolated to some tropical species.
10.2307/3668604|The effect of irrigation and artificial nutrient supply on nectar secretion and nectary structure of three of the main Labiatae species occurring in a phryganic community (viz. Satureja thymbra, Stachys cretica, and Thymus capitatus) was studied. Experiments were carried out on potted plants taken from the wild, along with control plants (untreated or/and naturally growing). Only T. capitatus clearly secreted a higher nectar volume and sugars after treatment, whereas the yield of S. thymbra did not increase significantly when plants were irrigated or artificially supplied with nutrients. The case of S. cretica was more complicated showing different trends depending on the time of the year. Conclusions are: (i) nutrient supply does not always enhance nectar secretion in the poor-soil phrygana; (ii) irrigation is more important in increasing per flower nectar secretion than fertilization; (iii) nutrient supply results in the presence of nectarless flowers; (iv) nectar analyses made on three plants show that neither of the treatments affects amino acid concentration of the nectar, but they result in either glucose excess in the nectar of woody species (viz. S. thymbra, T. capitatus) or in sucrose excess in the nectar of herbaceous species (S. cretica). Most of these results can be explained through a differential resource allocation of the water-stressed plants grown in the wild on the one hand, and the treated plants on the other. This difference stems from the fact that woody species clearly distinguish between growth and reproductive phases, whereas in herbaceous perennials the growing phase overlaps with reproductive phase and blooming. Under conditions of artificial nutrient supply, plants may continue to allocate to vegetative growth rather than to pollinator allurement; on the contrary, wild growing plants may invest exclusively in pollinator allurement. It is assumed that the approach of the summer is very critical and conclusive for a shorter life cycle of the species. Some intraspecific differences in nectary structure were found as a result of the treatments. However, because these differences were not consistent either with the treatment effects on nectar secretion or with the nectar characteristics studied, it is concluded that the observed differences may be mere intraspecific variations normally occurring in nature.
10.2307/3668606|Tylophora anomala is investigated with emphasis on flower morphology, chromosome numbers and distribution. Two distinct subunits, a hexaploid cytotype (2n = 66) distributed in East and South-East Africa and a dodeca- to decatetraploid cytotype (2n = 132-154) in West Africa, are recognized. A detailed description of both cytotypes and a distribution map are provided. Slight floral differences between the disjunct cytotypes do exist, but formal recognition of the West African representatives is not justified. /// Bltenmorphologie, Chromosomen und Verbreitungsmuster von Tylophora anomala werden untersucht. 2 Untereinheiten sind unterscheidbar, ein hexaploider Cytotyp (2n = 66) in Ost- und Sdostafrika und ein dodeca- bis decatetraploider Cytotyp (2n = 132-154) in Westafrika. Beide Cytotypen werden detailliert beschrieben; eine Verbreitungskarte wird vorgestellt. Kleinere bltenmorphologische Abweichungen zwischen den disjunkten Cytotypen erscheinen jedoch nicht ausreichend, die westafrikanischen Vertreter als Taxon formal anzuerkennen.
10.2307/3668596|New investigations on sporophyte morphology in Lejeuneaceae and Jubulaceae (Hepaticae). Sporophyte features such as form and size of the capsule and ornamentation of the cell walls at the top and the margins of the capsule valves and various characters of the elaters, spores, seta and foot were investigated in order to determine their systematic relevance. It appears that members of Lejeuneoideae (Brachiolejeuneae and Lejeuneae), Cololejeuneoideae and Ptychanthoideae (all Lejeuneaceae) have different cell patterns on the outside of the capsule valves. Sporophytes of Ptychanthoideae correspond in many features with those of Frullania (Jubulaceae), and the capsules of Austrolejeunea (Tyamaelloideae) are similar to those of the Cololejeuneoideae.
3668775|Clerodendrum sassandrense Jongkind (Lamiaceae, Ajugoideae) from the forest of south-west Cte d'Ivoire is described and illustrated.
3668761|Telosma parviflora Merr., an endemic of the Philippines, is recognized as a species of Tylophora, and the new combination Tylophora parviflora (Merr.) Meve, Omlor & Liede is proposed. To date the epithet "parviflora" has only been used erroneously in Tylophora for the Indian species Tylophora pauciflora Wight & Arn.; it arose from a typographic error and is not a validly published name. The epithet "parviflora" is therefore available for the transfer of Telosma parviflora to Tylophora. This unusual night-flowering species is a strong twiner with large leaves, yellowish milky latex and multi-flowered inflorescences. Florally, it indeed resembles species of Telosma, since its yellow flowers are only open late in the evening and night and emit a heavy and sweet fragrance while open.
3668770|Evidence for the biological identity of the two morphologically defined taxa Rosa spinosissima L. and R. pimpinellifolia L. is presented with R. spinosissima L. (1753) as the valid name for the taxon.
3668769|Among the coprophilous Ascomycetes collected during the past four years, two species of Saccobolus (S. quadrisporus and S. saccoboloides) are new to Belgium. Three others have been rarely reported: S. beckii and S. caesariatus from recent collections, S. eleutherosporus from a much earlier one. Four of the species are reported and described here on the basis of freshly collected specimens and compared to previous reports. A key to the eight Belgian species of Saccobolus is included that also includes three additional species likely to occur in the area. /// Les observations poursuivies au cours de ces quatre dernires annes sur les Ascomyctes coprophiles ont mis en vidence la prsence en Belgique de deux espces de Saccobolus qui n'avaient jamais t signales (S. quadrisporus et S. saccoboloides) ainsi que de trois autres (S. beckii, S. caesariatus et S. eleutherosporus) connues toutes trois d'une unique localit. Quatre de ces espces sont dcrites sur base de matriel frachement rcolt; les rsultats sont discuts part comparaison avec les donnes antrieures. Une cl de dtermination des huit espces du genre connues de Belgique est propose; cette cl s'applique encore  trois autres espces qui pourront vraisemblablement tre observes dans la dition.
3668766|A monograph of Chilocarpus, a genus counting thirteen species of the Apocynaceae-Plumerioideae-Chilocarpeae restricted to tropical Asia, is given. Two keys to the species are presented, one for flowering and one for fruiting material. All species are described in detail and maps depict their geographical distribution. The study is based on herbarium specimens; for only five species living material was at disposal. /// Une monographie de Chilocarpus, un genre de treize espces restreint  l'Asie tropicale, est prsente. Deux cls des espces sont donnes, une pour les chantillons florifres et une pour du marriel en fruit. Toutes les espces sont dcrites en dtail et des cartes de rpartition sont produites. L'tude est base surtout sur matriel d'herbier, seulement cinq espces tant disponibles  l'tat vivant.
3668774|Kniphofia marungensis Lisowski & Wiland is a new endemic species from the Marungu Plateau in Upper Katanga (D.R. Congo). This species, very different from all Central African species of Kniphofia Moench is distinguished by its small white flowers and grass-like ciliate leaves. A key to all eight species of Kniphofia from D.R. Congo is presented. Supplementary descriptive and distributional data of another Marungu species, Kniphofia nana Marais, are provided.
3668764|Based on herbarium collections, the Chinese members of the genus Lasianthus are revised. Thirty-three species, four subspecies and three varieties are recognized. One new species, L. austroyunnanensis, is described and two new combinations, L. shimizui and L. trichophlebus var. latifolius are made. Six species names, two subspecies names and ten variety names are reduced to synonyms. All species are described and a key to Chinese Lasianthus is given.
3668760|Mt. Mulanje is a solitary massif in southern Malawi and is the highest point in south tropical Africa. During the preparation of a checklist of the flora of Mt. Mulanje, 69 species were identified that apparently only occurred on the massif; others had local or slightly wider but disjunct distributions. These are compared with a list of 30 species endemic to Mt. Mulanje produced by Wild in 1964. The endemic species represent 5.3% of the naturally occurring and naturalised flora. Mt. Mulanje has been identified as one of the sites in Africa in greatest need of protection and as a Centre of Plant Diversity. It is hoped that the information presented here will be of practical use for the conservation and management plans being proposed for Mt. Mulanje.
3668771|Microsatellites, or simple sequences repeats (SSR), have become genetic markers of choice in many plant species. In the present work, using a rapid method, we have isolated two microsatellite loci <tex-math>$\text{(TC)}_{19}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$\text{(TTC)}_{4}$</tex-math> from the genome of Rosa chinensis 'Old Blush'. For the <tex-math>$\text{(TC)}_{19}$</tex-math> locus, we have designed a functional primer pair and demonstrated allelic diversity among eight wild and cultivated roses. This study is the first approach of the SSR polymorphism in the complex genus Rosa.
3668773|Two species of Justicia, the unrecognized Justicia dalaensis (Katanga) and the new Justicia scutifera (Kwango and Katanga) are described and illustrated. Distribution maps of the two species are provided. /// Deux espces, Justicia dalaensis, mconnue (Katanga) et une nouvelle espce, Justicia scutifera (Kwango et Katanga), sont dcrites et illustres. Des cartes de distribution sont donnes.
3668767|Relationships among 111 species of the Psychotria complex (Rubiaceae tribe Psychotrieae) were estimated by cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in the rps16 intron (cpDNA). The Psychotria complex is characterised morphologically by caducous stipules and (usually) testa with a reddish, ethanol soluble pigment. It was found to be comprised of two major clades, one of which is Psychotria in a strict sense. Psychotria s. str. is characterised by usually having pyrenes without preformed germination slits, a plane or shallowly furrowed adaxial surface and usually numerous distinct ridges on the abaxial side. Most species occur in Africa and the Neotropics, but the genus extends eastwards to the Philippines and Australia. The second subclade comprises species from areas around the Indian Ocean and in the Pacific. Members of this subclade mostly differ morphologically from Psychotria s. str. by pyrenes with distinct marginal preformed germination slits. This subclade includes the tuberiferous, myrmecophile epiphytes, which, it is suggested, comprise a single genus, Hydnophytum. It also includes the genera Amaracarpus, Calycosia, Dolianthus, and Straussia. These genera are not supported as monophyletic by sequence data, but are tentatively recognized based on morphological evidence. Calycosia should be given a broader circumscription than presently and may be characterised by entire endosperm and pollen grains with usually thin exine and small lumina. The name Straussia has traditionally been applied only to Hawaiian species, but is applicable to a more widely distributed group. Its major distinguishing feature is a more or less ruminate endosperm.
3668768|Flower galls in members of the Rubiaceae are described from observations of African herbarium specimens. Corolla-tube galls are distinguished from ovarian galls within the family. The taxonomic incidence of gall-formation and its consequences for flower integrity are discussed.
3668765|Leuconotis Jack, a genus counting five species, is restricted to tropical Asia. A key to the species is presented. All five species, two of which are new to science are described in detail and distribution maps are given for the most wide-spread species. Most of the names known from literature turned out to be synonyms of L. anceps. The study is based mainly on herbarium material as only a few specimens have been seen as living plants. Several type specimens of names, putative synonyms of L. anceps, were sterile, and some were lost. For L. anceps a neotype is selected, as no type material could be traced. /// Leuconotis, un genre de cinq espces est restreint  l'Asie tropicale. Une cl des espces est prsente. Les cinq espces, parmi lesquelles deux sont nouvelles pour la science, sont dcrites en dtail; des cartes de rpartition sont ajoutes pour les deux espces  large distribution. La plupart des noms connus de la littrature apparaissent tre des synonymes de L. anceps. L'tude est fonde surtout sur du matriel de l'herbier, parce que peu des chantillons ont t vus comme plantes vivantes. Plusieurs chantillons types de noms, probablement synonymes de L. anceps, sont steriles, et quelques uns sont perdus. Un notype a t choisi pour L. anceps, parce que son type ne pouvait pas tre retrouv.
3668762|Two taxa were hitherto confused under the name Pseuderanthemum tunicatum. A new species, Pseuderanthemum albo-coeruleum, and a subspecies, subsp. robustum, are described whilst the true P. tunicatum is reassessed, and a variety, var. infundibuliformis, is also described. The distribution maps of these two species of Pseuderanthemum are provided. A new species of Pseuderanthemum from Katanga (Congo- Kinshasa) and Tanzania, P. katangensis, close to P. hildebrantii Lindau, is also described. The species is illustrated and its distribution map is given. An identification key of all the African species of the genus is provided.
3668763|Perenniporia djaensis C.Decock & Mossebo is described as new. The description is based on a collection from the Dja Biosphere reserve, Cameroon, on an unidentified angiosperm. Some additional comments on some records of Perenniporia from the Dja are included.
3668484|Leptoderris sassandrensis from the forests of West Africa (Upper Guinea), is described and illustrated. The differences between the new species and Leptoderris fasciculata are explained.
3668483|Impatiens nyungwensis from Nyungwe Forest in Rwanda is described as new species. It is closely related to I. bururiensis and I. gesneroidea but differs mainly in shape and size of the corolla. The ecology of I. nyungwensis and the endemicity of Impatiens in the Albertine Rift region is briefly discussed.
3668486|References to treatments of the families of phanerogams in the main floras of tropical Africa are presented. Information about synonyms and other taxonomic concepts of some families are given. /// Les rfrences aux traitements des familles de phanrogames dans les principales Flores de l'Afrique tropicale sont prsentes. Des informations concernant des synonymies ainsi que d'autres conceptions taxonomiques de certaines familles sont fournies.
3668479|Monograph of Melodinus, the only genus of the Melodineae (Apocynaceae, Plumerioideae, Carisseae), containing 19 species and restricted to tropical Asia and Australia. Five keys to the species are presented, one for the entire genus, one for the species represented in China, one for the species present in the countries covered by Flora Malesiana, one for the species known from New Caledonia and one for those from Australia. /// Monographie de Melodinus, le seul genre des Melodineae (Apocynaceae, Plumerioideae, Carisseae). Il comprend 19 espces et est limit  l'Asie et  l'Australie. Cinq cls des espces sont presentes, une pour le genre entier, une pour les espces reprsentes en Chine, une pour les espces trouves dans les pays couverts par la Flora Malesiana, une pour la Nouvelle-Caldonie et une pour l'Australie.
3668481|During our 2001 Malagasy Peperomia Expedition several new species of Peperomia (Piperaceae) were discovered, six of which are described here. Peperomia costata was found in the dense evergreen forests of the Anjanaharibe-Sud Special Reserve. Peperomia humbertii is a terrestrial or epiphytic herb found in the nearby Marojejy National Park. Peperomia mantadiana grows terrestrial often on exposed ridges at different forest sites. Peperomia pluvisilvatica was collected in the rain forests of the Montagne d'Ambre National Park. This is also the type locality of another new species: Peperomia terebinthina. Peperomia ratticaudata occurs in the low altitude evergreen forests of southeastern Madagascar. /// Pendant notre Expdition Malgache Peperomia 2001 plusieurs nouvelles espces ont t dcouvertes. Six sont dcrites ici. Peperomia costata est trouve dans les forts denses sempervirentes de la Rserve Spciale de Anjanaharibe-Sud. Peperomia humbertii est une herbe piphytique ou terrestre trouve dans le Parc National de Marojejy. Peperomia mantadiana est terrestre ou piphytique aux endroits exposs dans diffrents sites forestiers. Peperomia pluvisilvatica est collecte dans les forts pluviales du Parc National de Montagne d'Ambre. Ceci est aussi la localit typique d'une autre espce: Peperomia terebinthina. Peperomia ratticaudata pousse dans les forts sempervirentes de basse altitude du sud-est de Madagascar.
3668480|The present status of Arisaema speciosum (Wall.) Mart. is discussed based on an examination of herbarium specimens as well as living material in the field and in cultivation. It results that A. speciosum is recognised as having three varieties: var. speciosum, var. mirabile and the newly described var. ziroense.
3668485|One African and two Madagascan species are transferred from Tarenna to Paracephaelis.
3668482|Floral vasculature, sporogenesis and gametophyte development are observed in Pentastemona egregia (Stemonaceae). Sporogenesis and gametophyte development agree with those of the rest of the family, but they neither provide informative evidence for the further relationship of the genus nor the affinity of the family. Floral architecture indicates that the pentamerous-monocyclic flower of Pentastemona could have been derived from trimerous-dicyclic flowers by a simple modification.
3668487|This paper is a contribution to the floristic knowledge of Desmidiaceae (genera Cosmarium, Actinotaenium and Cosmocladium) in an oxbow lake. From 41 samples (planktic, metaphytic and periphytic) collected in the Diogo Pond, Moji-Guau River floodplain, 53 infrageneric taxa comprising 47 of Cosmarium, four of Actinotaenium and two of Cosmocladium were identified. Most of these taxa belong to a rather trivial, more or les cosmopolitan element; however, the correct interpretation of this observation needs a more complete study of the other desmid genera present in Diogo Pond. The specimens found were mainly represented in periphytic and metaphytic habitats.
3668627|This first-ever revision of Chione DC. (Rubiaceae), a genus of neotropical trees and shrubs, is based on the study of herbarium specimens and field observations. Chione can be diagnosed by a combination of characters, some of which are: entire and caducous interpetiolar stipules, terminal inflorescences that turn white or greenish-white when mature, funnelform corollas with strongly recurved lobes, corolla lobes imbricate in bud, anthers inserted near the base of the corolla tube, fruits maturing red to purple, each fruit with a single, sclerenchymatized pyrene enclosing two locules, and ovules that are solitary and pendulous in locules. Chione has continuous variation among many morphological character states, including those formerly employed to distinguish species. Chione is here considered a monotypic genus, with four varieties: Chione venosa var. buxifolia, var. cubensis, var. mexicana, and var. venosa. C. venosa var. cubensis (distributed in Cuba and Hispaniola) and var. mexicana (distributed in eastern Mexico) are distinguished from the other varieties by having relatively small fruits and smooth pyrenes. C. venosa var. cubensis is distinguished from var. mexicana by typically having thicker leaves and longer corolla lobes relative to corolla tube length. C. venosa var. buxifolia (known only from the immediate vicinity of Cerro Jefe, Panama) is distinguished from var. venosa (distributed from Tamaulipas, Mexico to Junn, Peru, and from the Dominican Republic to Tobago) by its extremely reduced and coriaceous leaves.
3668629|The study of the vegetation of inselbergs and forest types in these two afrotropical countries lead to the description of three new taxa. Justicia amanda subsp. saxatilis, growing on inselbergs in Equatorial Guinea is a vicariant taxon of the typical subspecies which is only known from the mountains of Eastern Congo-Kinshasa, Rwanda and Burundi. Dischistocalyx lithicola, also growing on inselbergs, differs from the other species by its complete glabrescence, its strongly two-coloured, narrow, coriaceous although thin leaves, and from D. strobilinus, the closest species, by its larger corolla. Dischistocalyx alternifolius, growing in rainforest, differs from all other species of the genus by its complete anisophylly, with the complete reduction of one leaf in each pair. /// L'tude de la vgtation des inselbergs et des types forestiers dans ces deux pays d'Afrique tropicale a amen la description de trois taxons nouveaux. Justicia amanda subsp. saxatilis, croissant sur les inselbergs de Guine quatoriale, est un taxon vicariant de la sous-espce type, originaire des montagnes du Congo-Kinshasa oriental, du Rwanda et du Burundi. Dischistocalyx lithicola, croissant galement sur inselberg, se distingue des autres espces du genre par sa glabrescence parfaite, ses feuilles fortement discolores, troites et assez coriaces quoique minces et de D. strobilinus, espce proche, par sa corolle plus grande. Dischistocalyx alternifolius, espce de fort dense humide, diffre de toutes les espces du genre par son anisophyllie complte aboutissant  la disparition d'une feuille de chaque paire.
3668628|A recent revision of Chione (Rubiaceae) has excluded two species, C. exserta and C. seminervis, from the genus on the basis of morphology. The new genus Colleteria is here erected to accommodate those species. The genus Colleteria can be diagnosed by a combination of characters, some of which are: corolla lobes imbricate in bud, anthers inserted at or below middle of the corolla tube, fruit with two pyrenes, the pyrenes adaxially concave, abaxially convex and ridged, with marginal germination slits extending from apex to middle, each pyrene with one locule, ovules solitary and pendulous in locules. Colleteria exserta (distributed in Cuba and Hispaniola) is distinguished from Colleteria seminervis (distributed in Hispaniola and Puerto Rico) by its larger leaf blade size, greater number of secondary leaf veins, longer petioles, longer interpetiolar stipules, and greater number of flowers per inflorescence.
3668630|Six inselbergs of Benin have been studied in four localities. This study presents the results of 123 phytosociological "relevs". A total number of 285 plant species have been gathered belonging to 77 families, of which Poaceae (34 species) and Fabaceae (32 species) are the most representative. The 285 plant species identified have been classified in seven groups according to the vegetation types. The analysis of life-form spectra has revealed the abundance of therophytes (38.2% and 36.5%) and phanerophytes (39.7% and 37.2%). The grasslands are dominated by annual species. The number of therophytes increases from south to north; this could be due to decrease of average annual precipitation. The phytogeographical spectrum of species have revealed the abundance of sudano-zambezian elements (21.4% and 23.9%) and African pluriregional elements (21.4% and 21.6%). No endemic species have been noted among the 285 species. The two phanerophytes most frequently encountered and restricted to the inselbergs are Hymenodictyon floribundum and Ficus abutilifolia. The most characteristical species of dry grasslands is Afrotrilepis pilosa. Inselberg vegetation is characterized by its homogeneousness due to harsh environmental conditions. /// Six inselbergs du Bnin, dans quatre localits, ont t tudis. Sur un total de 123 relevs phytosociologiques effectus, 285 espces rparties dans 77 familles ont t rpertories. Les familles les plus largement reprsentes sont les Poaceae (34 espces) et les Fabaceae (32). Les espces recenses sont classes en sept types de formation vgtale. Le spectre biologique brut des espces est un spectre constitu de throphytes (38,2% et 36,5%) et de phanrophytes (39,7% et 37,2%). Les pelouses sont  dominance de throphytes. L'augmentation du nombre d'espces annuelles suivant un gradient sud-nord pourrait tre exlique par une diminution des prcipitations moyennes annuelles. Le spectre phytogographique global a mis en vidence la prpondrance des espces soudanozambziennes (SZ = 21,4% et 23,9%) et plurirgionales africaines (PA = 21,4% et 21,6%). Aucune espce endmique n'a t note parmi les 285 taxons recenss. Les espces ligneuses les plus constamment rencontres et infodes aux milieux tudis sont Hymenodictyon floribundum et Ficus abutilifolia. L'espce la plus caractristique des pelouses sches est Afrotrilepis pilosa. La vgtation des inselbergs reste caractrise par son homognit qui tmoigne des conditions extrmes du milieu.
3668626|The type specimens of Perenniporia mundula and of its presumed taxonomic synonym, Vanderbylia ungulata have been examined as well as several original collections identified as P. mundula. The presumed synonymy is rejected, and the two species are accepted as distinct in their respective genera. The taxonomic placement of both taxa is discussed. Perenniporia mundula belongs to the complex around Perenniporia medulla-panis while V. ungulata is related to Vanderbylia vicina, type species of Vanderbylia. The geographic distribution of V. ungulata is outlined. /// Les spcimens type de Perenniporia mundula et Vanderbylia ungulata ont t re-examins, ainsi que plusieurs collections originales identifies comme P. mundula. La synonymie prsume est rejete sur base de diffrences morphologiques significatives, et les deux espces ont acceptes dans leur genre respectif. La position taxonomique de ces deux taxa est discute. Perenniporia mundula appartient au complexe de Perenniporia medulla-panis, alors que V. ungulata est proche de Vanderbylia vicina, espce type du genre Vanderbylia. La distribution gographique de V. ungulata est propose.
3668632|A new species of Polystachya Hook.f. sect. Polychaete Cribb (Orchidaceae) is described from So Tom, Gabon and Rio Muni (Equatorial Guinea): Polystachya moniquetiana Stvart & Geerinck. It is related to Polystachya polychaete Kraenzl. from which it differs in the lip and plant size.
3668631|A revision of Bertiera Aublet is undertaken, based mainly on a study of Cameroonian herbarium specimens at BR, BRLU, K, P, SCA, WAG and YA. The morphological features (habit, leaves, stipules, domatia, colleters, flower, fruit and seed characters) of the genus are reviewed and documented. The distribution maps of the species show the characteristic distribution pattern of a strict rain forest genus. The taxonomic part gives keys and complete treatments of species (synonymies, descriptions, distributional data, critical notes). The detailed examination of the specimens resulted in some changes. It is proved that Bertiera globiceps K.Schum. var. bityensis (Wernham) N.Hall and Bertiera racemosa (G.Don) K.Schum. var. dewevrei (De Wild. & Th.Dur.) N.Hall are not worth varietal distiction. On the other hand, Bertiera subsessilis Hiern var. congolana N.Hall needs to be returned to its specific status (Bertiera congolana De Wild. & Th.Dur). Two species are new records for the Cameroon flora: Bertiera congolana De Wild. & Th.Dur. and Bertiera arctistipula N.Hall.
3668633|Two new species of Crotalaria, C. cupricola Leteinturier and C. serpentinicola Leteinturier & Polhill, are described from Zimbabwe. Both species belong to section Crotalaria subsection Longirostres and are deceptively similar. The differences and affinities are given. Both are restricted to metalliferous soils (one on a copper hill, the other on serpentine ultramafic rocks).
20649699|A list of 108 endemic taxa from Atlantic Central Africa occuring in Cameroon is given. Among these, 72 (67%) are epiphytes, 7 (6%) are facultative epiphytes and 29 (27%) are terrestrial. These figures may present important local variations: from lowland to montane forest, the proportion of epiphytes decreases with about 20%. Fourty three (40%) taxa are known only from Cameroon and the specific endemism for Orchidaceae in this country is ca. 8.8%. Two genera, Gastroida R.Br. and Ossiculum P.J.Cribb & Laan, are endemic to Cameroon. The species Polystachya bipoda Stvart, Ancistrorhynchus obovata Stvart inedit., Cyrtorchis submontana Stvart inedit., Tridactyle anthomoniaca (Rchb.f.) Summerh. subsp. nana P.J.Cribb & Stvart, Ancistrorhynchus crystalensis P.J.Cribb & Laan and Polystachya kubalae Szlach. & Olsz. are newly recorded for the flora of Cameroon. Twenty four taxa were not recorded in Cameroon by Szlachetko & Olszewski (1998, 2001a & 2001b), but were already cited in the literature as present in Cameroon. For each taxon, exhaustive or thorough literature is provided, as well as the distribution in Atlantic Central Africa, a list of specimens known from Cameroon and an assessment of the conservation status. According to IUCN criteria, 4% of the taxa are Least Concerned (LC), 29% are Critically Endangered (CR), 24% are Endangered (EN) and 35% are Vulnerable (VU).
20649700|Two analyses are carried out for a reconstruction of the phylogeny of the large angiosperm family Rubiaceae. The position of Luculia and Coptosapelta, unresolved or sister to all other Rubiaceae in most of the recently published results, is reanalysed by using five plastid and three nuclear DNA regions sequenced for selected Rubiaceae taxa. A supertree is constructed for more than 500 species in 300 genera, i.e. ca. 50% of the genera known in the family. The supertree is derived from four source trees based on rbcL, rps16, trnL-trnF and atpB-rbcL, the latter with 106 newly generated sequences. The results are confronted with the morphological, anatomical and biogeographical knowledge of the family and discussed in the light of other molecular phylogenies. It is proposed to recognize only two subfamilies, Cinchonoideae (raphides mostly absent; secondary pollen presentation common) and Rubioideae (raphides present; heterostyly common). Luculia and Coptosapelta are found to be basal to the rest of the Cinchonoideae, which are divided in two newly recognized supertribes, Ixoridinae and Cinchonidinae. Also in the subfamily Rubioideae, two major clades may be distinguished and are recognized as supertribes Psychotriidinae (predominantly woody) and Rubiidinae (predominantly herbaceous); the genus Colletoecema and the tribes Urophylleae, Ophiorrhizeae, Lasiantheae and Coussareeae are basal Rubioideae falling outside these two supertribes. Four alliances are spotted as groups for which major problems exist with regard to relationships and tribal delimitation: three neotropical groups, viz. the Calycophylleae/Condamineeae alliance, the Catesbaeeae/Chiococceae complex and the Rondeletieae alliance, and the pantropical Spermacoceae s.lat. The cladogenesis of Rubiaceae depicted by the supertree is strongly correlated with the present geographical distribution of taxa. The results are summarized in a conspectus of the family enumerating the tribes and listing all their genera for which the inclusion is corroborated by DNA sequences. Newly recognized tribes and subtribes are the Henriquezieae-Posoqueriinae, the Palicoureeae and the Rubieae-Theligoninae and -Kelloggiinae. Some tribes are reduced to subtribes, viz. Virectarieae (subtribe of Sabiceeae), Bertiereae (subtribe of Coffeeae) and Isertieae (subtribe of Cinchoneae). Novel positions are proposed for the genera Aulacocalyx, Calycosiphonia, Cremaspora, Crossopteryx and Morelia.
20649719|Psychotria kwewonii (Rubiaceae) from the forests of Liberia, Cte d'Ivoire and Ghana is described and illustrated, and its possible affinities discussed.
20649716|Mantalania longipedunculata De Block & A.P.Davis (Rubiaceae), was recently described from le Sainte Marie, Madagascar, based on a single collection in fruit. Due to the large-scale destruction of native forest on le Sainte Marie, the species was suspected of being critically endangered or even extinct. However, during a recent field trip to the type locality, M. longipedunculata was rediscovered. The species description is emended, particularly with regard to flower characters.
20649712|A new species of Bertiera (Rubiaceae) from Cameroon and Gabon, Bertiera heterophylla Nguembou & Sonk, is described and illustrated. This new species belongs to the subgenus Bertiera and appears to be closely related to Bertiera bicarpellata. Bertiera heterophylla differs from B. bicarpellata in having lateral branches with terminal inflorescences while on the main stem, the inflorescences are axillary.
20649708|This study is based on 598 phytosociological relevs and 1021 plant species taken during an extensive vegetation survey in the Republic of Benin. Site selection was primarily directed towards forest reserves to understand the potential vegetation patterns countrywide. Distributional patterns assessed by means of numerical analyses suggested a meaningful subdivision of Benin into ten phytogeographical districts (PDs). Chorological analysis proved to be valuable as a complementary approach to the characterisation of the phytosociologically-defined districts and allowed their merging into three major phytochorological zones, namely the Guineo-Congolian and Sudanian regions, linked by the Guineo/Sudanian transition zone. The phytogeographical patterns described were consistent with the hypothesis of water availability-driven variation in species and chorotype compositions. While the climate in terms of several climate elements was the primary factor, rainfall considered alone failed to explain the observed patterns. The biogeographical particularities of the PD Pob in southern Benin were elucidated by the exclusive presence of many Guineo-Congolian endemic genera. The PDs Bassila and Atacora Chain turned out to be of great ecological and biogeographical relevance within the Sudanian regional centre of endemism. Evidence is provided for a former floristic connection of these PDs to the West African Forest Blocks. The results show how the phytosociology approach through numerical analyses of a large dataset constitutes an effective methodological tool for clarifying phytogeographical patterns at meso-scale. Moreover, phytosociology and chorology appear as complementary approaches to phytogeography.
20649710|Verbena brasiliensis, of South American origin, is reported for the first time from Sukhumi, Georgia. The species is shortly described and depicted. The spread of this weedy to invasive species outside its area of origin is discussed.
20649714|Since our 2001 Malagasy Peperomia expedition, several new species have been described in this genus. Three more are presented here: Peperomia ankaranensis, Peperomia erythrocaulis and Peperomia richardsonii. /// Depuis notre expdition Malgache de Peperomia 2001, plusieurs nouvelles espces ont t dcrites dans ce genre. Trois en plus sont prsentes ici: Peperomia ankaranensis, Peperomia erythrocaulis et Peperomia richardsonii.
20649709|Fifteen names of taxa in the genus Elaphoglossum Schott ex J. Sm. (Elaphoglossaceae) are here lectotypified in order to stabilize the names. All these names apply to leptosporangiate ferns from the Neotropics. The typification allows a correct nomenclature of the Neotropical Elaphoglossum species. Specimens designated as lectotypes are kept in the three herbariums of Berlin (B), Brussels (BR) or Paris (P).
20649715|Arisaema siangense G. Gusman is described as a new species from northeast India. A. siangense is a member of section Sinarisaema Nakai; its morphological characters are discussed in relation to other species of this section considered closely related to A. siangense.
20649717|Aframomum wuerthii from Nyungwe National Park is described as new species, the third of the genus for Rwanda. It is related to A. angustifolium but differs in the carmin- red and membranaceous scales and bracts, and in the white petals.
20649711|The effect of exotic tree species on the flora of their undergrowth was investigated in an afforested site of Sm in Benin. The main vegetation in the area consists of timber tree plantation and fallow. Widely distributed species were in the majority (68.8% of spectrum) compared to guineo-congolian species (16.9% of spectrum). These plantations were poor in indigenous species and housed an undergrowth quite different from the native flora surrounding the plantations. This impoverishment of the original floristic diversity was related to ecological effects (shallows, litter amount, soil acidity, competition, allelopathy, etc.) induced by exotic trees (Acacia auriculiformis, Acacia mangium, Casuarina equisetifolia and Eucalyptus camaldulensis). In the Acacia plantation, undergrowth was covered by Acacia pods, stems, phyllodes and a litter amount of 21.05 t MS/ha. The Casuarina equisetifolia plantations presented also a high amount of litter and low plant species richness in the undergrowth. Eucalyptus camaldulensis plantations negatively influenced flora diversity through soil acidification and allelopathy. Casuarina equisetifolia alone or in association with Acacia auriculiformis increased the floristic diversity of the undergrowth. /// Une tude d'impact des essences exotiques plantes en futaies sur la flore de leur sousbois a t effectue dans le primtre de reboisement de Sm au Bnin. Les espces  large distribution gographique dominent (68,8% du spectre pondr) dans le primtre tandis que celles de l'lment base Guino-Congolais y sont peu reprsentes (16,9% du spectre pondr). Les plantations sont pauvres en espces indignes et abritent une flore de sous-bois diffrente de celle de la vgtation naturelle du primtre. Cette rduction de la diversit floristique originelle du milieu d'tude est relative aux effets cologiques (ombrage, litire abondante, pH acide du sol, concurrence, alllopathie, etc.) lis pour l'essentiel aux plantations d'essences exotiques (Acacia auriculiformis, Acacia mangium, Casuarina equisetifolia, Eucalyptus camaldulensis). Dans les plantations d'Acacia, le couvert arborescent est plus dense et le sous-bois est peu clair; les gousses, les tiges, les phyllodes d'Acacia forment une litire paisse plus abondante (21,05 t MS/ha). Les peuplements de Casuarina equisetifolia prsentent au sol une paisse couche de ramilles d'cailles et d'aiguilles qui tout comme l'abondante masse de litire d'Acacia, favorise peu le dveloppement du sous-bois. Eucalyptus camaldulensis exerce des effets plus accuss sur la flore par l'acidification du sol et entre autres l'alllopathie. Par comparaison, Casuarina equisetifolia seul ou en combinaison avec Acacia auriculiformis est plus favorable  la diversit floristique.
20649713|In order to compile a catalogue of non-native vascular plants in Belgium the main Belgian public herbaria were revised. During this revision a few cases were encountered where the nomenclature had to be improved. In the present paper Helenium clementii (Asteraceae) is described as a new nothotaxon. In addition, the following new combinations are made: Dysphania pseudomultiflora (Chenopodiaceae), Leptochloa parviflora and Medicago monantha subsp. incisa.
20649718|A species of the genus Inga Mart., Inga edulis Mart. native to Brazil, was introduced twice in Congo-Brazzaville, viz. in 1980 and 1991. The species seems well adapted to the ecological conditions of its new environment and is on the way to naturalisation. /// En provenance du Brsil, Inga edulis Mart., une espce du genre Inga Miller (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae), introduite au Congo-Brazzaville au cours des annes 1980 et 1991, s'est bien adapte aux nouvelles conditions cologiques du Congo et est sur le point de se naturaliser.
3668569|The 124 species of myxomycetes collected by the authors in the years 1999-2001 from the Hunan Province in Southern China are listed with three other species reported in the literature. Some information on their substrata and distribution is given.
3668558|Patterns of ecological succession have been demonstrated for decomposer communities, but the details of such patterns with respect to the role of eumycetozoans have not been addressed. Successional patterns can be inferred from a sequence of closely located sites which differ only in age, but are controlled for other sources of variation. Hawai'i, the largest and youngest of the Hawaiian Islands, offers an ideal site for such studies, consisting of variously-aged landforms underlain by similar substrates, and influenced by similar climates and biotic communities. Soil/litter samples were collected from nine montane mesic sites of similar elevation and rainfall, but ranging in substrate age from 67 to 10,000 ybp. Samples were processed to recover dictyostelid (cellular) slime molds according to established protocols. Results suggest that slightly different assemblages of dictyostelids occupy the soil/litter derived from different-aged parent materials. The density and species diversity of dictyostelids was higher in soil/litter samples from the youngest sites. The time necessary for dictyostelids to colonize a site is less than 67 years. It is hypothesized that colonization of the soil/litter by dictyostelids is followed by the arrival of predators, particularly nematodes, which adversely affect the density and species diversity of soil amoebae in general, and dictyostelids in particular.
3668561|Palm trees (Arecaceae) are specialized ecosystems which host a wide variety of organisms, including Myxomycetes. Copernicia prunifera (Miller) H.E. Moore (wax palm), Mauritia flexuosa L.f. (buriti palm) and Astrocaryum vulgare Mart. (tucum palm) were selected to study incidence, richness and species diversity of myxomycetes in savanna, riverine forest and secondary forest at Sete Cidades National Park (45-415 S and 4130-4140 W, 480 m alt., 6,221.48 ha), Piau State, northeastern Brazil. Fructifications were searched for on both dead and live trunks, leaves, spathes and inflorescences. The specimens are preserved in the Herbarium UFP (Department of Botany, Federal University of Pernambuco). Myxomycetes were found both in dry and rainy seasons, and the highest abundance and diversity of taxa were observed during the rainy period. A high incidence of myxomycetes (70-100%) was registered, with a diversity index of 5.23 (M. flexuosa), 4.25 (C. prunifera) and 5.05-2.94 (A. vulgare). The highest occurrence was registered on petiole, followed by leaf sheath, leaf blade and spathe, being rare on inflorescence and trunk. A total of seven families, sixteen genera, forty-four species and one variety was identified. The most frequent species were Arcyria cinerea (Bull.) Pers., A. denudata (L.) Wettst., Hemitrichia calyculata (Speg.) M.L.Farr, H. serpula (Scop.) Rostaf. ex Lister, Metatrichia vesparia (Batsch) Nann.-Bremek. ex G.W.Martin & Alexop., Physarum nucleatum Pers. and Stemonitis fusca Roth. Comments and geographical distribution of these species in Brazil are presented.
3668564|Nivicolous myxomycetes are an ecological group of species growing in alpine and subalpine regions of the world near to the melting snow. Extensive field work was done in the mountain areas of the Iberian Peninsula from 1991 to 2002 which demonstrates the richness and variety of the myxobiota in this Mediterranean region. Among the areas with optimum conditions of geography, climate and vegetation, 123 localities were sampled from ten mountain ranges. Almost 1500 field collections were made and a first list of 48 different species is presented here. The altitudinal distribution and phenology of the sporulation of these myxomycetes are analyzed. Working hypotheses on how abiotic factors can influence the development of nivicolous species and some adaptative characters of these species are also presented.
3668568|This study examines the diversity and ecology of myxomycetes on seven native tree species in Hunan Province, south-central China. All the trees are being cultivated within less strictly protected parts of Badagongshan National Nature Reserve and similar forest reserves. Community data were collected for epiphytic bryophytes and lichens and corticolous myxomycetes. The data on myxomycetes were acquired by cultivating bark samples in moist chambers. Over 80% of the 200 moist chambers yielded identifiable myxomycete specimens, representing 33 different taxa. There were clear differences in epiphyte community composition between the studied tree species. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) was used to produce graphical depictions of community relationships and habitat variables. The three tree species with neutral or slightly acid bark had similar epiphyte communities, while each of the other four species grouped separately. The main trend in myxomycete diversity contrasted with those of epiphytic bryophytes and lichens. Species richness of myxomycetes was highest on relatively acidic bark with a high water retention capacity, while the diversities of epiphytic bryophytes and lichens were highest on less acidic and relatively smooth bark. Data on epiphyte community composition can be used to develop simple and cost-effective methods for preserving biodiversity in local forestry. It can assist in the choice of an optimal tree species composition for forest plantations in buffer zones of nature reserves and in other areas where maintaining biodiversity is a major concern.
3668566|Data are presented on the results obtained from moist chamber cultures prepared with bark samples of three tree species from the United Kingdom and from Spain, which were watered with simulated acid rain. Both the number and variety of myxomycetes were found to be adversely affected by the constant acidification of the substrate, in spite of the buffering action demonstrated by the bark. The average number of species per culture also decreased with increasing acidity. Although some species appeared in acidified cultures at all the tested pH values, most species appeared only at three or fewer of those values. Of the myxomycetes that appeared across the pH range tested, fewer individuals within each species appeared at pH 3 and 4. This study lends further support to the idea that corticolous myxomycetes are susceptible to alterations in pH, and that the pH changes are buffered to some extent on the living tree, either by the microflora or by the bark.
3668567|In 1974-1975 moist chamber cultivations with bark of living trees were made in the Botanical Garden of the University of Helsinki, chosen to represent a polluted area in the centre of Helsinki. At present, in 2002, the air in the area has improved. The concentrations of sulphur dioxide and lead have clearly decreased and average concentrations of nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide have diminished. 28 years ago the pH of the tree barks varied from 2 to 9. It was now more stable varying from 3 to 7. In 1974-1975 only six species of myxomycetes emerged on the barks of living trees. Now, 28 years later, 14 species were identified. During the same period the number of corticolous lichen species increased from two to 18.
3668571|Comparative light microscope (LM) and scanning electron microscope (SEM) observations were made from type specimens and field collections of Diachea subsessilis and D. deviata. The objective was to determine the taxonomic validity of D. deviata. Observations indicate that Diachea subsessilis and D. deviata are conspecific. Diachea deviata was described from an aberrant, prematurely dried collection. Developmental variation was seen in fruiting body size and shape, stalk length, peridium iridescence and texture, and branching patterns of the capillitial threads. Reticulate spore wall ornamentation was a constant character even under unfavorable environmental conditions. A composite species description of D. subsessilis is presented based mostly on SEM observations of specimens from various geographical regions.
3668554|Afrothismia saingei, a new species of Burmanniaceae (tribe Thismieae) from Mt. Kupe in South-West Cameroon is described and illustrated. It differs from the other species of the genus Afrothismia by the size of its flower, the long, distinctly heteromorphic tepals with fringed basal extensions, the dorsal invagination of the perianth tube and the unique shape of the internal flange.
3668559|A critical updating of myxomycete records from the Hawaiian Islands has resulted in 102 identified species. In addition, two or three specimens may represent undescribed taxa and are commented upon. Licea rufocuprea, previously known from Japan and the United States, is reported from Hawaii based upon a previously misidentified specimen. Several species that are common in tropical and warm-temperate regions are found in Hawaii. Since most myxomycete species are widespread it is difficult to discuss myxomycetes from a biogeographical point of view. Many species tend to occur wherever substratum and microclimate are suitable.
3668562|One surprising result from recent studies carried out in Neotropical moist forests is that myxomycete biodiversity seems to be greatest in microhabitats located above the ground, whereas in temperate and boreal forests it is greatest in microhabitats associated with the forest floor. Myxomycetes appear to be organisms adapted to highly fluctuating conditions of environmental moisture, but continuously high moisture levels apparently do not favor their growth and development. In addition to their apparent displacement from forest floor (relatively moist) to aerial (relatively drier) microhabitats, the majority of the myxomycetes encountered in Neotropical moist forests are characterized by a phaneroplasmodium, which is robust, can achieve considerable size in some species, and appears to tolerate the two extremes of the moisture gradient better than the other types of plasmodia found in myxomycetes. The objective of the present study, which is still ongoing, was to investigate the quantitative ecology and distributional relationships of myxomycetes associated with aerial litter microhabitats in tropical forests of northern Queensland, Australia. More than 90% of the 69 moist chamber cultures prepared with samples of aerial litter collected from two study sites yielded some evidence (either plasmodia or fruiting bodies) of myxomycetes. Didymium squamulosum was the single most abundant species, with Physarum compressum and Physarum pusillum also important. All three of these are among the more characteristic myxomycetes associated with aerial litter in Neotropical forests, which suggests that the aerial litter microhabitat may support compositionally similar assemblages of species in the tropical moist forests of Australia.
3668560|During the period of 1995 to 2002, biotic surveys for mycetozoans (slime moulds) were carried out in a number of study areas in Central and South America to document more completely the species associated with tropical forests and other ecosystems in this region of the world. Primary emphasis of these surveys was on myxomycetes; more limited data were obtained for dictyostelids and protostelids, two other groups of mycetozoans that share some of the same microhabitats as myxomycetes. The body of data represented by the more than 8,000 field and moist chamber collections of myxomycetes accumulated during these surveys have provided evidence for a number of ecological patterns not previously reported for myxomycetes. The most important of these are that (1) both overall abundance and species richness of myxomycetes appear to be lower in tropical forests than in temperate forests, (2) species richness and [especially] relative abundance increase with decreasing moisture conditions, and (3) in tropical forests, distinct assemblages of myxomycetes are associated with microhabitats that have no counterparts in temperate forests. The most extensive of the latter is the aerial litter (dead but still attached plant parts) microhabitat, where myxomycetes appear to be especially abundant and diverse. Most of the dictyostelids recovered from samples collected in the various study areas are cosmopolitan forms or species known to have tropical or subtropical affinities. However, one new species (Acytostelium minutissimum), several other forms that possibly represent undescribed species, and a number of species not previously known from the Neotropics also were recorded. For the most part, the species of protostelids associated with Neotropical forests are the same as those found in temperate regions of the world, and species richness in this group appears to be highest in mesic but not wet habitats. Microhabitat trends of particular species of protostelids appear to vary with habitat. Overall in tropical montane habitats, protostelids are more abundant in aerial microhabitats than in ground microhabitats while in mesic habitats they are present in both types of microhabitats, but with some species displaying a preference for one or the other.
3668565|The Myxobiota diversity of the Garajonay National Park (Gomera, Canary Islands) is presented, with preliminary results of a chorological and ecological evaluation. Seventy-one species are registered, twenty of these are reported for the first time in the Canaries. A greater biodiversity is observed in the damp shady zones of the evergreen forest than in areas occupied by introduced vascular plant species or communities of xerophytic scrubs. With regard to the substrate, the ligno-corticolous group is the best represented. Among the myxomycetes of Garajonay National Park, the dominant chorological element is the Holarctic.
3668563|The number of occurrences and areas of fructification colonies of myxomycetes were investigated on decaying wood of deciduous broadleaf and coniferous wood in a natural temperate forest in the Nishikuma ravine (900-1200 m alt.) in Kochi prefecture, Southwest Japan. Forty-seven species of wood-inhabiting myxomycetes were found from 397 collected samples. In the progression of decay, the species of myxomycetes changed on both kinds of wood. The number of recorded species increased and reached their maximum on rather decayed wood and strongly decayed wood of both kinds of wood. They decreased on hard wood and brittle and spongy wood. The distribution pattern of eight species (Physarum viride, Lycogala epidendrum, Arcyria cinerea, Cribraria cancellata and others) on both kinds of wood had something in common. The common species on both kinds of wood were placed regularly according to the state of decay. On the strongly decayed and softer wood, the species distribution was obviously different in terms of species and colony sizes.
3668555|The neotropical shrub genus Ronabea Aubl. has long been included by most authors in Psychotria L. (Psychotrieae), but differs from that genus in characters of the seeds, pyrenes, stipules, and inflorescence arrangement. As shown by morphological features and molecular studies, Ronabea is better placed in the recently described tribe Lasiantheae. It is here circumscribed to comprise three species: Ronabea emetica (L.f.) A. Rich., Ronabea isanae (J.H. Kirkbr.) C.M. Taylor, comb. nov., and Ronabea latifolia Aubl.
3668553|Besides a brief description of Heisteria parvifolia, its distribution is reviewed on the basis of voucher material as well as literature data. Traditional uses are listed. An analysis of the oil contained by its seeds is provided. Results are discussed regarding available data concerning a Brazilian species, Heisteria silvanii.
3668557|The activities of the first tree canopy biodiversity survey for cryptogams (myxomycetes, macrofungi, mosses, liverworts, and lichens) are reviewed. The All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory under the rubric of Discover Life in America represents a research effort to survey all life forms in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The double rope climbing method is described and illustrated. The public understanding of biodiversity was emphasized through print, exhibitions, and the television media. Student research experiences in the GSMNP resulted in the discovery of a new species of Diachea and an unusual epiphytic habitat for the fern Polypodium appalachianum. Students also experienced night field trips to collect myxomycetes with a flashlight and observation and photography of slugs feeding on the immature sporangial stages of the myxomycete Stemonitis axifera. Preliminary results suggest that the myxomycetes are the only group of targeted tree canopy organisms that are restricted to the bark and epiphytes of living trees. Ninety-five myxomycete species were harvested, mostly from moist chamber cultures derived from bark samples taken from the tree canopy. Bark samples were taken from: Juniperus virginiana, Fraxinus americana, Quercus alba, Liriodendron tulipifera, Acer rubrum, and Pinus strobus. Over 500 moist chamber cultures resulted in 52 new myxomycete records from the tree canopy. Seven new records were collected from ground sites. The total myxomycete species now known from the Park is 212. Bark sample characteristics such as pH, tree height, and water holding capacity were analyzed for different tree species to determine their relationship to myxomycete species assemblages. Occurrence and abundance of certain myxomycete species are related to differences in bark pH. Fieldwork during the summer of 2000 resulted in 191 lichen taxa collected from the tree canopy with 83 taxa new to the Park. Tree canopy species of lichens, macrofungi, mosses, and liverworts were also known from ground sites.
3668570|A survey of the biosystematic studies in the myxomycetes indicates that the currently recognized morphospecies are generally species complexes consisting of a number of genetically isolated regional allopatric and/or sympatric biological species and numerous small (rarely large) apomicitic clones. Other variations include a single biological species with or without apomictic clones, or apomictic clones without a biological species. Stalk and sporangial color, columella shape, and sporangial cluster morphotypes, which are produced by variations at a few genes, also occur within a genetic group. Biotypes that have small plasmodia, rapid life cycles, and dwarf or reduced numbers of sporangia can be isolated from ephemeral or low nutrient habitats and are also part of a larger genetic group. This information indicates that many of the recently described species are probably based on restricted clonal lines, which should not be recognized at the species level. Also, some commonly accepted morphospecies are only morphological variants, which can be found within a single biological species. Thus, the description of new species should be based upon an extensive collection of specimens so that these variations and small clonal populations can be excluded.
3668491|The wide variety of forms in myxomycetes, with regard to fructifications as well as the plasmodium, offers a fascinating field for the study of pattern formation. The manner of disposition of the fructifations over the substratum seems to be fairly constant for a given taxon. The evolution from the sessile form to the stipitate, and the subsequent elongation of the stipe has necessitated a strengthening of the stipe and balancing of sporangial weight. These have been achieved in different ways in the different taxa. And then, the spore ornamentation is so diverse that mycological terms seem inadequate to describe them, and the adoption of palynological terms has been suggested. The chemical nature of the different parts of the fructification and of the pigments, is as yet only partially understood. Despite widespread investigations, the metamorphosis of the living, pulsating plasmodium into the exquisitely sculptured, hibernating fructifications remains enigmatic. Morphogenesis in fungi is said to occur within a network of factors which include metabolic processes, macromolecular structures, the mechanical, chemical and electrical field within the organism, and the extracellular matrix; and this would also be true for myxomycetes. For a better understanding of these interactions, we must appeal for a closer collaboration of general myxomycologists with physicists, chemists and molecular biologists.
3668500|The taxonomy of the New World species of Azolla has been the subject of much debate and remains unsatisfactory. Since 1944 most authors, mainly Americans, recognize four species: A. caroliniana, A. filiculoides, A. mexicana and A. microphylla. The present study is based on a comprehensive review of the literature and on original observations, by optical and scanning electron microscopy, of numerous samples cultivated in our laboratory as well as herbarium exsiccata. Observation of the type specimens confirms the opinion of some authors that A. caroliniana and A. microphylla are synonyms of the previously described A. filiculoides. The ferns named A. caroliniana and A. microphylla by most authors, including the American taxonomists in their recent works, are different from their type specimens. The study also shows that the Mettenius conception, proposed as early as 1867, has to be rehabilitated: two species only exist in America. According to the priority rule they must be named A. cristata and A. filiculoides.
3668492|Through several separate studies made in our laboratory we have found that in routine cultures myxomycete plasmodia are invariably associated -- closely and tenaciously -- with one bacterial species, and thus monoxenic. The association is not species-specific, but the bacteria in most cases belong to the Enterobacteriaceae. The bacteria can be easily isolated and grown in pure culture, but this is not always true for the plasmodium. From parallel studies conducted with monoxenic plasmodial structures and pure cultures of the bacterial associate, we find that the monoxenic plasmodia can fix atmospheric nitrogen, produce extracellular enzymes and degrade certain types of wood and litter, and also tolerate high concentrations of various chemical pollutants, while the bacterial associates in pure culture exhibit none of these properties. Thus the association confers on the organism certain properties not manifest in the individual partners. As a result of some of our natural observations we presume this to occur in nature, and ascribe to the myxomycetes a positive role in the recycling of nutrients on the forest floor.
3668497|Arthur Lister (1830-1908) and his daughter, Gulielma (1860-1949), are closely associated with the myxomycete collections at the Natural History Museum (BM), which they used for the three editions of the Monograph of Mycetozoa. The working notebooks of the Listers, with coloured sketches, letters and postcards from correspondents around the world and other memorabilia, are an important adjunct to the collections. There are additional sketchbooks and the working illustrations for a fourth edition of their work.
3668499|As one component of the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) being carried out in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, an ongoing survey of dictyostelid cellular slime molds has yielded a combination of previously reported species together with additional Park records as well as a number of species possibly new to science. As results from previous studies conducted elsewhere in the world have indicated, there appear to be assemblages consisting of particular species of dictyostelids characteristically associated with certain habitats. This certainly seems to be true in the Park. In many cases, the distribution pattern of a given species can be related to the differences that exist from place to place for such environmental parameters as elevation, soil pH and the overall moisture regime. In this paper, we report on the current status of the ATBI dictyostelid survey and discuss some of the more interesting and/or unusual species discovered thus far.
3668496|During the 1991 to 1993 field seasons, samples of soil/litter for isolation of dictyostelids (cellular slime moulds) were collected from four different watersheds on the Fernow Experimental Forest in Tucker County, West Virginia, in the eastern United States. Myxomycete plasmodia recovered from these same samples were subjected to fusion tests, which revealed that one genetic strain of a single species, as yet unidentified, occurred over a total area of at least <tex-math>$1.3\ km^{2}$</tex-math>.
3668494|About thirty Belgian collections (BR, GENT, private herbaria) were assembled for this study. The revision results in the recognition of four species in the Belgian flora: Oligonema flavidum (the commonest species), O. schweinitzii, O. fulvum and O. intermedium (rare). Belgian material of the latter species was previously confused with O. aurantium, from which O. intermedium has only recently been separated. The taxonomic treatment includes a key to species, generic and specific descriptions, illustrations (peridium insides, capillitium, spores) habitat data and comments.
3668502|Ipomoea beninensis Akogninou, Lisowski & Sinsin and Thunbergia atacorensis Akogninou & Lisowski, two novelties found in Benin, are described, illustrated and discussed. Despite the relatively dry climate in this part of West Africa (the "Dahomey Gap"), it appeared that undescribed species not only occur in gallery forest but also in low dry forest adjacent to a main road.
3668501|Diversity and distribution of plant species at 105 sites (63 in the Oases of the Western Desert and 42 in the Nile land) of seven major irrigated croplands in Egypt was surveyed using stratified sampling technique. These sites were distributed as follows: twelve in Siwa Oasis, fifteen in Bahariya Oasis, fifteen in Farafra Oasis, seven in Dakhla Oasis, fourteen in Kharga Oasis, fifteen in Faiyum Governorate and 27 in central Delta region. A total of 328 species belonging to 212 genera and 59 families were recorded. The highest numbers of species were found in the Faiyum Governorate and Bahariya Oasis while those of Kharga and Dakhla Oases were the lowest. The families with the highest number of species (60% of the total) were Poaceae (53 species), Asteraceae (37 species), Fabaceae (29 species), Cyperaceae (ninteen species), Chenopodiaceae (fifteen species), Brassicaceae (thirteen species), Caryophyllaceae (twelve species), Euphorbiaceae and Polygonaceae (ten species each). Six alien weedy species were recorded for the first time. In this study, five main habitat types were recognised which are supported by spatial analysis: i, farmlands (including irrigated crop-fields and orchards); ii, canal banks; iii, reclaimed lands; iv, waste lands (including moist and abandoned saline field plots but not salt marshes) and; v, water bodies. TWINSPAN and DCA analyses of 105 sites & 186 species of frequency percentages >5% showed six site groups, with the Nile land and the Oases croplands as clearly separated agro-ecosystems.
3668495|A world-wide dichotomous key to species of myxomycetes growing on the bark of living trees and vines is provided. It includes two hundred and sixty-three myxomycete taxa plus two common and morphologically similar but unrelated corticolous organisms (Acrasiales and Myxobacteria). One needed new combination is provided: Reticularia simulans (Rostaf.) D.W.Mitch. for Enteridium simulans.
3668493|Populations of cellular slime molds (CSM) isolated from fifteen separate collections by the first four authors were compared from Puerto Rico, St. John, Virgin Islands, and San Salvador, Bahamas. These islands differ in size as well as number of forest habitats. The island populations in turn were compared to those of an optimal mainland habitat at Tikal, Guatemala. Our main objective was to determine what effects habitat diversity, area and insular environment have on CSM diversity. Although other studies have investigated species-area relationships, most have focused on either animals or plants. Our purpose has been to determine how a specific group of microorganisms, the cellular slime molds, responds to island biogeography. In addition, we were also interested in finding endemic examples of speciation in the Caribbean. Two endemics were found: Polysphondylium luridum from Puerto Rico and St. John and P. equisetoides from San Salvador. The latter species is described as part of this paper.
3668498|Samples of tree bark and dung of large herbivores were collected by the second author and subsequently sent to the first author for culturing in moist chamber. Results of these cultures are listed and include eleven spp. that are new to Tanzania. Specimens are preserved in the herbarium of the first author. Localities and substrates are cited with Myxomycete species arranged alphabetically.
3668503|Based on material from Katanga (Congo-Kinshasa), a new species of the genus Sopubia (Scrophulariaceae) is described, compared with related species, and illustrated. It is named in honor of Professor Paul Duvigneaud with some remarks on the taxonomic results of his work. /// Sur base de matriel en provenance du Katanga (Congo-Kinshasa), une nouvelle espce du genre Sopubia (Scrophulariaceae) est dcrite et illustre, par comparaison avec des espces voisines. Elle est nomme d'aprs le Professeur Paul Duvigneaud, avec quelques remarques sur les rsultats taxonomiques de ses travaux.
3668514|The author prepares a revision of Tarenna in Madagascar and assembles in this precursor a number of novelties in preparation for a check-list of the Rubiaceae of Madagascar and the Comores. Tarenna capuroniana is described as a new species from northern Madagascar. Chomelia alleizettei is transferred to Tarenna. Ixora drakei, I. rotundifolia, Tarenna richardii and T. verdcourtiana are placed in the synonymy of Tarenna grevei, and I. nigrescens and I. hildebrandtii in the synonymy of T. sechellensis. A list of the currently accepted Malagasy Tarenna species with their synonymy and types is provided. An identification key is given.
3668512|A revision of Sherbournia G.Don is given, based mainly on a study of the herbarium specimens at BATA, BM, BR, BRLU, K, LBV, MO, P, SCA, WAG and YA. The general part gives a survey of the history of the genus and comments upon fruit morphology. The distribution maps of the species show the characteristic pattern of a strictly Guineo-Congolian genus. The taxonomic part gives keys and complete species treatments (synonymies, descriptions, distributional data, critical notes). The detailed examination of the specimens resulted in one novelty: Sherbournia batesii (Wernham) Hepper subsp. kivuensis Pauwels & Sonk. Some taxonomic changes are made: Sherbournia streptocaulon (K.Schum.) Hepper var. situtunga N.Hall should not be maintened as a variety. Sherbournia bignoniiflora (Welw.) Hua var. brazzaei N.Hall, Amaralia palustris Wernham and Amaralia ekotokicola Wernham are synonymous with Sherbournia bignoniiflora (Welw.) Hua. The subdivision of S. hapalophylla (Wernham) Hepper is reconsidered and two subspecies are proposed in stead of three varieties: S. hapalophylla subsp. hapalophylla and S. hapalophylla subsp. wernhamiana (N.Hall) Sonk & Pauwels. According to those changes, S. hapalophylla var. henrihuana N.Hall is put into synonymy with S. hapalophylla subsp. hapalophylla.
3668511|A new species of Duosperma, D. clarae, is described from Katanga, D.R. Congo. It is the sixth species of that genus to be identified in the Congo. Study of the pollen clearly confirms that the new species belongs to Petaliidinae (Acanthoideae-Ruellieae) and to Duosperma. After Elytraria acaulis (Nelsonioideae), D. clarae is the second species and the second subfamily of Acanthaceae in which orbicules ('Ubisch bodies'; sporopollenin corpuscles covering the inner wall of the anthers) are recorded. Habit and pollen grains are illustrated and the distribution map of the species, with a short description of its habitat, is given. /// Une nouvelle espce de Duosperma, D. clarae, est dcrite du Katanga, R.D. Congo. C'est la sixime espce du genre identifie au Congo. L'tude du pollen confirme l'appartenance de cette nouvelle espce aux Petaliidinae (Acanthoideae-Ruellieae) et au genre Duosperma. Aprs Elytraria acaulis (Nelsonioideae), D. clarae est la deuxime espce et la deuxime sous-famille d'Acanthaceae dans laquelle des orbicules ('corpuscules d'Ubisch'; corpuscules de sporopollnine garnissant la paroi interne des anthres) sont dcouverts. La plante et le pollen de l'espce sont illustrs et sa carte de distribution ainsi qu'un aperu des conditions de son habitat sont donns.
3668510|Desmid samples were collected from Australia's Northern Territory and the northeastern part of Western Australia. The tropical, northern part of Australia appears to be extraordinarily rich in desmid taxa but relatively poorly documented. From the present investigation some twenty taxa, interesting from a taxonomic or biogeographical point of view, are discussed separately. Six species and one variety new to science are described: Cosmarium dichotomum, C. lineogranulosum, C. porosum, C. spinoscrobiculosum, Euastrum scrobiculosum, Micrasterias archeri and Staurastrum sinuatum var. croasdaleae.
3668509|The gleba of white truffles recently collected in Luxembourg was found hosting a very rare hypocrealean species of the Bionectriaceae family: Battarrina inclusa (Berk. & Broome) Clem. & Shear. The brief published descriptions are completed. For the first time for about 150 years since the discovery of the species, the spore ornamentation is accurately illustrated. /// Les auteurs commentent et dcrivent des rcoltes luxembourgeoises rcentes de truffes blanches  glba colonise par une trs rare espce d'Hypocrale de la famille des Bionectriaces: Battarrina inclusa (Berk. & Broome) Clem. & Shear. Les descriptions sommaires publies de l'espce sont compltes. L'ornementation des spores est illustre de manire prcise pour la premire fois, prs d'un sicle et demi aprs la dcouverte de l'espce.
3668513|The present paper describes the piscicultural station of Mutimbuzi situated near Bujumbura town. The waters have a constantly high temperature, a neutral to basic pH, and correspond to calcium-magnesium bicarbonate type. Variations of temperature, pH and ionic composition have been observed for the period between December 1991 and June 1992. 77 planktic taxa have been observed in three ponds. The Euglenophyceae are represented by 39 taxa, the Chlorophyceae by 25, the Cyanophyceae by 12 and the Dinophyceae by one taxon. The algal distribution is heterogeneous within the same pond and differences in algal composition and distribution within the three ponds have been observed. The semi-quantitative study has indicated the dominant taxa and the algal successions for the study period. Only Anabaena spiroides can be considered as a constant species in the three ponds. Two socioecological groups have been clearly identified. /// Le prsent travail dcrit la station piscicole de Mutimbuzi situe prs de la mairie de Bujumbura. Les eaux de cette station ont une temprature constamment leve, un pH neutre  basique; elles sont de type bicarbonat calcico-magnsique  dominance de calcium. Des fluctuations de temprature, pH, et de composition ionique ont t observes au cours de la priode de dcembre 1991  juin 1992. L'tude qualitative de la flore planctonique a rvl la prsence de 77 taxons dans trois tangs. Les euglenophyces sont reprsentes par 39 taxons, les algues vertes par 25, les algues bleues par 12 et les dinophyces par un taxon. Des diffrences dans la composition floristique au sein d'un mme tang et au sein des trois tangs ont t observes. L'tude semi-quantitative a permis de dterminer les taxons dominants et les successions algales pendant les sept mois d'tude. Seule Anabaena spiroides peut tre considre comme espce constante dans les trois tangs. Deux groupes sociocologiques ont t clairement identifis.
3668515|Thirty-two first records of mosses and liverworts are reported for Runion. Daltonia onraedtii Bizot is validated and reduced, together with D. dusenii Mll.Hal. and D. latimarginata Besch., to the synonymy of the American D. pulvinata Mitt. Daltonia stenoloma Besch. is placed in synonymy with D. angustifolia var. angustifolia Dozy & Molk. instead of var. strictifolia (Mitt.) M.Fleisch. Dicranoloma cataractarum Demaret & P.de la Varde and Dicranoloma onraedtii Bizot ex Bizot are placed in the synonymy of Blindia magellanica Schimp. ex Mll.Hal. Macromitrium gimalacii Bizot & Onr. is reduced to a synonym of Macrocoma lycopodioides (Schwgr.) Vitt. A new combination Weissia borbonica (Bizot & Onr. ex Onr.) Arts comb. nov. has been made to accommodate Astomum borbonicum Bizot & Onr. ex Onr.
3668576|The informations here published are related to 328 taxa (species and subspecies): 129 for the volume I, 174 for the volume II, 25 for the families and genera which are not retained by Strid. The adopted order follows that of the Flora of Strid (1986, Strid & Kit Tan 1991). The field work was done from 1981 to 1991; every mountain of Greece was visited one to three times (the Mount Athos excluded). Herbarium samples exist for each of the published data. Some species were new for Greece at the time of the discovery and by reference to Flora Europaea (Aster bellidiastrum, Dryopteris affinis subsp. affinis, Hieracium cf. humile, Hypericum umbellatum, Ribes alpinum), some stations seems to be separated from the main area; some observations corroborate old mentions from the literature. It is specified if an observation is new for the cited mountain or for the district and if the area of that species is significantly widened or not. Those informations appear in chapter 6.1. A list of the biotopes to be visited by priority appears in chapter 6.3.
3668578|Gardenia epiphytica (Rubiaceae) from the forests of Gabon and Cameroon is described and illustrated. It is the fourth record of an epiphytic species in afrotropical Rubiaceae.
3668575|Phytosociological, ecological and dendrometric surveys have been done in the forest plantations of Djigb and Lama in south-Benin. The factorial analysis of correspondence helps to identify two Chromolaena odorata communities: one on the "terre de barre" (ferralitic soil) and the other on the black cotton soils. At 5% of probability level, there is no significant difference between the specific diversity of the two Chromolaena odorata communities: the mean value of the species richness is 33 per relev on the "terre de barre" against 31 on the black cotton soils; the Shannon index value is 1.6 on the "terre de barre" against 2.2 on the black cotton soils; the evenness coefficient of Pielou is respectively 0.48 and 0.44 on "terre de barre" and the black cotton soils. From the specific combination of the Chromolaena odorata communities within the study area, we deduce that these communities can be used to identify general soil-types. However, due to the important variability of plantation productivity within these communities, they can not reliably be used to identify forest sites. /// Les plantations forestires  Chromolaena odorata dans les secteurs de Djigb et de la Lama au sud-Bnin ont fait l'objet d'investigations phytosociologique, cologique et dendromtrique. L'analyse factorielle des correspondances sur un ensemble de 19 relevs a permis d'objectiver l'identification de deux groupements vgtaux  Chromolaena odorata qui caractrisent respectivement la terre de barre et les vertisols. Au seuil de probabilit de 5%, il n'existe pas de diffrence significative entre la diversit spcifique de ces deux groupements. En effet, sur la terre de barre, le groupement vgtal  Chromolaena odorata possde en moyenne 33 espces par relev contre 31 espces pour celui de la Lama; l'indice de Shannon a pour valeur 1,6 sur la terre de barre contre 2,2 sur les vertisols; le coefficient d'quitabilit de Pielou vaut 0,48 sur la terre de barre contre 0,44 sur les vertisols. A partir de la combinaison spcifique des communauts vgtales  Chromolaena odorata, nous dduisons que ces communauts peuvent servir  identifier les types gnraux de sols. Cependant, en raison d'importantes variations des niveaux de productivit des plantations au sein de ces communauts, celles-ci n'ont pas de valeur indicatrice fiable vis--vis des stations forestires.
3668574|Margaritopsis C. Wright has recently been shown to be an older name for Chazaliella E.M.A.Petit & Verdc. and Chytropsia Bremek. and to be a pantropical genus. In the Neotropics this group, apart from three unusual species in Cuba, has long been included variously in Psychotria L. subg. Psychotria and Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria Steyerm. Margaritopsis in its newly expanded circumscription is distinguished from Psychotria by its characteristic stipules that become indurated and then fragmented, its often flattened costate internodes, its red fruits, and its pyrenes with smooth flat ventral surfaces and dehiscence via two marginal slits. The 27 neotropical species of Margaritopsis are listed and keyed here and the 22 necessary new nomenclatural combinations are made. One species is newly described here: M. inconspicua is a low shrub of the central and western Amazon basin that has previously been confused with M. astrellantha (Wernham) L.Andersson.
3668579|The new species B. kisimbae, restricted to copper outcrops of the Tenke-Fungurume area in Upper-Katanga, is close to B. botryoidea A.Robyns but its leaves are generally shorter (3-8 rather than 8-12 cm), and spaced along the stem attaining 5-11 cm of length instead of being clustered at the top of a short (1-4 cm) stem; the upper face of the lamina is flat and pubescent instead of rolled inwards and glabrous; the lower face is entirely and densely papillose instead of only papillose on the sides of cavities between the veinlets.
3668577|Seasonal lakes are a characteristic landscape element of the semi-arid Sahel zone in West Africa; their vegetation has a significant economic importance and is intensively used; water levels are subjected to large fluctuations. Based upon the example of Burkina Faso, the ephemeral, herbaceous vegetation of standing, seasonal freshwater lakes was studied. Field survey with phytosociological relevs took place at eleven lakes. The vegetation is classified into floristically and ecologically well defined units: several associations and rank-free communities are documented, most of them can be found with subassociations or in fragmentary and floristically impoverished forms. Duration of flooding, height of inundation, and utilisation intensity are the most important differentiating factors. The plant communities are integrated into the existing syntaxonomical scheme of West African wetland vegetation. They can be grouped into two phytosociological alliances: Sagittario guayanensis-Nymphaeion maculatae (vegetation of nutrient rich shorelines with muddy substrate) and Brachiario muticae-Cynodontion dactyli (dense swards at sandy, wet places with an eutrophication through animals). The plant communities are presented in a constancy table. Their distribution, ecological and floristic relationships are described and discussed in a larger geographical context.
20649730|A complete revision, including a key to the species, drawings and distribution maps, of the tropical African Annonaceae genus Annickia (= Enantia Oliv., non Falc.) is presented. The exact phylogenetic position of this genus within the family has long been, and in fact still is, unclear. The status of four species, A. ambigua, A. atrocyanescens, A. kwiluensis and A. olivacea, has been elucidated. All four refer to the same species: A. ambigua. One new combination, A. affinis (Exell) Versteegh & Sosef, was needed. The well-known A. chlorantha, the bark of which is reputed for its anti-malarial activity, appears to be a rare species confined to southern Nigeria and Cameroon. It has been frequently confused with the more widespread A. affinis. The genus Annickia now comprises eight species, several of which show interesting distribution patterns.
20649731|Strombosia fleuryana, a new species from Ngomo on the Ogoou River in West Gabon is described and illustrated. The species is distinguished from the other Strombosia species of Lower Guinea by its leaves with very short petioles and by the subsessile flowers. A key to all Strombosia species of Lower Guinea is presented.
20649728|From the Netherlands four desmid species are newly described: Cosmarium calculus, C. jugatum, C. medioretusum and Roya closterioides. The names of eight taxa are newly given or recombined: Closterium tortitaenioides, Euastrum biscrobiculatum, Staurastrum crassangulatum, S. hirsutum var. arnellii, S. reductum, Staurodesmus cuspidatus var. divergens, Std. extensus var. malaccensis and Std. incus var. indentatus. Taxonomic affinities, habitat characteristics and regional distribution data are dealt with.
20649732|New combinations and new synonyms for the genus Coptosperma are assembled here in preparation for a revision of the Malagasy representatives of the genus and a check-list of the Rubiaceae of Madagascar and the Comores. Ixora pachyphylla, I. sessiliflora as well as Enterospermum 'bernerianum', E. borbonicum, E. coriaceum, E. humblotii and E. madagascariensis are transferred to the genus Coptosperma. Ixora linearifolia is newly placed in the synonymy of C. nigrescens.
20649729|The soil algal flora of limed and unlimed sessile oak (Quercus petraea (Matt.) Lieb.) and Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) forest plots situated in the Belgian Ardenne was investigated. Chlorophyta (61 taxa) were by far the most diverse group, followed by Xanthophyta (ten taxa), Bacillariophyta (three taxa), Cyanophyta (two taxa) and Euglenophyta (one taxon). Elliptochloris incisiformis Hoffmann et Kostikov, Elliptochloris perforata Hoffmann et Kostikov and Dicranochaete terrestris Hoffmann et Kostikov are described as new taxa.
20649738|The Leguminosae (Caesalpinioideae, Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae) of Angola were revised and a catalogue of the taxa endemic to the country is presented together with distribution maps. Up to present, 1016 taxa belonging to 166 genera of Leguminosae have been recorded for the flora of Angola. There are 144 native genera and 863 native species. The endemism is c. 19%, with 185 taxa endemic to Angola, consisting of 165 species and 20 infraspecific taxa. The genera Crotalaria and Indigofera have the highest number of endemics, with 46 and 20 species, respectively. Hula is the province where more endemic taxa occur, with 83 taxa (44%) recorded. As shown by the data analysed, 39 endemic taxa (20%) are only known from the type specimens and 77 (41%) have not been collected since 1960. A total of 93 names that were recorded in the Flora 'Conspectus Florae Angolensis' as endemics, are either synonyms of widespread taxa or are now known to occur also elsewhere.
20649741|Strombosia retivenia S.Moore (Olacaceae) from Nigeria, hitherto treated as a synonym of Diogoa zenkeri (Engl.) Exell & Mendona (Olacaceae), proved to represent a distinct species of that genus. The combination Diogoa retivenia is made. As a consequence Diogoa is no longer monospecific. The two Guineo-Congolese species are geographically separated. Their distributions are mapped. The wide gap in the distribution of Diogoa zenkeri is discussed. Diogoa retivenia, as well as the main distinguishing features of D. zenkeri, are illustrated. A key to the two species is provided. D. zenkeri is lectotypified.
20649740|Ongoing molecular studies of the subfamily Lamioideae have demonstrated that several genera do not correspond to monophyletic groups as currently circumscribed. Leucas R.Br. and Otostegia Benth. are particularly problematic in this respect. To confront the issue of monophyly taxonomically, the genus Rydingia A.-C.Scheen & V.A.Albert is described here with four species formerly assigned to Otostegia. The number of species of Moluccella L. is increased to three with the recognition of Moluccella aucheri (Boiss.) A.-C.Scheen which is transferred from Otostegia. The number of species of Isoleucas O.Schwartz is increased to two with the recognition of Isoleucas somala (Patzak) A.-C.Scheen, which is transferred from Otostegia. It was also necessary to distinguish two different groups of Leucas: 1) Leucas sensu stricto and 2) the "African Leucas clade", which preliminarily may be referred to as Leonotis (Pers.) R.Br. sensu lato due to nomenclatural priority.
20649739|Surirella bifrons var. intermedia O.Mll. and Surirella fuellebornii O.Mll., including its infraspecific taxa, were re-evaluated using historical East African material collected in the early 20th century from which Otto Mller described more than 100 new diatom taxa. In addition, material from the Hustedt Diatom Collection together with material collected during the past decades in the region of the African Great Lakes was studied. The investigation of the original material of Surirella bifrons Ehrenb. in the Ehrenberg Collection allowed to elevate Surirella bifrons var. intermedia to species rank: Surirella kusberi nom. nov. The variation observed in the material studied supported the abandonment of taxonomic recognition of Surirella fuellebornii f. subconstricta O.Mll. and var. constricta O.Mll. On the other hand, var. tumida Hustedt and var. elliptica O.Mll. are here elevated to species rank: Surirella crawfordii nom. nov. and Surirella friedelhinziae nom. nov. respectively. Finally, Surirella fuellebornii var. worthingtonii H.Bachm. was found to belong within the variability of Surirella malombae O.Mll.
10.2307/3668750|This study represents a first attempt to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships in the genus Dictyota by means of an RFLP analysis of the amplified Internal Transcribed Spacer 1 of the ribosomal region (ARDRA-ITS1). To overcome DNA extraction problems, a new protocol based on a combination of a CTAB method and a Sephaglass Bandprep Kit is presented. Seven species, mostly including more than one specimen, were included. Padina boergesenii was used as an outgroup. The inferred phylogenetic picture was congruent with the morphological-anatomical data. Specimens belonging to the same species invariably group together and differences among geographically isolated populations are reflected in the tree. Parsimony-based bootstrap and jackknife supports for basal nodes are generally very low and phylogenetic relationships between species are poorly resolved. This poor resolution can probably be attributed to the considerable variation in length of the ITS1 region among the species. This variation causes difficulties in sequence alignments and calls into question the use of this marker as a general tool in the genus.
10.2307/3668751|A cladistic analysis of 5S nuclear ribosomal DNA non-transcribed spacer (5S-NTS) sequences representing 55 Saintpaulia accessions and one Streptocarpus outgroup taxon is presented. All formally described and potential Saintpaulia taxa are included except for S. 'mafiensis' and the possibly extinct S. inconspicua. Most notably, Saintpaulia shumensis, the highest elevation species in the Usambara Mountains, is resolved, albeit with marginal parsimony jackknife support, as the sister taxon to all remaining members of the Usambaras/lowland clade, which is otherwise poorly structured. It is hypothesized that Saintpaulia shumensis may show a relictual distribution in the Usambaras, as there appears to be a phylogenetic trend from higher to lower elevation among the major clades of Saintpaulia. Further issues discussed include the implications of intra-individual nucleotide polymorphism and the narrow genetic basis for drastic differences in trichome morphology, a cardinal characteristic for Saintpaulia taxonomy.
10.2307/3668747|A new evergreen species of Arisaema from Thailand, A. omkoiense, is described and illustrated. The relationships, geographical distribution and cultural requirements are discussed.
10.2307/3668748|The name in karone, a language of the Lower Casamance Country (Senegal), of 86 plants are recorded. Most of these plants are used by man. /// Le nom en karone, une langue de la Basse Casamance (Sngal), de 86 espces vgtales a t enregistr. La plupart de ces espces sont utilises par l'homme.
10.2307/3668749|Aulacocalyx mapiana is described as a new species from Banyang Mbo, south-western Cameroon. Its relationship within the genus is discussed and a key is provided to all four species occurring in Cameroon.
10.2307/3668752|Perenniporia subdendrohyphidia is described based on a collection originating from Cameroon. The species is compared with Perenniporia dendrohyphidia from which it differs by having a pure white pore surface, smaller, oblong to oblong-ellipsoid, non-dextrinoid basidiospores, and narrower vegetative hyphae. Both P. dendrohyphidia and P. subdendrohyphidia are characterized by possessing dendrohyphidia in their dissepiments.
10.2307/3668754|Relationships among 40 species of the tribe Psychotrieae were estimated by cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in the rps16 intron (cpDNA). One strongly supported clade was found to include the genera Chazaliella, Chytropsia, Margaritopsis and Readea, and a number of species presently referred to Psychotria. It is suggested that this group should be treated taxonomically as one genus, the correct name of which would be Margaritopsis. The names Chazaliella, Chytropsia and Readea thus become synonyms of Margaritopsis. Margaritopsis in this broad sense is diagnosed by non-caducous stipules which are often marcescent, becoming papyraceous when old, by a greenish (rather than reddish or brownish) drying colour, planoconvex pyrenes with horny endocarp and distinct, marginal germination slits, and seeds with pale testa without an ethanol-soluble pigment. With this circumscription, Margaritopsis has ca. 10 species in the neotropics, ca. 25 in Africa, ca. 12 in New Caledonia and Fiji, and a few in SE Asia. It is doubtful if it occurs in The Philippines, New Guinea, Australia, Samoa or Hawaii. Three new combinations are made, Margaritopsis membranacea (Gillespie) L.Andersson, M. astrellantha (Wernh.) L.Andersson, and M. abrupta (Hiern) L.Andersson.
10.2307/3668753|Systematic research on the genus Panicum in the main Belgian public herbaria and some smaller private herbaria revealed a considerable number of new and other interesting data. Sixteen taxa have been recognized in the course of the present study: P. bulbosum*, P. capillare (incl. the subspecies capillare and barbipulvinatum*), P. chloroticum*, P. clandestinum, P. coloratum*, P. cf. decompositum*, P. dichotomiflorum (incl. the varieties dichotomiflorum and geniculatum), P. hillmanii*, P. hirticaule*, P. laevinode, P. miliaceum (incl. the subspecies miliaceum and ruderale*), P. schinzii and P. virgatum*. Several taxa (marked with * above) -- in part ancient and exclusive records of wool aliens originating in the Vesdre valley -- remained unidentified so far and are thus first mentioned for the Belgian adventitious flora. At present the following taxa are becoming more or less naturalized: P. capillare subsp. capillare, P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. schinzii (partially as noxious weeds in maize fields). Regularly introduced with cereals (incl. oil-seeds or commercial seeds) are P. chloroticum, P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. miliaceum subsp. miliaceum. Much rarer but fairly recent casuals are P. capillare subsp. barbipulvinatum, P. clandestinum, P. hillmanii, P. hirticaule and P. miliaceum subsp. ruderale. Misinterpretation within the genus led to numerous wrong identifications. P. compressum, P. flexile and P. repens need to be omitted from the Belgian adventitious flora lists. P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. schinzii have widely been confused; the majority of the P. dichotomiflorum collections actually belonged with P. schinzii. P. hillmanii and P. chloroticum are closely related and much confused with P. capillare and P. dichotomiflorum s.l. respectively. P. texanum is regarded as a member of the genus Urochloa, following recent nomenclatural insights. The present paper provides a dichotomous identification key for the genus Panicum in Belgium as well as additional chorological, taxonomic and nomenclatural remarks.
10.2307/3668726|The Mounts Kouff region is located in the central part of Benin between 1 40 and 2 30 N, and 8 25 and 9 15 E. This study dealt with the plant communities of the protected area of Wari Maro and Mounts Kouff. The vegetation is composed of savannah, woodland and patches of dry forests. The aim of this study is to determine the phytogeographical position of the Mounts Kouff region within Benin and western Africa. Between 1996 and 1998, floristical surveys were carried out. Some 159 phytosociological relevs were done. They resulted in 954 herbarium specimens corresponding to 584 species. Species of the Sudanian base element represent 16.1% of the total flora spectrum of Mounts Kouff region. Species of two of the three endemic genera to sudanian regional centre of endemism (RCE) were collected, i.e. Vitellaria paradoxa and Pseudocedrela kotschyi. The species present in both Sudanian and Zambesian RCE made up 13.5% of the phytogeographical spectrum and those of the Guineo-Congolian element accounted for 11.3% of the spectrum. They mostly belonged to gallery forests and dry forests because of the position of this region which is located in the most southern part of the Sudanian RCE close to the regional transition zone of Guinea-Congolia/Sudania. The other species widespread in several RCE's within continental african phytochoria represented 33% of the spectrum. Species of wide distribution represented 25.2% of the spectrum. This vegetation is entirely located into the Sudanian RCE as defined by White, with an important contribution of Guineo-Congolian species. /// La rgion des Monts Kouff est situe au centre du Bnin entre 1 40 et 2 30 N et 8 25 et 9 15 E. Elle regroupe les forts classes de Wari Maro, des Monts Kouff et les terroirs villageois environnants. La vgtation est compose de savanes, de forts claires et d'lots de forts denses sches ou denses semi-dcidues. L'objectif de la prsente tude est d'analyser le spectre phytogographique des espces recenses dans les Monts Kouff au sein des principales formations. Des inventaires floristiques et 159 relevs phytosociologiques effectus dans cette rgion de 1996  1998, rsultent une collection de 954 chantillons d'herbier correspondant  584 espces qui constituent les donnes de base de cette tude. Les espces de l'lment base soudanien reprsentent 16,1% du spectre brut de la florule totale de la rgion des Monts Kouff. Deux des trois genres endmiques du centre rgional d'endmisme (CRE) soudanien ont t rcolts; il s'agit de Vitellaria paradoxa et Pseudocedrela kotschyi. 13,5% des espces sont rpandues  la fois dans les CRE soudanien et zambsien; 11,3% appartiennent  l'lment guinen et se dveloppent dans les forts-galeries et forts denses sches ou semi-dcidues. Ces dernires sont situes dans la zone la plus mridionale du CRE soudanien en contact sud avec la zone de transition guino-congolaise/soudanienne. Les espces plurirgionales africaines reprsentent 33% du spectre brut. Il s'agit surtout des espces afrotropicales. Les taxons  plus large distribution constituent 25,2% du spectre brut. Au vu de ce qui prcde, on peut conclure que la rgion des Monts Kouff est situe entirement dans le Centre rgional d'endmisme soudanien (CRE) dfini par White avec une contribution importante des espces guinennes.
10.2307/3668693|Different opinions on the generic delimitation of Hyacinthaceae are reviewed with emphasis on sub-Saharan taxa. Morphological characters used for identification of genera as well as results from DNA-sequencing data are discussed in relation to different generic delimitations proposed by various authors. Recommendations on the generic delimitation of the family are put forward. The use of a wide generic concept is suggested with emphasis on the use of qualitative characters as diagnostic characters for genera. /// Diffrentes opinions concernant la dlimitation gnrique chez les Hyacinthaceae sont passes en revue. L'accent est mis sur les taxons sub-sahariens. Les caractres morphologiques utiliss pour l'identification des genres ainsi que les rsultats obtenus par squenage d'ADN sont discuts et mis en relation avec les dlimitations gnriques proposes par divers auteurs. Des recommandations pour la dlimitation gnrique au sein de la famille sont avances. L'utilisation d'un concept gnrique largi et celle de caractres qualitatifs pour la diagnose des genres sont proposes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668672|The Centro de Botnica of the Institue for Tropical Scientific Research (IICT) has a herbarium with about 240,000 specimens from sub-Saharan Africa. Most of them were collected in former Portuguese colonies. The Centre develops activities in areas such as taxonomy, phytogeography and ethnobotany. Studies for the publishing of the Conspectus Florae Angolensis, the Flora of Cape Verde Islands, and the Flora of Mozambique are being made, in co-operation with Angolan, Cape Verdean and Mozambican researchers. Studies on the flora, the vegetation and the ethnobotany in Guinea-Bissau are being undertaken in co-operation with governmental and private entities. In Cape Verde Islands and in So Tom and Prncipe, studies on vegetation and land use are being undertaken. The Centre supports Master and Ph.D. theses and trains technicians from Portuguese speaking African countries, contributing to the development of the botanical studies in these countries. /// Le Centre de Botanique de l'Institut pour la Recherche Scientifique Tropicale (IICT) possde un herbier d'environ 240.000 specimens provenant d'Afrique sub-saharienne. La plupart de ces chantillons ont t rcolts dans les anciennes colonies portugaises. Le Centre dveloppe des activits dans des domaines tels que la taxonomie, la phytogographie et l'ethnobotanique. Des tudes sont ralises en collaboration avec des chercheurs angolais, capverdiens et mozambicains dans le cadre de la publication de Conspectus Florae Angolensis, de la Flore des Iles du Cap-Vert et de la Flore du Mozambique. Des tudes sur la flore, la vgtation et l'ethnobotanique sont menes en Guine-Bissau en collaboration avec des entits gouvernementales et prives. Dans les les du Cap-Vert ainsi qu' So Tom et Prncipe, des tudes sur la vgtation et l'occupation du sol sont entreprises. Le Centre supporte des thses de matrise et de doctorat et forme des techniciens lusophones originaires de pays africains, contribuant ainsi au dveloppement des tudes botaniques dans ces pays. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668716|Only recently, ethnobotany has caught the interest of actors involved in the sustainable management of natural resources based on local ecological knowledge. In the perspective of conceiving a website for the African Ethnobotany Network (AEN), a preliminary study was undertaken in order to assess how ethnobotanical data are presented on the Internet. Fifty-two sites were analyzed, as well as the links they propose. The information offered on these sites appears to be heterogeneous and incomplete. Ethnobotanical data are generally presented as a compilation of plant uses. No sites were found discussing theoretical concepts, historical background, or methodological approaches. Bibliographic sources given are incomplete and texts cited may rarely be consulted interactively. This disappointing assessment does not convey the impression that ethnobotany is a dynamic and well-anchored discipline. These shortcomings underline the urgent need to conceive an innovative website enabling a richer exchange of information among members of the AEN, and contributing to present ethnobotany as a substantial scientific discipline. /// L'ethnobotanique n'a que tout rcemment suscit l'intrt des dcideurs uvrant pour une gestion durable des ressources naturelles qui tienne compte des savoirs populaires. Dans la perspective de concevoir un site internet pour le Rseau Africain d'Ethnobotanique (RAE), une tude a t pralablement mene afin de voir comment l'information ethnobotanique est traite sur internet. Cinquante-deux sites ont t analyss, de mme que les liens qu'ils proposent. L'information qu'ils dispensent s'avre htroclite et lacunaire. Les donnes nonces comme "ethnobotaniques" ne sont souvent que des compilations d'usages de plantes. Aucun des sites consults n'aborde les concepts thoriques, la mise en perspective historique de la discipline ou les mthodologies d'enqutes. Les rfrences bibliographiques sont incompltes et ne permettent que rarement un accs interactif aux textes cits. Ce bilan dcevant ne contribue gure  faire valoir l'ethnobotanique comme une science bien tablie et dynamique. Il est urgent de concevoir un site internet innovant, qui soit une plateforme d'change entre membres du RAE, et qui rhabilite l'ethnobotanique en tant que vritable discipline scientifique.
10.2307/3668741|Three samples of Equato-Guinean rain forest have recently been studied under the project of CUREF (Conservacin y Utilizacin Racional de los Ecosistemas Forestales de Guinea Ecuatorial). The rain forest of the Altos de Nsork region, in the eastern part of Equatorial Guinea, has been studied by the present author by 1 km long transects. The two other studies have been carried out by others at the rio Muni's estuary (southwestern part of the country) and in the Ndote reserve (central-western part). A total of 9970 trees with DBH  30 cm, belonging to 341 species determined at least to genus, were found on 93.5 ha. To take the vegetation variability of each site into account, a phytosociological table was established using TWINSPAN with twenty surveys of 160  10 m for DBH  10 cm trees, chosen in homogeneous parts of transect. The following species were found to be prominent in the zone near the coast: Desbordesia glaucescens, Calpocalyx heitzii, Alstonia congensis, Sacoglottis gabonensis, Anthostema aubryanum, Erythrophleum ivorense, Caloncoba glauca, Lophira alata, Croton oligandrus, etc. The species found to have a continental distribution included: Millettia laurentii, Sindoropsis letestui, Entandrophragma congoense, Celtis tessmannii, Dialium pachyphyllum, Dialium spp., Allanblackia floribunda, etc. Because of the abundance of these species, Nsork represents the most continental part of the lowerguinean atlantic region. The forests of the rio Muni's estuary show a huge biodiversity because of their intermediate position and their rich habitat diversity. /// Trois inventaires dans les forts denses de Guine Equatoriale ont rcemment t tudis au sein du projet CUREF (Conservacin y Utilizacin Racional de los Ecosistemas Forestales de Guinea Ecuatorial). Les forts denses de la rgion des Altos de Nsork, dans l'Est de la Guine Equatoriale, ont t tudies par le prsent auteur sur des transects de 1 km de long. Les deux autres tudes furent menes par d'autres dans l'estuaire du rio Muni (au Sud-Ouest du pays) et dans la rserve de Ndot (Centre-Ouest). Un total de 9970 arbres  DBH  30 cm, appartenant  341 espces dtermines au moins jusqu'au genre, fut relev sur 93,5 ha. Afin de tenir compte de la variabilit de la vgtation dans chaque site, un tableau phytosociologique a t ralis en utilisant TWINSPAN avec vingt relevs de 160  10 m, pour les arbres  DBH  10 cm, choisis sur des tronons homognes de transect. Les espces suivantes sont apparues prdominantes dans la zone proche de la cte: Desbordesia glaucescens, Calpocalyx heitzii, Alstonia congensis, Sacoglottis gabonensis, Anthostema aubryanum, Erythrophleum ivorense, Caloncoba glauca, Lophira alata, Croton oligandrus, etc. Les espces  distribution continentale comptent parmi elles: Millettia laurentii, Sindoropsis letestui, Entandrophragma congoense, Celtis tessmannii, Dialium pachyphyllum, Dialium spp., Allanblackia floribunda, etc. Du fait de l'abondance de ces espces, Nsork reprsente l'extrmit continentale du domaine bas-guinen atlantique. Les forts de l'estuaire du rio Muni prsentent une forte biodiversit du fait de leur position intermdiaire et de leur importante richesse en habitats.
10.2307/3668694|The delimitation of the large and very variable paleotropical genus Tarenna sensu lato has been much debated. A detailed study of the morphological, anatomical and palynological characters of the different groups within this genus results here in the exclusion of circa fifty species from Madagasar or continental Africa. These possess unilocular drupaceous fruits with a single suborbicular to ellipsoidal and usually ruminate seed, a character combination not found in other representatives of Tarenna sensu lato. The genus name Coptosperma is revived to accommodate this group of species, occurring in Eastern and Southern Africa, Madagascar, the Mascarenes, the Seychelles and the Comoros. /// La dlimitation du genre palotropical Tarenna sensu lato, vaste et trs variable, a t l'objet de nombreux dbats. Une tude dtaille de caractres morphologiques, anatomiques et palynologiques des diffrents groupes au sein du genre conduit ici  l'exclusion d'environ cinquante espces de Madagascar ou du continent africain. Les fruits de ces espces sont des drupes uniloculaires  graine unique suborbiculaire  ellipsode et gnralement rumine, une combinaison de caractres qui est absente chez les autres reprsentants du genre Tarenna sensu lato. Le nom gnrique Coptosperma est rhabilit pour ce groupe d'espces prsentes en Afrique orientale et australe,  Madagascar, dans les Mascareignes, les Seychelles et les Comores.
10.2307/3668740|Guinea-Bissau is included in the Guinea-Congolia/Sudania regional transition zone. In order to characterize the environmental framework contributing to the phytogeography of this country the available data on the geology, soils and climatic features of his territory have been summarized and related with the vegetation data. In spite of being a small country, it shows some significant heterogeneity in flora and vegetation from north to south and from coastal to inland regions. The coastal western part of the country has humid to moderately humid climate and mostly deep soils. In the southwestern region develops probably the northernmost dry to sub-humid Guinean forests supporting a phytogeographic Guinean affinity of the region. In the inner eastern part of the country with a sub-humid climate and most of the soils shallow, the vegetation is mainly savanna and woodland and this region seems to have a Sudanese affinity. /// La Guine-Bissau fait partie de la zone de transition rgionale guinocongolaise/soudanienne. Afin de caractriser le cadre environnemental contribuant  la phytogographie de ce pays, les donnes disponibles relatives  la gologie, aux sols et aux conditions climatiques de son territoire ont t rsumes et mises en relation avec les donnes de vgtation. Bien qu'tant un petit pays, la Guine-Bissau est caractrise par une htrognit significative de sa flore et de sa vgtation tant du nord au sud que des rgions ctires vers l'intrieur de son territoire. La partie occidentale ctire du pays bnficie d'un climat humide  modrment humide et est caractrise par des sols gnralement profonds. C'est dans la rgion sud-ouest que se dveloppent probablement les forts guinennes sches  sub-humides les plus septentrionales, preuve de l'affinit guinenne de la rgion. Dans la partie orientale intrieure du pays, caractrise par un climat sub-humide et par des sols pour la plupart superficiels, la vgtation consiste principalement en savanes et en forts claires. Cette rgion semble possder une affinit soudanienne. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668680|The database FLOTROP, an initiative of Cnrs and Cirad, is intended to compile observations on the flora and vegetation of rangelands of northern tropical Africa, i.e. from the Saharo-Sahelian to the Sudanian zone. Its consultation allows elaborate output, i.e. cartographic or in relation to interpretative models. March 15, 2000, the database contained 15,000 listings distributed over 70 years, between latitude 4 and 25 north and from Cabo Verde to Somalia, and coming from more than 100 observers. The authors present a complete analysis of its sampling rate and its corresponding space variation. The importance of keeping observations, even old ones, in the database is stressed. /// La base FLOTROP initie par le Cnrs et le Cirad est destine  rassembler les observations sur la flore et la vgtation des pturages d'Afrique tropicale septentrionale, c'est--dire de la zone saharo-sahlienne  la zone soudanienne. Lors de consultations, elle permet des sorties labores, cartographiques ou en relation avec des modles interprtatifs. Au 15 mars 2000, la base porte sur 15 000 relevs rpartis sur 70 ans, entre les latitudes 4 et 25 N, du Cap-Vert  la Somalie et provenant de plus de 100 observateurs; les auteurs prsentent une analyse complte du taux d'chantillonnage correspondant et de sa variation spatiale. Ils insistent fortement sur l'importance de sauvegarder les observations mme anciennes dans la base de donnes.
10.2307/3668669|A floristic study was carried out on terrestrial weed species of Kampala (Uganda). The aim of the study was to identify weed species, to determine their life forms and their phytogeographical distribution and to compile a checklist. An inventory was made throughout the man-made habitats of Kampala and voucher specimens were collected and deposited at the Herbarium of the Department of Botany of Makerere University (MHU). Three hundred and thirty-one species, belonging to 204 genera and 64 families, were identified. The most important families are Asteraceae (45 spp.), Poaceae (44 spp.) and Papilionaceae (33 spp.). Most of the species are therophytes (38.7%) and of pantropical distribution (48.9%). /// Un inventaire floristique des plantes adventices a t ralis  Kampala en Ouganda. Cette tude avait pour objectif d'identifier ces espces, de dfinir et de discuter leurs types biologiques et phytogographiques. Un herbier de rfrence a t constitu et conserv  l'Herbarium du Dpartement de Botanique de l'Universit Makerere (MHU). Au total, 331 espces ont t identifies. Elles sont rparties en 64 familles et 204 genres. Les familles les plus importantes sont: Asteraceae (45 espces), Poaceae (44 espces) et Papilionaceae (33 espces). Parmi les types biologiques, les throphytes forment le groupe le plus important (38,7%). Le spectre gographique, par contre, est domin par des espces pantropicales (48,9% du total).
10.2307/3668698|The phylogeny of Cyperus and allied genera in Cyperaceae tribe Cypereae has been reconstructed using parsimony analysis of a combined data matrix, composed of plastid DNA (rbcL, trnL intron and trnL-F intergenic spacer) sequences and morphological data. Tribe Cypereae are resolved into a strongly supported clade that is defined by the Cyperus-type embryo and absence of perianth segments. Cyperus, sensu stricto, is not monophyletic as other cyperoid genera are embedded within it. The cyperoid taxa resolve into two clades, which are diagnosed by the eucyperoid (C3) and chlorocyperoid (C4) anatomy. Key generic morphological characters are optimised on the phylogeny. /// La phylognie du genre Cyperus et des genres allis de la tribu des Cypereae au sein de la famille des Cyperaceae a t reconstruite en utilisant l'analyse de parcimonie d'une matrice combine de donnes composes de squences d'ADN du plastide (rbcL, trnL intron et trnL-F intergenic spacer) et morphologiques. La tribu des Cypereae constitue une clade bien diffrencie qui est dfinie par l'embryon typique des Cyperus et l'absence de segments au niveau du prianthe. Cyperus, sensu stricto, n'est pas monophyltique car d'autres genres cyprodes y sont ancrs. Les taxons cyprodes constituent deux clades diagnostiques par leur anatomie eucyprode (C3) et chlorocyprode (C4). Les caractres morphologiques cls des genres sont optimiss sur l'arbre phylognique. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668668|The flora and distribution of epiphytes was surveyed on quickset hedges in the Bafou village (1400-2800m above sea level) situated at the Mount Bambouto area (west Cameroon) using Johansson's methodology (1974). The study area was divided into three areas (northern, central and southern part) according to the altitude. The factor analysis shows that the central and the southern regions of the study site were similar as far as the floristic composition is concerned. Because of this fact, two major regions were recognized within the study area: region I (central and southern parts) and region II (northern part). All together, 68 species were recorded on 746 individuals of 12 host tree species (phorophytes). Among the 68 species, 58 species are present in region I while 31 species are in region II. In region I, 46.6% of the species are Monocotyledons, Dicotyledons are represented by 29.3% of the species and Pteridophytes by 24.1%. The largest family among the 16 families present in this region I is the Orchidaceae which is represented by 46.6% of the species. In region II, Dicotyledons are the most abundant group and are represented by 48.4% of the species. Monocotyledons and Pteridophytes are in the same proportion and each of those groups is represented by 25.8% of the species. Among the 14 families present in this region, the Orchidaceae is the most abundant group with 25.8% of the species. In region I, two phorophytes, Cola anomala and Dracaena arborea, are the richest in species and carry 35 and 34 species of epiphytes, respectively. In region II, Dracaena arborea, Spathodea campanulata and Cola anomala with 21, 17 et 16 epiphytes respectively are the richest in species. Otherwise Croton macrostachyus and Ficus chlamydocarpa are the poorest in the two regions. A detailed analysis of the distribution of epiphytes on Cola anomala in the northern, central and southern parts of the study site with the number of epiphytes as the dependent variable and the circumference of the phorophyte as a co-factor shows a significant difference between the three parts of the study site (F = 5,56; d.f. = 2; P < 0,0054). Furthermore, the number of epiphytes and the circumference of the phorophyte appeared correlated in the different parts of the study site (<latex>$P<10^{-6}$</latex>). The examination of the stratification of the epiphytes on Cola anomala tree shows that the species richness is different within the five strates recognized here. /// La distribution des piphytes vasculaires a t tudie sur les haies vives du village Bafou (1400-2800 m d'altitude) situ dans la rgion des monts Bambouto (Ouest Cameroun). La mthodologie utilise est celle de Johansson (1974). Le territoire d'tude a t subdivis en trois ensembles (Nord, Centre et Sud) en fonction de l'altitude. L'analyse factorielle des correspondances nous a permis de constater que le Centre et le Sud sont floristiquement semblables. Ceci a permis la reconnaissance de deux rgions: la rgion I (Sud et Centre) et la rgion II (Nord). Au total, 68 espces d'piphytes ont t recenses sur 746 individus appartenant  douze espces-supports (phorophytes). Parmi les 68 espces d'piphytes rencontres, 57 sont signales dans la rgion I et 31 dans la rgion II. Dans la rgion I, 46,6% des espces sont des Monocotyldones. Les Dicotyldones et les Ptridophytes sont reprsentes respectivement par 29,3% et 24,1% des espces. Les Orchidaceae avec 46,6% des espces, sont de loin la famille la mieux reprsente parmi les 16 familles signales. Dans la rgion II, les Dicotyldones sont les plus nombreuses et reprsentent 48,4% des espces. Les Monocotyldones et les Ptridophytes, en proportion gale, reprsentent chacune 25,8% des espces. Parmi les 15 familles prsentes dans cette rgion, les Orchidaceae sont encore les mieux reprsentes avec 25,8% des espces. Dans la rgion I, Cola anomala et Dracaena arborea sont les phorophytes les plus riches en espces et portent respectivement 35 et 34 espces. Dans la rgion II, Dracaena arborea, Spathodea campanulata et Cola anomala avec respectivement 21 espces, 17 espces et 16 espces, sont les phorophytes les plus riches en espces. Croton macrostachyus et Ficus chlamydocarpa sont les phorophytes les plus pauvres dans les deux rgions de la zone d'tude. Une analyse plus pousse de la distribution des piphytes sur Cola anomala dans le Nord, le Centre et le Sud de la zone d'tude avec le nombre d'piphytes comme variable dpendante et comme co-facteur la circonfrence du phorophyte montre une diffrence entre ces trois parties du site (F = 5,56; d.d.l. = 2; P < 0,0054). Par ailleurs dans ces diffrentes parties, le nombre d'espces d'piphytes et la circonfrence du phorophyte sont deux variables significativement associes (<latex>$P<10^{-6}$</latex>). L'tude de la stratification des piphytes sur Cola anomala permet de constater que la richesse spcifique est diffrente dans les cinq strates reconnues.
10.2307/3668706|This paper presents a preliminary inventory of edible macromycetes found in six Sudano-Guinean vegetation types from the protected forest areas of Wari-Maro in Benin (West Africa). Thirty edible species were found in 18 fixed plots (three per vegetation type). Edibility data were obtained from local populations and the literature. Mushroom productions were assessed per species and per plot using the number of produced carpophores and fresh weight (kg/ha). Edible macromycetes from the studied areas are for 86.6% ectomycorrhizal taxa belonging to Lactarius, Russula and Amanita. The total macromycetous fresh weight production of one season varies from 0.2 to 225.0 kg/ha, depending on the forest type. Open forests, i.e. savanna and woodland savanna, dominated by Caesalpiniaceae yield qualitatively and quantitatively more edible taxa than the denser and rivulet associated or riverain forest types lacking Caesalpinioid trees. Lactarius gymnocarpoides, forming ectomycorrhiza with Isoberlinia doka, is the most common and abundant species in the savannas and woodland savannas. Specific productions of the edible taxa are affected by host tree composition reflected in the forest type. Most species produce quantitatively more fresh weight in the first two months of the rainy season (June-July). Species showing a continuous production throughout the rainy season are rare. The study illustrates that the edible macromycetes from Wari-Maro forest have substantial importance as a renewable non timber forest product (NTFP). The limitations and the main factors, necessary for a succesful valorisation of these NTFP, are discussed. /// Cette tude donne l'inventaire des macromyctes comestibles, trouvs dans six types de formations forestires de la fort classe de Wari-Maro (Bnin, Afrique de l'Ouest) en rgion Soudano-guinenne. Un total de 30 espces comestibles a t obtenu dans 18 placeaux (trois par formation), les donnes de comestibilit ont t obtenues de la population locale et de la littrature. Le nombre de carpophores et la biomasse frache ont t quantifis par espce et par formation. Les macromyctes comestibles sont  86,6% des espces ectomycorhiziennes appartenant principalement aux genres Amanita, Lactarius et Russula. En une saison la production totale, toutes espces confondues, varie de 0,2  225 kg MF/ha suivant la formation forestire. Les formations ouvertes (savane arbustive, savane arbore et les diffrents facis de la fort claire  Isoberlinia doka) domines par les Caesalpiniaceae fournissent le plus d'espces comestibles, tant en richesse spcifique qu'en biomasse frache. Par contre, les formations denses fermes (fort dense de plateau et fort riveraine) pauvres en Caesalpiniaceae enregistrent les plus faibles productions. Lactarius gymnocarpoides, espce symbiote d'Isoberlinia doka, est la plus abondante de la mycoflore des formations  caractre de fort claire. Les productions spcifiques varient d'une formation  une autre. Quelques cas spcifiques sont traits. Les productions des espces sont le plus souvent concentres en dbut de la saison des pluies (juin-juillet). Les espces  production plus tale sont peu frquentes. L'tude dmontre que les potentialits des macromyctes de la fort classe de Wari-Maro, en tant que ressource forestire comestible ou produit forestier non-ligneux (PFNL), sont normes. Les facteurs importants pour le succs de la valorisation des ressources mycologiques dans la rgion sont abords.
10.2307/3668710|An ethnobotanical inquiry allowed to establish an inventory of plants (wild and cultivated) daily used by the autochtonous riverine people of the Lossi forest. The study deals with the edible useful plants. The dietary potential of the forest as well as the impact of picking on conservation of phytogenetic resources and their sustainable exploitation are evaluated. Translated by the journal. /// L'enqute ethnobotanique, auprs des populations autochtones et riveraines de la fort de Lossi, a permis d'inventorier quelques plantes utiles (cultives et sauvages) dont elles se servent au quotidien. Cette tude couvrant le volet alimentaire a conduit  valuer le potentiel alimentaire de cette fort et l'impact de la cueillette sur la conservation du patrimoine phytogntique et son exploitation soutenue.
10.2307/3668725|Woodland occurs in the Sudanian region of northern Benin where the tree stratum is dominated by Isoberlinia tomentosa or Monotes kerstingii at about 10 N. The objective of this study is to characterize floristic composition of herbaceous strata of woodland on the view point of life forms and species geographical distribution. Data were collected in relev plots of <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> that had permitted to distinguish three plant associations. Species richness varied from 48 to 67 in the herbaceous stratum compared to 17 or 18 tree species per <tex-math>$1000\ m^{2}$</tex-math> in tree layer. Therophyte species were the most abundant (34 to 44%), but according to herbaceous strata structure defined by biovolume, hemicryptophyte species were the most abundant (77 to 94%). According to species distribution the base-element abundance varied from one association to another. The abundance of the base-element was low in disturbed stations due to the impact, when abundance of large spreading species was higher. Phanerophyte species abundance was higher among the base-element species than therophyte and geophyte species. While considering widely distributed species, therophyte species abundance was the highest (54 to 63%). This study shows that better of cattle grazing better understanding can be obtained of species richness and ecological patterns in Sudanian woodland using the abundance figures of respectively therophytic and phanerophytic species. /// La rgion soudanienne du Nord du Bnin est celle o l'on rencontre les forts claires qui sont pour la plupart domines au niveau de la strate arborescente par Isoberlinia tomentosa ou Monotes kerstingii  partir de 10 N. Cette tude dont l'objectif est de caractriser la composition floristique de la strate herbace des forts claires soudaniennes du point de vue structural et de leurs types biologique et phytogographique a t conduite dans trois associations diffrentes dans des placeaux de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> en moyenne. La richesse spcifique de la strate herbace varie entre 48 et 67 espces contre 17 ou 18 espces d'arbres sur <tex-math>$1000\ m^{2}$</tex-math> au niveau de la strate arborescente. Les throphytes sont les types biologiques les plus abondants (35  44%), alors que du point de vue structural ce sont plutt les hmicryptophytes cespiteux basiphylles qui contribuent le plus au biovolume de la strate herbace (77  94%). Du point de vue chorologique, l'abondance des espces de l'lment-base soudanien varie d'une association  l'autre. La valeur de l'lment-base est plus faible dans les stations perturbes par une forte intensit de passage des troupeaux bovins o l'on note aussi une contribution plus forte des espces  large distribution. Les phanrophytes sont plus reprsentatifs dans le cortge floristique de l'lment-base soudanien devant les throphytes et les gophytes. Dans le cortge des espces  large distribution ce sont plutt les throphytes qui sont les plus abondants et y contribuent entre 54 et 63%. On peut dduire de cette tude que les espces throphytes et phanrophytes traduisent par leur abondance, respectivement, la richesse spcifique et l'amplitude cologique des forts claires soudaniennes.
10.2307/3668666|In the Ivory Coast, the Sapotaceae comprise fifteen genera with the following distribution: African, eleven; pantropical, two (Chrysophyllum, Manilkara); paleotropical, one (Mimusops); afro-neotropical, one (Pouteria). At species rank, 43 Sapotaceae, all African, have been reported from different vegetation types in the country. They are trees or shrubs, but a single liana also occurs: Chrysophyllum welwitschii. Thirty-six of these species (83.7%) come from rain forest. The sudano-zambezian region counts five species, among them the very common "Karit" (Vitellaria paradoxa). Two shrubs are from the transition between rain forest and savanna: Mimusops andongensis and Pouteria alnifolia. Nine species are West African endemics. Three of them only occur in the Ivory Coast. Six Sapotaceae became rare or endangered due to the unfortunate degradation of the plant cover. Translated by the journal. /// La famille des Sapotaceae compte, en Cte d'Ivoire, quinze genres dont la chorologie est la suivante: africain, onze; pantropicaux, deux (Chrysophyllum, Manilkara); palotropical, un (Mimusops); afro-notropical, un (Pouteria). Au niveau spcifique, 43 Sapotaceae, toutes africaines, ont t rpertories dans les diffrentes formations vgtales du pays. Ce sont des arbres ou des arbustes; une seule espce lianescente est connue chez les Sapotaceae ivoiriennes: Chrysophyllum welwitschii. Parmi ces plantes, 36 (83,7%) proviennent de la fort dense humide. La rgion soudanozambzienne est caractrise par cinq espces, dont le Karit (Vitellaria paradoxa), trs abondant. Dans la zone de contact de la fort dense et de la savane, on note la prsence de deux arbustes: Mimusops andongensis et Pouteria alnifolia. Neuf espces sont endmiques ouest-africaines. Parmi elles, trois sont propres  la Cte d'Ivoire. Suite  la dgradation intempestive du couvert vgtal en Cte d'Ivoire, six Sapotaceae sont devenues rares ou en voie d'extinction.
10.2307/3668721|This work is the first analysis of the totality of the plant biodiversity inventories made in the Odzala National Park. It deals especially with habitat diversity and phytogeographical groups based ou the correctly determined species of the curent flora. The global taxonomic list consists of 1141 species belonging to 125 families. Forest habitat is the most diversified with 806 species reaching 71% of the total, of wich 537 belong to the "fort de terre ferme". Grassy habitat includes 335 species reaching 29% of the total, 143 species belonging to the savanna. At the phytogeographical groups level, the basic Guineo-Congolian element is the most important with 666 species (58% of the flora). Species with very broad geographical area follow with 271 species (24% of the flora). Correlation between habitat and phytogeographical groups has been established. The predominance of the basic Guineo-Congolian element in forest sites where the human influence is lesser displays the stability of these habitats. The importance of species with very broad geographical area in grassy habitats illustrates the secondary or substitution character of these sites, mainly created by human activities. /// Ce travail constitue une premire analyse de la totalit de donnes cumules jusqu'ici, sur la biodiversit des plantes inventories dans le Parc National d'Odzala (PNO). L'analyse porte essentiellement sur les habitats et la diversit des groupes phytogograhiques, et concerne les espces correctement dtermines. Au total 1141 espces appartenant  125 familles ont t inventories. Les habitats forestiers sont les plus diversifis avec 806 espces soit 71% du total, dont 537 appartiennent aux forts de terre ferme. Les habitats herbeux hbergent 335 espces soit 29% du total, dont 143 espces appartiennent aux savanes. Au niveau des groupes phytogograhiques, les espces de l'lment-base guino-congolais sont les plus importantes avec 666 espces (58% de la flore). Les espces  large distribution gographique suivent avec 271 espces (24% de la flore). Il a t tabli une corrlation entre l'habitat et le groupe phytogograhique. La prdominance des espces de l'lment-base guino-congolais dans les sites forestiers tmoigne de la stabilit de ces derniers o. l'influence humaine est moindre. L'importance des espces  large distribution gographique dans les habitats herbeux illustre le caractre secondaire ou de substitution de ces sites conscutif aux activits anthropiques.
10.2307/3668684|The comparison of the grass flora of Cte d'Ivoire and Niger with those several other countries of West Africa shows that the local floras are only partially valid for the neighbouring countries. This study underlines the scientific and practical interest of the regional floras. /// La comparaison des flores des Poaceae de Cte d'Ivoire et du Niger avec celles de plusieurs autres pays d'Afrique de l'Ouest, a montr qu'elles n'ont qu'une validit partielle pour les pays avoisinants. Cette tude met en vidence l'intrt scientifique et pratique des flores rgionales.
10.2307/3668673|The Flora of Tropical East Africa, a project started in 1949, is to be finished in 2006. Over twelve thousand species in 249 families will be accounted for; this relatively small region encompasses a large number of highly diverse habitats, which results in a rich biodiversity. A brief overview of habitats is given, and local endemism is discussed. The second section deals with the strategy of the Flora; its use and its users, and its raison d'tre. Also discussed are some possible action plans for when the Flora has been finished, and a trial family is treated for a suggested new Flora of Tropical Africa. /// La 'Flora of Tropical East Africa', un projet qui a dbut en 1949, sera termine en 2006. Environ 12.000 espces rparties au sein de 249 familles y auront t traites; cette rgion relativement petite est caractrise par une riche biodiversit, rsultat de la diversit des habitats qu'elle renferme. Un bref aperu des habitats est donn et l'endmisme local est discut. La seconde partie concerne la stratgie de la Flore, son utilisation et ses utilisateurs ainsi que sa raison d'tre. Quelques plans d'action envisageables aprs finalisation de la Flore sont galement discuts et le traitement d'une famille  titre exemplatif prfigure ce que pourrait tre une nouvelle Flore d'Afrique Tropicale. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668733|A plant collecting expedition to Nyika National Park, Malawi/Zambia, was completed from 22 March to 10 April 2000 by more than twenty botanists from the southern and eastern African countries of Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The expedition formed part of the SABONET Project which is aimed at developing a strong core of professional botanists, taxonomists and plant diversity specialists competent to inventory and conserve the botanical diversity of the southern African region. During this expedition, 3,343 plant numbers were collected, with preliminary results indicating many new distribution and locality records both for Nyika National Park and the Flora Zambesiaca area. /// Une expdition dans le Parc National Nyika, Malawi/Zambie, en vue de rcolter des chantillons de plantes, a t mene du 22 mars au 10 avril 2000 par plus de vingt botanistes d'Afrique australe et de l'est originaires du Malawi, du Mozambique, d'Afrique du Sud, de Tanzanie, de Zambie et du Zimbabwe. L'expdition entrait dans le cadre du Projet SABONET dont l'objectif est de dvelopper un noyau fort de botanistes professionnels, de taxonomistes et de spcialistes de la diversit vgtale, comptents pour inventorier et conserver la diversit botanique de l'Afrique australe. Au cours de cette expdition, 3.343 chantillons botaniques ont t rcolts. Les rsultats prliminaires indiquent de nombreuses nouveauts quant  la distribution des taxons ainsi que de nouvelles localits de rcolte tant pour le Parc National Nyika que pour la zone couverte par la Flora Zambesiaca. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668664|Numerous botanists have taken an interest in the flora of the copper-containing rocky outcrops of South Central Africa (Katanga, Zambia, Zimbabwe); some botanical collectors came by chance to these sites, while others, and among these the botanists Duvigneaud, Malaisse and Wild, have dedicated sites with copper-containing rocks a sustained interest. According to the number of collections made on these sites, some have been very well prospected, whilst others are still almost totally unknown from a botanical point of view. Moreover, the original vegetation of some sites is still intact, while mining activities in other sites have deeply influenced the vegetation, leading sometimes to total destruction and what appears to be extinction of five local endemic taxa. Maps showing the position of sites in South Central Africa are provided to demonstrate the degree of botanical exploration of the different outcrops; one set shows the total exploration, the other shows the activities of Duvigneaud, Malaisse and Wild. Based on these maps of exploration, and on maps of the degree of alteration of the sites, conclusions are drawn on the current knowledge of the sites and their flora, and on the need for future study of undercollected sites. /// De nombreux botanistes se sont intresss  la flore des gisements cuprifres d'Afrique centro-australe (Katanga, Zambie, Zimbabwe). Alors que certains se sont rendus fortuitement sur de tels sites, d'autres, (et parmi ceux-ci, particulirement les botanistes Duvigneaud, Malaisse et Wild) y ont consacr beaucoup d'intrt. Compte tenu du nombre de spcimens d'herbiers raliss sur gisements cuprifres, certains sites ont t particulirement bien herboriss tandis que d'autres restent pratiquement mconnus voire totalement inconnus d'un point de vue botanique. De plus, la vgtation originelle de certains sites est toujours intacte, tandis que, pour d'autres sites, l'activit minire a profondment modifi la vgtation, amenant parfois  une destruction totale de celle-ci, voire, dans un cas,  la disparition de cinq taxons endmiques locaux. Des reprsentations cartographiques montrant la localisation des sites sont avances pour reprsenter l'exploration botanique des diffrents gisements par l'ensemble des rcolteurs puis, respectivement, par Duvigneaud, Malaisse et Wild. La consultation des cartes d'exploration d'une part, ainsi que de celle ayant trait au degr d'altration des sites d'autre part, a permis d'mettre des conclusions relatives  la connaissance des diffrents gisements et de leur flore et de dgager la ncessit d'orienter des tudes futures vers les sites peu connus d'un point de vue botanique.
10.2307/3668663|The career of Paul Deuse started in Belgium in the "Hautes-Fagnes" during the post-war period, but came to its full expansion in Central Africa. Field worker, phytosociologist, trained as an ecologist and a palynologist, teacher, and endowed with a good experience of how to manage a field station and a museum, P. Deuse left Belgium in 1953 for a first three-month tour in Congo. From 1954 to 1956, he worked as temporary researcher for the "Institut pour la Recherche scientifique en Afrique centrale (I.R.S.A.C.)" in Mabali (Congo belge), where he prepared a doctoral thesis on the vegetation of the moorish "esobe" of the lake Tumba. After submitting his thesis at the "Universit de Lige" (1957), he was appointed senior research worker at the "I.R.S.A.C." and sent to Astrida (now Butare), in order to make a study of the peat bogs of the Ruanda-Urundi till 1959. After the independance of Congo, he returned to Astrida in July 1960, where he cut down on his research in pollen analysis to assume the responsability of Director of the I.R.S.A.C. Center till the independance of Rwanda. After that, the situation of the research center of Butare became still more difficult until the signature of the "convention belgo-rwandaise" end 1964, which founded the "Institut national pour la Recherche scientifique (I.N.R.S.)" of Rwanda, with P. Deuse as Director. P. Deuse was also part-time assistant lecturer (1961-1965) at the "Centre universitaire de Rumuri" (Bujumbura, Burundi), and senior lecturer (1963-1971) at the "Universit nationale du Rwanda" (U.N.R.). A part of the herbarium specimens gathered by P. Deuse before 1955 (406 nos.) are preserved in BR. In 1957 he started a herbarium in Astrida, with duplicates dispatched to Lwiro (LWO). The herbarium of Butare became the "Herbier national du Rwanda" (HNR) in 1965. After the death of P. Deuse, from 1977 onward, the I.N.R.S. was managed by the Government of Rwanda. In 1994, due to the genocide, the research center of Butare was sacked. /// Si la carrire de Paul Deuse a dbut en Belgique dans les Hautes-Fagnes  l'aprs-guerre, c'est en Afrique centrale qu'elle a connu son plus grand dveloppement. Homme de terrain, phytosociologue, cologiste et palynologue de formation, enseignant, nanti aussi d'une bonne exprience de gestion d'une station de terrain et d'un muse, il quitta la Belgique en 1953 pour un premier priple de trois mois au Congo. De 1954  1957, il fut chercheur temporaire au Centre de l'Institut pour la Recherche scientifique en Afrique centrale (I.R.S.A.C.)  Mabali (Congo belge), o il prpara une thse de doctorat sur la vgtation des "esobe" tourbeux du lac Tumba. Suite  la dfense de sa thse  l'Universit de Lige (1957), il fut nomm chercheur senior  l'I.R.S.A.C.  Astrida (aujourd'hui Butare), pour y effectuer l'tude des tourbires du Ruanda-Urundi, jusqu'en 1959. Aprs l'indpendance du Congo, il revint  Astrida en juillet 1960, o ses recherches en palynologie furent fort limites en raison de ses fonctions de directeur du Centre I.R.S.A.C. jusqu' l'indpendance du Rwanda. Ds ce moment, la situation du Centre de Butare devint de plus en plus difficile jusqu' la signature de la convention belgo-rwandaise, fin 1964, par laquelle fut fond l'Institut national pour la Recherche scientifique (I.N.R.S.) au Rwanda, dont P. Deuse devint directeur. P. Deuse fut aussi charg de cours  temps partiel (1961-1965) au Centre universitaire de Rumuri (Bujumbura, Burundi) et professeur ordinaire (1963-1971)  l'Universit nationale du Rwanda (U.N.R.). Les spcimens d'herbiers rcolts par P. Deuse avant 1955 sont en partie (406 nos.) conservs  BR. En 1957, il commena un herbier  Astrida, dont les doubles taient envoys  Lwiro (LWO). En 1965, l'herbier de Butare devint l'"Herbier national du Rwanda" (HNR). Aprs le dcs de P. Deuse,  partir de 1977, la gestion de l'I.N.R.S. fut reprise par le Gouvernement rwandais. En 1994, au moment du gnocide, le Centre de recherches fut saccag.
10.2307/3668742|Western Cameroon has one of the richest floras in Tropical Africa. This paper examines the subject of the phytogeographic delimitation of the area. The Cross River-Sanaga River interval is known to be of importance in primate geography. Is it also important for plants? The characteristics of the area may be more a product of the Cameroon Highlands than of the flora of lowland Guinea: more work is needed to decide this. /// Le Cameroun occidental possde une des flores les plus riches d'Afrique tropicale. Cet article envisage la dlimitation phytogographique de la rgion. L'intervalle entre les rivires Cross et Sanaga est rput pour son importance en gographie des primates. Est-il galement important pour les plantes? Les caractristiques de la rgion peuvent la rattacher aux hautes terres du Cameroun plutt qu' la flore guinenne de basse altitude: d'autres tudes sont ncessaires pour statuer  ce propos. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668708|The identification of plants by indigenous people is based on recognising systems, which vary from one area to another. In order to understand the system used by the Malink, an ethnobotanical study was carried out in some villages of the Department of Sgula (in the north of Ivory Coast). After an inventory of the useful wild species in the area (scientific name, utilisation and ecology), vernacular names (in Dioula) were particularly investigated by the means of their local signification and etymology. This information was analysed and reveals various ways of identification and designation based on analogical or manner characters (morphology, gustatory, olfactory, onomatopeia, etc.). The Malink system takes into account botanical characters and ecological factors (habitat). These different recognising approaches are presented and discussed. /// La reconnaissance des plantes par les populations indignes est base sur des systmes taxonomiques qui peuvent varier d'un territoire  l'autre. Pour mieux comprendre le systme utilis par les Malink, une tude ethnobotanique a t conduite dans des villages du Dpartement de Sgula (au nord de la Cte-d'Ivoire). Suite  un inventaire des espces sauvages utilises dans la rgion (noms scientifiques, usages et cologie), les appellations vernaculaires (en langue Dioula) ont fait l'objet d'une tude approfondie relative aux significations locales et  l'tymologie de ces appellations. L'analyse de ces informations rvle l'existence de diffrentes mthodes d'identification et de dnomination, bases sur des caractres analogiques et imitatifs (morphologique, gustatif, olfactif, onomatopique, etc.). Le systme Malink tient compte de caractres botaniques et de critres phytogographiques, notamment l'habitat. Ces diffrentes approches de reconnaissance sont prsentes et discutes.
10.2307/3668696|Data on the amount of mucilage in mericarps of 400 species of Lamiaceae subfam. Nepetoideae has been obtained by tests and gathered from literature. The relative frequency of myxodiaspory (the condition of having mucilaginous diaspores) has been calculated for groups of species with similar biological characteristics, and the differences tested for statistical significance. The following results have been obtained: 1) Species that grow in dry habitats are more often myxodiasporic than species that grow in moist or damp habitats. However, myxodiaspory seems not to be more frequent in dry habitats in arid floristic regions than in dry habitats in more humid regions. 2) Species with small nutlets are more often myxodiasporic than species with large nutlets. However, most of the myxocarpic species with large nutlets are more strongly myxodiasporic than the myxodiasporic species with small nutlets. 3) Annuals are more often myxodiasporic than perennials. 4) Species with a reticulate or overall hairy nutlet surface are not myxodiasporic. 5) Tropical Africa has a particularly high relative frequency of myxodiaspory. These results suggest that the biological importance of myxodiaspory is primarily associated to the ability of the mucilaginous diaspores to adhere to animals or to the ground. However, the results do not support the prevailing view that atelechory is more important than epizoochory as a function of myxodiaspory. /// Des donnes sur la quantit de mucilage dans le pricarpe de 400 espces de Lamiaceae subfam. Nepetoideae ont t obtenues lors d'essais et rassembles  partir de la littrature. La frquence relative de myxodiasporie (prsence de diaspores mucilagineuses) a t calcule pour des groupes d'espces prsentant des caractristiques biologiques similaires et les diffrences ont t testes statistiquement. Les rsultats suivants ont t obtenus: 1) Les espces qui poussent dans des habitats secs sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que celles rencontres dans des habitats humides. Nanmoins, la myxodiasporie ne semble pas tre plus frquente dans les habitats secs des rgions floristiques arides que dans les habitats secs des rgions plus humides. 2) Les espces  petits nucules sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que les espces  grands nucules. Nanmoins, la plupart des espces myxocarpiques  grands nucules sont plus fortement myxodiasporiques que les espces myxodiasporiques  petits nucules. 3) Les annuelles sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que les prennes. 4) Les espces prsentant une surface du nucule rticule ou totalement poilue ne sont pas myxodiasporiques. 5) La frquence relative de myxodiasporie est particulirement leve en Afrique tropicale. Ces rsultats suggrent que l'importance biologique de la myxodiasporie est principalement associe  la capacit qu'ont les diaspores mucilagineuses  adhrer aux animaux ou au sol. Cependant, les rsultats ne rejoignent pas l'opinion gnrale selon laquelle l'atlchorie est plus importante que l'pizoochorie du fait de la myxodiasporie. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668703|Symbiotic methods for germinating Eulophia Lindl. and Polystachya Hook. seeds from terrestrial and epiphytic habitats respectively were established. Cultures, initiated from the seeds were grown on 2% oats medium and germination medium, alone, or oats medium supplemented with <tex-math>$10\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> banana fruit homogenate and <tex-math>$0.2\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> activated charcoal. The highest germination/differentiation, which took place after 7 days of inoculation, was obtained on the 2% oats medium with glucose (<tex-math>$2\ g.L-^{-1}$</tex-math>) and <tex-math>$NH_{4}NO_{3}4H_{2}O$</tex-math> (<tex-math>$1.0\ mM.L^{-1}$</tex-math>) as a source of inorganic nitrogen and supplemented with the additives. Development of protocorms in compatible orchid-fungus combination took place after the second subculture (30 days) from which seedling developed. Irrespective of the fact that the orchids showed possible specificity patterns at population level with their fungal partners in their natural habitats the in vitro symbiotic seed germination also showed significant tendency towards fungal specificity. Since germination took a shorter time by this technique to develop protocorms, propagation of endangered orchids could be done and used for ex situ conservation programmes. /// Des mthodes symbiotiques de germination pour Eulophia Lindl. et Polystachya Hook. provenant d'habitats terrestres et piphytiques ont t tablies. Les cultures inities  partir des graines se sont dveloppes sur un milieu  2% d'avoine et sur milieu de germination seul, ou sur milieu d'avoine enrichi d'homognat de banane  <tex-math>$10\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> et de charbon de bois  0,2 <tex-math>$g.L^{-1}$</tex-math>. La meilleure germination et diffrentiation qui se produit aprs sept jours d'inoculation a t obtenue sur le milieu  l'avoine  2% avec du glucose (<tex-math>$2\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math>) et <tex-math>$NH_{4}NO_{3}4H_{2}O\ (1.0mM.L^{-1})$</tex-math> comme source de nitrogne inorganique et enrichi avec les additifs. Le dveloppement des protocormes dans une combinaison orchide-champignon a eu lieu aprs la seconde subculture (30 jours), dans laquelle des plantules se sont dveloppes. Indpendamment du fait que les orchides montraient de possibles modes spcifiques au niveau de la population avec leur champignon partenaire dans leur habitat naturel, la germination symbiotique in vitro a montr elle aussi une tendance significative  la spcificit du champignon partenaire. Comme la germination a pris un temps plus court par cette technique pour dvelopper des protocormes, la propagation d'orchides menaces pourrait tre ralise et utilise dans des programmes de conservation ex situ. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668702|Vascular epiphytism in Upper Katanga is approached for the first time. It concerns holoepiphytes and occasional epiphytes but not lianas. Some 127 taxa were encountered. Orchidaceae takes the top position with 79 species. Their distribution regarding the five main woody vegetation units (open forest or woodland, dry evergreen forest, gallery forest, mountain forest, swampy forest) has been recorded by a weekly survey made during twenty years. Regarding diversity, gallery forests take the pole position with 14 taxa restricted to this unit as well as 50 other taxa occurring in other units as well. This is tremendous, notably according to the heavy anthropogenic pressure on this ecosystem, of which the expanse is continuously reduced and which covers far below 1% of the country. Open forests or woodlands, mainly of wetter miombo type, occur in second position with respectively 7 and 48 taxa. Other main vegetation units take a tiny part regarding epiphytic orchid biodiversity. With 36 taxa, pteridophyte diversity is in second position, as in African rain forests. The flowering periods of orchids are tackled. The phenological spectrum is saturated, whilst the phenogram indicates seasonal trends, with a maximum in November-December. Finally, epiphytic diversity confirms to be a suitable information for forest vegetation monitoring. /// Une tude des plantes vasculaires piphytes du Haut-Katanga est effectue pour la premire fois. Elle concerne les holopiphytes et les piphytes occasionnels mais ne considre pas les lianes. Cent vingt-sept taxons furent dnombrs. Les Orchidaceae occupent la premire position avec 79 espces. Leur distribution en fonction des cinq units majeures de vgtation (forts claires ou savanes boises, forts denses sches, forts galeries, forts de montagne et forts marcageuses) a fait l'objet d'une exploration hebdomadaire pendant une vingtaine d'annes. Du point de vue de la diversit, les forts galeries viennent en position de tte avec 14 taxons  distribution limite  cette formation vgtale et 50 autres taxons galement prsents dans d'autres units. Ceci est remarquable, compte tenu de la pression anthropique que subit cet cosystme dont la superficie se rduit sans cesse et qui couvre aujourd'hui bien moins qu'un pour cent du territoire. Les forts claires et savanes boises occupent la deuxime position avec respectivement 7 et 48 taxons. Les autres units majeures de vgtation jouent un rle mineur au point de vue de la diversit en Orchides piphytes. Avec 36 taxons, les Ptridophytes viennent en seconde position, tout comme elles le font dans les forts denses humides africaines. Les priodes de floraison des orchides sont abordes. Le spectre phnologique est satur, tandis que le phnogramme indique l'existence d'une saisonnalit, avec un maximum en novembre-dcembre. La diversit des piphytes se confirme tre un outil performant pour le suivi de la dynamique des formations forestires.
10.2307/3668727|A phytosociological investigation was carried out on fourteen inselbergs from continental Equatorial Guinea. Results are (i) eight vegetation units, (ii) the unequal distribution of those eight units on the different inselbergs, (iii) the high species diversity, (iv) the presence of rare species and plant formations, of species with a disjunct distribution and of mountain species at a low altitude (600-750 m). Twelve differentiating factors that may partially explain the existing differences between the fourteen sites have been recognized. /// L'tude phytosociologique de quatorze inselbergs de Guine Equatoriale continentale a permis de mettre en vidence (i) huit groupements vgtaux, (ii) la rpartition ingale de ces groupements sur les diffrents sites, (iii) la grande richesse spcifique de la vgtation des inselbergs, (iv) la prsence d'espces et de formation vgtales rares, d'espces  aire de distribution disjointes, ainsi que d'espces montagnardes  basse altitude (600  750 m). Douze facteurs de diffrenciation pouvant expliquer partiellement les diffrences existant entre la vgtation des quatorze sites ont t reconnus.
10.2307/3668705|Perenniporia centrali-africana sp. nov. is described based on two Cameroon collections. The species is characterised by a sessile, slightly to broadly decurrent basidiocarp, a sulcate, brown to dark brown pileus, yellowish brown vegetative hyphae, and truncate, dextrinoid basidiospores. The species is compared with P. tephropora, P. mundula, and P. inflexibilis, also occurring in tropical Africa. /// Perenniporia centrali-africana sp. nov. est dcrite sur base de deux collections en provenance du Cameroun. L' espce est caractrise par un basidiocarpe sessile, lgrement  largement dcurrent, un pileus sulqu brun  brun fonc, des hyphes vgtatives brun-jauntre et des basidiospores tronques dextrinodes. L'espce est compare  P. tephropora, P. mundula et P. inflexibilis, galement prsentes en Afrique tropicale. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668743|Recent botanical inventory work on the island of Mayotte (Comoro Archipelago) makes it possible to identify and describe the last remaining vestiges of natural vegetation. The floristic data are used to analyze the territory's floristic affinities with Africa and Madagascar, and to propose hypotheses regarding the origin of its flora, which is characterized by a relatively high number of families and species for an area of that size, and a low level of endemism. Species of Malagasy origin are three times more numerous than those of African affinity. Based on these characteristics, coupled with Mayotte's geological history, we hypothesize that the origin and establishment of the island's flora involved the following steps: an initial wave of migration largely from Madagascar at the end of the Tertiary, a reduction in this original species component during recent volcanic eruptions (-0.5 MA), followed by a reconstitution of the flora by Malagasy elements, and finally a very recent addition (until -10,000 years) of African species, which continues today, especially in coastal and dry components of Mayotte's vegetation. /// Des inventaires botaniques rcents de l'le de Mayotte (Archipel des Comores) ont permis d'identifier et de dcrire les derniers vestiges de vgtation naturelle de l'le. Les donnes floristiques sont utilises pour analyser les affinits de la flore avec celle d'Afrique et de Madagascar et pour proposer des hypothses sur son origine. La diversit floristique est caractrise par un nombre de familles et d'espces lev pour une le de cette taille et un endmisme faible. Les espces d'origine malgache sont trois fois plus nombreuses que celles d'origine africaine. Ces caractristiques et l'histoire gologique de Mayotte permettent d'avancer une hypothse sur l'origine et l'tablissement de la flore sur l'le: une premire vague de migration d'origine essentiellement malgache  la fin du Tertiaire; ce stock ancien d'espces a d considrablement se rduire lors du volcanisme explosif rcent (-0,5 MA) suivi par une reconstitution de la flore  partir d'lments malgaches, puis un apport trs rcent d'espces africaines ( partir de -10 000 ans) qui perdurent surtout dans la composante ctire et sche de la vgtation de Mayotte.
10.2307/3668712|The need for conservation measures for the vulnerable endemic tree Gilletiodendron glandulosum was assessed in southwestern Mali based on the value of Gilletiodendron forest to biodiversity conservation and on present and foreseeable levels of its use by the indigenous Maninka people. Using basic forestry methods, structure and composition of Gilletiodendron forest were analyzed. Additionally, Maninka names and uses of characteristic plants were recorded. Of 121 woody species collected, ten are new records for Mali. The vegetation is overwhelmingly dominated by Gilletiodendron glandulosum, although Grewia bicolor (Tiliaceae) and Hippocratea indica (Celastraceae) are also important. This plant community is a type of Sudano-Guinean gallery forest with a relatively low absolute level of plant diversity, but an apparently high contribution to gamma biodiversity in Mali. Thus, Gilletiodendron forest is an edaphic community which may be a relict of a past moister climate period. Use of Gilletiodendron forest plants by the Maninka is low, although the endangered shrub Vepris heterophylla (Rutaceae) appears locally overharvested. Due to its economic value, Gilletiodendron glandulosum has the potential for overexploitation if human population growth continues or if the transportation infrastructure in western Mali improves to provide access to larger markets. No current conservation measures specifically benefit Gilletiodendron forest, although it is passively protected due to its occurrence in marginal areas within the Maninka land use system. /// La ncessit de mesures de conservation de Gilletiodendron glandulosum, une espce d'arbre endmique et vulnrable du sud-ouest du Mali a t value sur base de la valeur des forts  Gilletiodendron dans le cadre de la conservation de la biodiversit ainsi qu'en fonction de son utilisation actuelle et prvisible par le peuple indigne Maninka. A partir de mthodes classiques, la structure et la composition de forts  Gilletiodendron ont t analyses. Par ailleurs, les noms Maninka et les utilisations de plantes caractristiques ont t enregistrs. Parmi les 121 espces ligneuses collectes, dix sont nouvelles pour le Mali. La vgtation est trs nettement domine par Gilletiodendron glandulosum mais Grewia bicolor (Tiliaceae) et Hippocratea indica (Celastraceae) sont galement des espces importantes. Cette communaut vgtale est du type fort-galerie soudano-guinenne et sa diversit absolue est relativement faible. Elle contribue nnamoins de faon importante  la diversit gamma au Mali. Ainsi, la fort  Gilletiodendron est une communaut daphique qui peut tmoigner d'une poque ancienne  climat plus humide. L'utilisation, par les Maninka, de plantes des forts  Gilletiodendron est faible, bien que Vepris heterophylla (Rutaceae), un arbuste menac, semble localement surexploit. En raison de sa valeur conomique, Gilletiodendron glandulosum prsente galement un risque de surexploitation si la population humaine continue  s'accrotre ou si les infrastructures de transport au Mali occidental permettent un accs plus ais aux grands marchs. Actuellement, aucune mesure de conservation ne protge la fort  Gilletiodendron mais elle bnficie d'une protection passive de par sa prsence dans les zones marginales au sein du systme agraire Maninka. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668676|De nombreux travaux de recherche, entre autres des inventaires botaniques, floristiques, cologiques, phnologiques et ethnobotaniques ont t raliss ou sont mens dans la Rserve de la Biosphre du Dja. Du point de vue institutionnel, ces travaux se font sous l'gide des organismes tatiques (universits, instituts divers), des O.N.G. et programmes nationaux et internationaux. Faute d'une action concerte entre ces diffrents intervenants, on essaye de faire le point des rsultats obtenus depuis quelques annes pour mettre en vidence les efforts fournis pour la connaissance botanique de la Rserve. /// A certain number of studies have been executed in the Dja biosphere reserve, among which botanical, floristic, ecological, phenological and ethnological inventories. At the institutional level, these researches are carried out by state institutes, NGOS, and national and international research programmes. Noting the lack of dialogue between actors, this article aims to take stock of the results obtained during the last ten years, offering a survey of the efforts made for a better botanical knowledge of this reserve.
10.2307/3668720|Twenty-seven abandoned farms of <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> each, grouped into five different age classes (0-2, 3-5, 6-10, 11-30 and >30 years) were assessed in 1995 in the Mount Cameroon area, along with three <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> of primary forest plots, in order to assess primary forest biodiversity recovery after shifting cultivation. Three distinct groups of woody species characterised agricultural fallows: pioneers, mid-successional species and shade-tolerant species. Harungana madagascariensis, Solanum torvum and Vernonia conferta were the common pioneer species in fallows less than 10 years; Cecropia peltata, Macaranga occidentalis, Musanga cecropioides and Polyscias fulva were the abundant mid-successional species in fallows between 11-30 years, and Cyathea maniniana, Dicranolepis sp., Dracaena sp., Homalium sp., Uvariodendron sp. were the most common shade-tolerant species in fallows over 30 years. Species richness increased slowly with age of fallows but remained below that of primary forest even after 30 years. /// Afin d'valuer le rythme de reconstitution de la biodiversit forestire sur les jachres agricoles, 27 champs abandonns de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math>, regroups en cinq classes d'ges (0-2, 3-5, 6-10, 11-30 et >30 ans) et trois parcelles de fort primaire de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> ont t tudis en 1995, dans la rgion du Mont Cameroun. Les rsultats ont permis de distinguer trois catgories d'espces ligneuses sur les jachres tudies: les pionnires, les espces de mi-succession et les espces d'ombre. Harungana madagascariensis, Solanum torvum et Vernonia conferta taient les espces pionnires les plus abondantes dans les jachres de moins de 10 ans; Cecropia peltata, Macaranga occidentalis, Musanga cecropioides et Polyscias fulva taient les espces de mi-succession les plus frquentes dans les jachres de 11  30 ans et Cyathea maniniana, Dicranolepis sp., Dracaena sp., Homalium sp. et Uvariodendron sp. taient les espces d'ombre les plus communes dans les jachres de plus de 30 ans. La richesse spcifique a augment avec l'ge des jachres, mais est reste en-dessous de celle de la fort primaire, mme aprs 30 ans. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668719|Using The Braun-Blanquet approach, a phytosociological assessment has been done in the natural undergrowth of teak plantations in south and central Benin. In order to study the phytogeographical spectrums, 108 relevs were submitted to factorial correspondence analysis. The classification variable used was the number of species per phytogeographical type. The results help to identify three phytogeographical groups from south to north. Group I is identified in south Benin; group II is located in north-central Benin, and group III holds an intermediate position between the first two groups. The variance analysis of the phytogeographical types highlights significant gradients at 5% level of probability. The most relevant gradient is that of the guineo-congolian species: 17 as mean number of guineo-congolian species in group I and respectively 1 and 10 for groups II and III. Therefore, the richness of guineo-congolian species decreases progressively from the south to north-central Benin. The species richness shows also a significant gradient at 5% level of probability. /// Un inventaire phytosociologique a t fait selon la mthode de Braun-Blanquet dans le sous-bois naturel des plantations de teck (Tectona grandis) du sud et du centre Bnin. Afin d'tudier les gradients du spectre phytogographique dans cette zone, 108 relevs phytosociologiques ont t soumis  l'analyse factorielle des correspondances. La variable de classification utilise est le nombre d'espces de chaque type phytogographique. Les rsultats de l'analyse factorielle des correspondances ont permis d'identifier trois groupes phytogographiques situs du sud au nord. Le groupe I est situ dans le sud-Bnin; le groupe II occupe le centre-nord Bnin et le groupe III occupe une position intermdiaire entre les deux groupes prcdents. L'analyse de la variance des types phytogographiques des trois groupes a permis de mettre en vidence des gradients significatifs dont le plus remarquable est celui des espces guino-congolaises: le nombre moyen (17) par relev des espces guino-congolaises du groupe I est significativement suprieur au seuil de probabilit de 5%  ceux des deux autres groupes (respectivement 1 et 10). La baisse de la richesse en lments guinocongolais se fait progressivement du sud au centre-nord Bnin; la richesse spcifique montre galement un gradient significatif au seuil de probabilit de 5% entre les trois groupes identifis.
10.2307/3668700|Bacteria have been reported to inhabit the leaf galls of some paleotropical genera of Rubiaceae. Cultivation of these bacteria has not been succesful to date. The use of contemporary macromolecular methods permitted the identification of these bacterial symbionts. The rather low similarity levels towards Burkholderia glathei (Proteobacteria ), the closest validly named neighbour, indicated that these symbiotic bacteria represent novel taxa within the genus Burkholderia. This paper reports on phylogenetic analysis of the bacterial 16S rDNA as a tool for classification of bacteriophilous plants. /// La prsence de bactries dans les galles foliaires de certains genres palotropicales de Rubiaceae a t mentionne. L'utilisation de techniques macromolculaires modernes a permis l'identification de ces symbiontes bactriens. Les niveaux de similarit relativement faibles par rapport  Burkholderia glathei (Proteobacteria ), le voisin valide le plus proche, indiquent que ces bactries symbiotiques reprsentent des taxons nouveaux au sein du genre Burkholderia. Cet article rend compte du fait que l'analyse phylogntique du 16S rDNA des bactries constitue un outil pour la classification des plantes bactriophiles.
10.2307/3668704|Seed germination is consistently poor for the majority of Disa species, with in vitro culture revealing a decrease in species germinability as one moves from the winter to the summer-rainfall areas of South Africa. In an effort to enhance seed culture as a means of promoting conservation in Disa, the seed testa is highlighted as a regulatory factor in germination. A prominent feature of the mature seed is the variable colour of the testa in the ten species investigated, attributable to different levels of phenolic compounds. Total leachable phenolic content correlates positively with germinability and by inference, with species distribution. NaOCl treatment enhanced germination in certain species by scarifying the testa and enhancing permeability to water. Similarly liquid cultures and culture media containing activated charcoal decrease the time taken to, and result in elevated levels of, synchronous germination. Culture of immature seed (before phenolic deposition has occurred) also hastens germination. Scanning electron microscopy has highlighted basic differences between species regarding seed size and testa cell arrangement. All features of the testa and its influence on germinability in the summer-rainfall Disas are explained as adaptations to environmental conditions. The authors speculate on the occurrence of coat-imposed dormancy within Disa species endemic to the summer rainfall areas of South Africa. /// La germination des graines de la majorit des espces de Disa est uniformment faible et la culture in vitro rvle une diminution de la germinabilit des espces lorsqu'on se dplace des rgions d'Afrique du Sud o un hiver est enregistr vers celles o sont observes des prcipitations estivales. Lors de la mise en valeur de la culture des graines pour la conservation des Disa, il est apparu que le tgument sminal constituait un facteur de rgulation pour la germination. La variabilit de coloration du tgument constitue un caractre remarquable des graines matures des dix espces tudies et est li  la quantit de composs phnoliques accumuls. Le contenu lessivable total des composs phnoliques est corrl positivement  la germinabilit et, par consquent,  la distribution des espces. Le traitement au NaOCl amlior la germination de certaines espces grce  la scarification du tgument et  l'augmentation de la permabilit  l'eau. Par ailleurs, des cultures liquides et dans des milieux contenant du charbon de bois activ diminuent le temps ncessaire  la germination et en amliorent la synchronisation. La culture de graines immatures (avant dpt du phnol) hte galement la germination. Des observations au microscope lectronique  balayage ont montr des diffrences inter-spcifiques tant en ce qui concerne la taille des graines que la disposition des cellules tgumentaires. Toutes les caractristiques du tgument et leur impact sur la germinabilit des Disa des rgions  prcipitations estivales sont expliques comme des adaptations aux conditions environnementales. Les auteurs spculent sur l'existence de dormance tgumentaire chez les espces de Disa endmiques des rgions  prcipitations estivales d'Afrique du Sud. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668691|Recent progress in the study of Xyridaceae in Africa is summarised. Three regional accounts have been published or are in press. The centre of diversity of the genus lies in the Zambezian Region but there are subcentres in montane and coastal regions, and on Kalahari Sand. Some suggestions for future work are made. /// Les rcents progrs dans l'tude des Xyridaceae d'Afrique sont rsums. Trois contributions rgionales ont t publies ou sont sous presse. Le centre de diversit du genre Xyris se trouve dans la Rgion Zambzienne, mais il existe des sous-centres dans les rgions ctires et montagnardes, et sur sable du Kalahari. Quelques suggestions sont amenes pour un futur travail. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668677|The paper analyses the distribution patterns of 556 species of vascular plants that occur primarily in mainland sub-Saharan African savanna. Eight percent of these species are known from only one one-degree square, whereas five percent are known from more than a hundred one-degree squares. The maximum number of savanna species per one-degree square is found in eastern Africa and the Angolan-Zambezian region. The same is the case for the highest average species richness per ten-degree squares. The Sudanian and Somalia-Masai regions have lower average numbers of savanna species than the Zambezian region. The highest number of species with restricted geographical range (endemics) is found in the same general area as the highest number of species per one-degree square, but not exactly in the same squares. The maximum number of savanna species is found in areas where the yearly temperature range is about 12 C, where the annual median rainfall is about 1100 mm, and/or where the mean altitude is about 1400-1500 m. Species richness increases with increasing absolute altitudinal range. The more altitudinal levels there are in a one-degree square, the higher is the richness of savanna species. /// L'article analyse les modles de distribution de 556 espces de plantes vasculaires rencontres essentiellement dans les savanes de la partie sub-saharienne du continent africain. Huit pourcents de ces espces ne sont connues que d'un degr-carr, alors que cinq pourcents sont connues de plus de cent degrs-carrs. Le nombre maximal d'espces savanicoles par degr-carr est enregistr en Afrique de l'Est et dans la rgion angolo-zambzienne. La mme observation s'applique  la richesse spcifique moyenne la plus leve par dix degrs-carrs. Les rgions soudanienne et Somali-Masai prsentent un nombre moyen d'espces de savane plus faible que la rgion zambzienne. Le nombre le plus lev d'espces  rpartition gographique limite (endmiques) est observ dans la mme rgion que le nombre le plus lev d'espces par degr-carr, quoique pas exactement dans les mmes carrs. Le nombre maximal d'espces savanicoles est enregistr dans les rgions o l'amplitude annuelle de temprature est d'environ 12 C, la moyenne annuelle des prcipitations avoisine 1100 mm, et/ou l'altitude moyenne est de 1400-1500 m. La richesse spcifique augmente avec l'accroissement du gradient altitudinal absolu. Plus le nombre de niveaux altitudinaux par degrcarr est lev, plus la richesse en espces savanicoles est importante. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668701|Species richness variation among Orchidaceae of So Tom (So Tom and Prncipe; gulf of Guinea) has been investigated using a grid map with 2 km square units. The factors studied were: rainfall and altitude. Disturbance and collection intensity were also considered. The species number in 2  2 km squares varies between 1 and 45. Five orchid diversity classes have been determined and applied to the vegetation of So Tom. The highest values of species numbers were found in submontane forests between 1000 and 1400 m above sea level. Altitude seems to be the most important factor to explain species richness variation, while rainfall below 2000 mm per year appears to be limiting. Disturbance generally reduces species richness. Interpretation of species richness is difficult as the 2  2 km grid is too coarse, especially in areas of marked relief. /// Les variations de la richesse spcifique des Orchidaceae de So Tom (So Tom et Prncipe; golfe de Guine) ont t tudies sur base d'une carte  maillage de 2km  2km. Les paramtres analyss sont la pluviosit et l'altitude. L'anthropisation du milieu et l'effort d'chantillonnage sont aussi abords. Les valeurs de richesse spcifique obtenues varient entre 1 et 45 taxons par maille. Cinq classes de diversit auxquelles nous avons associ les types de vgtation de l'le ont ainsi t reconnues. Les plus fortes valeurs de richesse spcifique ont t obtenues dans les forts submontagnardes entre 1000 et 1400 m d'altitude. L'altitude semble tre le paramtre le plus important pour expliquer ces variations de richesse spcifique, tandis que des prcipitations infrieures  2000 mm par an ont un rle limitant. L'anthropisation du milieu induit gnralement une diminution de la richesse spcifique. L'interprtation des variations de richesse spcifique est difficile en raison de la taille trop importante de la maille choisie, en particulier dans les zones fortement accidentes.
10.2307/3668689|A number of examples exist of Gnidia species closely resembling each another, and possibly being synonymous. Many such species have been established on the basis of other non quantitative differences in character variation, but no studies have tested the validity of morphometric data in distinguishing taxa in this genus. In addition, no studies in this group have tested the patterns in and relationships between character variation. Morphometric analyses of features of involucral bracts, inflorescences and flowers of Gnidia species were performed to investigate patterns of diversity among these organs. In addition, bracts were assigned to classes representing different levels of modification from the leaves, and inflorescences were classified according to flower number and whether capitate or spicate. Species were also scored as having either static infructescences or elongating infructescences. Floral tube lengths, lengths of tubes from flower bases to constrictions above the ovary, sepal lengths and numbers of flowers in inflorescences were measured using species representing the diversity of these characters in the genus. Chi-square analysis, discriminant analysis, univariate nested analysis of variance and correlations were used to test character variation and relationship. Gnidia species are discriminated by their floral tube lengths, lengths of tubes from flower bases to constrictions above the ovary, sepal lengths and flower number. Involucral bract modification is influenced by inflorescence type, and species with elongating infructescences have unmodified bracts. These findings suggest that bracts protect flowers, especially the floral tubes surrounding ovaries. Bracts are most different from leaves in species that concentrate reproductive investment in the production of many-flowered inflorescences. Total floral tube length and length of tube from flower base to constriction are positively correlated as are total tube length and sepal length. Sepal length and flower number per inflorescence are negatively correlated and there is no relationship between total tube length and flower number among species. These results demonstrate how morphometric analyses contribute to testing the validity of taxa, especially within pairs or small groups of similar species, and subspecific taxa. /// Nombreux sont les exemples de ressemblance troite entre espces de Gnidia, certaines d'ailleurs tant probablement synonymes. Beaucoup de ces espces ont t tablies sur base de diffrences non quantitatives relatives  certains caractres mais aucune tude n'a test la validit des donnes morphomtriques qui ont permis la distinction de taxons au sein du genre. Par ailleurs, aucune tude mene dans ce groupe n'a envisag de modliser la variation des caractres et de leurs relations. Des analyses morphomtriques des types de bractes involucrales, des inflorescences et des fleurs de diffrentes espces de Gnidia ont t ralises de manire  tudier et  modliser la diversit de ces organes. Les bractes ont galement t classes en fonction de leur degr de modification par rapport aux feuilles et les inflorescences distingues d'aprs leur caractre capit ou spicul et le nombre de leurs fleurs. Des espces ont aussi t diffrencies d'aprs l'longation ou non de leurs infrutescences. La longueur des tubes floraux, celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire, la longueur des spales et le nombre de fleurs par inflorescence ont t calcules sur des espces reprsentatives de la diversit de ces caractres au sein du genre. Un test Chi-carr, une analyse discriminante, une analyse de variance  un critre et de corrlations ont t utiliss pour tester la variation des caractres et leurs relations. Les espces de Gnidia sont discrimines d'aprs la longueur de leur tube floral, celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire, de la longueur des spales et du nombre de fleurs. La modification des bractes involucrales est influence par le type d'inflorescence et les espces possdant des infrutescences allonges prsentent des bractes non modifies. Ces rsultats suggrent que les bractes protgent les fleurs et, en particulier, les tubes floraux entourant les ovaires. Les bractes diffrent le plus des feuilles chez les espces qui consacrent majoritairement leur effort reproductif  la production d'inflorescences multiflores. La longueur totale du tube floral et celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire sont positivement corrles. Il en va de mme de la longueur totale du tube et de celle des spales. La longueur des spales et le nombre de fleurs par inflorescence sont corrls ngativement et aucune relation n'existe, au sein des espces, entre la longueur totale du tube et le nombre de fleurs. Ces rsultats dmontrent comment des analyses morphomtriques contribuent  tester la validit de taxons, particulirement au sein de paires ou de petits groupes d'espces similaires ou de taxons subspcifiques. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668695|Long, narrow corolla tubes have evolved several times in genera of southern African Lamiaceae, such as Plectranthus, Thorncroftia, Orthosiphon, Hemizygia, Stachys and Salvia. A study of the pollination of Plectranthus in KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape of South Africa showed a nemestrinid fly, Stenobasipteron wiedemanni, to be the pollinator of the four species that have long corolla tubes. The proboscis length of this fly (19-30 mm) corresponds to the corolla tube lengths of the flowers (20-33 mm). This fly is restricted to forest patches and woodlands along the eastern parts of southern Africa, while long-proboscid species of the nemestrinid genus Prosoeca occur mostly in grassland habitats. It is postulated that S. wiedemanni is the pollinator of Stachys tubulosa, Salvia scabra, Salvia repens var. keiensis and Hemizygia ramosa in forest and woodland habitats. Long-proboscid species of the nemestrinid genus Prosoeca are suggested as pollinators of Orthosiphon tubiformis, Thorncroftia longiflora, T. succulenta, Hemizygia rugosifolia, H. gerrardii and Salvia repens var. keiensis, in grassland habitats. Novel distribution maps for four long-proboscid fly species are provided. This paper aims to discuss the distribution of long-tubed members of the Lamiaceae in relation to that of long-proboscid flies by relating the biogeography of the flies to that of the plant species. /// Des tubes corollins longs et troits se sont dvelopps dans plusieurs genres sud-africains de Lamiaceae, comme Plectranthus, Thorncroftia, Orthosiphon, Hemizygia, Stachys et Salvia. Une tude de la pollinisation de Plectranthus au KwaZulu-Natal et dans l'Eastern Cape en Afrique du Sud ont montr qu'une mouche nemestrinide, Stenobasipteron wiedemanni, pollinisait quatre espces  longs tubes corollins. La longueur du proboscis de cette mouche (19-30 mm) correspond  celle du tube corollin des fleurs (20-33 mm). La prsence de cette mouche est limite aux lots forestiers et aux savanes arbores des rgions situes  l'est de l'Afrique australe, alors que les espces de nemestrides  long proboscis appartenant au genre Prosoeca se rencontrent principalement dans des milieux herbacs. Il est postul que S. wiedemanni est le pollinisateur de Stachys tubulosa, Salvia scabra, Salvia repens var. keiensis et Hemizygia ramosa dans les habitats forestiers et en fort claire. Les espces de nemestrides  long proboscis du genre Prosoeca sont supposes tre les pollinisatrices de Orthosiphon tubiformis, Thorncroftia longiflora, T. succulenta, Hemizygia rugosifolia, H. gerrardii et Salvia repens var. keiensis dans les milieux herbacs. De nouvelles cartes de distribution pour quatre espces de mouches  long proboscis sont tablies. Cet article a pour objectif de discuter la distribution de reprsentants  long tube de la famille des Lamiaceae en relation avec celle de mouches  long proboscis en comparant la biogographie des mouches  celle des espces vgtales. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668665|The paper is a review of the botanical collecting activity in Ethiopia and Eritrea, covering the period after the account by G. Cufodontis (published 1962, data recorded to ca. 1960). In connection with preparation of family accounts for the Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea, and through searches in Ethiopian herbaria, information on collectors has been recorded. The major developments since Cufodontis' account are the establishment and growth of the National Herbarium of Ethiopia (ETH), founded 1959, and the Herbarium of the Alemaya University of Agriculture (ACD), founded 1957, and the progress with the Ethiopian Flora Project since 1980. In close connection with the latter, ETH has grown to at least 72,000 collections. At the same time collections have been accumulating at the other Ethiopian and Eritrean institutions, including the herbaria of the Alemaya Agricultural University (ACD), the International Livestock Research Institute (ILCA) and the Asmara University, and at European and American herbaria. Ca. 275 collectors have been active in the region since 1960. Of these, ca. 160 have collected only during one year and in only one or two floristic regions. Ca. thirty-five have collected during several years in a few floristic regions. Ca. thirty have collected during one year in many floristic regions. Ca. twenty-five have collected for 3-8 years in more than five floristic regions. Ca. fifteen have collected for more than eight years in more than eight floristic regions. Ca. twenty-five scientists published ca. 100 new taxa and combinations from Ethiopia and Eritrea between 1960 and 1979. Ca. fifty scientists, including ca. ten at one time resident in Ethiopia, have published ca. 300 new taxa and combinations based on material from the Flora area between 1980 and 1996. This is a period during which the Ethiopian Flora Project has been active. /// L'article passe en revue la rcolte botanique en Ethiopie et en Erythre et couvre la priode faisant suite au rapport de G. Cufodontis (publi en 1962, donnes enregistres jusqu'aux environs de 1960). Les informations concernant les rcolteurs ont t rassembles paralllement  la prparation de travaux sur les familles pour la Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea ainsi qu' travers des recherches dans les Herbiers thiopiens. Les principaux dveloppements depuis le rapport de Cufodontis sont l'tablissement et la croissance du National Herbarium of Ethiopia (ETH), fond en 1959, et de l'Herbarium of the Alemaya University of Agriculture (ACD), fond en 1957, ainsi que les progrs raliss depuis 1980 dans le cadre du Ethiopian Flora Project. En troite collaboration avec celui-ci, ETH s'est enrichi d'au moins 72.000 chantillons. Au mme moment, des collections se sont accumules dans les autres institutions d'Ethiopie et d'Erythre, notamment les Herbiers de l'Alemaya Agricultural University (ACD), de l'International Livestock Research Institute (ILCA) et de l'Asmara University ainsi que dans les Herbiers europens et amricains. Environ 275 rcolteurs ont t actifs dans la rgion depuis 1960. Parmi ceux-ci, environ 160 ont rcolt uniquement durant une anne et dans une ou deux rgions floristiques seulement. Environ trente-cinq ont rcolt durant plusieurs annes dans un petit nombre de rgions floristiques. Une trentaine ont rcolt durant une anne dans plusieurs rgions floristiques. Environ vingt-cinq ont rcolt durant trois  huit ans dans plus de cinq rgions floristiques et environ quinze durant plus de huit ans dans plus de huit rgions floristiques. Environ vingt-cinq scientifiques ont publi une centaine de nouveaux taxons et de combinaisons pour l'Ethiopie et l'Erythre entre 1960 et 1979. Quinze scientifiques environ, y compris la dizaine qui rsidaient en Ethiopie  un moment donn, ont publi de 1980  1996 environ 300 nouveaux taxons et combinaisons bases sur du matriel de la rgion couverte par la Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea. Cette poque correspond  la priode durant laquelle l'Ethiopian Flora Project a t actif. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668678|Extraction of botanical information from the database "SIG IVOIRE" processed together with ecological maps, allow us to generate potential distribution maps for Cte d'Ivoire. Habitat Suitability and Environment Similarity methods are used and their respective applicability are discussed. Although the first one provides more accurate results, it needs more species distribution data. In the case of Cte d'Ivoire where these data are often not sufficiently abundant, we need to use the Environment Similarity method. By this mean, we propose potential distribution maps for the species of Sapotaceae and Moraceae. /// L'extraction des informations botaniques stockes dans la base de donnes "SIG IVOIRE" et l'utilisation conjointe de cartes cologiques, permettent de raliser des cartes de distribution potentielle des espces sur la Cte d'Ivoire. Les mthodes d'Habitat Suitability et d'Environment Similarity sont brivement compares. Il ressort que si la premire donne des rsultats plus pertinents, elle ncessite en revanche un plus grand nombre de localits-espce. Dans le cas de la Cte d'Ivoire o ces donnes sont souvent limites, on est contraint de lui prfrer la mthode base sur l'Environment Similarity. Celle-ci a t utilise pour dresser la cartographie potentielle des espces des Sapotaceae et des Moraceae.
10.2307/3668734|The line-transect method has been used for a biodiversity inventory of the Nyungwe Forest between June and August 1999. The results showed that large tracts of intact natural forest still exist. However, serious disturbance is due to destructive human activities. In total 172 tree and shrub species (dbh 10 cm), from 53 families, were found. Out of these, ten species were recorded for the first time: Trichosypha ulugurensis subsp. submontana (Anacardiaceae), Isolona lebrunii (Annonaceae), Discoclaoxylon hexandrum and Macaranga monandra (Euphorbiaceae), Casearia engleri (Flacourtiaceae), Leplaea mayumbensis (Meliaceae), Trilepisium madagascariense (Moraceae), Ardisia buesguenii and A. uregaensis (Myrsinaceae) and Calycosiphonia spathicalyx (Rubiaceae). The presence of Antidesma venosum (Euphorbiaceae) in Rwanda was confirmed. The inventory allowed to identify the sites of large species diversity and those of high human pressure on fauna and flora, information useful for the proposal of conservation measures for the natural forest of Nyungwe. /// La mthode de placette circulaire a t utilise pour l'inventaire de la biodiversit dans la fort de Nyungwe, Rwanda, entre juin et aot 1999. Les rsultats ont montr que d'importantes tendues de forts naturelles intactes existent mais elles font l'objet de fortes perturbations du fait des activits humaines. Au total 172 espces d'arbres et arbustes (dbh  10 cm), regroupes en 53 familles, ont t inventories. Parmi elles, dix espces y sont recenses pour la premire fois: Trichosypha ulugurensis subsp. submontana (Anacardiaceae), Isolona lebrunii (Annonaceae), Discoclaoxylon hexandrum et Macaranga monandra (Euphorbiaceae), Casearia engleri (Flacourtiaceae), Leplaea mayumbensis (Meliaceae), Trilepisium madagascariense (Moraceae), Ardisia buesguenii et A. uregaensis (Myrsinaceae) et Calycosiphonia spathicalyx (Rubiaceae). La prsence de Antidesma venosum (Euphorbiaceae) est galement confirme au Rwanda. L'inventaire a permis en outre d'identifier les sites  grande diversit spcifique et de forte pression humaine sur la faune et la flore, information qui servira au programme de conservation de la biodiversit de la fort naturelle de Nyungwe.
10.2307/3668688|Morphological, anatomical and morphometric studies of leaf and bract diversity among selected species of Gnidia (Thymelaeaceae) were conducted. Surface details of fresh and herbariumdried leaves and bracts were examined using Light Microscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy. Intraspecific and interspecific variation of leaves and bracts based on logarithmic transformations of linear data, was performed using Univariate Nested Analyses of Variance and Univariate Analyses of Variance. A Correlation Analysis was performed to test the correlation between leaf and bract ratios within species. Interspecific variation was examined further using Discriminant Analysis to maximise the separation of species on the basis of leaf and bract dimension data. Newly observed features of leaves and bracts include: hair ornamentation; specialisation of stomata; aerenchymatous-like tissue and reduced mesophyll. Homogenous groups of species were identified on the basis of their similarity of leaf length and width or bract length and width ratios. The species comprising the homogenous groups for leaf ratios are different from the species comprising the homogenous groups for bract ratios. There is no correlation between leaf and bract ratios, and the factors influencing leaf diversity appear to differ to those influencing bract diversity. Results also suggest that inflorescence organisation strongly influences bract diversity. /// Des tudes morphologiques, anatomiques et morphomtriques de la diversit des bractes et des feuilles dans une slection d'espces de Gnidia (Thymeleaceae) ont t menes. Les dtails de la surface de bractes et feuilles fraches ou d'herbier ont t examins au microscope optique et lectronique  balayage. La variation intraspcifique et interspcifique des feuilles et des bractes base sur les transformations logarithmiques de donnes linaires a t donne en utilisant les analyses de variance univaries et univaries hirarchises. Une analyse de corrlation a t excute pour tester la corrlation entre les dimensions des feuilles et des bractes au sein de l'espce. La variation interspcifique a t examine plus  fond en utilisant l'analyse discriminante afin d'optimaliser la sparation des espces sur base des dimensions mesures des feuilles et bractes. Les nouvelles caractristiques observes de feuilles et des bractes comprennent: ornemention des poils, spcialisation des stomates, tissu semblable  l'arenchyme et msophylle rduit. Des groupes homognes d'espces ont t identifis sur base de leur ressemblance quant au rapport de la longueur et de la largeur des feuilles et des bractes. Les espces comprenant les groupes homognes pour les rapports des feuilles sont diffrents des espces comprenant les groupes homognes pour les rapports des bractes. Il n'y a pas de corrlation entre les dimensions des feuilles et des bractes et les facteurs influenant la diversit des feuilles semblent diffrents de ceux qui influencent la diversit des bractes. Les rsultats suggrent aussi que l'organisation de l'inflorescence influence fortement la diversit des bractes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668738|An examination of hitherto published botanical monographs, together with notes from more recent collections, has identified a local centre of endemism focussed on the dissected plateaux inland of Lindi in SE Tanzania. The lowland forests on and around these plateaux contain between 40 and 91 vascular plant species which are not found elsewhere (depending on how rigorously the available data are interpreted), most of which have been collected less than three times and are limited to a single locality. The level of floristic endemism in this area is strikingly greater than in neighbouring areas, in spite of an apparent similarity in topography and vegetation. The full extent of the surviving remnants of forest is still poorly known, and an increased conservation initiative in this area is urgently required, together with further biological studies. /// Une tude des monographies botaniques publies jusqu' prsent, avec des observations tires de collections rcentes, a permis d'identifier un centre local d'endmisme sur les plateaux intrieurs de Lindi dans le sud-est de la Tanzanie. Les forts de basse altitude sur ces plateaux et dans leurs environs hbergent entre 40 et 91 espces de plantes vasculaires, qui n'existent pas ailleurs (selon la rigueur avec laquelle les donnes disponibles seront interprtes). La plupart de ces espces ont t rcoltes moins de trois fois et sont limites  une seule localit. Le niveau d'endmisme floristique dans cette rgion est nettement plus grand que dans les rgions voisines, malgr une similitude apparente dans la topographie et la vgtation. L'tendue complte des relictes forestires est encore peu connue; il est urgent que des mesures de conservation soient prises dans cette rgion et que les tudes biologiques y soient poursuivies. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668690|The caesalpinioid legume genus Berlinia Sol. ex Hook. f. & Benth. as currently circumscribed, comprises about 18 species in two generic sections. A preliminary test of the monophyly of Berlinia and an investigation of its taxonomic position with respect to putative close relatives, Isoberlinia, Anthonotha, Gilbertiodendron, Pellegriniodendron and Librevillea was undertaken using analyses of molecular and macromorphological data. Nucleotide sequence data from two regions of the genome, a chloroplast region, the trnL intron, and a nuclear region, the internal transcribed spacer of the nuclear 28-18s ribosomal gene (ITS), were subjected to separate phylogenetic analyses. Both regions were assessed for phylogenetic utility in species level studies. A combined phylogenetic analysis of ITS data (including coded indels) and macromorphological data was undertaken. TrnL data provided only limited phylogenetic resolution. ITS data provided resolution at genus and species level offering weak support for a monophyletic Berlinia with Isoberlinia weakly supported as sister to Berlinia. Based on the phylogeny inferred from the analysis of ITS data, it was possible to speculate that Isoberlinia may be a recently radiated genus, the monotypic genus Pellegriniodendron may be conspecific with Gilbertiodendron and the genus Anthonotha may be paraphyletic. Macromorphology provided weak support for a monophyletic Berlinia but no support for the monophyly of the Berlinia-Isoberlinia clade. The combined analysis (ITS with macromorphology) provided moderate support, for the monophyly of Berlinia as currently circumscribed and weak support for Isoberlinia as sister group. Indels provided synapomorphies for several clades in the phylogeny inferred from the combined analysis. This paper is an extension of a study recently published (Mackinder 2000 publ. 2001), from which it differs by the inclusion of sequence (ITS) and morphological data for an additional four taxa. /// Le genre Berlinia Sol. ex Hook.f. & Benth. (lgumineuse caesalpiniode) tel qu'il est actuellement dlimit, comprend environ 18 espces rparties au sein de deux sections gnriques. Un test prliminaire de la monophylie de Berlinia et une recherche de sa position taxonomique, par rapport  des genres proches comme Isoberlinia, Anthonotha, Gilbertiodendron, Pellegriniodendron et Librevillea, a t entreprise  l'aide de donnes provenant d'analyses molculaires et macromorphologiques. Les squences nuclotidiques de deux rgions du gnome, l'une chloroplastique, l'intron trnL, l'autre nuclaire, l'ITS du gne ribosomique 28-18s ont t soumises  des analyses phylogntiques distinctes. Une valuation de l'utilit phylognique des deux rgions dans le cadre d'tudes au niveau spcifique a t mene. Une analyse phylognique combine des donnes ITS (incluant les indels cods) et macromorphologiques a t entreprise. Les donnes trnL n'ont montr qu'une rsolution phylognique limite. Les donnes ITS ont permis des rsolutions aux niveaux gnrique et spcifique appuyant faiblement l'hypothse d'un genre Berlinia monophyltique et de Isoberlinia comme taxon-frre. Sur base de la phylognie dduite de l'analyse des donnes ITS, il a t avanc que Isoberlinia pouvait tre un genre rcemment diffrenci, que le genre monotypique Pellegriniodendron pouvait tre conspcifique de Gilbertiodendron et que le genre Anthonotha pouvait tre paraphyltique. La macromorphologie a faiblement appuy l'hypothse d'un genre Berlinia monophyltique et n'a pas soutenu celle de la monophylie de la clade Berlinia-Isoberlinia. L'analyse combine (ITS et macromorphologique) n'a apport qu'un soutien modr  la monophylie du genre Berlinia tel qu'il est actuellement dlimit et un faible support  Isoberlinia en tant que groupe-frre. Les indels ont fourni des synapomorphies pour plusieurs clades de la phylognie dduite de l'analyse combine. Cet article est une extension de l'tude rcemment publie (Mackinder 2000 publ. 2001) et dont elle diffre par l'intgration de donnes de squence ITS et morphologiques pour quatre taxons supplmentaires. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668713|Gnetum africanum and G. buchholzianum, generally called "eru", are species of Gnetaceae whose leaves are edible as vegetables. They constitute a very important commercial non-timber forest product in Central Africa particularly in Cameroon where they are traded as green vegetables in local and regional markets, and exported. The resource has been seriously threatened by unsustainable harvesting and the gradual disappearance of the forests in which they occur. In order to ensure and enhance the sustainability of these species, a production to consumption system of the species has been studied and efforts of conservation through cultivation initiated. This paper describes the importance of the species and reports on the achievements of its domestication initiatives so far /// Gnetum africanum et G. buchholzianum ou "eru" sont deux espces comestibles de la famille des Gnetaces. Leurs feuilles constituent un important produit forestier non-ligneux (PFNL) commercialis en Afrique Centrale, plus particulirement au Cameroun, et export comme lgume. Nanmoins, cette ressource est menace de disparition du fait de l'exploitation illicite et incontrlable de la part de la population et suite  la disparition progressive des forts. Afin d'assurer et d'amliorer la durabilit de ces espces, des techniques culturales particulires ont t adoptes comme mesures de conservation. Nous dcrivons dans cette tude l'importance de ces espces ainsi que les activits de domestication entreprises.
10.2307/3668685|The continental African species of Coptosperma, an Afromalagasy genus recently reestablished and enlarged, are revised. Thirteen taxa are recognized, for which eleven new taxonomic combinations are necessary; a new species from Somalia, C. somaliense, is described. The taxonomy of the species is surveyed, distribution maps are given and the chorology of the genus is discussed. /// Coptosperma est un genre afromalgache rcemment rtabli et largi. Les espces d'Afrique continentale sont revues. Treize taxons sont reconnus, pour lesquels onze combinaisons nouvelles sont proposes; une espce nouvelle de Somalie, C. somaliense, est dcrite. Un aperu de la taxonomie des espces, ainsi que des cartes de distribution sont donns. La chorologie du genre est discute.
10.2307/3668736|Plant surveys were undertaken in 1995 in the 1922 and 1959 lava flows in order to assess species richness on these lava flows on Mount Cameroon. A total of 128 species were recorded out of which 21 (16%) were only found on lava flow and nowhere else in other ecosystems in Cameroon; they could be considered as a contribution of the lava flows to the maintenance of overall species diversity of the mountain area. Also, apart from the lava flow area it is difficult to find in one area such a high diversity of ferns, orchids and even woody species such as Ficus species and Hymenodictyon biafranum. The physiognomy of the recovering vegetation on lava flow is dominated at different stages of succession by different groups of plants, which also illustrates the successional pathway. The bare rock is first inhabited by lichens and mosses, followed by ferns, then herbs and climbers with stunted woody pioneers, and finally by immature woody pioneers. Comparison of observed data on species composition, basal area and density of plants on the 1922 lava flow and similar parameters in the intact nearby rainforest indicated that the turnover time on lava flow in the Mount Cameroon environment is at least 300 to 600 years. /// Afin d'valuer la richesse spcifique sur des coules de lave, un inventaire a t ralis en 1995 sur celles de 1922 et de 1959 au Mont Cameroun. Parmi les 128 espces observes, 21 (16%) taient spcifiques sur les laves et n'taient pas retrouves dans les autres cosystmes du Cameroun; les coules de laves peuvent donc tre considres comme contribuant au maintien de la diversit floristique globale dans la rgion du Mont Cameroun. On note aussi qu'en dehors des zones couvertes de lave, il est difficile de trouver en un mme endroit une telle diversit de fougres, d'orchides et mme d'espces ligneuses telles que les Ficus et Hymenodictyon biafranum. La physionomie de la vgtation reconstitue sur les laves est domine lors de diffrentes phases par des groupes floristiques illustrant la succession. C'est ainsi que les roches sont d'abord domines par les lichens et mousses suivis par les fougres, les herbes, les lianes et quelques pionniers, et finalement par les pionniers ligneux immatures. La comparaison des observations relative  la composition spcifique,  la surface terrire et  la densit des plantes sur la coule de lave de 1922 d'une part, et dans une fort humide intacte  proximit d'autre part, a indiqu que la priode de rgnration sur coule de lave au Mont Cameroun est d'au moins 300  600 ans.
10.2307/3668671|The Southern African Botanical Diversity Network (SABONET) is a donor-funded capacity-building project involving southern African botanists. Incorporating ten southern African countries, the SABONET Project has involved the preparation of botanical inventories, national plant checklists, national and regional plant collecting expeditions, computerisation of herbaria, postgraduate support for herbarium staff, in-service training courses and the production of plant Red Data Lists. Regular monitoring and evaluation is an important component of the project. Support for staff attached to national botanical gardens in the region is scheduled to be mobilised in 2001/2. Since the project's inception in 1996, SABONET has made a significant contribution to the networking and capacity development of botanists in southern Africa and the ex situ conservation of the region's flora. This paper provides an update on the project progress to date, outlines some challenges and opportunities for the future and presents recommendations for similar future projects' design and implementation. /// SABONET: mise en valeur des aptitudes au sein des Herbiers et des jardins botaniques d'Afrique australe. Le rseau d'Afrique australe pour la diversit botanique (SABONET) est un projet financ par des donations et qui contribue  dvelopper le potentiel des Herbiers et jardins botaniques d'Afrique australe en impliquant des botanistes de la rgion. Le projet SABONET, qui couvre dix pays d'Afrique australe, intervient dans la prparation d'inventaires botaniques, la constitution de listes de plantes par pays, l'organisation d'expditions de rcolte tant nationales que rgionales, l'informatisation des Herbiers, le soutien dans la formation du personnel travaillant dans les Herbiers, l'organisation de cours et la production de listes rouges. Le suivi rgulier et l'valuation sont des composantes importantes du projet. Le soutien au personnel des jardins botaniques nationaux de la rgion est programm pour 2001/2. Depuis la mise en oeuvre du projet en 1996, SABONET a contribu de manire significative  la constitution et au dveloppement d'un rseau de botanistes en Afrique australe ainsi qu' la conservation ex situ de la flore de la rgion. Cet article fait tat de l'avancement du projet et, tout en soulignant ses dfis pour le futur, prsente quelques recommandations pour la conception et la mise en oeuvre de projets similaires. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668723|The Ngotto forest is located in the south-west of the Central African Republic. For a better knowledge of the phytodiversity of this forest and to understand the factors by which it is determined, a phytogeographical interpretation of the data gathered is proposed on the basis of systematics (level of the family), biological types, types of diaspores and the spectra of phytogeographical elements. White's phytogeographical typology (1983, 1986) is followed. The results show an equal contribution of endemic species, linking species and species with large distribution. The respective presence of Congolian and Guinean elements is also shown. /// La fort de Ngotto est situe dans le sud-ouest de la Rpublique Centrafricaine. Pour mieux connatre la phytodiversit de cette fort et comprendre son dterminisme, une interprtation phytogographique des inventaires forestiers disponibles est propose sur la base des spectres systmatique (au niveau de la famille), biologique, de types des diaspores et d'lments phytogographiques. La typologie phytogographique de White (1983, 1986) a t suivie. Les rsultats montrent une contribution quilibre des espces endmiques, des espces de liaison et des espces  large dispersion. Les contributions respectives des lments congolais et guinens sont galement mises en vidence.
10.2307/3668714|Garcinia lucida and Garcinia kola (Clusiaceae) are common well-known forest species among local population in Cameroon due to their various medicinal properties. A study of the traditional uses and the harvesting practices of these two species permits to draw together their medicinal, social and economic potentials in order to promote their utilisation and long-term exploitation. Traditional medicines and foods are the main important use categories. The seeds and the bark are the most commonly used parts of these plant species. The seeds are generally gathered under the crown of reproductive trees while the extraction of bark almost always involved ringbarking trees, the extraction of root involved logging of trees. The density of G. lucida varies from 17 to 314 stems per hectare. The average number of G. kola trees is 0.4 stems per hectare. The proportion of trees dying after debarking ranked between 5 and 43% according to the exploited stands of G. lucida. The proportion of debarked and logged trees for G. kola was estimated about 43%. The size-class distribution exhibited by these two species shows a selective exploitation of the largest trees. The quantity of G. lucida fresh bark harvested was estimated at 15 kg per day and per collector. These results indicate a high exploitation pressure using destructive harvesting techniques which could lead to the resource depletion in the future. /// Garcinia lucida et Garcinia kola (Clusiaceae) sont des essences bien connues des populations forestires camerounaises pour leurs nombreuses proprits mdicinales. Une tude des utilisations traditionnelles et des modalits d'exploitation de ces deux espces est faite au Cameroun. Elle permet d'examiner leurs potentialits socio-conomiques et mdicinales dans l'optique d'une valorisation et d'une exploitation soutenue de ces espces. La pharmacope et l'alimentation se classent au premier rang des diffrentes utilisations traditionnelles. Les organes les plus utiliss sont les graines, l'corce et la racine pivot pour de multiples usages. Les graines sont gnralement ramasses sous la couronne des arbres tandis que le prlvement de l'corce se fait trs souvent par annlation du pourtour de la tige et, l'extraction de la racine pivot par dracinement de l'arbre. La densit des arbres de G. lucida varie entre 17 et 314 tiges par hectare. Celle des individus de G. kola est en moyenne de 0,4 tige par hectare. Le pourcentage de mortalit de G. lucida aprs prlvement de l'corce varie entre 5 et 43% selon les sites exploits. Le nombre d'arbres de G. kola corcs ou dterrs pour l'exploitation de la racine, est de l'ordre de 43%. La structure diamtrique de ces espces montre une exploitation slective des plus grands arbres. La quantit d'corce de G. lucida rcolte est estime en moyenne  15 kg d'corce frache par personne et par jour. Ces rsultats indiquent qu'une forte pression d'exploitation, utilisant des techniques entranant l'limination des individus, est exerce sur ces espces et risque d'entraner  long terme l'puisement de la ressource.
10.2307/3668709|The Dja biosphere reserve is located in Cameroon, in the East and the South provinces. It has not yet been subject to forest logging. But the high processing of timber extraction and the hunting of large mammals around the reserve result in fragmentation of the forest. In the south of the Dja reserve, local populations use mainly plant species in the treatment of malaria. Ethnobotanical surveys have been conducted for the traditional usage of medicinal plants against malaria in the Mintom subdivision (south). In all, 34 therapeutic recipes have been prescribed by Fang (eleven households), Nzaman (nine), and Baka pygmies (one) based in the Mintom region. These recipes used 23 plant species in the treatment of malaria. To compare plant species, an index of endangerment (Iv with values between 1 and 3) is defined for each of them, based on an arbitrary scale used for each of the following ten parameters: (1) the popularity of species in the Fang ethnic group, (2) its popularity in the Nzaman ethnic group, (3) the part of the plant used, (4) its developmental stage, (5) the mode of harvesting (6), the pharmaceutical forms used, (7) the habitat of the plant, (8) the type of scattering of seeds, (9) the morphological type, (10) the frequency (abundance) of plants in the field. Fourteen species have endangerment index above 2. Four out of them are said to be more endangered, with Iv > 2.5. According to decreasing Iv values, these species are ranged as follows: Picralima nitida > Alstonia boonei > Rauvolfia vomitoria > Zanthoxylum heitzii. /// La rserve de biosphre du Dja est situe au Cameroun dans les provinces de l'est et du sud. Elle n'a jamais fait l'objet d'une exploitation forestire, mais le fort dploiement de cette activit dans la zone priphrique fragilise les forts du Dja par l'amplification de la dforestation et l'abattage du gros gibier. Ce fait tend  isoler biologiquement la rserve du reste du District Forestier du Dja. Dans le sud de la rserve, les populations ont essentiellement recours aux plantes mdicinales pour soigner le paludisme. Des enqutes ethnobotaniques ont t conduites sur l'usage traditionnel des plantes antipaludiques dans l'arrondissement de Mintom (sud). Au total, 34 recettes ont t prescrites par les Fang (onze mnages), Nzaman (neuf) et Baka (un) bass dans la rgion de Mintom. Ces recettes font intervenir 23 plantes dans le traitement du palu disme. Dans le but de comparer la fragilit des espces cites, un indice de vulnrabilit (Iv avec des valeurs de 1  3) est dfini pour chaque espce. Cet indice est calcul  partir d'un barme arbitraire appliqu  chacun des dix paramtres suivants: (1) la popularit de l'espce chez les Fang, (2) sa popularit chez les Nzaman, (3) le type d'organe vgtal utilis, (4) son stade de dveloppement, (5) le mode de rcolte, (6) les formes pharmaceutiques employes, (7) le biotope de la plante, (8) le type de dissmination des diaspores, (9) le type morphologique, (10) la frquence (abondance) des plantes dans le milieu. Quatorze espces ont des indices de vulnrabilit suprieurs  2. Quatre parmi elles peuvent tre considres comme trs vulnrables, avec des Iv > 2,5. Par ordre dcroissant de la valeur de Iv, ces quatre espces s'ordonnent comme suit: Picralima nitida > Alstonia boonei > Rauvolfia vomitoria> Zanthoxylum heitzii.
10.2307/3668718|The present survey concerns two galleries of the Biosphere Reserve of the "Mare aux Hippopotames", the Leyessa and Bala. A permanent plot of one hectare was installed in a representative part of each forest gallery. The plot has been subdivided into 100 quadrats of <tex-math>$100\ m^{2}$</tex-math> each. Every tree having more than 5 cm Diameter at Breast Height (DBH) was labeled by a label in aluminium; number, geographical coordinates, height, DBH, phenology and number of sprigs were noted, as well as miscellaneous observations (tree cut, dead, partly burned). Three species were mapped within the plot. For every forest, a list of trees DBH  5 cm was prepared. The Leyessa forest counts 392 trees belonging to 25 species and 17 families while the Bala forest amounts 461 trees distributed in 29 species and 21 families. Six important families are noted in this study: Bombacaceae, Caesalpiniaceae, Sterculiaceae, Combretaceae, Apocynaceae and Boraginaceae. Relative diversity, dominance and importance value of every family and every species are calculated for each forest. /// La prsente tude concerne les caractristiques floristiques de deux forts galeries de la rserve de biosphre de la Mare aux Hippopotames: Leyessa et Bala. Une parcelle permanente d'un hectare a t installe dans une partie reprsentative de chaque galerie forestire. La parcelle est subdivise en 100 placeaux de <tex-math>$100\ m^{2}$</tex-math> chacun. Chaque arbre de plus de 5 cm de Diamtre  Hauteur de Poitrine (DHP) est tiquet par une plaque en aluminium portant son numro. Pour chaque arbre, les coordonnes gographiques, la hauteur, le DHP, la phnologie et le nombre de brins ainsi que. des observations gnrales (arbre coup, arbre couch, arbre mort, arbre brl en partie) sont nots. La rpartition de trois espces au sein de la parcelle a t cartographie. Pour chaque fort, la liste des arbres de DHP  5 cm a t dresse. La fort de Bala avec 461 arbres rpartis en 29 espces et 21 familles est plus riche que la fort de la Leyessa qui compte 392 arbres appartenant  25 espces et  17 familles. Six grandes familles se dgagent de cette tude: les Bombacaceae, les Caesalpiniaceae, les Sterculiaceae, les Combretaceae, les Apocynaceae et les Boraginaceae. La diversit relative, la densit relative, la dominance et la "Family Importance Value" de chaque famille sont calcules pour chacune des forts et pour chaque espce ligneuse inventorie.
10.2307/3668697|The circumscription of the tribe Naucleeae has been under debate for a long time. This is the first study to test if the previous circumscriptions are supported as monophyletic. Parsimony analyses of the rbcL sequence data of Rubiaceae, followed by separate and combined analyses of the ITS, rbcL, and morphological data were performed in attempt to propose a new tribal delimitation for Naucleeae. Results did not support any of the previous delimitations of Naucleeae. All favoured a broader circumscription, which includes not only all members of Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale, but also Cephalanthus, Hallea, Mitragyna, and Uncaria, formerly placed in Naucleeae, Corynanthe and Pausinystalia. Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale were shown to be monophyletic without support in the morphology- and combined ITS-rbcL-morphology-based trees. The tribe Coptosapelteae sensu Andersson & Persson appeared polyphyletic. A new tribe Hymenodictyoneae is created to accommodate Hymenodictyon and Paracorynanthe. Descriptions and diagnostic features of the newly circumscribed Naucleeae and Hymenodictyoneae are provided. /// La dlimitation de la tribu des Naucleeae est sujette  dbat depuis longtemps. Cette tude est la premire  tester si les dlimitations prcdemment proposes sont monophyltiques. Des analyses de parcimonie de squences rbcL de Rubiaceae, suivies par des analyses spares et combines de donnes ITS, rbcL et morphologiques ont t ralises pour tenter de proposer une nouvelle dlimitation de la tribu des Naucleeae. Les rsultats ne confirment aucune des dlimitations prcdentes des Naucleeae et favorisent des limites plus larges incluant non seulement tous les membres des Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale mais aussi Cephalanthus, Hallea, Mitragyna et Uncaria, places anciennement dans les Naucleeae, Corynanthe et Pausinystalia. Il a t dmontr que les Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale taient monophyltiques mais sans confirmation par l'arbre morphologique ni par celui combinant les donnes ITS-rbcL et morphologiques. La tribu des Coptosapelteae sensu Andersson & Persson s'est rvle polyphyltique. Une nouvelle tribu, les Hymenodictyoneae, est cre pour recevoir Hymenodictyon et Paracorynanthe. Des descriptions et des caractres diagnostiques pour la tribu des Naucleeae redlimite et pour celle des Hymenodictyoneae sont fournis.
10.2307/3668670|The United Nations University/Institute for Natural Resources in Africa (UNU/INRA) conducted an assessment of the status of herbaria and capabilities in taxonomy and systematics in selected countries in West, East and southern Africa in 1999. The findings pointed to the fact that, except for very few institutions, the infrastructure and facilities were on the whole poor and inadequate, while there were few trained taxonomists. UNU/INRA has identified the way forward in capacity building through support to African centres of excellence for research and training. This paper shows results of the assessment and UNU/INRA's outlook on the future. /// L'Universit des Nations Unies/Institut pour les Ressources Naturelles en Afrique (UNU/INRA) a valu l'tat des herbiers et leurs potentialits en taxonomie et systmatique dans certains pays choisis d'Afrique occidentale, orientale et australe en 1999. Les rsultats ont mis en vidence qu' l'exception de quelques rares institutions, l'infrastructure et les amnagements taient insuffisants et inadquats et qu'elles disposaient de peu de taxonomistes forms. L'UNU/INRA a identifi la manire d'amliorer les comptences en soutenant les centres d'excellence africains impliqus dans la recherche et la formation. Cet article prsente les rsultats de cette valuation et les perspectives de l'UNU/INRA. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668711|A questionnaire was elaborated and submitted orally to Turumbu and Lokele peoples living in the Tshopo District, Democratic Republic of Congo, to know more about the native edible plants they use. For each indicated plant, the vernacular name, edible part, dietary use, frequency and preference of consumption was recorded. The study reveals the utilization of 70 species from 61 genus and 44 families. Thirty-three species are only used by the Turumbu, twelve species by the Lokele and 25 species by both. The methods for preparation are also described. The dietary use of some of these species is confirmed by data on other tribes from the region (Kumu, Wangenia, Foma, Batiabetuwa...) and from Central Africa. Twenty-one species are indicated for the first time in the region as edible. Most of the species are trees and occur in terra firma plant communities. The spontaneous plants with edible fruits are the most used by the Turumbu and Lokele tribes. Most species used as vegetable are eaten throughout the year, whereas availability of edible fruits depends on phenology. /// Un questionnaire sur les plantes alimentaires spontanes a t labor et soumis oralement aux informateurs Turumbu et Lokele du District de la Tshopo en Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo. Le but tait de connatre le nom vernaculaire de la plante, l'organe comestible, son mode de consommation, la frquence et la prfrence de consommation. L'tude a rvl l'utilisation de 70 espces appartenant  61 genres et 44 familles. Trente-trois espces sont exclusivement consommes par les Turumbu, douze espces par les Lokele et 25 espces sont consommes par les deux tribus; leurs modes de prparation ou d'emploi sont dcrits. L'usage alimentaire de certaines de ces espces a t confirm par d'autres tribus de la rgion (Kumu, Wangenia, Foma, Batiabetuwa...) et d'Afrique Centrale. Vingt-et-une espces sont signales pour la premire fois dans la rgion comme faisant l'objet d'habitudes alimentaires. La plupart des espces recences sont des arbres et proviennent surtout des formations vgtales de terre ferme. Les plantes  fruits comestibles sont fortement rprsentes dans la flore alimentaire sauvage des Turumbu et Lokele. La majorit des plantes lgumires sont consommes toute l'anne alors que la disponibilit des fruits dpend de la phnologie de chaque espce.
10.2307/3668731|Regeneration and succession processes in montane forests of Kenya and parts of Ethiopia were investigated. The slowly growing camphor tree, Ocotea usambarensis, regenerates mainly by suckers from old root systems. Undamaged seeds were very rarely seen, and, apparently are viable only for a few days. After natural breakdown of an old tree, the gap is filled by fast growing species, mainly Macaranga kilimandscharica and Neoboutonia macrocalyx, in the shade of which the young Ocotea suckers can establish. After the death of the secondary species, whose germination requires full sunlight and is inhibited in the shade, the Ocotea forest recovers. Large scale logging of Camphor trees predominantly destroys the regeneration of Ocotea and leads to secondary forest types, which regenerate in own cycles. The high number of big game was found to be without impact on the natural regeneration of Ocotea. The Cassipourea malosana dominated forest regenerates as a mosaic-climax without a single species becoming dominant. Cedar forests dominated by Juniperus procera regenerate most efficiently after fire. Without recurrent burning, the forests of the lower and middle part of the montane zone, regenerate to climax associations dominated by broad-leaved trees as Olea capensis ssp. hochstetteri, Olea europaea ssp. cuspidata and Podocarpus latifolius. On higher altitudes Juniperus procera always remains dominant even if fire does not occur for a longer time period. The high population density especially of buffaloes seems to inhibit successful regeneration in many parts of the Juniperion, due to intensive browsing and in particular trampling. The African Bamboo, Sinarundinaria alpina, shows a distinct growth cycle and can grow for extremely long periods in the vegetative state before flowering, especially so at the borders of its area. After flowering and dying of the bamboo, in most areas a dense Sambucus africana shrub is formed into which bamboo is invading from old rhizomes again. In Ethiopia, regeneration occurs directly, without an interspersed Sambucus stage. The uniform age of the Hagenia stands suggests that regeneration in these forests occurs suddenly after a disturbing event. Germination tests yielded, that Hagenia seeds are not germinating unless the competing undergrowth is removed. As fire is the only natural factor able to clear the grass layer of larger areas, it is assumed, that the reproduction of the subalpine forests depends on occasional burning. /// La rgnration et les modes de succession dans les forts d'altitude du Kenya et de parties de l'Ethiopie ont t tudis. La rgnration du camphrier, Ocotea usambarensis, espce  croissance lente, se produit principalement par drageonnement d'anciens systmes racinaires. Des graines intactes ont rarement t observes, et, apparemment, ne sont viables que quelques jours. Aprs la chute naturelle d'un vieil arbre, la troue est colonise par des espces  croissance rapide, principalement Macaranga kilimandscharica et Neoboutonia macrocalyx. Grce  l'ombrage qu'elles provoquent, les jeunes drageons de Ocotea peuvent se dvelopper. Aprs la mort des espces secondaires, dont la germination ncessite la pleine lumire et est inhibe par l'ombrage, la fort  Ocotea se rinstalle. L'exploitation  grande chelle des camphriers empche surtout la rgnration de Ocotea et conduit  la formation et au maintien de forts secondaires. Le nombre important de gros gibier n'a aucun impact sur la rgnration naturelle de Ocotea. La fort domine par Cassipourea malosana se rgnre comme une mosaque climacique, sans qu'une espce ne devienne dominante. Les forts de cdres, domines par Juniperus procera se rgnrent plus efficacement aprs le passage du feu. Sans incendies priodiques, les forts de basse et de moyenne altitude se rgnrent en associations climaciques domines par des arbres  feuillage dcidu comme Olea capensis ssp. hochstetteri, Olea europaea ssp. cuspidata et Podocarpus latifolius. A plus haute altitude, Juniperus procera est toujours dominant, mme si le feu ne svit pas durant de longues priodes. La densit leve des populations de buffles semble empcher la rgnration dans de nombreux endroits du Juniperion, en raison du broutage intensif et du pitinement. Le bambou africain, Sinarundinaria alpina, prsente un cycle de croissance diffrent et peut subsister au stade vgtatif pendant des priodes extrmement longues avant de fleurir, en particulier en bordure de son aire. Aprs la floraison et la mort du bambou, un bosquet dense  Sambucus africana se dveloppe. Il est ensuite  nouveau envahi par le bambou  partir d'anciens rhizomes. En Ethiopie, la rgnration a lieu directement, sans passage par le stade mlang  Sambucus. L'ge uniforme des peuplements de Hagenia suggre que la rgnration dans ces forts survient soudainement  la suite d'une perturbation. Des tests de germination ont dmontr que les graines de Hagenia ne germent qu' condition de supprimer le sous-tage concurrent. Le feu tant le seul facteur naturel pouvant claircir l'tage herbac sur de grandes surfaces, il est suppos que la reproduction des forts subalpines dpend des feux occasionnel. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668699|Molecular phylogenies have been generated to investigate relationships among species of Streptocarpus Lindl., the largest genus of Gesneriaceae in Africa. Of the around 146 species described, 77 have been included in a parsimony analysis using the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of ribosomal DNA. The studies show that Streptocarpus is paraphyletic and at least three other genera are nested within the genus. Incongruence occurs in relation to the subgeneric division. Streptocarpus is currently divided into two subgenera, Streptocarpella and Streptocarpus, mainly on morphological grounds; the former including basically caulescent species with a functional shoot apical meristem, while the latter includes mainly unifoliates and rosulates with an abnormal shoot apical meristem. On the African continent the geographic distribution of caulescent species of subgenus Streptocarpella ranges across tropical Africa from Sierra Leone to the Indian Ocean, while species of subgenus Streptocarpus occur in central and eastern parts of Africa. The molecular data suggest a southwards migration and "progressive latitudinal speciation" of subgenus Streptocarpus in Africa. Some evidence suggests an origin of the genus on Madagascar but this is equivocal. The subgeneric split probably occurred before interchange between mainland Africa and Madagascar ceased, after the geological separation of Madagascar, and is consistent with the hypothesis of a land bridge connection between 45-26Mya. /// Des phylognies molculaires ont t gnres afin d'tudier les relations entre espces chez Streptocarpus Lindl., le plus grand genre de Gesneriaceae en Afrique. Parmi les 146 espces dcrites, 77 ont t utilises dans une analyse de parcimonie en diffrences morphologiques; le premier regroupe des espces caulescentes  mristme apical fonctionnel, alors que le deuxime inclut principalement des espces dont les individus, unifolis ou en rosette, prsentent un mristme apical anormal. Sur le continent africain, la distribution utilisant l'ITS du DNA ribosomique. Les tudes montrent que Streptocarpus est paraphyltique et qu'il regroupe au moins trois autres genres. La division subgnrique est problmatique. Streptocarpus est actuellement divis en deux sous-genres, Streptocarpella et Streptocarpus, principalement sur base de gographique des espces caulescentes du sous-genre Streptocarpella s'tend des rgions tropicales de la Sierra Leone  l'Ocan Indien, alors qu'on trouve les espces du sous-genre Streptocarpus en Afrique centrale et orientale. Les donnes molculaires suggrent une migration vers le sud et une "spciation latitudinale progressive" du sous-genre Streptocarpus en Afrique. L'origine malgache du genre est envisage mais reste quivoque. La diffrentiation des sous-genres a probablement eu lieu avant que l'change entre le continent africain et Madagascar ait pris fin suite  la sparation gologique de Madagascar. Elle est en accord avec l'hypothse d'une connexion terrestre entre 45-26 Mya. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668728|'Chipya' is the term applied to a wooded grassland vegetation type specific to northern Zambia. Based on experimental evidence from Zambia's Kasanka National Park, this paper attempts to answer some of these key questions raised in chipya ecology. Can chipya be clearly defined floristically and edaphically, and if so, how do these factors relate to mateshi-chipya-miombo dynamics? The results from Kasanka National Park suggest that chipya can be differentiated from miombo by the absence of the fire-sensitive genera Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia and Uapaca, and by its luxuriant herbaceous layer comprising the indicator species Pteridium aquilinum, Smilax anceps and Aframomum alboviolaceum. In addition, chipya soils were shown to typically possess high organic matter, low phosphorus and low pH compared to miombo soils. Finally, the evidence in Kasanka National Park suggests that chipya arises from a mateshi-chipya regression driven by fire. There is no evidence that the fire-sensitive miombo genera Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia and Uapaca are part of the sequence. /// "Chipya" est le terme utilis pour caractriser un type de vgtation de savane arbore spcifique au nord de la Zambie. Sur base de rsultats exprimentaux obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka en Zambie, cet article tente d'apporter une rponse  certaines questions-cls souleves par l'cologie des chipya. Le chipya peut-il tre clairement dfini floristiquement et d'un point de vue daphique et, si c'est le cas, quel est l'impact de ces facteurs dans la dynamique mateshi-chipya-miombo? Les rsultats obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka suggrent que le chipya peut tre diffrenci du miombo par l'absence des genres Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia et Uapaca sensibles au feu, ainsi que par sa strate herbace luxuriante caractrise par les espces indicatrices que constituent Pteridium aquilinum, Smilax anceps et Aframomum alboviolaceum. Par ailleurs, les sols des chipya prsentent un taux lev en matire organique, une faible teneur en phosphore et des pH bas en comparaison des sols des miombo. Enfin, les rsultats obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka suggrent que le chipya provient d'une rgression mateshi-chipya provoque par le feu. Aucune preuve n'existe quant  l'appartenance  cette squence des genres Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia et Uapaca, lis au miombo et sensibles au feu. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668682|This paper presents a rationale and roadmap for producing new forms of floras using computer technologies while building upon the foundation of existing printed floras. Problems with existing printed floras and desirable characteristics of new electronic floras are outlined. Five technologies necessary for moving from one form of flora to the other are described, and the state-of-the-art in each is assessed. Experiments in machine markup of an existing flora are described. /// Cet article prsente la raison d'tre et constitue un guide pour la production de nouvelles formes de Flores, bases sur des Flores existantes et converties grce aux technologies informatiques. Les problmes rencontrs avec les Flores imprimes et les caractristiques recherches dans les nouvelles Flores lectroniques sont souligns. Cinq technologies ncessaires  la conversion d'une Flore d'une forme vers l'autre sont dcrites et l'tat d'avancement de chaque technique est valu. Des expriences de prparation du texte d'une Flore existante sont dcrites. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668687|Species and genus concepts and infrafamilial delimitations in the Aloaceae (subfamily Alooideae of the Asphodelaceae) have often been controversial. Arguments are mostly based on evidence obtained from vegetative and floral morphology, but data from other fields have also been used for speculating on taxonomic affinities within the Aloaceae. For the present study, nectar sugar composition (glucose, fructose, sucrose) was determined for representatives of Astroloba, Chortolirion, the three subgenera of Haworthia and for interspecific haworthioid hybrids and miscellaneous taxa. Two nectar types were distinguished in Haworthia and the two related genera: a Haworthia type (subg. Haworthia only, usually less than 50% sucrose) and a Hexangulares type (subg. Hexangulares, subg. Robustipedunculares, Chortolirion and Astroloba, usually more than 60% sucrose). Results support Uitewaal's subdivision of Haworthia in two main groups, but reveal little substantiation for infrasubgeneric groupings. /// Les concepts spcifiques et gnriques ainsi que les dlimitations infrafamiliales chez les Aloaceae (sous-famille Alooideae des Asphodelaceae) ont souvent fait l'objet de controverses. L'argumentation se base principalement sur des donnes de morphologie vgtative et florale mais des travaux dans d'autres domaines ont galement conduit  spculer sur des affinits taxonomiques au sein des Aloaceae. Dans la prsente tude, la composition du sucre nectarifre (glucose, fructose, sucrose) a t dtermine chez des reprsentants de Astroloba, Chortolirion, des trois sous-genres de Haworthia, chez des hybrides interspcifiques haworthiodes ainsi que chez divers taxons. Deux types de nectar ont t distingus chez Haworthia et chez les deux genres affins: un type Haworthia (subg. Haworthia seulement, gnralement moins de 50% de sucrose) et un type Hexangulares (subg. Hexangulares, subg. Robustipedunculares, Chortolirion et Astroloba, gnralement plus de 60% de sucrose). Les rsultats corroborent la subdivision de Uitewaal du genre Haworthia en deux groupes principaux mais rvlent le peu de bien-fond de groupements infra-subgnriques. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668744|Using a GIS based approach, a new map of African vascular plant species richness is presented. The underlying phytodiversity dataset comprises metadata on the floras of 450 geographical units in Africa and Madagascar, including the data records used by Lebrun and Barthlott and collaborators for their maps. 151 of these were selected as suitable to analyse correlation of species richness with different environmental parameters in a GIS and to generate the map of African phytodiversity. For the production of the map we used a weighted overlay of the raw data, an interpolation approach and a multiple regression model. Best correlation with species richness were found for annual sum of NDVI, number of dry months and water balance. Centres of high species richness in Africa are the Capensis, Eastern Madagascar, the coastal areas of SE Nigeria, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon, as well as the Drakensberg mountains, and the East African Mountains. These areas are also centres of high geodiversity. For one aspect of geodiversity, the topodiversity, we present a first map for Africa. /// Une nouvelle carte de la richesse en plantes vasculaires africaines est prsente sur base de l'utilisation de SIG. L'ventail de donnes sous-jacent sur la diversit vgtale comprend des mtadonnes sur les flores de 450 units gographiques d'Afrique et de Madagascar, incluant les donnes utilises pour leurs cartes par Lebrun et Barthlott et coauteurs. 151 de celles-ci ont t considres comme valables pour analyser la corrlation de la richesse en espces avec diffrents paramtres environnementaux dans le SIG et pour produire la carte de la phytodiversit africaine. Pour la production de la carte, nous avons utilis une couverture pondre des donnes brutes, une approche d'interpolation et un schma de rgression multiple. La meilleure corrlation avec la richesse spcifique a t trouve pour la somme annuelle des NDVI, le nombre de mois secs et la balance hydrique. Les centres de haute richesse spcifique en Afrique sont le Cap, l'est de Madagascar, les ctes du SE du Nigria, du Cameroun, de Guine quatoriale et du Gabon, de mme que les montagnes du Drakensberg et celles d'Afrique orientale. Ces rgions sont aussi des centres de haute godiversit. Pour un aspect de la godiversit, la topodiversit, nous prsentons une premire carte pour l'Afrique. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668722|Forest inventories have been made in the Altos de Nsork region, Equatorial Guinea. Within seven transects covering 33.5 ha, we have inventoried 3886 trees with DBH  30 cm (Diameter at Breast Height, measured at 1.3 m from the ground level), belonging to 226 species, and those with DBH  10 cm (689 trees belonging to 149 species) in eight sections of 160  10 m (1.28 ha). The comparison with other similar inventories made in central Africa showed a quite high biodiversity for the Nsork rain forests. This comparison also allowed us to indicate the characteristic species Engomegoma gordonii (3.2 stems / ha for the trees with DBH  30 cm; Olacaceae) and Stachyothyrsus staudtii (1.8; Caesalpiniaceae), and also the preferential species of the Nsork region as Coula edulis (4.4), Sindoropsis letestui (1.1), Dialium pachyphyllum (1.4), Allanblackia floribunda (3.9), Dacryodes buettneri (1.9),... The Nsork rain forest is marked by the abundance of the Burseraceae and the Olacaceae. Among the 74 emergent species (DBH  70 cm), the most abundant are: Aucoumea klaineana (3.1 stems / ha), Scyphocephalium mannii (1), Engomegoma gordonii (0.6), Coula edulis (0.5), Pterocarpus soyauxii (0.3), Sindoropsis letestui (0.2), Pentaclethra macrophylla (0.2) and Monopetalanthus letestui (0.2). In the lower trees stratum (DBH  10 cm) we find mainly Santiria trimera (61 stems / ha), Microdesmis puberula (45), Heisteria parvifolia (37), Dichostemma glaucescens (20) and Centroplacus glaucinus (9). The biodiversity seems to be highest in the lower trees stratum. /// Des inventaires forestiers ont t mens dans la rgion des Altos de Nsork, en Guine Equatoriale. Sept transects totalisant 33,5 ha ont permis de rpertorier 3886 arbres  DBH  30 cm (Diameter at Breast Height, c'est--dire diamtre mesur  1,3 m de hauteur), appartenant  226 espces, tandis que 689 arbres  DBH  10 cm, reprsentant 149 espces, ont t relevs sur huit tronons de 160  10 m (soit 1,28 ha). La comparaison avec d'autres inventaires similaires raliss en Afrique centrale a montr une biodiversit relativement importante dans les forts denses de Nsork. Cette mme comparaison nous a permis de mettre en vidence les espces caractristiques Engomegoma gordonii (3,2 pieds / ha pour les DBH  30 cm; Olacaceae) et Stachyothyrsus staudtii (1,8; Caesalpiniaceae), ainsi que des espces prfrentielles  la rgion de Nsork telles que Coula edulis (4,4), Sindoropsis letestui (1,1), Dialium pachyphyllum (1,4), Allanblackia floribunda (3,9), Dacryodes buettneri (1,9),... La fort tudie est marque par l'abondance des Burseraceae et des Olacaceae. Parmi les 74 espces d'mergents (DBH  70 cm), les espces les plus abondantes sont Aucoumea klaineana (3,1 pieds / ha), Scyphocephalium mannii (1), Engomegoma gordonii (0,6), Coula edulis (0,5), Pterocarpus soyauxii (0,3), Sindoropsis letestui (0,2), Pentaclethra macrophylla (0,2) et Monopetalanthus letestui (0,2). Quant  la strate arborescente infrieure (DBH  10 cm), on y retrouve principalement Santiria trimera (61 pieds / ha), Microdesmis puberula (45), Heisteria parvifolia (37), Dichostemma glaucescens (20) et Centroplacus glaucinus (9). La diversit tend  tre plus importante dans ces strates arborescentes infrieures.
10.2307/3668681|The Herbarium of Paris (P) houses one of the major reference collections of the African and Malagasy flora. The computerization of its holdings started in 1993 using the SONNERAT database, based on herbarium specimens, and building on a relational multitable model developed under ORACLE. The African and Madagascan collections were chosen as primary target group because of their importance for floristic work both inside and outside the "Laboratoire de Phanrogamie". Three different complementary approaches (taxonomic, geographic, loan management) were carried out and this first step helped to evaluate the system as well as to demonstrate both the feasibility of and the interest in the database approach. Nearly 90,000 African and Malagasy records are currently available on the internet (http://www.mnhn.fr/base/sonnerat.html). Internet accessibility allows researchers worldwide to locate and study the data about the computerized nomenclatural types deposited at P (18,000 thus far). The SONNERAT data are also available as a basis for species chorology analyses, which are of particular importance for biodiversity and conservation studies. /// L'Herbier de Paris (P) constitue l'une des collections de rfrence incontournables pour l'tude de la flore africaine et malgache. Le programme d'informatisation de ses collections a dbut en 1993 avec la mise en place de la base de donnes SONNERAT, base sur les spcimens d'herbier, fonctionnant sur un modle multi-table relationnel dvelopp sous ORACLE. Il a prioritairement t initi sur les collections africaines et malgaches en raison de l'importance des travaux floristiques en cours, tant au laboratoire de Phanrogamie qu' l'extrieur. Trois approches diffrentes et complmentaires ont t menes (groupe taxonomique, rgion gographique, gestion des prts). Cette premire tape a permis d'valuer le systme mis en place, et montr la faisabilit et l'intrt d'une telle dmarche. Prs de 90 000 enregistrements de plantes africaines et malgaches sont actuellement disponibles sur l'internet (http://www.mnhn.fr/base/sonnerat.html). L'accs par le WEB permet notamment aux chercheurs de localiser et d'accder aux donnes des types nomenclaturaux prsents  P (18 000 jusqu'  prsent). Ces donnes sont galement disponibles pour des tudes bases sur la chorologie des espces, en particulier dans le domaine de l'tude de la biodiversit et de sa conservation.
10.2307/3668667|Guinea-Bissau has several kinds of aquatic and wetland ecosystems. A first survey of the flora of these environments is attempted, including its distribution patterns within the taxonomical and chorological groups. More than 300 species, from 49 families, are listed, the Poaceae and Cyperaceae being the most representative families. The chorological analysis of the flora reveals that the species with wide distribution range are predominant -- half of them have a pluricontinental distribution, and one third are afrotropical. /// La Guine-Bissau possde diffrents types d'cosystmes aquatiques et de zones humides. Un premier aperu floristique de ces environnements est propos et prsente notamment les types de distribution au sein des groupes taxonomiques et chorologiques. Plus de 300 espces sont recenses; elles sont regroupes au sein de 49 familles parmi lesquelles les Poaceae et les Cyperaceae sont les plus reprsentatives. L'analyse chorologique de la flore rvle que les espces  large distribution sont prdominantes -- la moiti d'entre elles ont une distribution pluricontinentale et un tiers sont afrotropicales. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668737|The heathy, sclerophyllous vegetation type known locally in South Africa as 'fynbos' is not restricted to the Cape Floral Kingdom (CFK), but occurs throughout sub-Saharan Africa, Madagascar and the Mascarene Islands. The fynbos shrublands of these regions occur mostly in cool, montane environments where rainfall is high and soils are highly leached. Montane environments, however, are not the sole repositories of fynbos-type communities. Outcrops of Msikaba Formation (Pondoland) Sandstone in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, support similar shrublands, including many 'typical' fynbos genera and growth forms. The floristic and physiognomic resemblance of communities to the CFK, especially fragments of the high-altitude eastern (Afromontane) corridor extending into tropical East Africa, has prompted much speculation. A preliminary phytogeographical account is presented concerning the distribution of fynbos ('Cape') elements in the Drakensberg Alpine Region (DAR) and Pondoland Sandstone Region: two biotopes in southern Africa which share Cape elements. The significant sharing of Cape elements between biotopes suggests analogous growth environments. /// Le type de vgtation thermophile et sclrophylle localement connu en Afrique du Sud sous le nom de "fynbos" n'est pas restreint au Domaine floristique du Cap (CFK) mais existe  travers l'Afrique subsaharienne, Madagascar et les Mascareignes. Les fourrs du fynbos de ces rgions se trouvent principalement dans des environnements montagnards froids o les prcipitations sont leves et les sols trs lessivs. Les milieux montagnards ne sont cependant pas les seuls htes des communauts de type fynbos. Les sommets de Msikaba (Pondoland) au KwaZulu-Natal, en Afrique du Sud, portent des fourrs similaires, incluant de nombreux genres et formes biologiques typiques du fynbos. La ressemblance floristique et physionomique de ces communauts vis--vis du CFK, spcialement les fragments du corridor oriental afromontagnard s'tendant jusqu'en Afrique de l'Est ont suscit bien des spculations. Une contribution phytogographique prliminaire est prsente concernant la distribution des lments du fynbos dans la rgion alpine du Drakensberg (DAR) et dans la Rgion Grs du Pondoland, deux biotopes d'Afrique du Sud qui partagent des lments floristiques avec la Rgion du Cap. L'existence commune d'lments du Cap dans diffrents biotopes suggre des conditions environnementales de croissance analogues. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668686|Four species of Sabicea Aublet (Rubiaceae) are present in So Tom (Rpublique dmocratique de So Tom et Prncipe, gulf of Guinea): S. ingrata K.Schum., S. exellii G.Taylor, S. insularis (Wernham) G.Taylor and S. thomensis Joffroy. A principal component analysis undertaken for these species using morphological characters of herbarium specimens shows that S. insularis and S. ingrata cannot be easily separated. As a result the new combination S. ingrata var. insularis (Wernham) Joffroy is made. Distribution maps and an identification key for the four taxa of Sabicea in So Tom are presented. Relations between So Tom taxa and species of continental Africa are also discussed. /// Quatre espces du genre Sabicea Aublet (Rubiaceae) sont signales  So Tom (Rpublique dmocratique de So Tom et Prncipe, golfe de Guine): S. ingrata K.Schum., S. exellii G.Taylor, S. insularis (Wernham) G.Taylor et S. thomensis Joffroy. Une analyse en composantes principales base sur des caractres morphologiques mesurs sur chantillons d'herbier montre que S. insularis et S. ingrata sont difficilement sparables. Ainsi la nouvelle combinaison S. ingrata var. insularis (Wernham) Joffroy est propose. Les cartes de distribution et une cl de dtermination pour les quatre taxons de Sabicea de So Tom sont prsentes. Les relations entre les taxons de So Tom et les espces de l'Afrique continentale sont aussi discutes.
10.2307/3668729|Miombo woodland in Sengwa, dominated by Julbernardia globiflora, Brachystegia boehmii and Brachystegia spiciformis, exhibits clear small-scale patterning and variations in species composition. A hierarchical cluster analysis on species presence/absence data separated miombo woodland into eight sub-types, largely based on variations in the herbaceous and shrub species composition. Direct and indirect gradient analyses with variance partitioning showed that edaphic and disturbance factors accounted for 15.9% and 12.8% of the total variation in species composition, respectively, while their joint influence accounted for 3.1%. There was evidence that elephant-modified Brachystegia-dominated woodlands found on loose sands are being converted to Terminalia sericea-dominated woodland-thickets faster than the Julbernardia globiflora-dominated woodlands found on more compacted soils. It is concluded that fire and elephant herbivory have significantly influenced small-scale variations in species composition of miombo woodland in Sengwa while total exchangeable bases and silt significantly influenced natural floristic heterogeneity. /// La fort claire de type miombo  Sengwa, domine par Julbernardia globiflora, Brachystegia boehmii et Brachystegia spiciformis, montre clairement une diffrenciation  petite chelle et des variations dans sa composition spcifique. Une cluster analyse hirarchise sur les donnes de prsence/absence a permis de distinguer, au sein du miombo, huit sous-types largement bass sur les variations dans la composition en espces herbaces et arbustives. Des analyses de gradient directes et indirectes avec dcomposition de la variance ont montr que les facteurs daphiques et ceux lis aux perturbations intervenaient respectivement pour 15.9% et 12.8% dans la variation totale de la composition spcifique alors que leur influence conjointe tait de 3.1%. Il a t prouv que les forts claires modifies par l'action des lphants,  dominance de Brachystegia et sur sables meubles se sont converties plus rapidement en fourrs  Terminalia sericea que les forts claires domines par Julbernardia globiflora sur sols plus compacts. La conclusion de ces observations est que le feu et l'herbivorie due aux lphants ont influenc significativement les variations  petite chelle dans la composition spcifique du miombo de Sengwa alors que les bases totales changeables et le limon ont eu une influence significative sur l'htrognit floristique naturelle. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668732|The Simen Mountains, a U.N. World Heritage Site in N Ethiopia (Gonder Administrative region), include extensive high plateau areas (roughly 3200 m to over 4000 m), steep escarpments and lower-lying parts (locally known as "Kolla" or "Simen lowlands"; below 3000 to below 2000 m) and are known for their high biodiversity. The "Simen lowlands", primarily harbouring afromontane vegetation, are richest in species, whereas the afroalpine belt -- although the most spectacular part of the mountains -- is the poorest. Erica forests of the escarpments and some of the plateaux areas are also rather species-poor. In general, species diversity decreases with increasing altitude. At present, approximately 550 taxa of angiosperms are recorded. The mountains, primarily known to biologists for their rare and endangered animals (including the endemic Walia Ibex, Capra walie), also harbour endemic plant species (at least 12; e.g. Rosularia semiensis: afroalpine, or Maytenus cortii: afromontane). In addition to these, more than 30 taxa occurring in the Simen are Ethiopian endemics (e.g. the spectacular afroalpine Lobelia rhynchopetalum, or the afromontane Polyscias farinosa). Interesting phytogeographical affinities to SW Arabia are noteworthy, e.g. Dianthus longiglumis or Chlorophytum tetraphyllum (only known from the Simen and Ethiopian mountains, respectively, and Yemen). Numerous taxa, both from the afromontane and -alpine zone, show a distribution stretching from the Simen southwards to the tropical E African mountains (e.g. Psychotria orophila, afromontane, or Trifolium cryptopodium, afroalpine), sometimes also with an extension to the W African mountains (e.g. Galium simense). Others (primarily taxa occurring in the afromontane zone of the Simen) show wide distribution ranges extending to S Africa (e.g. Halleria lucida, to the Drakensberg). Widely distributed Sudanian or Sudano-Zambezian species occurring in the "Simen lowlands" include Sterculia setigera and Stereospermum kunthianum, respectively. The Simen is a historic plant collecting locality, and -- according to our present state of knowledge -- type specimens of ca. 220 afromontane and -alpine taxa of flowering plants (out of ca. 550 recorded; i. e. 40%!) originate from the Mountains (primarily collections made by W.G. Schimper in the past century). In the past few decades, however, plant collecting was largely impossible (socio-political problems in the North of the country!), so that the botanical knowledge of the Simen was much poorer than for the rest of the country. Only in recent years, botanical exploration restarted. It is thus not surprising that during expeditions carried out between 1996 and 1999 nineteen taxa (mostly afromontane elements) were newly recorded for the Simen and Gonder floristic region. /// Les Montagnes du Simen, situes au Nord de l'Ethiopie (rgion administrative de Gonder) et classes Patrimoine Mondial par les Nations Unies comprennent de vastes hauts-plateaux (approximativement 3200 m  4000 m), des escarpements abrupts et des zones basses (connues localement sous le vocable "Kolla" ou "Simen lowlands"; coins de 3000 m  moins de 2000 m) et sont rputes pour leur biodiversit leve. Les "Simen lowlands", couvertes principalement par une vgtation afromontagnarde, ont la richesse spcifique la plus leve, alors que la ceinture afroalpine -- bien que la partie la plus spectaculaire des montagnes -- est la plus pauvre. Les forts  Erica des escarpements et certaines zones de plateaux sont aussi relativement pauvres en espces. En gnral, la diversit spcifique diminue lorsqu'augmente l'altitude. Actuellement, environ 550 taxons d'angiospermes ont t enregistrs. Les Montagnes, principalement connues des biologistes pour leurs animaux rares et menacs (notamment Capra walie, endmique), abritent galement des espces de plantes endmiques (au moins 12; par exemple Rosularia semiensis: afroalpine, ou Maytenus cortii: afromontagnarde). Par ailleurs, plus de 30 taxons des Simen sont endmiques d'Ethiopie (par exemple Lobelia rhynchopetalum, afroalpine spectaculaire, ou Polyscias farinosa, afromontagnarde). Des affinits phytogographiques intressantes avec le SO de l'Arabie sont remarquables, par exemple Dianthus longiglumis ou Chlorophytum tetraphyllum (exclusivement connues respectivement des montagnes du Simen et d'Ethiopie, ainsi que du Yemen). De nombreux taxon de la zone afromontagnarde et afroalpine, prsentent une distribution s'tendant du Simen en direction du sud jusqu'aux montagnes tropicales d'Afrique de l'Est (par exemple Psychotria orophila, afromontagnarde, ou Trifolium cryptopodium afroalpine), parfois aussi avec une extension vers les montagnes d'Afrique occidentale (par exemple Galium simense). D'autres (principalement les taxons de la zone afromontagnarde du Simen) montrent une large distribution jusqu'en Afrique du Sud (par exemple Halleria lucida jusqu'au Drakensberg). Parmi les espces soudaniennes ou soudano-zambziennes largement distribues et qu'on retrouve dans les "Simen lowlands" figurent respectivement Sterculia setigera et Stereospermum kunthianum. Le Simen constitue une localit historique de collecte de plantes et, dans l'tat actuel de nos connaissances, des chantillons-types d'environ 220 taxons afromontagnards et afroalpins de plantes  fleurs (parmi environ 550 taxons enregistrs, soit 40%!) proviennent des Montagnes (principalement des rcoltes de Schimper au sicle dernier). Au cours des dernires dcennies, nanmoins, la rcolte de plantes est devenue impossible (problmes socio-politiques dans le Nord du pays!), et la connaissance botanique du Simen bien plus pauvre que celle du reste du pays. Ce n'est qu'au cours des dernires annes que l'exploration botanique redmarra et il n'est donc pas surprenant qu'au cours des expditions menes en 1996 et 1999, dix-neuf nouveaux taxons (pour la plupart des lments afromontagnards) furent enregistrs pour la rgion floristique du Simen et du Gonder. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668730|Of interest to botanists for nearly 150 years, the vegetation of African mountains has often been studied, but remains poorly understood. Lacunae in our knowledge of the systematics, ecology and biogeography of Afromontane plants are exemplified. The proposal to treat the ericaceous and afroalpine belts as a single entity under the term altimontane is addressed as a contribution towards the stabilisation of nomenclature in Afromontane vegetation. Information is needed to fulfil both intellectual and conservation requirements, and the difficulties of sustainable conservation in the absence of reliable data are discussed. /// Sujet d'intrt pour les botanistes depuis environ 150 ans, la vgtation des montagnes africaines a souvent t tudie mais demeure peu connue. Les lacunes tant dans notre connaissance de la systmatique, de l'cologie que de la biogographie des plantes afromontagnardes en sont la preuve. La proposition de considrer les ceintures  ricaces et afroalpine comme une seule entit dsigne sous le terme d'altimontagnarde est prsente comme une contribution  la stabilisation de la nomenclature de la vgtation afromontagnarde. Des informations sont ncessaires pour satisfaire les exigences tant intellectuelles qu'en matire de conservation et les difficults d'une conservation durable en l'absence de donnes fiables sont discutes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668724|For a phytogeographical analysis, 1706 more characteristic and frequent taxa of the climax and subclimax forests of the Kasai sector were chosen. It shows that widespread species from the Guineo-Congolian regional centre of endemism (R.C.E.) represent the major element (79% of the taxa) of the flora of this sector, wherein two groups may be distinguished: taxa from the Lower Guinean and taxa from the Congolian subcentre of endemism. Widespread taxa from other R.C.E.'s represent 14% of the total; they are in general ecologically plastic. Taxa from the Zambezian R.C.E. represent only 7% while only 5% of the species are endemic to the sector; these forests should be considered as a "prolongation" of the forests of the central Congo basin. The analysis of distribution patterns allows to distinguish widespread, central, northern, western and southern species in the sector. Species with a narrow area seem to be confined to the forest underlayers. /// Pour la ralisation d'une tude phytogographique, 1706 taxons parmi les plus caractristiques et les plus frquents des forts climaciques et sub-climaciques du Secteur du Kasai ont t choisis. L'tude montre que les espces  large distribution du centre rgional d'endmisme (C.R.E.) guino-congolais constituent l'lment dominant (79% des taxons) de la flore de ce secteur, au sein duquel deux groupes peuvent tre distingus: les taxons du sous-centre d'endmisme de Basse-Guine et ceux du sous-centre d'endmisme du bassin congolais. Les taxons  large distribution provenant d'autres C.R.E. constituent 14% de l'ensemble et sont, en gnral, cologiquement plastiques. Les taxons du C.R.E. zambzien reprsentent seulement 7% des taxons alors que 5% seulement des espces du secteur sont endmiques. Ces forts peuvent tre considres comme une "prolongation" des forts du bassin congolais. L'analyse des distributions permet de distinguer des espces largement distribues, centrales, septentrionales, occidentales et mridionales dans le secteur. Les espces  aire restreinte semblent tre confines dans les synusies infrieures des forts.
10.2307/3668674|Presentation, mid-term, of the collaboration between the Netherlands and Benin to produce the first comprehensive analytical Flora of Benin. Besides the Flora book itself, the project has a number of deliverables: a new herbarium building, some 20,000 new collections throughout the country, PhD-fellowships, training of staff and the production of dedicated publications. /// Prsentation  mi-parcours de la collaboration entre les Pays-Bas et le Bnin en vue de publier la premire Flore analytique concise de ce pays. En plus de la Flore elle-mme, le projet est  l'origine d'un nouveau btiment pour conserver l'Herbier national et les 20.000 nouveaux chantillons originaires de tout le pays et acquis pendant la dure du projet mais galement de deux projets de thse de doctorat, de la formation du personnel et de la publication d'articles. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668739|In this study the possibility of rainforest outside the postulated refuge areas is explored by assessing the presence of rainforest Caesalpinioideae in Lop forest savannah mosaic in Gabon. In this dry area twenty-six tree species of this subfamily were located. Their physiological ability to cope with drought stress and their impossible migration from the nearest postulated refuge area strongly suggests that these species remained in the Lop area during the last ice age. Extrapolating this observation and incorporating all refuge indicator species outside the postulated refuge area, supports the idea that small fragments of forest persisted during the last ice age acting as microrefugia. /// L'existence possible de la fort ombrophile  l'extrieur des aires-refuges prsumes est envisage dans cette tude par l'examen de la prsence des Caesalpinioideae dans la mosaque fort-savane  Lop au Gabon. Dans cette rgion sche, vingt-six espces d'arbres de cette sous-famille ont t signales. Leur capacit physiologique  faire face au stress hydrique et l'impossibilit qu'elles aient pu migrer  partir de l'aire-refuge prsume la plus proche suggrent que ces espces ont d subsister dans la rgion de Lop au cours de la dernire priode glaciaire. L'extrapolation de cette observation et la prise en compte de toutes les espces indicatrices d'un refuge hors de l'aire-refuge prsume conduisent  postuler que de petits fragments de forts ont persist au cours de la dernire priode glaciaire, constituant des micro-refuges. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668717|A phase of climatic disturbance and catastrophic destruction of Central African forests (in the region of south Cameroon, south Central African Republic, Gabon and Congo) occurred 2500 years BP (<sup>14</sup>C). This synchronous event for the different sites studied was manifested in either a brutal extension of the savannas, especially for the sites near the north (West Cameroon) and towards the south (Mayombe) of the Forest Domain, or a brutal extension of pioneer vegetation. Forest reinvasion began from 2000 years BP for some sites, or was a little later for others, according perhaps to the position of residual forests. This reinvasion still continues at the present time. Fires in the peripheral savannas can slow up this reinvasion, but in the long term the forests have continued to transgress into open regions. These major variations in the forest environment are illustrated by the history of two tree species of which numerous data have been able to be obtained: oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) and Okoum (Aucoumea klaineana). This massive disturbance which culminated about 2500 years BP is contextualised at the global and regional scale in the broader paleoclimatic framework of the upper Quaternary. Concerning climatic change and the dynamics of the monsoon on Central Africa, the key role which has always been played by Sea Surface Temperatures is shown. It is also shown that this vast disturbance which occurred alongside relatively "warm" regional and global conditions could be an "analog" to what could occur in Central Africa during the phase of "Global Warming" predicted for the 21st century. /// Une phase de perturbation climatique et de destruction catastrophique des forts d'Afrique centrale (secteurs Sud Cameroun, Sud Centrafrique, Gabon et Congo) est survenue vers 2500 ans BP (<sup>14</sup>C). Ce phnomne, synchrone pour les diffrents sites tudis, s'est traduit soit par une extension brutale des savanes, surtout pour les sites vers le nord (Ouest Cameroun) ou vers le sud (Mayombe) du Domaine Forestier, soit par une brutale extension des vgtations pionnires. La reconqute forestire a dbut ds 2000 ans BP pour quelques sites, soit elle a t plus tardive pour d'autres, suivant peut-tre la position des lots forestiers rsiduels. Cette reconqute forestire se poursuit encore  l'poque contemporaine. Les feux dans les savanes priphriques peuvent retarder cette reconqute mais, sur le long terme, les forts ont toujours transgress sur les milieux ouverts. Ces variations importantes du Domaine Forestier sont illustres par l'histoire de deux arbres pour lesquels de nombreuses donnes ont pu tre obtenues: le palmier  huile (Elaeis guineensis) et l'Okoum (Aucoumea klaineana). Cette vaste perturbation, qui a culmin vers 2500 ans BP, est replace dans le cadre paloclimatique plus gnral du Quaternaire rcent, au niveau global et rgional. Concernant les changements climatiques et la dynamique de la mousson sur l'Afrique centrale, on montre le rle cl qui a toujours t jou par les variations des Tempratures Marines de Surface. Enfin, on montre que cette vaste perturbation qui est survenue avec des conditions rgionales et globales relativement "chaudes" peut tre un "analogue" de ce qui pourrait se produire en Afrique centrale au cours de la phase de "Rchauffement Global" qui est prdite pour le XXIme sicle.
10.2307/3668735|Between 1990 and 2000 a number of vegetation surveys were undertaken on the Mount Cameroon area using mainly three methods: 0.25 ha sample plots, 20 m wide transects and rapid botanical surveys. A comparison of these methods in terms of data collected, operational characteristics and output relevance, revealed their strengths and weaknesses. The methods vary markedly in their ecological value (0.25 ha sample plots superior), taxonomic scope and rigour (rapid botanical survey superior) and logistic efficiency (transects superior). The combined outcome of all these surveys is discussed and recommendations made on the use of the rapid botanical survey in order to rapidly fill the remaining gaps on plant distribution. /// Durant la priode 1990-2000, une srie d'inventaires floristiques a t ralise au Mont Cameroun. Ces inventaires taient bass principalement sur trois mthodes: utilisation de placettes d'chantillonnage de 0,25 ha, de layons ou transects de 20 m de large et la technique d'inventaires botaniques rapides. Les points forts et les faiblesses des trois mthodes sont rvls par comparaison des types de donnes collectes, des caractristiques logistiques et des rsultats obtenus. Les mthodes varient nettement quant  leur valeur cologique (technique des placettes de 0,25 ha tant suprieure), leur rigueur et leur dimension taxonomique (technique d'inventaires botaniques rapides suprieure) et leur efficacit dans la ralisation des oprations (technique des transects suprieure). Les rsultats combins de tous ces inventaires sont discuts et des recommandations formules pour l'utilisation de la mthode d'inventaires botaniques rapides afin de combler rapidement les lacunes dans la connaissance de la distribution des plantes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668683|The herbarium ALF is devoted to the flora of especially Sahelian pastures; it comprises the best of the samples analysed by J.-P. Lebrun in Cirad-emvt. This herbarium is now on line. From a binary specific name, the software provides a list of synonyms, the specimen labels preserved in the herbarium or only analysed, the list of countries where this species was collected. Updates will be made gradually. /// L'herbier ALF est ddi  la flore des pturages surtout sahliens; il comporte les meilleurs des chantillons analyss par J.-P. Lebrun au Cirad-emvt. Cet herbier est maintenant en ligne. A partir d'un nom spcifique binaire, le logiciel fournit une liste de synonymes, les fiches des chantillons conservs dans l'herbier ou seulement analyss, la liste des pays o cette espce a t rcolte. Des mises  jour seront faites progressivement.
10.2307/3668715|AFlora is a database of ethnobotanical information collected in tropical Africa. Its purpose is to accumulate the information on plant use and nomenclature, and to facilitate effective information retrieval through Internet Web System. The information is specimen-based rather than taxon-based, and covers a whole range of man-plant relationships, direct and indirect, material as well as non-material uses. Graphic data (photographs) are also included in the database. In this paper, the structure of AFlora database, information included in each record, categorizations of uses and used parts are demonstrated, and some of the uses of the database for reference and comparative studies are discussed. /// AFlora est une base de donnes regroupant des informations ethnobotaniques collectes en Afrique tropicale. Son but est de regrouper l'information relative  l'utilisation des plantes et  la nomenclature et de faciliter une recherche documentaire efficace  travers le rseau Internet. L'information est base sur les chantillons plutt que sur les taxons et couvre la gamme complte des relations directes ou indirectes, matrielles ou non, entre l'Homme et les plantes. Des donnes graphiques (photographies) sont galement incluses dans la base de donnes. Dans cet article sont prsents la structure de la base de donnes AFlora, l'information relative  chaque enregistrement ainsi que les classifications en catgories en fonction des utilisations et des organes utiliss. Certaines utilisations de la base de donnes dans le cadre d'tudes de rfrence et comparatives sont discutes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668707|An ethnomycological study was undertaken amongst the Nagot people from central Bnin (West Africa). The results show that the ethnomycological knowledge from the Nagot people are through and rich. A list of nearly fifty edible macromycetes with their corresponding Nagot vernacular name and meaning, is given. Aspects concerning the local sources of information, the transmission of indigenous knowledge, attitudes, the role of edible fungi in diets, the importance of mushroom picking and the effect of gender, are treated. The way Nagot people delimit mushroom species, make vernacular names and recognize toxic species is discussed. /// Une tude ethnomycologique a t ralise auprs de la population Nagot du centre du Bnin (Afrique de l'Ouest). L'tude montre que les connaissances ethnomycologiques des Nagot sont profondes et riches. Une cinquantaine d'espces comestibles sont rpertories, leur(s) nom(s) en Nagot et la signification sont donns. Les aspects lis aux sources d'information, la transmission des connaissances endognes, l'attitude gnrale des Nagot, le rle des champignons sauvages dans l'alimentation, l'importance de la cueillette, le savoir et l'impact du sexe, sont traits. La notion d'espce chez les Nagot, la faon de former les noms vernaculaires et de faire la distinction entre espces dangereuses et comestibles, est discute.
10.2307/3668679|The authors start with a short recall of the concepts of diversity; then, sticking successively to alpha-diversity of zero order (local specific richness) and gamma-diversity of zero order (regional specific richness), they show how these concepts are approached by the software FLOTROP. Finally, the variability of results obtained by square degree in the eastern Chad and the origin of noted uncertainties are examined. /// Les auteurs commencent par un bref rappel des notions de diversit, puis, s'attachant successivement aux diversits alpha d'ordre nul (richesse spcifique d'une station) et gamma d'ordre nul (richesse spcifique rgionale), ils montrent comment ces notions sont abordes par le logiciel FLOTROP. Pour terminer, ils examinent la variabilit des rsultats obtenus par degr-carr du Tchad oriental et les origines des incertitudes notes.
10.2307/3668692|The taxonomy of Millettia Wight & Arn. is in need of revision. For Africa, sect. Efulgentes and Opacae are under review. The main distinction between both sections is the shininess of the leaves. In line with the treatments of Asian species the African material has been described and prepared for phylogenetic analysis. A brief overview with preliminary data is given. Full details are intended to be published in the forthcoming revision. /// La taxonomie de Millettia Wight & Arn. demande une rvision. Les sect. Efulgentes et Opacae sont en cours de rvision pour l'Afrique. La distinction principale entre les deux sections est la brillance des feuilles. Dans la ligne des traitements des espces asiatiques, le matriel africain a t dcrit et prpar pour l'analyse phylogntique. Un bref aperu avec donnes prliminaires est prsent. Les dtails seront publis dans la future rvision. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668621|Records are given of 35 Lactarius species (Basidiomycota, Russulales) from drier Zambezian miombo woodlands in Zimbabwe. Most of them represent the first records for this country and all of them are the most southern records of the species on the African continent. Lactarius albocinctus Verbeken, L. brachystegiae Verbeken & Sharp, L. carmineus Verbeken & Walleyn and L. emergens Verbeken are proposed as new taxa. Fully illustrated descriptions are given for the first time for Lactarius aurantiifolius, L. nonpiscis, L. phlebonemus (with typification), L. pulchrispermus, L. roseolus, L. subamarus, L. urens and L. volemoides. Local uses and vernacular names of some species are documented.
10.2307/3668619|The floral ontogeny of Galopina tomentosa is investigated. Inflorescences consist of pleiothyrses whose smallest elements are three-flowered cymes. The upper flowers of each cyme are subtended by a bract with two prophylls, functioning as bract of the smaller flowers, and are surrounded by a variable number of colleters. Sepals fail to develop, are present as two pairs of different size, or as a single lateral pair. The four petals arise as broad diagonally inserted lobes around a central depression. The stamen primordia emerge on the inner slopes of the cup-like flower primordium in the interstices of the large petal lobes. The gynoecium develops externally as two shallow stylar primordia whereas most of the ovary is embedded in the receptacular tissue. The two erect styles are lined on their inner side with stigmatic papillae. Placentation is strictly spoken central-basal; an apical septum is formed after ovule initiation by downward growth of tissue subjacent to the styles and connects postgenitally with the placenta. Sterilisation of one of the sexes occurs at the onset of ovule initiation in staminate flowers, and after anther development in pistillate flowers. Differences of morphs become manifest just before anthesis with reflexed petals in staminate flowers and erect petals in the pistillate forms. There is no trace of a nectary. The use of the terms 'early' and 'late' sympetaly is discussed for the Rubiaceae. It is shown that the nature of a 'corolla tube' is not necessarily homologous in the family and relates to fluctuations of three processes: the extent of growth of a meristematic zone common to stamens and petals (stamen-corolla tube), the growth of a petal tube sensu stricto, and postgenital fusion of filaments with the corolla. The development of a concave floral primordium determines the existence of a peripheral collar or 'early sympetaly.' Gynoecial development is compared with other Rubiaceae. It is suggested that ovaries arise along a common pattern in the family. Differences in position of placentation are related with the heterogenous nature of the septum that consists of a basal and apical section. The flower of Galopina tomentosa is characteristic for the wind-pollinated Anthospermeae with a strong tendency for reduction. A comparison is made with other Anthospermeae and with Theligonum in particular.
10.2307/3668614|After having mentioned the few taxonomic problems still to be solved, the author reviews the 27 species mentioned by error in Jebel Uweinat, the planted and cultivated species, as well as the 8 species whose presence in Uweinat is extremely doubtful. The spectrum of the families shows that about half of the flora consists of Gramineae (23 species), of Leguminosae sensu lato (10) and of Zygophyllaceae (9). The spectrum of the genera (66) shows that they are represented only by a very small number of species (1-4). The spectrum of the species (table 4) shows that the flora of Jebel Uweinat, a massif of 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup>, isolated in the Sahara in the heart of the vast Libyan Desert, in an area where rains are exceptional, is composed of only 87 species and infraspecific taxa. Such a small number reflects the very great poverty of the flora due to the extreme xeric conditions of the environment. From the comparison between these various spectra and those of Ennedi, the nearest massif to Jebel Uweinat (600 km South-West) but situated in the north of the Sahel where it rains for 2 months each year, it results that the flora of Jebel Uweinat is, for 2/3, similar to the flora of Ennedi but considerably impoverished by the excessive dryness, and, for 1/3, composed of eremitic species more specifically Saharan and well adapted to the xeric conditions. After having established the map of the botanical exploration of Jebel Uweinat (fig. 2), the author determines the degree of floristic exploration of the flora (fig. 3; 86 species found out of 87 after 52 days of prospection). In order to give a first outline of the composition of the vegetation, which is particularly scattered and very poor in species and individuals, the author classifies the species according to their total presence coefficient (PT) for the vegetation of the whole massif. In desert regions, this method gives indeed a better general view of the composition of the vegetation. This total presence coefficient is equal to the sum of the presences of each species in all the phytosociological relevs of the vegetation. The classification of species according to their total presence coefficient (table 11) shows that the 4 species most present in Jebel Uweinat are Fagonia indica var. indica (PT 132), Aerva javanica var. bovei (PT 127), Acacia tortilis sensu lato (PT 110) and Cleome chrysantha (PT 92). It appears in addition that 25 species were observed from 1 to 3 times only and this on a surface of 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup> methodically prospected during 70 days. The author comes to the conclusion that various species, all perennial, seem in the process of disappearing, such as Cocculus pendulus, various Convolvulus, Cullen plicatum, Helianthemum lippii var. lippii, Salvadora persica var. persica and Tamarix arborea. From the analysis of the classification of the families according to the sum of the total presence coefficients of their species (table 13), it arises that the 4 families most present in Jebel Uweinat are now Leguminosae sensu lato, closely followed by Zygophyllaceae and, then, Gramineae and Capparaceae. The author gives then an outline of the vegetation of the whole massif of Jebel Uweinat, based on the total presence coefficients and in which are listed the families, genera and species most present in Jebel Uweinat (table 14). The author applies then the principle of the total presence of the species according to the nature of the outcropping rocks, the altitude, the grazing and the biological types. In consequence of the extreme poverty of the flora, the existence of distinct floras according to the nature of the outcropping rocks does not appear at first sight in the field. But the analysis of the flora, using the total presence coefficients of the species, showed the existence of two distinct phanerogamic floras, whether on sandstones or on granites. If many species (30) are present as well on sandstone as on granite, there are also many species (44) present on sandstone and not on granite and relatively many species (12) present on granite and not on sandstone. Several distribution maps of species illustrate the various types of presence met according to the nature of the outcropping rocks (fig. 5-10). After having determined the altitudinal amplitude of the species present on granite or sandstone, the author's conclusion is that there are no specific levels, neither on granite nor on sandstone. On the other hand, in spite of the extreme poverty of the flora, the author has been able to determine uppermost altitudinal limits for groups of species. Three uppermost altitudinal limits and 4 groups of species were determined on granite (fig. 11), 4 uppermost altitudinal limits and 5 groups of species on sandstone (fig. 12). The author determines then the specific richness in function of the altitude on granite and on sandstone (fig. 15-16). The influence of the wild herbivores upon vegetation is then studied: gazelles (Gazella dorcas) and moufflons (Ammotragus lervia). The distribution map of these herbivores and their excrements (fig. 17) shows that they are more present on sandstones, which are characterized by the presence of a greater number of vegetable species and by total presence coefficients much higher than on granites. The list of the grazed species (43) is then given (table 24) and the spectrum by families of the grazed species is established (table 25). These species are mainly Gramineae and Leguminosae sensu lato, two families which represent more than half the sum of the total presence coefficients of the grazed species. Gazelles (one hundred approximately) are mainly present in the lower parts of the sandstones. They graze 34 species whose sum of the total presence coefficients reaches 861. They have therefore sufficient food and the pressure they presently put upon lowland vegetation seems relatively low. A certain balance between the hundred gazelles and the lowland vegetation seems to be reached. Moufflons (around fifty) are almost exclusively present in the higher parts of the massif, whether on sandstone or on granite, where the flora is poorer. They have only about 20 species to graze whose sum of the total presence coefficients only reaches 456. Moufflons are obviously in lack of food and the pressure they put on the high altitude vegetation seems very strong and results in overgrazing which leads to various altitudinal species becoming a rarity. This high altitude vegetation seems to be particularly fragile and its balance with the moufflons seems to be broken. It is therefore to fear that some altitudinal species might disappear. The author then reviews the non-grazed species (43) and gives the reasons of this non-grazing. The above-mentioned statistical data show that the selective pressure of the wild herbivores upon vegetation results not only in the overgrazing and the progressive rarefaction of certain grazed species, but also in the survival, if not the development, of many non-grazed species whose total presence coefficients appear among the highest of the massif. In order to draw up the biological spectrum of the whole vegetation, the species have been classified according to the various traditional biological types, to which is added the category of the pluriseasonal species. According to Gillet (1968:64-65), this category includes species appearing as therophytes but with some individuals behaving like chamaephytes or hemicryptophytes during the following season. These species are therefore remarkably well adapted to desert conditions, since their reproduction is always assured whatever the duration of the interpluvial periods. The total unweighted biological spectrum of the whole vegetation (table 26), based on the number of species which contains each biological type, shows that the therophytes are the most significant group (29%), followed by the pluriseasonal species (25.5%), the chamaephytes (19.8%) and the phanerophytes (11.7%). This spectrum, in which therophytes and pluriseasonal species are more numerous (54.5%) than other biological types, is characteristic of mountainous areas of central Sahara. The comparison between this unweighted spectrum and that of Ennedi (table 27) shows that from Ennedi to Jebel Uweinat, the increase in dryness results in a reduction in the percentage of the therophytes and phanerophytes and in a very strong increase in the percentage of the pluriseasonal species, which are remarkably adapted to xeric conditions. Next, the total weighted biological spectrum is determined (table 28), based now on the sum of the total presence coefficients of the species for each biological type. This spectrum shows that the most significant biological types are the pluriseasonal species (39%), the chamaephytes (28.1%), the phanerophytes (16.4%) and the therophytes (9.8% only). This weighted spectrum reflects the reality much better since it corresponds accurately to the state of the vegetation during the interpluvial periods, when most of the therophytes are inconspicuous, whereas pluriseasonal and ligneous species still persist. This fourth part ends in a toponymic map with the names of the main places of the Jebel (fig. 18). /// Aprs avoir mentionn les quelques problmes taxonomiques encore  rsoudre, l'auteur passe en revue les 27 espces signales par erreur au Jebel Uweinat, les espces plantes et cultives, ainsi que les 8 espces dont la prsence  Uweinat est fort douteuse. Le spectre des familles montre que prs de la moiti de la flore est constitue par des Gramineae (23 espces), par des Leguminosae sensu lato (10) et par des Zygophyllaceae (9). Le spectre des genres (66) montre que ceux-ci ne sont reprsents que par un trs petit nombre d'espces (1-4). Le spectre des espces (tableau 4) montre, lui, que la flore du Jebel Uweinat, vaste massif de 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup>, isol au Sahara au coeur de l'immense Dsert de Libye en une rgion o les pluies sont exceptionnelles, ne se compose  ce jour que de 87 espces et taxons infraspcifiques. Ce nombre si peu lev reflte bien la trs grande pauvret de la flore due aux conditions xriques extrmes du milieu. De la comparaison de ces divers spectres avec ceux de l'Ennedi, massif le plus proche du Jebel Uweinat ( 600 km au sud-ouest), mais situ dans le nord du Sahel et arros par des pluies pendant 2 mois chaque anne, rsulte le fait que la flore du Jebel Uweinat se prsente, pour ses 2/3, comme la flore de l'Ennedi mais trs considrablement appauvrie par suite de la scheresse excessive et, pour 1/3, compose d'espces rmitiques plus spcifiquement sahariennes et bien adaptes aux conditions xriques. Aprs avoir publi la carte de l'exploration botanique du Jebel Uweinat (fig. 2), l'auteur dfinit le degr d'exploration floristique de la flore (fig. 3; 86 espces sur 87 trouves aprs 52 jours de prospection). Afin de pouvoir donner un premier aperu de la composition de la vgtation, particulirement dissmine et trs pauvre en espces et en individus, l'auteur classe les espces selon leur coefficient de prsence totale (PT) pour l'ensemble de la vgtation de tout le massif. Cette mthode permet, en effet, en rgions dsertiques, de donner une meilleure ide gnrale de la composition de la vgtation. Ce coefficient de prsence totale est obtenu en totalisant la prsence de chaque espce dans tous les relevs phytosociologiques effectus. Le classement des espces, selon leur coefficient de prsence totale (tableau 11), montre que les 4 espces les plus prsentes au Jebel Uweinat sont Fagonia indica var. indica (PT 132), Aerva javanica var. bovei (PT 127), Acacia tortilis sensu lato (PT 110) et Cleome chrysantha (PT 92). Il apparat, d'autre part, que 25 espces n'ont t observes que de 1-3 fois seulement et cela sur une superficie de 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup> prospecte mthodiquement pendant 70 jours. L'auteur en conclut que diverses espces, toutes vivaces, semblent en voie de disparition, comme Cocculus pendulus, divers Convolvulus, Cullen plicatum, Helianthemum lippii var. lippii, Salvadora persica var. persica et Tamarix arborea. De l'analyse du classement des familles selon la somme des coefficients de prsence totale de leurs espces (tableau 13), il ressort que les 4 familles les plus prsentes au Jebel Uweinat sont, cette fois, les Leguminosae sensu lato, suivies de trs prs par les Zygophyllaceae et, ensuite, par les Gramineae et les Capparaceae. L'auteur donne, pour suivre, un aperu de la vgtation de l'ensemble du Jebel Uweinat bas sur les coefficients de prsence totale et dans lequel figurent les familles, les genres et les espces les plus prsents au Jebel Uweinat (tableau 14). L'auteur applique ensuite le principe de la prsence totale des espces en fonction de la nature des roches affleurantes, en fonction de l'altitude, en fonction du broutement et en fonction des types biologiques. Par suite de l'extrme pauvret de la flore, l'existence de flores distinctes selon la nature des roches affleurantes n'apparat pas  premire vue sur le terrain. Par contre, l'analyse de la flore, grce  utilisation des coefficients de prsence totale des espces, a montr l'existence de deux flores phanrogamiques distinctes selon la nature grseuse ou granitique du substrat. Si de nombreuses espces (30) sont prsentes  la fois sur le grs et sur le granite, nombreuses par contre (44) sont les espces qui existent sur le grs et pas sur le granite et assez nombreuses (12) celles rencontres sur le granite et pas sur le grs. Plusieurs cartes de distribution d'espces illustrent les divers types de prsence rencontrs en fonction de la nature des roches affleurantes (fig. 5-10). Aprs avoir dfini l'amplitude altitudinale des espces prsentes sur le granite ou sur le grs, l'auteur arrive  la conclusion qu'il n'y a pas d'tages particuliers ni sur le granite, ni sur le grs. Par contre, malgr l'extrme pauvret de la flore, il a pu reconnatre des limites altitudinales suprieures pour des groupes d'espces. C'est ainsi que 3 limites altitudinales suprieures ont t reconnues sur le granite dlimitant 4 groupes d'espces (fig. 11). Sur le grs, 4 limites altitudinales suprieures et 5 groupes d'espces ont t mis en vidence (fig. 12). L'auteur dfinit ensuite la richesse spcifique en fonction de l'altitude dans la partie granitique et dans la partie grseuse du massif (fig. 15-16). L'influence des herbivores sauvages sur la vgtation est ensuite tudie, celle des gazelles (Gazella dorcas) et celle des mouflons (Ammotragus lervia). La carte de rpartition de ces herbivores et de leurs djections (fig. 17) montre qu'ils frquentent davantage les zones grseuses du massif caractrises par la prsence d'un plus grand nombre d'espces vgtales et par des coefficients de prsence totale nettement plus levs que dans la partie granitique. La liste des espces broutes (43) est ensuite dresse (tableau 24) et le spectre par familles des espces broutes tabli (tableau 25). Ces espces broutes sont principalement des Gramineae et des Leguminosae sensu lato, familles qui,  elles seules, groupent plus de la moiti de la somme des coefficients de prsence totale des espces broutes. Les gazelles (une centaine environ) sont surtout localises dans les parties infrieures de la zone grseuse du massif. Elles broutent 34 espces dont la somme des coefficients de prsence totale atteint 861. Elles ont donc suffisamment de nourriture et la pression qu'elles exercent actuellement sur la vgtation planitiaire semble relativement faible. Un certain quilibre entre la centaine de gazelles et le maintien de la vgtation planitiaire semble donc atteint. Les mouflons (une cinquantaine) sont, eux, presque exclusivement prsents dans les parties suprieures du massif, aussi bien grseuses que granitiques, l o la flore est plus pauvre. Ils n'ont  leur disposition qu'une vingtaine d'espces  brouter dont la somme des coefficients de prsence totale n'atteint que 456. Les mouflons manquent donc manifestement de nourriture et la pression qu'ils exercent sur la vgtation d'altitude semble trs forte et se traduit par le surbroutement qui conduit  la rarfaction de diverses espces d'altitude. Cette vgtation d'altitude semble donc particulirement fragile et son quilibre avec les mouflons semble rompu. Il est  craindre, ds lors, que certaines espces d'altitude viennent  disparatre. L'auteur passe ensuite en revue les espces non broutes (43) et donne les raisons de ce non-broutement. Il conclut en disant que les donnes chiffres prcites montrent que la pression slective des herbivores sauvages sur la vgtation se traduit non seulement par le surbroutement et la rarfaction progressive de certaines espces broutes, mais aussi par le maintien, sinon par le dveloppement, de nombreuses espces non broutes dont les coefficients de prsence totale figurent d'ailleurs parmi les plus levs du massif. Afin de pouvoir dresser le spectre biologique de l'ensemble de la vgtation, les espces ont t rparties selon les divers types biologiques classiques auxquels est ajoute la catgorie des espces plurisaisonnires. Selon Gillet (1968: 64-65), cette catgorie regroupe des espces qui se prsentent sous la forme de throphytes, mais dont certains individus se comportent,  la saison suivante, comme des champhytes ou des hmicryptophytes. Ces espces sont ainsi remarquablement adaptes aux conditions dsertiques, puisque leur reproduction est toujours assure quelle que soit la dure des priodes interpluviales. Le spectre biologique total brut de l'ensemble de la vgtation (tableau 26), bas sur le nombre d'espces que renferme chaque type biologique, montre que les throphytes constituent le groupe le plus important (29%), suivi par les plurisaisonnires (25,5%), par les champhytes (19,8%) et par les phanrophytes (11,7%). Ce spectre, au sein duquel les throphytes et les plurisaisonnires sont plus nombreux (54,5%) que les autres types biologiques, est caractristique des rgions montagneuses du Sahara central. La comparaison de ce spectre brut avec celui de l'Ennedi (tableau 27) montre que de l'Ennedi au Jebel Uweinat, l'augmentation de la scheresse se traduit par une diminution du pourcentage des throphytes et des phanrophytes et par une trs forte augmentation du pourcentage des plurisaisonnires, espces remarquablement adaptes aux conditions dsertiques extrmes. Le spectre biologique total pondr est ensuite tabli (tableau 28), bas cette fois sur la somme des coefficients de prsence totale des espces de chaque type biologique. Ce spectre montre que les types biologiques les plus importants sont les plurisaisonnires (39%), les champhytes (28,1%), les phanrophytes (16,4%) et ensuite seulement les throphytes (9,8%). Ce spectre pondr traduit beaucoup mieux la ralit sur le terrain puisqu'il correspond fidlement  l'tat de la vgtation en priode interpluviale o la plupart des throphytes ne sont plus visibles, mais o persistent les plurisaisonnires et les espces ligneuses. Cette quatrime partie se termine par une carte toponymique avec les noms des principaux endroits du Jebel (fig. 18).
10.2307/3668617|Four new taxa of Orchidaceae are described from So Tom: Liparis rosseelii Stvart (two collections), Bulbophyllum luciphilum Stvart (based one collection), Polystachya albescens subsp. principensis Stvart (sect. Caulescentes; based on ten collections) and Calanthe sylvatica var. geerinckiana Stvart (based on one collection).
10.2307/3668620|Wood of the Australian monotypic genus Monococcus is characterised by short, narrow vessel elements, simple and non-bordered perforation plates, alternate vessel pitting, short fibres with vestigial pit borders, scanty axial parenchyma, and multiseriate rays mainly composed of upright/square ray cells. Styloids are most abundantly present in the secondary phloem. Moreover, secondary growth produced by successive cambia occurs in woody stem parts. These data are compared to other Phytolaccaceae s.l. and a close relationship between Monococcus, Rivina and Petiveria (Rivinoideae or Rivinaceae) is confirmed. However, data on a wider range of taxa are required to support a separation of Rivinaceae from Phytolaccaceae s.s. on the basis of stem anatomy. The presence or absence of successive cambia represents useful taxonomic information for evaluating phylogenetic relationships in Phytolaccaceae s.l. and Caryophyllales.
10.2307/3668618|A new Rothmannia species (Rubiaceae-Gardenieae-Gardeniinae) named Rothmannia ebamutensis found in Banyang Mbo (Cameroon) is described. This species is characterized by its fruit with ten small ribs and covered with small white lenticels. The pedicel of the flower is 50-60 mm long. The species is limited to the submontane rain forest at the south-western part of Cameroon.
10.2307/3668616|Description of a new species, Rungia camerunensis. It is illustrated and a distribution map is given. /// Une nouvelle espce, Rungia camerunensis, est dcrite. Une illustration et la carte de distribution de l'espce sont donnes.
10.2307/3668615|This fifth part consists in the comparative study of the distribution areas of the 86 species known in Jebel Uweinat, a huge isolated massif, 1900 m high, situated in the heart of eastern Sahara, within the Saharo-Sindian regional zone. The purpose of this study is to determine the part of the flora of Jebel Uweinat which belongs to the Saharo-Sindian phytochorion and to estimate the importance of the neighbouring phytochoria. The author first reproduces the maps of the main phytochoria of Africa and S-W Asia (fig. 1-2) and also the map of the subdivisions of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (fig. 3). The species are then classified into Saharo-Sindian endemic species and into various types of linking species. There are 18 Saharo-Sindian endemic species, i.e. a fifth only (20.93%) of the flora of the massif. This low percentage confirms White's opinion according to whom this Saharo-Sindian phytochorion should be considered as a regional zone. Table 1 shows that 6 out of these 18 species are Saharan endemics, 6 are omni-Saharo-Sindian species and 3 Saharo-Arabian species. There are no species endemic to Jebel Uweinat, contrary to various higher Saharan mountains where some endemism exists. The 18 biregional linking species (20.93% of the flora) are mentioned in table 6. It shows that the biregional links between the Saharo-Sindian regional zone take place nearly exclusively with the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism (9 species; table 9) and with the Sahel regional transition zone (5 species; table 8), i.e. with tropical phytochoria situated south of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone. There is no biregional link with the Mediterranean regional centre of endemism, nor with the Indian continent, contrary to various higher Saharan mountains where a residual Mediterranean flora exists in altitude. Table 12, including the distribution of the 18 triregional linking species (20.93% of the flora), shows that 14 out of these 18 links take place with the Sahel regional transition zone and the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism (table 13), therefore confirming the close relations between the flora of Jebel Uweinat and these two tropical phytochoria. The Mediterranean regional centre of endemism is not included among these various triregional links, which confirms the absence of Mediterranean influence. The 22 linking species between more than three phytochoria of the Old World (25.58% of the flora; table 18) are distributed amongst 14 palaeotropical species (table 19) and 8 species, most of them scarcely present in Uweinat, distributed in palaeotropical and in warm temperate regions situated north of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (table 20). Finally, a group of 10 species (11.62% of the flora; table 21) consists of 6 pantropical species (table 22) and 4 subcosmopolitan ones (table 23). Most of these species are very rare in Uweinat and their introduction seems rather recent. The quasi-absence in Uweinat of subcosmopolitan weeds is worth mentioning. The author then undertakes the comparative study of the chorotypes of all species known in Uweinat and establishes the total unweighted chorological spectrum of the whole vegetation (table 24). The number of species of Jebel Uweinat present in phytochoria other than the Saharo-Sindian regional zone is specified (table 25 and fig. 4). It appears clearly that the species of Uweinat exist much more frequently in tropical phytochoria situated south of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone than in phytochoria situated north and east of this zone, like the Mediterranean, Irano-Turanian and Indian phytochoria. Among the various phytochoria situated south of this regional zone, it is in the Somalia-Masai and Sahelian phytochoria that the Uweinat species are more frequently present. It is clearly with these two phytochoria that the flora of Uweinat has the closest links. The total weighted chorological spectrum is then established taking into account the total presence coefficients (PT) of the species. This weighted spectrum (table 26) is more in accordance with the reality in the field since it takes into account the importance of the presence of the species. The links between Uweinat species and other phytochoria are then established taking now into account the importance of their presence in the field, i.e. taking into account the sums of the total presence coefficients of the species (table 27 and fig. 5). The resulting data indicate even more clearly the dominant importance of the existing connections between the flora of Jebel Uweinat, the flora of the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism and those of the Sahel regional transition zone, i.e. with the flora of two tropical phytochoria. The author then reviews the 7 Uweinat species with a discontinuous area (table 29). For 5 of them, the present area seems to be the remnant of a very old, dry and continuous tropical and subtropical area stretching from Sahara to South Africa through East Africa. From the comparative study of the areas of the species, it results that some areal limits appear within the Sahara (Saharan regional subzone, SS1, fig. 3) and within the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism. Within the Saharan regional subzone, three types of distribution have been noticed. Most of the Uweinat species are widely distributed within this regional subzone and are common through all the Sahara (table 30; fig. 6-7). A second group composed of 12 species (14% of the flora; table 31) is distributed in Sahara only south of a subhorizontal median areal limit situated a little north of the Tropic of Cancer (fig. 8-10). These species are distributed in dry tropical African regions and this subhorizontal areal limit through Sahara coincides with the northern limit of their area. This subhorizontal areal limit corresponds fairly well with the phytogeographical limit drawn by various phytogeographers between the Holarctic floral Empire and the Palaeotropical floral Empire. Finally, a third group includes species which, in Sahara, are distributed only east of areal limits situated in the eastern and western parts of Libya. These areal limits coincide with those of the vast Libyan desert (fig. 8). Five species (table 32), three of them being very common in Uweinat (Cleome chrysantha, C. droserifolia and Crotalaria thebaica), are only known east of an areal limit situated east of this desert (fig. 11). This desert seems therefore to constitute a barrier preventing the extension of some species further to the west. Finally, 6 other species (table 33), among which 3 eremitic species of Fagonia very wide-spread in Uweinat, are only known east of an areal limit situated west of this desert (fig. 12). This time, the same desert seems to constitute a barrier preventing the extension further to the east of some species only known west of it. Various phytogeographers have drawn one phytogeographical limit, either east (Eig 1931), or west (Drude 1897, Chevalier 1932) of this Libyan desert. Their phytogeographical limits coincide fairly well with our own areal limits. Our conclusions, contrary to these authors, seem to indicate the presence of two areal limits, one east, another west of this desert, as already suggested by Monod in 1957. The comparative study of the areas of species present in both Uweinat and the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism not only confirms the existence of an areal limit within this centre of endemism (fig. 13), but also shows that 2/3 of these species are known only north of this areal limit (table 34; fig. 14). It is therefore with the flora of the northern half of this centre of endemism that these species show most affinities. This areal limit, here also, coincides with a phytogeographical limit established by some phytogeographers. Considering the importance of this areal limit, it is worth asking whether a subdivision should not be recommended within this regional centre of endemism. In conclusion, according to this comparative chorological study, it appears that the present flora of Jebel Uweinat, except 1/5 of Saharo-Sindian species, is mainly a tropical African one, closely connected with the flora of the northern half of the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism and with the flora of the Sahel regional transition zone. This flora if nevertheless considerably impoverished by the increasing dryness of the climate and, in altitude, by overgrazing. Moreover the present work confirms the existence of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (fig. 1-3) as well as the fact that the Saharan regional subzone stretches on either sides of the Tropic of Cancer (fig. 3 and 8). On the contrary, this work does not confirm the existence in Africa of a vast phytogeographical Region called Sudano-Zambezian Region or Sudano-Angolan Region, but it confirms the existence of White's Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism which clearly extends beyond the Red Sea (fig. 13). As a conclusion, the interest of the comparative study of areas of species is emphasized in order to contribute to the subdivision of phytochoria in general and of the Saharan regional subzone in particular. At the end of this fifth part, some phenological data are given on the flora of Jebel Uweinat. /// Cette cinquime partie consiste en l'tude compare des aires de distribution des 86 espces que renferme la flore du Jebel Uweinat, vaste massif isol de 1900 m d'altitude, situ au coeur du Sahara oriental au sein de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne. Le but de cette tude est de dterminer la part de la flore du Jebel Uweinat qui appartient  la phytochorie saharo-sindienne et d'valuer l'importance des phytochories voisines. L'auteur reproduit tout d'abord les cartes des principales phytochories d'Afrique et du sud-ouest de l'Asie (fig. 1-2), ainsi que la carte des subdivisions de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (fig. 3). Les espces sont classes ensuite en espces saharo-sindiennes endmiques et en divers types d'espces de liaison. Les espces saharo-sindiennes endmiques sont au nombre de 18, soit un cinquime seulement (20,93%) de la flore de ce massif. Ce faible pourcentage confirme donc le bien-fond de considrer cette phytochorie saharo-sindienne comme une zone rgionale au sens de White. Le tableau 1 montre que 6 de ces 18 espces sont des endmiques sahariennes, 6 des espces omni-saharo-sindiennes et 3 des espces saharo-arabiques. Aucune espce n'est endmique au Jebel Uweinat, contrairement  divers massifs sahariens plus levs o existe un certain endmisme. Les espces de liaison birgionale, au nombre de 18 galement (20,93% de la flore), ont t groupes dans le tableau 6. Ce dernier montre que les liaisons birgionales entre la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne s'oprent presque exclusivement avec le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai (9 espces; tableau 9), ainsi qu'avec la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel (5 espces; tableau 8), c'est--dire avec des phytochories tropicales situes au sud de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne. Il n'y a aucune liaison birgionale avec le centre rgional d'endmisme mditerranen, ni avec le continent indien, contrairement  divers massifs sahariens plus levs o une flore mditerranenne rsiduelle existe en altitude. Le tableau 12 de la rpartition des 18 espces de liaison trirgionale (20,93% de la flore) montre que 14 de ces liaisons s'oprent avec la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel et avec le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai (tableau 13), confirmant ainsi les rapports troits de la flore du Jebel Uweinat avec ces deux phytochories tropicales. Le centre rgional d'endmisme mditerranen ne figure pas parmi ces diverses liaisons trirgionales, confirmant de la sorte l'absence d'influence mditerranenne. Les espces de liaison entre plus de trois phytochories de l'Ancien Monde, au nombre de 22 (25,58% de la flore; tableau 18), se rpartissent en 14 espces palotropicales (tableau 19) et 8 espces, la plupart peu prsentes au Jebel Uweinat, rpandues dans les rgions palotropicales et tempres chaudes situes au nord de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (tableau 20). Enfin, un groupe de 10 espces (11,62% de la flore; tableau 21) comprend 6 espces pantropicales (tableau 22) et 4 espces subcosmopolites (tableau 23). La plupart de ces 10 espces sont trs rares au Jebel Uweinat et semblent d'introduction rcente. La quasi-absence au Jebel Uweinat de "mauvaises herbes" subcosmopolites mrite d'tre souligne. L'auteur entreprend ensuite l'tude compare des chorotypes de toutes les espces du Jebel Uweinat et dresse le spectre chorologique total brut de l'ensemble de la vgtation (tableau 24). Le nombre d'espces du Jebel Uweinat prsentes dans d'autres phytochories que la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne est prcis (tableau 25 et fig. 4). Il ressort clairement que les espces du Jebel Uweinat se retrouvent beaucoup plus souvent dans les phytochories tropicales situes au sud de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne que dans les phytochories situes au nord et  l'est de cette zone, comme les phytochories mditerranenne, irano-touranienne et indienne. Parmi les diverses phytochories situes au sud, c'est dans les phytochories de la Somalie-pays Masai et sahlienne que les espces du Jebel Uweinat se retrouvent le plus frquemment. C'est bien avec ces deux phytochories que les rapports de la flore du Jebel Uweinat sont les plus troits. Le spectre chorologique total pondr est ensuite tabli en tenant compte des coefficients de prsence totale (PT) des espces. Ce spectre pondr (tableau 26) correspond beaucoup mieux  la ralit sur le terrain puisqu'il tient compte de l'importance de la prsence des espces. Les liaisons des espces du Jebel Uweinat avec d'autres phytochories sont ensuite tablies en tenant compte cette fois de l'importance de leur prsence sur le terrain, c'est--dire en tenant compte des sommes des coefficients de prsence totale des espces (tableau 27 et fig. 5). Les donnes obtenues traduisent plus clairement encore l'importance dominante des rapports existant entre la flore du Jebel Uweinat, la flore du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai et la flore de la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel, c'est--dire avec la flore de deux phytochories tropicales. L'auteur passe ensuite en revue les 7 espces du Jebel Uweinat dont l'aire est discontinue (tableau 29). L'aire actuelle de 5 d'entre elles semble le reste d'une trs ancienne aire tropicale et subtropicale sche continue qui devait s'tendre du Sahara  l'Afrique du Sud, via l'Est Africain. A la suite de l'examen compar des aires des espces, des limites arales sont apparues au sein du Sahara (sous-zone rgionale saharienne, SS1, fig. 3) et au sein du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai. Au sein de la sous-zone rgionale saharienne, trois types d'aires ont t constats. La plupart des espces du Jebel Uweinat sont largement rpandues dans cette sous-zone rgionale et sont communes dans tout le Sahara (tableau 30; fig. 6-7). Un deuxime groupe de 12 espces (14% de la flore; tableau 31) n'est rpandu par contre au Sahara qu'au sud d'une limite arale subhorizontale mdiane situe un peu au nord du Tropique du Cancer (fig. 8-10). Il s'agit d'espces rpandues dans des rgions tropicales sches africaines pour lesquelles cette limite arale subhorizontale au travers du Sahara constitue la limite septentrionale de leur aire. Cette limite arale subhorizontale correspond assez bien  la limite phytogographique tablie par divers phytogographes classiques entre l'Empire floral holarctique et l'Empire floral palotropical. Enfin, un troisime groupe comprend des espces qui, au Sahara, ne sont rpandues qu' l'est de limites arales situes dans l'est et dans l'ouest de la Libye, limites qui encadrent l'immense dsert de Libye (fig. 8). Cinq espces (tableau 32), dont 3 trs prsentes au Jebel Uweinat (Cleome chrysantha, C. droserifolia et Crotalaria thebaica), ne sont connues qu' l'est d'une limite arale situe  l'est de ce dsert (fig. 11). Celui-ci semble donc avoir constitu une barrire empchant certaines espces de s'tendre davantage vers l'ouest. Six autres espces enfin (tableau 33), dont 3 espces rmitiques du genre Fagonia trs prsentes galement  Uweinat, ne sont connues, elles, qu' l'est d'une limite arale situe  l'ouest de ce dsert (fig. 12). Ce dernier semble cette fois avoir constitu une barrire ayant empch certaines espces, existant  l'ouest de cette limite, de s'tendre davantage vers l'est. Divers phytogographes classiques ont tabli une limite phytogographique soit  l'est (Eig 1931), soit  l'ouest (Drude 1897, Chevalier 1932) de ce dsert de Libye, limites phytogographiques auxquelles correspondent assez bien nos limites arales. Nos observations semblent montrer plutt qu'il existe deux limites arales, l'une  l'est, l'autre  l'ouest de ce dsert, comme l'avait d'ailleurs suggr Monod en 1957. L'tude compare des aires des espces du Jebel Uweinat connues aussi dans le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai a non seulement confirm l'existence d'une limite arale au sein de ce centre d'endmisme (fig. 13), mais a montr que les 2/3 de ces espces n'taient connues qu'au nord de cette limite arale (tableau 34; fig. 14). C'est donc avec la flore de la moiti septentrionale de ce centre d'endmisme qu ces espces montrent le plus d'affinits. Cette limite arale, ici aussi, correspond  une limite phytogographique reconnue par divers phytogographes. Au vu de l'importance de cette limite arale, la question se pose de savoir s'il ne conviendrait pas d'tablir une subdivision au sein de ce centre d'endmisme. On peut conclure de cette tude chorologique compare que, hormis 1/5 d'espces saharo-sindiennes, la flore actuelle du Jebel Uweinat est avant tout une flore tropicale africaine, troitement lie  celle de la moiti septentrionale du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai et  celle de la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel, mais qu'elle est considrablement appauvrie par l'asschement progressif du climat et, en altitude, par l'action des herbivores. Le prsent travail a, d'autre part, confirm l'existence de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (fig. 1-3), ainsi que le fait que la sous-zone rgionale saharienne (SS1) s'tendait bien  cheval sur le Tropique du Cancer (fig. 3 et 8). Elle n'a pas confirm, par contre, l'tablissement d'une immense Rgion phytogographique africaine dnomme Rgion soudano-zambzienne ou Rgion soudano-angolane. Elle a montr, au contraire, le bien-fond de la reconnaissance d'un centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai, dont la prolongation au-del de la mer Rouge a t raffirme (fig. 13). En conclusion, l'intrt de l'tude compare des aires des espces est soulign dans le but d'apporter une contribution  la subdivision des phytochories en gnral et  celle de la sous-zone rgionale saharienne en particulier. Cette cinquime partie se termine par des considrations phnologiques sur la flore du Jebel Uweinat.
10.2307/3668651|Diatom studies of French running waters over more than twenty-five years revealed the recent appearance of a number of species which could not have been overlooked before because of their abundance or size. Their absence in modern European floras supports the idea of a recent introduction of these taxa in Europe. Their distribution and progression in France are examined according to available data. Taxa not yet found in France until 1990 but showing an important proliferation and rapid dispersal since that time are considered as invasives. This is the case, for example, for Gomphoneis minuta, a diatom originally described in North America, reported in Europe for the first time in the River Ardche in 1991 and presently occurring throughout southern France up to the Loire. Among the so-called exotic taxa, Navicula jakovljevicii, Achnanthes catenata, A. subhudsonis sensu lato and Nitzschia cf. tropica have probably been misidentified in the past. Their distribution must be reexamined from existing slides collections. A new species, Eolimna comperei, is described by light and electron microscopy; its recent discovery in France appears to be related to the introductions in Europe of a number of diatoms from other continents. The most remarkable taxa are of tropical origin and proliferate in summer. The abundance of Hydrosera triquetra in French estuaries and of Diadesmis confervacea in power plant discharges and various rivers in southwestern France, illustrates their recent acclimatization under temperate conditions. The study of the spatio-temporal extension of these as well as of less abundant forms of recent appearance, e.g. Capartogramma crucicula, Encyonema triangulum, Gomphoneis eriensis var. variabilis, Luticola mitigata, Luticola peguana, Nitzschia elegantula, Nitzschia dissipatoides or Gomphosphenia oahuensis, might provide indications of the warming of running waters in Western Europe due to the "greenhouse effect." /// Les investigations menes sur le rseau hydrographique franais depuis plus d'un quart de sicle ont permis de recenser dans les eaux courantes un certain nombre d'espces de diatomes qui n'auraient pas pu passer inaperues auparavant en raison de leur abondance ou de leur taille. Leur absence mme des flores europennes modernes semble conforter l'ide d'une apparition rcente. La localisation d'une quinzaine d'espces est dcrite ainsi que leur progression chaque fois que des donnes sont disponibles. Ont t considres comme "invasives", les espces non encore signales en France avant 1990 et qui ont donn lieu  de vritables prolifrations et dont l'extension est rapide dans les cours d'eau. C'est le cas en particulier de Gomphoneis minuta dcrit en Amrique du Nord, observ pour la premire fois en Europe dans l'Ardche en 1991, et qui colonise aujourd'hui toute la France mridionale jusqu' la Loire. Parmi les formes exotiques, Navicula jakovjlevicii, Achnanthes catenata, Achnanthes subhudsonis sensu lato ou Nitzschia cf. tropica ont probablement fait l'objet de confusions systmatiques par le pass et la confirmation de leur apparition rcente ncessite une consultation des collections existantes. Une nouvelle espce de Naviculaces, Eolimna comperei, est dcrite en microscopie photonique et lectronique. La dcouverte rcente en France de ce taxon est probablement aussi due aux introductions en Europe de diatomes originaires d'autres continents. Le cortge le plus remarquable est constitu par des formes connues comme tropicales qui prolifrent en France en priode estivale. L'abandance dans les estuaires franais d'Hydrosera triquetra ou celle de Diadesmis confervacea dans les rejets d'eau chaude de certaines centrales thermiques et dans diverses rivires du sud-ouest tmoigne d'une acclimatation rcente de ces taxons sous nos climats temprs. L'tude de leur progression en France, comme celle de formes moins reprsentes telles que Capartogramma crucicula, Encyonema triangulum, Gomphoneis eriensis var. variabilis, Luticola mitigata, Luticola peguana, Nitzschia elegantula, Nitzschia dissipatoides ou Gomphosphenia oahuensis d'apparition rcente, pourrait bien apporter dans un futur proche, des lments utiles aux scientifiques proccupes par "l'effet de serre" ou le rechauffement de notre plante.
10.2307/3668649|A total of 119 taxa, belonging to 23 different genera were recorded from 34 terrestrial moss samples in Northeast Greenland. The diatom flora is mainly composed of cosmopolitan taxa. The taxa with an arctic and/or alpine distribution constitute 32% of the total number of taxa observed, but constitute only 16% to the relative abundance. The mean number of diatom valves/g dried sample is 697.000487.000. Most important genera are Eunotia, Nitzschia and Pinnularia. Three assemblages are distinguished by a hierarchic-agglomerate cluster analysis and confirmed by a PCA-ordination. The Pinnularia obscura assemblage lives in the drier mosses. The distinction between the other two assemblages, the Fragilaria pinnata assemblage and the Eunotia fallax assemblage, is possibly due to differences in pH.
10.2307/3668653|The former distribution (1852-1943) in Flemish standing waters of diatoms included in the Red List for Germany and Central Europe is assessed through a survey of diatom assemblages from herbarium exsiccata of macrophytes and old samples. With few exceptions, a good historical representation of Red List taxa is observed in the Campine ecoregion only, as nutrient-poor non-alkaline waters are scarce elsewhere in Flanders due to edaphic conditions. The German list therefore does not appear to be optimal for general use in e.g. site evaluation, as it reflects the availability of a particular habitat much more strongly than habitat quality as such. Within the Campine region and where leached sandy topsoils are present, such applications are possible, however. This is illustrated by a comparison of historical and recent survey data showing that a considerable decline in Red List diatoms occurred here. This decline is especially apparent if relative abundance or abundance ranked data are considered, but less so at the level of species numbers. For regions with naturally more eutrophic waters, development of a specific list seems more appropriate. A more general case can be made to use only Red Lists compiled at the scale of ecologically more homogeneous regions (ecoregions) for applications that are sensitive to biogeographic bias. Whether the number of Red List diatoms, their percentage abundance, or both metrics should be considered in assessing biological impairment or conservation value depends on the water type in question. Accurate estimates of the number of taxa are, however, more difficult to obtain. The use of rank ratios may be considered to compare differently structured assemblages. Among the cryptobiota, diatoms appear to be an exceptionally accessible group for addressing historical changes in biodiversity.
10.2307/3668648|With the routine use of electron microscopy it has now become possible to obtain a detailed knowledge of the global distribution of silica-scaled chrysophytes. After the original opinion that they were restricted to cool temperate and subarctic environments has been abandoned, it is now clear that as a group they occur in all climates. Of the altogether 250 taxa, 19 taxa are definitely cosmopolitan, and further 34 taxa are widely distibuted. In addition, many more very small and insufficiently known species might belong in these groups. Others have specific distributions depending on suitable environment and on dispersal possibilities. The importance of investigation intensity and of available specialists for reaching correct conclusions is emphasized. Correct identifications are indeed necessary, but the species concept is inconsistent and purely morphological, and the use of molecular techniques in chrysophyte taxonomy and biogeography is only in its beginning.
10.2307/3668644|For more than a century Frustulia saxonica was considered to be an infraspecific variety of F. rhomboides. A search for the type of the basionym, Navicula rhomboides Ehrenberg, revealed that Navicula rhomboides is not a Frustulia. A lectotype is presented for N. rhomboides Ehrenberg. As a consequence twelve new nomenclatural transfers within the genus Frustulia have been proposed. From the original material of Frustulia saxonica Rabenhorst, type of the name of the genus, a lectotype is chosen from among the heteromorphic specimens which had been traditionally identified as F. rhomboides.
10.2307/3668643|Surirella brevicostata O. Mller is not a common taxon in tropical Africa. In this study, some morphometric studies could be effected on material from Lake Tanganyika, Lake Malawi (Nyassa) and Lake Malomba. Distribution patterns are given for these lakes, and, based on LM and SEM observations, an amended description of this taxon is presented. Some notes are also made on the rare varieties constricta and elongata.
10.2307/3668645|It is suggested that Euastrum species characterized by cells lacking a sharp apical incision and with broadly rounded lobes, capped with series of conical wall granules, are centred on Euastrum mononcylum. From this species, the other representatives of the group may be considered as being derived by reductions or elaborations in their morphology. Greatest species diversity is found in the tropics and especially tropical Africa. Most of the taxa under discussion seem to be confined to relatively small geographic regions, possibly related to failures in sexual reproduction, dispersal barriers, and their recent evolution. The relatively high percentage of endemic taxa, not only in the Euastrum group under discussion, but also in other genera, renders the desmids an algal group particularly susceptible to losses in biodiversity.
10.2307/3668642|Actinella comperei sp. nov. is described from Clarence Lagoon, an oligotrophic lake in the Tasmanian highlands (Australia). Its frustule morphology, as studied in light and scanning electron microscopy, is compared with that of other recently described Actinella species from Australasia. Actinella comperei differs from other Actinella species in valve shape, stria density and rimoportula arrangement. As most other species described from Australasia, A. comperei appears to be endemic to this region. Moreover, within Tasmania it has hitherto only been found in Clarence Lagoon, which holds several diatom species endemic to Tasmania, and at least one other species endemic to the lake (Biremis clarensis).
10.2307/3668646|Partial 16S rDNA sequences were determined for six Microcystis strains from lakes in the region of Pln (Northern Germany) assigned to four different species on the basis of their morphology. These sequences appear very similar to each other and to those of 71 Microcystis strains from four continents available in the databases. This great genotypic homogeneity, as measured by 16S rDNA sequence similarity (334 characters), is contrasting with the conspicuous morphological differences observed for the studied strains.
10.2307/3668650|Regular observations on the phytoplankton community have been made during two years along the Bia river, modified by the hydro-electric dam of Ayam, and another river without a dam (Ivory-Coast). 280 and 148 phytoplankton taxa have been observed in the Bia and Agnbi river respectively. For each taxon, a short description, an illustration and the observed distribution are given. The composition of the populations is compared and discussed. /// Des observations rgulires sur le plancton vgtal ont t effectues durant deux annes dans le cours de la rivire Bia modifie par le barrage hydrolectrique d'Ayam et dans une autre rivire sans barrage, l'Agnbi (Cte d'Ivoire). 280 et 148 taxons phytoplanctoniques ont t recenss respectivement dans les rivires Bia et Agnbi. Sont donns pour chaque taxon: une description sommaire, une illustration et la distribution observe. La composition des populations est compare et discute.
10.2307/3668654|The province North Brabant consists of 5083 km<sup>2</sup> between 40 m above and 1.5 m below sea level. Most of the land is in intensive agricultural use. Nature reserves consist of dune sands, heath, moorland pools and woods on very poor soils, bogs, low productive (wet) grasslands, stream valleys and a (former) estuary. There are 845 records of twenty charophyte species from 1986-1999. The majority of records were made in a small transition zone between the Pleistocene sand and loam area and the river and sea clay areas. Also the larger number of species (17) was found here. In the transition zone water quality varies considerably, due to the presence of seepage water of various age and origin. Some species are common to the Pleistocene area and the transition zone, others are common to the transition zone and both clay areas. At the loamy part of the Pleistocene area some species occur that grow in the transition zone and in the river clay area as well. In the dug off moor charophytes are only found at the edges of the area. In the former estuary, now a brackish lake, some species preferring slightly brackish to brackish water were found. Quite often charophytes are ephemeral, more so in shallow, eutrophic, and standing water, less so in opposite conditions. Charophytes are not protected by law. They may profit from conservation of rich sites and from nature improvement measures like digging pools for amphibians, restoration of moorland pools and removal of fertilised top soil. Charophytes may suffer from measures that have side effects such as reduction of surface water or deterioration of water quality.
20649775|Crotalaria arrecta Hemp & Polhill, a new species of Leguminosae (Fabaceae) from Kenya that was previously confused with C. rhizoclada Polhill, is described and illustrated.
20649770|In the present paper, a sequel to an earlier discussion on desmid algae from the Botswana Okavango Delta and the annexed Namibian Caprivi Strip, 25 taxa belonging to the genera Cosmarium, Xanthidium and Staurastrum are dealt with. Nine taxa are newly described: Cosmarium doidgei var. depressum, C. fuelleborniforme, C. haynaldii var. africanum, C. moremiense, C. okavangicum, C. permaculatum var. bituberculatum, C. pseudotus, Xanthidium micracanthum var. angustatum and Staurastrum okavangicum. The names of four taxa are newly given or recombined: Cosmarium fritschii, C. haynaldii var. ambadiense, C. taxichondrum var. pentachondrum and C. thomassonii. The majority of the taxa discussed can be characterized as African endemics.
20649771|This paper presents a preliminary list of the diatom flora from Guinea. Marine, brackish and freshwater sampling was conducted in ten sites, mainly in the vicinity of Conakry. The diatom flora consisted of 176 taxa (34 centric and 142 pennate) of which 90 can be considered as freshwater organisms whereas 86 are rather marine or brackish. Most of these taxa are reported for the first time from Guinea. Some rare or interesting taxa are illustrated in light and scanning electron microscopy. A new combination, Achnantidium minutissimum (Ktz.) Czarnecki f. inconspicuum (strup) Compre & Riaux-Gobin, is proposed. /// Une liste prliminaire de diatomes observes en Guine est prsente. Des chantillons marins, saumtres et d'eau douce provenant de dix sites de la rgion de Conakry ont t examins. La liste floristique comporte 176 taxons dont 34 centriques et 142 pennes se rpartissant aussi en 86 taxons marins ou saumtres et 90 taxons d'eau douce. La plupart des taxons observs sont nouveaux pour la Guine. Quelques taxons rares ou intressants sont illustrs par des photos au microscope optique ou au microscope lectronique  balayage. Une nouvelle combinaison, Achnanthidium minutissimum (Ktz.) Czarnecki f. inconspicuum (strup) Compre & Riaux-Gobin, est propose.
20649774|Crotalaria gracilipes O.Lachenaud, a new species from Central African Republic, is described and illustrated. In its sessile, trifoliolate leaves and lateral inflorescences with very slender peduncles, it is closely related to C. leptoclada Harms and C. sessilis De Wild. The diagnostic characters between the three species are discussed. /// Crotalaria gracilipes O.Lachenaud, nouvelle espce de Rpublique centrafricaine, est dcrite et illustre. Par ses feuilles sessiles et trifolioles et ses inflorescences latrales  pdoncule trs grle, elle est trs voisine de C. leptoclada Harms et C. sessilis De Wild. Les caractres distinctifs entre les trois espces sont discuts.
20649772|Three new species of Commelina L. (Commelinaceae) are described from south-central Africa. Commelina sphaerorrhizoma Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo, Zambia, Angola) is distinguished by its moniliform rhizome composed of spherical segments, glaucous leaves that are glabrous above and often have cordate-amplexicaul bases, blue flowers and very large, hairy seeds. Its rhizome is similar only to those of the yellow-flowered Commelina crassicaulis C.B.Clarke and C. welwitschii C.B.Clarke, but its one-seeded capsule locules suggest a different, as yet obscure relationship. Commelina orchidophylla Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo) is distinguished by its tuberous roots, orchid-like pair of large basal leaves that are white-tomentose beneath and appressed to the ground, and free-margined spathes. It may be related to other geophytes or hemicryptophytes with free-margined spathes such as Commelina hockii De Wild., C. scaposa C.B.Clarke and C. psuedoscaposa De Wild., but differs from all of them by its large, distinctively pubescent basal leaves. Commelina rosulata Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo) is distinguished by its basal rosette of large, glabrous leaves and clustered, subglabrous spathes with fused margins. It may be most closely related to Commelina transversifolia De Wild., C. grossa C.B.Clarke and C. grandis Brenan, and may be separated from them by its large, broad basal leaves. Commelina praecox T.C.E.Fr. is a new synonym of C. scaposa C.B.Clarke and C. bianoensis De Wild. is a new synonym of Commelina neurophylla C.B.Clarke.
20649773|The paper presents phytosociological analyses of savannah vegetation infested by Chromolaena odorata and Hyptis suaveolens in the Betecoucou region of the Guinea-Congolia/Sudania regional transition zone of Benin. Some 79 phytosociological plots were analysed according to the Braun-Blanquet method. A total of 199 species of vascular plants have been recorded belonging to 53 families. Hemicryptophytes (4.8%) and geophytes (3.9%) are less abundant in the colonised sites than in the non-colonised ones. The colonised sites are dominated by species that are therophytes (50.8%) or chamaephytes (39.9%). Species that are widely distributed (45.9%), mainly pantropical (26.7%) and paleotropical (18.3%) in distribution, are also more frequent in infested than in non-infested sites. On the contrary, African pluriregional elements, e.g. Sudano-Zambezian species (44.4%) and afrotropical species (16.6%) are more frequent in non-infested than in infested sites. Among the widely distributed species, those that are ruderal or nitrophilous are the most frequent. /// Une analyse phytosociologique des savanes envahies par Chromolaena odorata et Hyptis suaveolens a t effectue  Btcoucou situe dans la zone de transition rgionale guinocongolaise/soudanienne du Bnin. La collecte des donnes a t effectue suivant la mthode de Braun-Blanquet. Sur un total de 79 relevs phytosociologiques effectus, 199 espces ranges dans 53 familles ont t rpertories. Les hmicryptophytes (4,8%) et les gophytes (3,9%) sont moins abondants dans le groupement colonis qu'au sein du groupement non colonis. La physionomie du groupement envahi est dfinie par les throphytes (50,8%) ou les champhytes (39,9%). Sur le plan phytogographique, les espces  large distribution (45,9%) notamment les espces pantropicales (26,7%) et palotropicales (18,3%) sont plus abondants dans le groupement colonis qu'au sein du groupement non colonis. Par contre, le groupement non colonis contient plus d'espces  distribution continentale que sont les espces soudano-zambziennes (44,4%) et afro-tropicales (16,6%) qui dfinissent la physionomie de la vgtation. Parmi les espces  large distribution gographique, ce sont les espces rudrales et nitrophiles qui sont les plus reprsentes.
25746609|In order to preserve the biodiversity of Katanga mining sites before their exploitation, a special investigation was carried out in the Tenke-Fungurume mining concession. As a first result, a new species of Chlorophytum is described. C. unifolium is the third taxon of this genus described has having only one leaf, the two other ones being C. monophyllum Oberm. from S. Africa, Western Cape, and Anthericum monophyllum Baker, now synonym of C. subpetiolatum (Baker) Kativu, from Sudan. These two species have linear or linear-lanceolate leaf-blades, unlike the blades widely ovate and cordate at the base in C. unifolium. The conservation of the new species is critically endangered.
25746606|The genus Polysphaeria was only in 2007 recorded for the Gulf of Guinea Islands. A specimen collected on Bioko ('Fernando Po') by Mildbraed in 1911 remained unnamed in the Rubiaceae until 1967 when it was erroneously filed under Coffea. It is in fact Polysphaeria macrophylla K. Schum., also known from the African mainland (Liberia to Cameroon). Polysphaeria macrophylla is easily distinguished from all other species of the genus by the presence of swollen internodes inhabited by ants, an apparent feature overlooked in the past. The species is neotypified and illustrated, and a key to the Guineo-Congolian species of the genus is provided.
25746607|Sixty-four species are newly reported from the Republic of Congo. The occurrence of seven species reported without specimen citation by Sita & Moutsambot (1988), and which constitute important range extensions, is also confirmed and documented. The vascular flora of the Republic of Congo now includes about 4538 species, fifteen of which are endemic. Its diversity nearly compares with that of neighbouring Gabon (4710 species), which, however, has a much higher number of endemics (508 species). Soixante-quatre espces sont signales pour la premire fois de la Rpublique du Congo. La prsence de sept espces signales sans indication d'chantillons par Sita & Moutsambot (1988) et qui constituent d'importantes extensions de rpartition, est galement confirme et documente. La flore vasculaire de la Rpublique du Congo comporte environ 4538 espces, dont quinze endmiques. Sa diversit est donc presque comparable  celle du Gabon voisin (4710 espces), o le nombre d'endmiques est cependant beaucoup plus lev (508 espces).
25746605|The tropical African genera Brachystephanus Nees and Oreacanthus Benth. are revised. A detailed morphological survey indicates that only a single genus is involved, the name Brachystephanus having priority. A new taxonomic treatment is therefore proposed with Brachystephanus sensu lato divided into three sections: sect. Brachystephanus, sect. Oreacanthus and sect. Pseudoreacanthus. The closely allied American genus Stenostephanus Nees is compared using both available morphological and molecular data. In the newly circumscribed Brachystephanus, 32 taxa within 22 species are presented among which six new species, two new subspecies and two new varieties are described here, together with new combinations or names for four taxa and a new status for two taxa being formalised. Keys to identification and descriptions are presented for each taxon together with notes on habitat and ecology, distribution, phytogeographical considerations and herbarium specimen citations, supported in many instances by illustrations. Pollen analysis with accompanying SE micrographs is provided for 21 taxa. The occurrence of plietesial life cycles, myrmecophily and gynomonoecy within the genus are discussed, together with a summary of the conservation significance of Brachystephanus. Cet article prsente la rvision des genres d'Afrique tropicale Brachystephanus Nees et Oreacanthus Benth. Une tude morphologique dtaille montre qu'il s'agit en fait d'un seul genre, le nom de Brachystephanus tant prioritaire. En consquence, un nouveau traitement taxonomique est propos, divisant Brachystephanus sensu lato en trois sections:sect. Brachystephanus, sect. Oreacanthus et sect. Pseudoreacanthus. Une comparaison avec le genre amricain Stenostephanus Nees est prsente, base sur les donnes morphologiques disponibles et sur des donnes molculaires. Dans son acceptation nouvelle, Brachystephanus comprend 32 taxons inclus dans 22 espces parmi lesquelles six nouvelles espces, deux nouvelles sous-espces et deux nouvelles varits sont dcrites ici, en mme temps que sont dfinies de nouvelles combinaisons de noms pour quatre taxons ainsi qu'un nouveau statut pour deux taxons. Des cls d'identification et des descriptions sont prsentes pour chaque taxon, en mme temps que des notes sur l'habitat et l'ecologie, la distribution, des considrations phytogographiques et les citations des spcimens, supportes dans beaucoup de cas par des illustrations. Une analyse du pollen accompagnes d'images MEB est fournie pour 21 taxons. L'existence de cycles de vie plitsiaux, de myrmcophilie et de gynomonoecie dans le genre sont discutes. Un aperu sur l'importance de la conservation de Brachystephanus est donn.
25746611|A new Humularia is described, based on four specimens from Burundi and two from Tanzania. Humularia reekmansii P.Bamps is related to Humularia multifoliolata Verdc., also from Tanzania, but it differs mainly by the lower number and smaller size of the leaflets, and the shorter corolla.
25746612|Croton gratissimus Burch. var. gratissimus is recorded for the first time from the Democratic Republic of Congo at the base of the Kundelungu Mounts in Katanga. A description of the taxon and a key of the seven Croton species reported from Upper Katanga is given.
25746608|The taxonomic history of Santiria Blume is reviewed. A revision of the African material available in eight major herbaria (a total of 187 specimens) is carried out. The material shows that the morphological characters of vegetative and reproductive organs, except the shape of the fruit, tremendously vary in shape, dimensions or pubescence. Intermediate states make it impossible to distinguish different taxa. Consequently, Santiria trimera (Oliv.) Aubrv. is confirmed as the only species of the genus in Africa and therefore redefined. Seven taxa are newly relegated to its synonymy.
25746610|In 1903 and 1904, Georges Bronckart, a Belgian living in Indochina, corresponded with the orchid specialist Alfred Cogniaux. Five of his letters, in French, conserved in BR, are reproduced here. They deal with specimens send from Annam (Vietnam) to Belgium, ask for information on their identification, and make proposals for trade. The scanty biographical information on this orchid amateur is reviewed. Some Bronckart material became important for horiculture and hybridizing, e.g. Dendrobium bronckartii De Wild.
20649748|In October 2007, a selection of water bodies in the Okavango Delta (Botswana) and the southwestern part of the Zambezi Basin (Namibia) were sampled for desmid algae. In this paper 27 taxa belonging to the genera Penium, Closterium, Pleurotaenium, Triplastrum, Tetmemorus, Euastrum and Micrasterias are separately discussed and figured. Five taxa are newly described: Closterium okavangicum, Tetmemorus euastroides var. africanus, Euastrum attenuatum var. groenbladii, Euastrum okavangicum and Euastrum sudanense. The names of five taxa are newly given or recombined: Euastrum africanum, Euastrum compereanum, Euastrum fritschii, Euastrum scottii and Micrasterias schmidleana. The majority of the taxa discussed can be characterized as African endemics.
20649754|A new species from forests in Gabon and the Democratic Republic of Congo, Vangueria silvicola Lachenaud, is described and illustrated. It is very close to V. apiculata K.Schum. and V. volkensii K.Schum. by its apiculate flower buds, but differs in the shorter and acute calyx lobes, the corolla being entirely pubescent outside and with internal hairs not exceeding the throat, and the lighter coloured bark. It is the first species of Vangueria known from the Guineo-Congolian forest block. /// Une nouvelle espce des forts du Gabon et de la Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo, Vangueria silvicola Lachenaud, est dcrite et illustre. Elle est trs proche de V. apiculata K.Schum. et V. volkensii K.Schum. par ses boutons floraux apiculs, mais diffre par les spales plus courts et aigus, la corolle entirement pubescente  l'extrieur et  poils internes ne dpassant pas la gorge, et les rameaux  corce plus claire. C'est la premire espce de Vangueria signale du bloc forestier guino-congolais.
20649752|The inselberg vegetation in the southern part of Centre-Benin was investigated using floristic relevs within plots of 900 m each. A total of 108 floristic relevs were performed and 380 plant species recorded. Five types of vegetation were identified: dry forest, woodland, tree savannah, fallow, and meadow. The dry forest remnants are located on inselbergs with deep crevices and depressions between the hill tops. The crevices in rocky area constitute moist pockets. Savannah vegetations colonise the rocky that are covered with topsoil. The species richness ranges from 18 species in the meadows to 227 species in dry forest. Two plant species are to be confined to the studied inselbergs in Benin: Cordia millenii and Urera cameroonensis. The most important plant families were Leguminosae (in particular Papilionoideae), Poaceae, and Rubiaceae. /// La vgtation des inselbergs du secteur mridional du Centre-Bnin a t tudie  l'aide de relevs floristiques  l'intrieur de placeaux de 900 m. Au total, 108 relevs ont t effectus et 380 espces ont t inventories. Quatre types de vgtation sont identifis: la fort dense sche, la savane arbore, la prairie et la jachre. Les lots de fort dense sche sont localiss sur les inselbergs  anfractuosits profondes et dans les dpressions intra-rocheuses. Les anfractuosits rocheuses constituent donc des poches d'humidit. Les groupements de savane arbore sont situs sur les inselbergs  dalles rocheuses recouvertes de sols peu profonds. La prairie est localise sur les inselbergs  dalle dnude. La richesse spcifique varie de 18 espces en prairie  227 espces en fort dense sche. les Cordia millenii et Urera cameroonensis sont deux espces infodes  cet habitat saxicole au Bnin. Les familles les plus importantes, par ordre d'importance spcifique, sont les Leguminosae (surtout les Papilionoideae), les Poaceae et les Rubiaceae.
20649753|Pyrenacantha villiersii (Icacinaceae) is presented as the new name for the illegitimate P. cordicula Villiers from Cte d'Ivoire. The identity of Chlamydocarya tessmannii Engl. (Icacinaceae), treated as a nomen nudum under P. cordicula, and of P. acuminata Engl. is established.
20649750|In order to compile a "Catalogue of neophytes in Belgium (1800-2005)" collections of vascular plants in the main Belgian herbaria (public as well as private) were thoroughly revised. This revision considerably enlarged the current knowledge of the alien flora of Belgium and yielded numerous additional taxa. On the other hand it has been shown that in the "Nouvelle Flore de la Belgique, du G.-D. de Luxembourg, du nord de la France et des rgions voisines" a number of non-native vascular plants have been erroneously or doubtfully listed as having occurred spontaneously in Belgium. The present paper provides information on 30 non-native taxa that need to be omitted from future editions of the Flora of Belgium due to reidentification of herbarium collections. Furthermore several dubious records of non-native plants in Belgium have never been confirmed by herbarium collections and are therefore doubtful; they are listed here but have been omitted from the "Catalogue." Finally, some non-native taxa included in the "Nouvelle Flore" have indeed been recorded for the neighbouring territories covered by this Flora, but never for Belgium and therefore they were omitted from the "Catalogue." The importance of a thorough herbarium revision as the main basis for the compilation of a catalogue of non-native plants (in stead of literature data) is stressed. Such a revision surely is more time-consuming but, above all, much more accurate and reliable. As such, it yielded 20% additional taxa in the final catalogue. Inversely, almost 3% of the taxa of the original list of Belgian xenophytes needed to be omitted.
20649749|From the early sixties onwards, the fragility and exceptional biological richness of the forest ecosystem of Aubeville, situated in the Niari valley, has been acknowledged. The region figures on a list of critical sites that urgently need to be conserved. In spite of this status, the forest, of which the flora was very imperfectly known, has suffered from industrial wood exploitation (1953-1988), traditional exploitation of goods and services by locals, and finally, since 1988, from strong human pressure due to slash and burn agriculture. The present study, though incomplete, is the very first one to inventory the floristic diversity of Aubeville forest. As a result, 135 species are identified; they belong to 122 genera and 60 families. They are associated with crop plants and introduced plants. This flora marks three habitats that correspond to microclimatic variations of the mesoclimat. /// L'cosystme forestier aubevillois, dont la fragilit physique et l'exceptionnelle valeur de la biodiversit, au sein de la valle du Niari sont reconnues ds le dbut des annes soixante est inscrit sur la liste des sites critiques  protger prioritairement. En dpit de ce statut, cette fort, qui n'a pas livr les secrets de sa flore, a connu successivement et/ou concomitamment, l'exploitation industrielle de bois d'uvre (1953-1988), l'exploitation artisanale des biens et des services, par les populations locales, et enfin, depuis 1988, elle connat une forte pression anthropique due  la qute de nouvelles terres propices  l'agriculture itinrante sur brlis. Cette tude, quoique partielle, est la toute premire qui marque un intrt  l'inventaire et  la connaissance de sa biodiversit floristique. Au stade actuel des connaissances, 135 espces sont identifies pour 60 familles et 122 genres. Elles sont associes aux plantes cultives et aux spontanes. Cette flore marque trois habitats tenant  des variations microclimatiques au sein de ce msoclimat.
20649751|The African species of Crudia (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) are revised. Ten species, including two new ones, are recognized. The African species of the genus are confined to the Guineo-Congolian region. A key to the species is presented. To facilitate its use, the stipules of all species are illustrated. The fruits, as far as known, are illustrated as well and the distribution maps of all taxa are added.
20649760|In the Comoro Islands, Rubiaceae are one of the largest families of flowering plants, represented by 33 genera and sixty species. Among these genera, Coptosperma (Pavetteae, Ixoroideae) is represented by two widely distributed species, also occurring in Madagascar and continental Africa, and a third species new to science. Coptosperma mitochondrioides Mouly & De Block possesses large stipules of the "bec de canard" type and ribbed fruits. While this type of stipule is typical for many Malagasy Coptosperma species, ribbed fruits are very rare within the genus. Within the Comoro archipelago C. mitochondrioides is restricted to Mayotte, but the species is also known from northern Madagascar. The new species is described and illustrated and a key to the species of Coptosperma occurring in the Comoros is provided.
20649762|Twenty-five neotropical Asplenium taxa with nomenclatural types deposited in the herbaria B, BR and P are lectotypified.
20649761|This first checklist of the vascular plants of Pongara National Park in coastal Gabon comprises 385 taxa. The checklist is based on a botanical inventory carried out in 2006-2007 and on existing collections from the Park. Information on ecology and chorology is given for each species. Ninety-five species were collected in the littoral savannah, half of which belonged to Poaceae, Cyperaceae and Orchidaceae, and 356 species in the littoral forest, mainly Rubiaceae (33), Orchidaceae (15) and Euphorbiaceae (12). The savannah has a much higher percentage of widespread species than the forest. Eighty-three species are endemic to Lower Guinea, nine of which are endemic or near endemic to Gabon.
20649759|After the transfer in 2006 of two Anthonotha species to Englerodendron (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae), the larger, remaining part of the African genus Anthonotha is divided in two genera: Anthonotha sensu stricto and Isomacrolobium. Triplisomeris is synonymized under Isomacrolobium. The characters to separate the two genera are discussed and illustrated, and summarized in a table. For both genera a list of species is added. For Isomacrolobium it includes three new combinations.
10.2307/3668520|A list of 84 vascular plant species, collected in the Odzala National Park (Rp. Pop. Congo -- Congo-Brazzaville), not mentioned in Sita & Moutsambot's Catalogue of Plants from Congo-Brazzaville (1988) is given. Distribution maps and comments are provided for the most interesting species. A short phytogeographical outline of the region is also given. A new combination, Solenostemon giorgii (De Wild.) Champl. (Labiatae), is made and this species is lectotypified.
10.2307/3668521|The discovery of this rare plant at three localities in the Casamance area (Senegal) is reported. The ecological requirements of the species are surveyed. A new association (Bolboschoenetum grandispici) is described. /// La dcouverte en Casamance (Sngal) de trois localits nouvelles de la Cyprace rare Bolboschoenus grandispicus est discute. Des observations sur les exigences cologiques et sur la sociologie de cette espce sont donnes. Une association nouvelle (Bolboschoenetum grandispici) est dcrite.
10.2307/3668528|A revision of all the geofrutescent material of the genus Leptactina from the 'Flore d'Afrique centrale' area indicates that L. liebrechtsiana should be distinguished from L. benguelensis. It is endemic to southwestern Congo(-Kinshasa); a new division in two varieties is proposed. The taxonomic value of corolla trichomes in this group is examined. The geofrutescent taxa of the flora area are keyed out and their distribution is documented. The intraspecific variation of the two other species, L. benguelensis and L. epinyctios, is also discussed; the division of L. benguelensis in two subspecies is accepted, but a refinement of the defining criterions is proposed.
10.2307/3668527|A new species discovered during a revision of the west and central African material of the genus is described. Coffea dactylifera Robbr. & Stoffelen from the Central Forest District in Congo-Kinshasa has cave-domatia of which many have the opening elongated into a narrow, finger-like tubule which is recurved towards the midnerve. This type of domatia is unique, not only in Coffea or the Rubiaceae, but even in the angiosperms as a whole. Three other tentative novelties were delimited during the same revision but sufficient material is lacking for formal description; these are shortly discussed.
10.2307/3668524|The Madagascan species of Landolphia P. Beauv. (Apocynaceae) are revised. The six endemic species of Madagascar (one also occurring on Mayotte, another one on Mauritius as well) are presented with full descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps. A key to species is presented and a list of exsiccata is added. Numerous species are newly reduced to synonymy, especially of the widespread L. myrtifolia. /// Les espces de Landolphia P. Beauv. (Apocynaces) de Madagascar ont t revues. Six espces endmiques existent  Madagascar, dont une se trouve aussi  Mayotte, une autre  l'le Maurice. Elles sont presentes avec descriptions, illustrations et cartes de distribution. Une cl des espces est donne et une liste d'exsiccata est ajoute. De nombreuses espces sont nouvellement rduites en synonymie, surtout de L. myrtifolia, espce  large distribution.
10.2307/3668522|A new species of Sorindeia, S. ripicola, is described from Congo-Kinshasa. It was hitherto confused with Sorindeia sparanoi. The differences between the two species and their distribution maps are given. The new species' distribution and ecology is compared to that of Bridelia ripicola and other Euphorbiaceae.
10.2307/3668526|Description of Sorindeia oxyandra (Anacardiaceae) from Gabon, given with an illustration. /// Description de Sorindeia oxyandra (Anacardiaceae) du Gabon, accompagne d'une illustration.
10.2307/3668523|Plants grown in the tropical and subtropical greenhouses of the National Botanic Garden of Belgium (178 taxa belonging to 148 genera and 85 families) have been studied with regard to flowering and fruiting behaviour. The results are compared with other phenological data published in literature and with observations made on herbarium sheets at BR. Five types of behaviour are distinguished based on duration and frequency of flowering and fruiting periods. A calendar with the periods of maximum flowering is established. Flowering and fruiting periods are taken into account for their rhythm and are compared from year to year. Differences are related to the climatological data for the period studied or to the position of the plants in the greenhouses. A comparison of taxa of tropical and of subtropical origin shows that tropical taxa generally flower continuously or repeatedly while subtropical taxa have their main flowering period during the winter.
10.2307/3668525|Dactyladenia ndjoleensis from Ndjol, NW Gabon, is described and illustrated. /// Dactyladenia ndjoleensis en provenance de Ndjol, NW Gabon, est dcrite et illustre.
10.2307/3668519|Chemical analysis of plant material collected in the D.R. Congo and known at that moment as Sweetia brachystachya revealed very interesting akaloids. This tree species introduced from Central America and used as a fire-break should be named Acosmium panamense Benth.) Yakovlev and belongs to a primitive group of Fabaceae sensu stricto, the Sophoreae. Details on the introduction in central Africa are given.
10.2307/3668542|A morphological documentation of the African 'Chazaliella subcordatifolia' clearly shows that this species belongs to the genus Chassalia; therefore, the new combination Chassalia subcordatifolia (De Wild.) F.Piesschaert is made. The most characteristic features of the species are the short subherbaceous stems that arise from creeping stolons, the obovate leaves with cordate to subcordate leaf base, the dense indumentum on veins and young stems, the black didymous drupes, and the fleshy, red inflorescence axes. C. subcordatifolia is related to a group of monocaulous African Chassalia species with a strongly reduced habit. /// Une documentation morphologique de "Chazaliella subcordatifolia" dmontre que cette espce africaine fait partie du genre Chassalia; par consquent, la nouvelle combinaison Chassalia subcordatifolia (De Wild.) F.Piesschaert est faite. Chassalia subcordatifolia est caractrise par des tiges subherbaces ascendantes de stolons rampants, des feuilles oboves  base cordiformes ou subcordiformes, une pilosit dense sur les nervures et les tiges jeunes, des drupes noires et didymiques et des inflorescences  axes charnus et rouges. C. subcordatifolia est voisine d'un groupe de Chassalia monocaules africains  port rduit.
10.2307/3668541|A new species of Heterotis Benth. is described from Rio Muni: Heterotis obamae sp. nov. The distinguishing characters with the related Heterotis rupicola are given: longer 5-nerved leaf-blades, pentamerous flowers, longer sepals and petals, longer pedoconnective, and longer style. A key to the four species of Heterotis from Rio Muni is given.
10.2307/3668540|After the genus Scenedesmus, dealt with in a previous contribution, the study of the algal microflora of the pond and the piscicultural complex of the National Park of Banco continues with the Cyanophyta, Rhodophyta and Pyrrhophyta. While Cyanophyta, known to be of economical interest, are well represented in this biotope with twenty-five genera, forty identified species and three not yet identified taxa, Pyrrhophyta are present in lower number, with only three genera, three identified species and one taxon identified at the generic level only. Rhodophyta are represented by only one genus and one species. /// Aprs le genre Scenedesmus trait dans un article prcdent, l'tude taxinomique de la microflore algale de la mare et du complexe piscicole du Parc National du Banco se poursuit par les Cyanophytes, Rhodophytes et Pyrrhophytes. Si les Cyanophytes, qui prsentent un intrt conomique certain, sont bien reprsentes dans le milieu avec vingt-cinq genres, quarante espces dtermines et trois non dtermines au niveau spcifique, les Pyrrhophytes le sont moins, avec seulement trois genres, trois espces connues et un taxon dtermin seulement au niveau gnrique. Les Rhodophytes ne sont reprsentes que par un seul genre et une seule espce.
10.2307/3668544|A new species of Pseudocalyx from Congo-Kinshasa is described and illustrated. The species' distribution is mapped. It is endemic to the Kasai phytogeographical district, i.e. the occidental part of the Congolian domain of the Guineo-Congolian Region, and penetrates the Guinea-Congolia/Zambezia regional transition zone by its presence in gallery forests. /// Une nouvelle espce de Pseudocalyx du Congo-Kinshasa est dcrite et illustre. La distribution de l'espce est cartographie. Elle est endmique du district phytogographique du Kasa, c'est--dire de la partie occidentale du domaine Congolais de la Rgion Guino-Congolaise et pntre la zone de transition Guineo-Congolaise/Zambzienne par sa prsence en galeries forestires.
10.2307/3668546|This third part includes the study of the dicotyledons of the Jebel Uweinat, presented by alphabetical order of the families, from Nyctaginaceae to Zygophyllaceae. Besides keys to species, the following data are given for each species: the bibliographical references quoting specimens collected at Uweinat, the list of specimens collected by the author, the habitat, the frequency, the altitudes where the species has been observed, the biological type, the palatability and the detailed geographical distribution. /// Cette troisime partie comprend l'tude des dicotyldones signales au Jebel Uweinat, classes par ordre alphabtique de familles, des Nyctaginaceae aux Zygophyllaceae. Outre des clefs d'espces, les donnes suivantes sont indiques pour chaque espes: les rfrences bibliographiques mentionnant des chantillons rcolts  Uweinat, la citation des spcimens rcolts par l'auteur, l'habitat, la frquence, les altitudes auxquelles elle a t rencontre, le type biologique, l'apptibilit, ainsi que la distribution gographique dtaille.
10.2307/3668547|Seasonal fluctuations in the epilithic diatom flora at five stations along the Burundian coast of Lake Tanganyika were followed at monthly intervals between October 1985 and July 1986. Increased turbulence and sediment resuspension during the dry season, causing seasonality in the diatom composition of the littoral plankton communities, have lesser influences on the composition of the epilithic diatom communities than on the planktonic communities. Relatively, Gomphonitzschia ungeri was most abundant at the beginning of the wet season, followed by Cymbella minuta during the rest of the wet season.
10.2307/3668543|The single species of the genus Bovonia, B. diphylla Chiov. from Congo-Kinshasa is identified; it is found to be conspecific to Aeollanthus homblei De Wild. The latter name has to be applied for this taxon. /// L'unique espce du genre Bovonia, B. diphylla Chiov. du Congo(-Kinshasa) est identifie; elle s'avre tre la mme espce que Aeollanthus homblei De Wild. Ce dernier nom doit tre utilis pour ce taxon.
10.2307/3668539|The 5' half of the ndhF gene of 14 taxa was sequenced and analysed cladistically in order to elucidate the tribal delimitation and their relationships within the Caprifoliaceae. The cladistic analyses strongly support the traditional delimitation of the three tribes Lonicereae, Diervilleae and Linnaeeae, but with the genera Symphoricarpos and Triosteum being members of the Lonicereae. The phylogenetic position of the Diervilleae remains unresolved. The derived Linnaeeae are a sister group of the Valerianaceae-Dipsacaceae clade, suggesting that the Caprifoliaceae are paraphyletic.
10.2307/3668545|Five new Xyris species from Upper Katanga are described and brefly compared with supposed related species.
10.2307/3668609|A revision of the genus Salsola sect. Salsola resulted in the recognition of eighteen species and their regrouping into two sections, Salsola and Kali Dumort. The most important but hitherto neglected characters are the presence or absence of chlorenchyma in the stem cortex, the distribution of unicellular papilla-like hairs, anther structure and fruit types. A synopsis of the species and a chorological survey are given.
10.2307/3668590|The branching system of pseudobulbs in Calypso bulbosa and Malaxis monophyllos has been studied using the method of structural analysis. It has been shown that the pseudobulb of Malaxis monophyllos is a thickened internode of the main axis terminated with an inflorescence. The pseudobulb of Calypso bulbosa is a complicated organ consisting of two order axes and a base of the green leaf.
10.2307/3668593|Roots of selected species within the Araliaceae were inoculated with spores of Glomus albidum Walker & Rhodes, G. mosseae (Nicolson & Gerdemann) Gerdemann & Trappe and G. intraradices Schenck & Smith. After successful establishment of the endophytes, the structural characteristics of the mycorrhizas were investigated. Three groups with different morphotypes could be seen, depending on the plant species. The occurrence of these groups with distinctive mycorrhizal morphology lead us to discuss a possible series related to mycotrophy in the Araliaceae. In addition, data from roots collected from natural sites were used to support the results.
10.2307/3668603|An interpretation of the gynoecium at various stages of development is proposed in Convolvulaceae-Ipomoeae within an ontogenetical framework, that includes changes in fruit structure allowing a classification of ovaries at anthesis. In Ipomoea, all subgenera, which probably differ in pollination syndromes, exhibit an evolutionary acceleration in the formation of fruit features, linked with a weedy annual habit, whereas the genera Stictocardia and Turbina appear to retain archaic characters, such as a woody habit, and a non-globular ovary with a protruding nectariferous disk. /// Une interprtation htrochronique du gynce des Convolvulaceae-Ipomoeae est propose,  l'aide d'un cadre ontogntique incluant la fructification et permettant un classement des ovaires  l'anthse. Chez Ipomoea, tous les sous-genres, probablement dfinissables par les modalits de pollinisation, montrent une ralisation de plus en plus prcoce des structures du fruit, c'est  dire une acclration volutive, corrle  un port herbac et un cycle vgtatif annuel. Les genres Stictocardia et Turbina conservent des traits apparemment primitifs: port ligneux, ovaire non globuleux  disque nectarifere dvelopp.
10.2307/3668602|Structural and functional comparisons are made between the floral vasculatures of Annonaceae and Magnoliaceae. Cortical vascular systems (CVS) are prominent features in the receptacle. Annonaceous flowers exhibit a continuous trend for building a CVS strictly linked to the pollination process, especially in the transition from female to male stages and pollen presentation by the petals. Moreover, Magnoliaceae flowers build an inner CVS connected both to the pollination and fruiting processes. This additional vasculature results largely from the peculiar magnoliaceous gynoecium, which appears as an early morphogenetical unit, caused by the congenital fusion of the sterile lower regions of carpels, which are homologous with the mericarp stipes of Annonaceae. /// Impact fonctionnel de la vascularisation florale des Annonaceae et des Magnoliaceae, et consquence sur l'interprtation du gynce de ces dernires. Les vascularisations florales des Annonaceae et des Magnoliaceae sont compares tant du point de vue structural que fonctionnel. Les systmes corticaux rceptaculaires sont caractristiques dans ces deux familles. Les Annonaceae tendent  difier un systme strictement li aux processus de la pollinisation, notamment le passage de la phase femelle  la phase mle, ainsi que la prsentation du pollen par les ptales. Les Magnoliaceae construisent en outre un systme cortical interne, en relation avec la pollinisation et la nutrition du fruit. Cette vascularisation complmentaire est induite en grande partie par un gynce particulier, dont les stipes carpellaires, congnitalement souds, forment une unit morphogntique nouvelle.
10.2307/3668605|The pollen dimorphism of eight African heterostylous species of Oxygonum Burch. ex Campd. is described for the first time using light and scanning electron microscopy. The pollen grains are mostly 3-colporate, subprolate to prolate with semitectate-reticulate exine. The pollen grains from short-styled (thrum) flowers are larger than those from long-styled (pin) flowers, with the ratios of thrum/pin pollen size varying from 1.01 to 1.35 in polar axis, and 1.07-1.62 in equatorial diameter. O. sinuatum shows the most pronounced pollen dimorphism with respect to size and exine ornamentation. In other taxa, such as O. dregeanum, O. fruticosum and O. stuhlmannii, the pollen dimorphism is weak. In the thrum flowers the exine lumina are slightly larger than in the pin flowers. There is, however, no significant difference in shape and in the number of apertures. Pollen polymorphism as a significant component of heterostyly and its functional significance and evolution are briefly discussed. Moreover, heterostyly is reported here in four additional species of Oxygonum, i.e., O. alatum, O. fruticosum, O. pachybasis and O. tenerum.
10.2307/3668607|The variability in twenty morphological characters was studied in 54 local populations of the Lotus corniculatus L. complex in the European part of Russia and adjacent areas. Chromosome numbers were counted for samples taken from 15 locations. A tendency towards a clinal variation has been demonstrated for several characters, especially for leaflet indexes, indumentum density and flower length. Correlations between some morphological characters (leaflet size, indumentum density and others) and climate parameters have been revealed. On the basis of variability investigations and the results of a factor analysis, four species are distinguished in the complex occurring in the study area: L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. (2n = 12), L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. ex Willd. (2n = 12), L. ucrainicus Klok. (2n = 12), and L. corniculatus L. (2n = 24).
10.2307/3668599|The floral development of ten species of Anacampseros sect. Anacampseros (A. angustifolium, A. densifolia, A. filamentosa, A. lanceolata, A. lanigera, A. rufescens, A. schoelandii, A. subnuda, A. telephiastrum, A. crinita) shows major similarities with Talinum regarding the ontogeny of the bracts, perianth and gynoecium: two involucral bracts are incepted successively; five tepals are initiated in a 2/5 phyllotaxis; generally, a three-carpellate syncarpous ovary develops. On the basis of stamen initiation two groups of species are distinguishable: a first group comprises the multistaminate species marked by the initiation of a ring meristem, a sectorial inception of the first stamens and a secondary, centrifugal increase of stamens; a second group includes species with a low stamen number characterised by the absence of a ring meristem, the presence of a first complex 'whorl' and five outer alternitepalous stamens. It is suggested that the first 'whorl', being homologous with the inner 'whorl' of Talinum and Portulaca undergoes a reduction of the stamen number, running concomitant with a centrifugal increase of the remaining stamens. Nectariferous tissue differentiates at the adaxial base of the androecium. It is concluded that the nectaries of Talinum and Anacampseros are homologous. On the basis of floral developmental patterns a close phylogenetic relation among Anacampseros, Talinum and Portulaca is confirmed.
10.2307/3668608|A systematic study of the Viorna group of species (section Viorna sensu Prantl) in the genus Clematis L. (Ranunculaceae) has been attempted. Twenty-five species (out of a total of 76), sixteen from the Old World and nine from North America are compared by means of numerical analyses based on morphological, anatomical and palynological data. The following four subgenera are recognised: Campanella Tamura, Tubulosa T.Y.A.Yang nom. nov., Viorna A.Gray and Integrifolia (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov. Archiclematis Tamura is reduced from its generic status to a section within subgenus Campanella; Tubulosa is raised from sectional to subgeneric rank. The sections Integrifolia (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov., Baldwiniana (R.O. Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov., and Hirsutissima (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov. are all raised from subsectional rank, and together comprise the subgenus Integrifolia. A checklist of the Viorna group is included.
10.2307/3668591|Plants of Galanthus nivalis L. and G. woronowii Losinsk. with additional inflorescences or additional green leaves were selected for analysis. A formal method of interpretation has been developed. 1. Organs were positioned on diagrams. 2. Diagrams were transformed into axial schemes. Both monopodial and sympodial models were assumed to be equally valid. If necessary for the phyllotaxis correction, the phantom leaves were included in the interpretation. 3. Schemes were sub-divided into monopodial and sympodial groups. 4. Schemes, containing a minimum of phantoms, were compared by superposition. The results revealed that the sympodial model uniformly predicts a phantom prophyll at the base of the innovation bud. A morphological series of prophyll reduction in Amaryllidaceae is proposed. The previous sympodial scheme of Galanthus branching by Mller-Doblies (1971) is modified by the insertion of the phantom prophyll at the base of the main bud. New evidence on the prophyll reduction in Galanthus is obtained.
10.2307/3668597|From about 1993 to the present (1998), millions of plants of Fargesia murieliae, an ornamental bamboo, were flowering monocarpically in western Europe. All plants being ramets of a single genet, introduced in Europe about 80 years ago, the simultaneous flowering of all these ramets constitutes a single giant compound inflorescence. Flowering plants were subjected to different conditions of light intensity and temperature yielding different modes of development of flowering. Under low light intensity and high ambient temperatures (22-25C), reversion of flowering is ultimately observed by development of vegetative shoots from basal buds of flowering culms. Under conditions that induce oxidative stress (full sun and drought) flowering and senescence proceed rapidly. The process of senescence is linked to oxidative stress as measured in elevated activities of superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase in the semelauctant inflorescences. By strong photoreduction of catalase activity, high light intensity is directly responsible for inactivation of one of the major defence mechanisms of the cells, thereby effectively accelerating flowering and senescence. In blades of spathes subtending the semelauctant inflorescences (short paracladial zone), DNA replication as well as loss of DNA from nuclei is observed. As this phenomenon is observed in green spathes prior to the development of the terminal inflorescence, DNA replication is a very early marker for senescence. A role for extra DNA synthesis prior to senescence is suggested in cytokinin biosynthesis.
10.2307/3668600|Flower anatomy and ovule development is described in Comospermum yedoense and Eriospermum natalense. A close relationship between Comospermum and Eriospermum, earlier indicated by rbcL, now seems doubtful, as their seed hair types are not homologous and they differ in other respects. A relationship between Comospermum and Convallariaceae is well supported by both molecular data and several micromorphological characters, notably lack of phytomelan, chromosome number, and tenuinucellate ovules.
10.2307/3668598|A survey of inflorescence morphology was conducted as part of a phylogenetic analysis of the Aristolochiaceae. The two members of the subfamily Asaroideae, Saruma and Asarum, have monotelic inflorescences and sympodial growth. In contrast, polytelic inflorescences are the rule within the subfamily Aristolochioideae, where two types of synflorescences occur: thyrsic (if cymose partial florescences are present), and racemose (if only one ebracteate flower is formed at each node). The partial florescence (PF) is used to compare the taxa within the subfamily. Many-flowered PFs are common in most members of Aristolochia, although 1-flowered PFs occur in all species of A. subsect. Pentandrae, as well as in some members of A. subgen. Siphisia, A. sect. Diplolobus, and A. subsect. Hexandrae. Two types of racemose synflorescences are recognized: frondose (or frondulose) synflorescences, in A. rojasiana (formerly Euglypha) and A. subser. Hexandrae; and rami- or cauliflorous coflorescences (i.e. lateral racemes), in A. reniformis (formerly Holostylis) and A. subser. Anthocaulicae. Cauliflory appears to be independently acquired in different members of the Aristolochioideae. Two different structural (and perhaps functional) types of cauliflory are described: the first occurs when a cymose, often densiflorous, PF, develops late (in members of Thottea, Aristolochia subgen. Siphisia, A. subgen. Pararistolochia, and A. ser. Thyrsicae), and the second when flowering occurs exclusively in short, bracteose lateral racemes (in A. subsect. Anthocaulicae). Characters related to the position and structure of the PF and the specialization of lateral racemes for flowering were found to be informative for a preliminary phylogenetic analysis (Gonzlez 1997). The analysis generated a hypothesis of a transformation from thyrsic to racemose synflorescences, via a reduction in the number of flowers to one on each PF and the loss of the bract. Other derived characters are the frondulose or bracteose pherophylls, and the strictly lateral position of the coflorescences.
10.2307/3668595|Wood anatomy of 16 genera of the Pavetteae has been examined. Except for some general features of the Ixoroideae, such as solitary vessels, presence of fibre-tracheids, and the frequent occurrence of disjunctive ray parenchyma cell walls, diagnostic variation was found in axial parenchyma, rays, and crystal features. Special attention was given to the morphology of vestures associated with vessel pits and two vesture types were defined. The delimitation of an Ixora group is wood anatomically supported by the presence of small bands or lines of axial parenchyma, styloids or elongate crystals, predominantly uniseriate rays, and branched vestures that completely fill the pit chamber. It is suggested that these characters are derived. Wood of Duperrea is different in the ray composition and the presence of remarkable parenchyma bands; this corroborates an exclusion from the Pavetteae. Long chains of prismatic crystals in chambered axial parenchyma cells occur mainly in Bridson's informal group I of Tarenna, but are also present in Nichallea and Pavetta.
10.2307/3668610|Morphological and anatomical investigations confirm the reduction of Schickendantzia Pax to Alstroemeria L. Schickendantzia pygmaea (Herb.) Speg., a small herb growing in the Andean mountains, 3500-4400 m above sea level, was first described in the genus Alstroemeria. Particularly valuable in determining the correct taxonomic position are: the presence of axile placentation, a trilocular ovary, two inner usually spotted, upper tepals, a rhizome with some fleshy-starchy white roots, a six-ribbed loculicidal capsule, umbonate towards the apex with explosive dehiscence, light brown and globose seeds, the outer integument of seed coat dry, with a sculptured surface, ballistic dispersal and pollen grains with striato-reticulate sexine. Therefore, the family Alstroemeriaceae Dumort. should be considered as composed of three genera, Alstroemeria L., Bomarea Mirb. and Leontochir Phil.
10.2307/3668586|Evolutionary biology of flowers has undergone a revolution in the past twenty years. It began with the recovery of excellently preserved Cretaceous fossil flowers and was followed by the improvement of molecular techniques and their application in developmental genetics and systematics, which opened new avenues for evolutionary flower research. In turn, these new fields stimulated comparative floral studies, and traditional approaches in concert with the new ones are now greatly needed. Wilhelm Troll (1897-1978) was a prominent and influential plant morphologist of this century. He and his students were responsible for great advancements in comparative morphological (including floral) studies, although this did not include the addressing of evolutionary questions, since the foundations to understand bauplan evolution were not present at his time.
10.2307/3668592|For the first time attention is drawn to a neglected or overlooked character in Scleria (Cyperaceae), the presence of a genuine ligule. This ligule, present as a fringe of short hairs, is now recorded in five neotropical species of Scleria. A key to the so far known neotropical ligulated species of Scleria is given. The presence versus absence of a ligule, the shape, the density and length of the hairs are very useful diagnostic characters.
10.2307/3668587|Scientific terms should denote similar, comparable, or at the best homologous structures. At the onset of botanical terminology there was often only a very superficial similarity between objects for which the same name was used. Thus, the term "seed" was used for everything that produced a new plant (with the exception of suckers and the like). Later on the term "spore" was introduced by Ehrhart (1778), and in the course of time the differences between seed and spore were better understood. The term spore was first used in a very broad sense, too. It had to be clarified by the exclusion of gametes and zygotes and by the distinction of meio- and mitospores. Several botanical terms that point to analogous rather than homologous structures have been used for a long time. The German term "Eichen" (small egg) for "ovulum" was replaced by "Samenknospe" (seed bud) and finally by "Samenanlage" when it became clear that it was neither an egg nor a small bud. However, the term ovule was kept in English and French. According to the classical morphological view of Goethe (1790), the stamens are named "Staubbltter" and the carpels "Fruchtbltter" in German. No comparable terms exist in English or French. Several other examples are given in order to illustrate the complex connections between terminology and homology in describing and interpreting plant structures.
10.2307/3668585|As a result of his extensive work as botanist and morphologist Wilhelm Troll acquired a worldwide reputation. His scientific research and his activities as an academic teacher influenced not only morphology but also had marked effects on the development of other fields of botanic research, of biology and even beyond biology.
10.2307/3668589|The morphology, distribution and ecology of Cardamine trifida are described. The species has underground fleshy organs. Their origin was interpreted incorrectly by many researchers. The leaf origin of the underground organs is discussed in relation to the taxonomy of this species.
10.2307/3668588|Two exemplary case studies of functional morphology are presented. The first topic, underground plant mobility, illustrates the feedback effect of 'plant structure' and observation of their 'functional role'. Questions are raised in relation to both, 'plant structure' and its 'functional role'. Experiments are developed to obtain answers, and to prompt further questions resulting from these answers. This was shown in an exemplary way in the unusually geophilous strategies of Hemerocallis fulva, well adapted to fulfilling the function 'cryptical survival'. Thus, investigation of functional morphology is useful for a better understanding of plant behaviour. The second case study relates to dispersal of diaspores in Apiaceae. Wind tunnel experiments were carried out to analyze the 'flying ability' of winged or spiny mericarps. In general, winged diaspores fly better than spiny ones, except in the case of Daucus muricatus, the spiny diaspores of which fly better than the winged ones, e.g., of Prangos pabularia. Thus, this topic was useful in showing that functional approaches to 'plant structure' may reveal new perspectives in ecological understanding. However, 'form' and 'function' are frequent in botanical literature, showing that a dualistic treatment of plant structures is very helpful for a better understanding of plant biology. Besides 'underground plant movement' and 'dispersal' there are important topics such as 'floral ecology', 'biomechanics', and many more. All of these could be included in one category, which we propose to call 'plant construction'. Scientific work on 'plant construction' should be based on three basic principles: 1. The starting point of the investigation should be the specific form itself, 2. The scientific question should be functional, and 3. Scientific investigation should be based on targeted observation and experiment.
10.2307/3668601|A study on four species of the genus Phacelia (Hydrophyllaceae) was focused on flower and fruit development. A combination of morphological characters of the corolla and the gynoecium (including formation and distribution of crystals) is shown to be useful in segregating even closely related taxa within the genus. Half inferior ovaries, as demonstrated for two species, seem to be more frequent within the genus than previously assumed. Corresponding stages during early gynoecium development and characters of the nectary disc and corolla may underline a closer relationship between Hydrophyllaceae and Boraginaceae.
10.2307/3668594|In adult woody plants, there is a division of labour between innovation and reproduction: One particular group of meristems, buds or shoot sections guarantees the vegetative continuation, another one only functions for a short period of pollination or diaspore production. The reproductive elements originate from the purely vegetative shoot sections by different ways of segregation. The unit of extension (UE) is used as the reference matrix to describe different types of allocation: (1) terminal flowering in competition with the vegetative apex, (2) lateral inflorescence shoots occupying a vacant UE section, (3) "mixed" structure of 1 and 2, (4) partial or full displacement of strong lateral shoots, (5) accessory buds developing into both vegetative and reproductive organs, (6) long-term reproductive capacity by accessory or prophyll shoots which is widespread in tropical families, (7) alternation between a reproductive and a non-reproductive UE form, (8) insertion of an additional short-shoot-like reproductive UE. Also a change of arrangement is possible because the UE programme undergoes a regressive metamorphosis during tree ageing or at subordinate branches. At the branch level, the allocation is described by the "shoot chain" in terms of monopodial, ananthic-sympodial or anthetic-sympodial. Research is based upon temperate species but the results can be extrapolated to some tropical species.
10.2307/3668604|The effect of irrigation and artificial nutrient supply on nectar secretion and nectary structure of three of the main Labiatae species occurring in a phryganic community (viz. Satureja thymbra, Stachys cretica, and Thymus capitatus) was studied. Experiments were carried out on potted plants taken from the wild, along with control plants (untreated or/and naturally growing). Only T. capitatus clearly secreted a higher nectar volume and sugars after treatment, whereas the yield of S. thymbra did not increase significantly when plants were irrigated or artificially supplied with nutrients. The case of S. cretica was more complicated showing different trends depending on the time of the year. Conclusions are: (i) nutrient supply does not always enhance nectar secretion in the poor-soil phrygana; (ii) irrigation is more important in increasing per flower nectar secretion than fertilization; (iii) nutrient supply results in the presence of nectarless flowers; (iv) nectar analyses made on three plants show that neither of the treatments affects amino acid concentration of the nectar, but they result in either glucose excess in the nectar of woody species (viz. S. thymbra, T. capitatus) or in sucrose excess in the nectar of herbaceous species (S. cretica). Most of these results can be explained through a differential resource allocation of the water-stressed plants grown in the wild on the one hand, and the treated plants on the other. This difference stems from the fact that woody species clearly distinguish between growth and reproductive phases, whereas in herbaceous perennials the growing phase overlaps with reproductive phase and blooming. Under conditions of artificial nutrient supply, plants may continue to allocate to vegetative growth rather than to pollinator allurement; on the contrary, wild growing plants may invest exclusively in pollinator allurement. It is assumed that the approach of the summer is very critical and conclusive for a shorter life cycle of the species. Some intraspecific differences in nectary structure were found as a result of the treatments. However, because these differences were not consistent either with the treatment effects on nectar secretion or with the nectar characteristics studied, it is concluded that the observed differences may be mere intraspecific variations normally occurring in nature.
10.2307/3668606|Tylophora anomala is investigated with emphasis on flower morphology, chromosome numbers and distribution. Two distinct subunits, a hexaploid cytotype (2n = 66) distributed in East and South-East Africa and a dodeca- to decatetraploid cytotype (2n = 132-154) in West Africa, are recognized. A detailed description of both cytotypes and a distribution map are provided. Slight floral differences between the disjunct cytotypes do exist, but formal recognition of the West African representatives is not justified. /// Bltenmorphologie, Chromosomen und Verbreitungsmuster von Tylophora anomala werden untersucht. 2 Untereinheiten sind unterscheidbar, ein hexaploider Cytotyp (2n = 66) in Ost- und Sdostafrika und ein dodeca- bis decatetraploider Cytotyp (2n = 132-154) in Westafrika. Beide Cytotypen werden detailliert beschrieben; eine Verbreitungskarte wird vorgestellt. Kleinere bltenmorphologische Abweichungen zwischen den disjunkten Cytotypen erscheinen jedoch nicht ausreichend, die westafrikanischen Vertreter als Taxon formal anzuerkennen.
10.2307/3668596|New investigations on sporophyte morphology in Lejeuneaceae and Jubulaceae (Hepaticae). Sporophyte features such as form and size of the capsule and ornamentation of the cell walls at the top and the margins of the capsule valves and various characters of the elaters, spores, seta and foot were investigated in order to determine their systematic relevance. It appears that members of Lejeuneoideae (Brachiolejeuneae and Lejeuneae), Cololejeuneoideae and Ptychanthoideae (all Lejeuneaceae) have different cell patterns on the outside of the capsule valves. Sporophytes of Ptychanthoideae correspond in many features with those of Frullania (Jubulaceae), and the capsules of Austrolejeunea (Tyamaelloideae) are similar to those of the Cololejeuneoideae.
3668775|Clerodendrum sassandrense Jongkind (Lamiaceae, Ajugoideae) from the forest of south-west Cte d'Ivoire is described and illustrated.
3668761|Telosma parviflora Merr., an endemic of the Philippines, is recognized as a species of Tylophora, and the new combination Tylophora parviflora (Merr.) Meve, Omlor & Liede is proposed. To date the epithet "parviflora" has only been used erroneously in Tylophora for the Indian species Tylophora pauciflora Wight & Arn.; it arose from a typographic error and is not a validly published name. The epithet "parviflora" is therefore available for the transfer of Telosma parviflora to Tylophora. This unusual night-flowering species is a strong twiner with large leaves, yellowish milky latex and multi-flowered inflorescences. Florally, it indeed resembles species of Telosma, since its yellow flowers are only open late in the evening and night and emit a heavy and sweet fragrance while open.
3668770|Evidence for the biological identity of the two morphologically defined taxa Rosa spinosissima L. and R. pimpinellifolia L. is presented with R. spinosissima L. (1753) as the valid name for the taxon.
3668769|Among the coprophilous Ascomycetes collected during the past four years, two species of Saccobolus (S. quadrisporus and S. saccoboloides) are new to Belgium. Three others have been rarely reported: S. beckii and S. caesariatus from recent collections, S. eleutherosporus from a much earlier one. Four of the species are reported and described here on the basis of freshly collected specimens and compared to previous reports. A key to the eight Belgian species of Saccobolus is included that also includes three additional species likely to occur in the area. /// Les observations poursuivies au cours de ces quatre dernires annes sur les Ascomyctes coprophiles ont mis en vidence la prsence en Belgique de deux espces de Saccobolus qui n'avaient jamais t signales (S. quadrisporus et S. saccoboloides) ainsi que de trois autres (S. beckii, S. caesariatus et S. eleutherosporus) connues toutes trois d'une unique localit. Quatre de ces espces sont dcrites sur base de matriel frachement rcolt; les rsultats sont discuts part comparaison avec les donnes antrieures. Une cl de dtermination des huit espces du genre connues de Belgique est propose; cette cl s'applique encore  trois autres espces qui pourront vraisemblablement tre observes dans la dition.
3668766|A monograph of Chilocarpus, a genus counting thirteen species of the Apocynaceae-Plumerioideae-Chilocarpeae restricted to tropical Asia, is given. Two keys to the species are presented, one for flowering and one for fruiting material. All species are described in detail and maps depict their geographical distribution. The study is based on herbarium specimens; for only five species living material was at disposal. /// Une monographie de Chilocarpus, un genre de treize espces restreint  l'Asie tropicale, est prsente. Deux cls des espces sont donnes, une pour les chantillons florifres et une pour du marriel en fruit. Toutes les espces sont dcrites en dtail et des cartes de rpartition sont produites. L'tude est base surtout sur matriel d'herbier, seulement cinq espces tant disponibles  l'tat vivant.
3668774|Kniphofia marungensis Lisowski & Wiland is a new endemic species from the Marungu Plateau in Upper Katanga (D.R. Congo). This species, very different from all Central African species of Kniphofia Moench is distinguished by its small white flowers and grass-like ciliate leaves. A key to all eight species of Kniphofia from D.R. Congo is presented. Supplementary descriptive and distributional data of another Marungu species, Kniphofia nana Marais, are provided.
3668764|Based on herbarium collections, the Chinese members of the genus Lasianthus are revised. Thirty-three species, four subspecies and three varieties are recognized. One new species, L. austroyunnanensis, is described and two new combinations, L. shimizui and L. trichophlebus var. latifolius are made. Six species names, two subspecies names and ten variety names are reduced to synonyms. All species are described and a key to Chinese Lasianthus is given.
3668760|Mt. Mulanje is a solitary massif in southern Malawi and is the highest point in south tropical Africa. During the preparation of a checklist of the flora of Mt. Mulanje, 69 species were identified that apparently only occurred on the massif; others had local or slightly wider but disjunct distributions. These are compared with a list of 30 species endemic to Mt. Mulanje produced by Wild in 1964. The endemic species represent 5.3% of the naturally occurring and naturalised flora. Mt. Mulanje has been identified as one of the sites in Africa in greatest need of protection and as a Centre of Plant Diversity. It is hoped that the information presented here will be of practical use for the conservation and management plans being proposed for Mt. Mulanje.
3668771|Microsatellites, or simple sequences repeats (SSR), have become genetic markers of choice in many plant species. In the present work, using a rapid method, we have isolated two microsatellite loci <tex-math>$\text{(TC)}_{19}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$\text{(TTC)}_{4}$</tex-math> from the genome of Rosa chinensis 'Old Blush'. For the <tex-math>$\text{(TC)}_{19}$</tex-math> locus, we have designed a functional primer pair and demonstrated allelic diversity among eight wild and cultivated roses. This study is the first approach of the SSR polymorphism in the complex genus Rosa.
3668773|Two species of Justicia, the unrecognized Justicia dalaensis (Katanga) and the new Justicia scutifera (Kwango and Katanga) are described and illustrated. Distribution maps of the two species are provided. /// Deux espces, Justicia dalaensis, mconnue (Katanga) et une nouvelle espce, Justicia scutifera (Kwango et Katanga), sont dcrites et illustres. Des cartes de distribution sont donnes.
3668767|Relationships among 111 species of the Psychotria complex (Rubiaceae tribe Psychotrieae) were estimated by cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in the rps16 intron (cpDNA). The Psychotria complex is characterised morphologically by caducous stipules and (usually) testa with a reddish, ethanol soluble pigment. It was found to be comprised of two major clades, one of which is Psychotria in a strict sense. Psychotria s. str. is characterised by usually having pyrenes without preformed germination slits, a plane or shallowly furrowed adaxial surface and usually numerous distinct ridges on the abaxial side. Most species occur in Africa and the Neotropics, but the genus extends eastwards to the Philippines and Australia. The second subclade comprises species from areas around the Indian Ocean and in the Pacific. Members of this subclade mostly differ morphologically from Psychotria s. str. by pyrenes with distinct marginal preformed germination slits. This subclade includes the tuberiferous, myrmecophile epiphytes, which, it is suggested, comprise a single genus, Hydnophytum. It also includes the genera Amaracarpus, Calycosia, Dolianthus, and Straussia. These genera are not supported as monophyletic by sequence data, but are tentatively recognized based on morphological evidence. Calycosia should be given a broader circumscription than presently and may be characterised by entire endosperm and pollen grains with usually thin exine and small lumina. The name Straussia has traditionally been applied only to Hawaiian species, but is applicable to a more widely distributed group. Its major distinguishing feature is a more or less ruminate endosperm.
3668768|Flower galls in members of the Rubiaceae are described from observations of African herbarium specimens. Corolla-tube galls are distinguished from ovarian galls within the family. The taxonomic incidence of gall-formation and its consequences for flower integrity are discussed.
3668765|Leuconotis Jack, a genus counting five species, is restricted to tropical Asia. A key to the species is presented. All five species, two of which are new to science are described in detail and distribution maps are given for the most wide-spread species. Most of the names known from literature turned out to be synonyms of L. anceps. The study is based mainly on herbarium material as only a few specimens have been seen as living plants. Several type specimens of names, putative synonyms of L. anceps, were sterile, and some were lost. For L. anceps a neotype is selected, as no type material could be traced. /// Leuconotis, un genre de cinq espces est restreint  l'Asie tropicale. Une cl des espces est prsente. Les cinq espces, parmi lesquelles deux sont nouvelles pour la science, sont dcrites en dtail; des cartes de rpartition sont ajoutes pour les deux espces  large distribution. La plupart des noms connus de la littrature apparaissent tre des synonymes de L. anceps. L'tude est fonde surtout sur du matriel de l'herbier, parce que peu des chantillons ont t vus comme plantes vivantes. Plusieurs chantillons types de noms, probablement synonymes de L. anceps, sont steriles, et quelques uns sont perdus. Un notype a t choisi pour L. anceps, parce que son type ne pouvait pas tre retrouv.
3668762|Two taxa were hitherto confused under the name Pseuderanthemum tunicatum. A new species, Pseuderanthemum albo-coeruleum, and a subspecies, subsp. robustum, are described whilst the true P. tunicatum is reassessed, and a variety, var. infundibuliformis, is also described. The distribution maps of these two species of Pseuderanthemum are provided. A new species of Pseuderanthemum from Katanga (Congo- Kinshasa) and Tanzania, P. katangensis, close to P. hildebrantii Lindau, is also described. The species is illustrated and its distribution map is given. An identification key of all the African species of the genus is provided.
3668763|Perenniporia djaensis C.Decock & Mossebo is described as new. The description is based on a collection from the Dja Biosphere reserve, Cameroon, on an unidentified angiosperm. Some additional comments on some records of Perenniporia from the Dja are included.
3668484|Leptoderris sassandrensis from the forests of West Africa (Upper Guinea), is described and illustrated. The differences between the new species and Leptoderris fasciculata are explained.
3668483|Impatiens nyungwensis from Nyungwe Forest in Rwanda is described as new species. It is closely related to I. bururiensis and I. gesneroidea but differs mainly in shape and size of the corolla. The ecology of I. nyungwensis and the endemicity of Impatiens in the Albertine Rift region is briefly discussed.
3668486|References to treatments of the families of phanerogams in the main floras of tropical Africa are presented. Information about synonyms and other taxonomic concepts of some families are given. /// Les rfrences aux traitements des familles de phanrogames dans les principales Flores de l'Afrique tropicale sont prsentes. Des informations concernant des synonymies ainsi que d'autres conceptions taxonomiques de certaines familles sont fournies.
3668479|Monograph of Melodinus, the only genus of the Melodineae (Apocynaceae, Plumerioideae, Carisseae), containing 19 species and restricted to tropical Asia and Australia. Five keys to the species are presented, one for the entire genus, one for the species represented in China, one for the species present in the countries covered by Flora Malesiana, one for the species known from New Caledonia and one for those from Australia. /// Monographie de Melodinus, le seul genre des Melodineae (Apocynaceae, Plumerioideae, Carisseae). Il comprend 19 espces et est limit  l'Asie et  l'Australie. Cinq cls des espces sont presentes, une pour le genre entier, une pour les espces reprsentes en Chine, une pour les espces trouves dans les pays couverts par la Flora Malesiana, une pour la Nouvelle-Caldonie et une pour l'Australie.
3668481|During our 2001 Malagasy Peperomia Expedition several new species of Peperomia (Piperaceae) were discovered, six of which are described here. Peperomia costata was found in the dense evergreen forests of the Anjanaharibe-Sud Special Reserve. Peperomia humbertii is a terrestrial or epiphytic herb found in the nearby Marojejy National Park. Peperomia mantadiana grows terrestrial often on exposed ridges at different forest sites. Peperomia pluvisilvatica was collected in the rain forests of the Montagne d'Ambre National Park. This is also the type locality of another new species: Peperomia terebinthina. Peperomia ratticaudata occurs in the low altitude evergreen forests of southeastern Madagascar. /// Pendant notre Expdition Malgache Peperomia 2001 plusieurs nouvelles espces ont t dcouvertes. Six sont dcrites ici. Peperomia costata est trouve dans les forts denses sempervirentes de la Rserve Spciale de Anjanaharibe-Sud. Peperomia humbertii est une herbe piphytique ou terrestre trouve dans le Parc National de Marojejy. Peperomia mantadiana est terrestre ou piphytique aux endroits exposs dans diffrents sites forestiers. Peperomia pluvisilvatica est collecte dans les forts pluviales du Parc National de Montagne d'Ambre. Ceci est aussi la localit typique d'une autre espce: Peperomia terebinthina. Peperomia ratticaudata pousse dans les forts sempervirentes de basse altitude du sud-est de Madagascar.
3668480|The present status of Arisaema speciosum (Wall.) Mart. is discussed based on an examination of herbarium specimens as well as living material in the field and in cultivation. It results that A. speciosum is recognised as having three varieties: var. speciosum, var. mirabile and the newly described var. ziroense.
3668485|One African and two Madagascan species are transferred from Tarenna to Paracephaelis.
3668482|Floral vasculature, sporogenesis and gametophyte development are observed in Pentastemona egregia (Stemonaceae). Sporogenesis and gametophyte development agree with those of the rest of the family, but they neither provide informative evidence for the further relationship of the genus nor the affinity of the family. Floral architecture indicates that the pentamerous-monocyclic flower of Pentastemona could have been derived from trimerous-dicyclic flowers by a simple modification.
3668487|This paper is a contribution to the floristic knowledge of Desmidiaceae (genera Cosmarium, Actinotaenium and Cosmocladium) in an oxbow lake. From 41 samples (planktic, metaphytic and periphytic) collected in the Diogo Pond, Moji-Guau River floodplain, 53 infrageneric taxa comprising 47 of Cosmarium, four of Actinotaenium and two of Cosmocladium were identified. Most of these taxa belong to a rather trivial, more or les cosmopolitan element; however, the correct interpretation of this observation needs a more complete study of the other desmid genera present in Diogo Pond. The specimens found were mainly represented in periphytic and metaphytic habitats.
3668627|This first-ever revision of Chione DC. (Rubiaceae), a genus of neotropical trees and shrubs, is based on the study of herbarium specimens and field observations. Chione can be diagnosed by a combination of characters, some of which are: entire and caducous interpetiolar stipules, terminal inflorescences that turn white or greenish-white when mature, funnelform corollas with strongly recurved lobes, corolla lobes imbricate in bud, anthers inserted near the base of the corolla tube, fruits maturing red to purple, each fruit with a single, sclerenchymatized pyrene enclosing two locules, and ovules that are solitary and pendulous in locules. Chione has continuous variation among many morphological character states, including those formerly employed to distinguish species. Chione is here considered a monotypic genus, with four varieties: Chione venosa var. buxifolia, var. cubensis, var. mexicana, and var. venosa. C. venosa var. cubensis (distributed in Cuba and Hispaniola) and var. mexicana (distributed in eastern Mexico) are distinguished from the other varieties by having relatively small fruits and smooth pyrenes. C. venosa var. cubensis is distinguished from var. mexicana by typically having thicker leaves and longer corolla lobes relative to corolla tube length. C. venosa var. buxifolia (known only from the immediate vicinity of Cerro Jefe, Panama) is distinguished from var. venosa (distributed from Tamaulipas, Mexico to Junn, Peru, and from the Dominican Republic to Tobago) by its extremely reduced and coriaceous leaves.
3668629|The study of the vegetation of inselbergs and forest types in these two afrotropical countries lead to the description of three new taxa. Justicia amanda subsp. saxatilis, growing on inselbergs in Equatorial Guinea is a vicariant taxon of the typical subspecies which is only known from the mountains of Eastern Congo-Kinshasa, Rwanda and Burundi. Dischistocalyx lithicola, also growing on inselbergs, differs from the other species by its complete glabrescence, its strongly two-coloured, narrow, coriaceous although thin leaves, and from D. strobilinus, the closest species, by its larger corolla. Dischistocalyx alternifolius, growing in rainforest, differs from all other species of the genus by its complete anisophylly, with the complete reduction of one leaf in each pair. /// L'tude de la vgtation des inselbergs et des types forestiers dans ces deux pays d'Afrique tropicale a amen la description de trois taxons nouveaux. Justicia amanda subsp. saxatilis, croissant sur les inselbergs de Guine quatoriale, est un taxon vicariant de la sous-espce type, originaire des montagnes du Congo-Kinshasa oriental, du Rwanda et du Burundi. Dischistocalyx lithicola, croissant galement sur inselberg, se distingue des autres espces du genre par sa glabrescence parfaite, ses feuilles fortement discolores, troites et assez coriaces quoique minces et de D. strobilinus, espce proche, par sa corolle plus grande. Dischistocalyx alternifolius, espce de fort dense humide, diffre de toutes les espces du genre par son anisophyllie complte aboutissant  la disparition d'une feuille de chaque paire.
3668628|A recent revision of Chione (Rubiaceae) has excluded two species, C. exserta and C. seminervis, from the genus on the basis of morphology. The new genus Colleteria is here erected to accommodate those species. The genus Colleteria can be diagnosed by a combination of characters, some of which are: corolla lobes imbricate in bud, anthers inserted at or below middle of the corolla tube, fruit with two pyrenes, the pyrenes adaxially concave, abaxially convex and ridged, with marginal germination slits extending from apex to middle, each pyrene with one locule, ovules solitary and pendulous in locules. Colleteria exserta (distributed in Cuba and Hispaniola) is distinguished from Colleteria seminervis (distributed in Hispaniola and Puerto Rico) by its larger leaf blade size, greater number of secondary leaf veins, longer petioles, longer interpetiolar stipules, and greater number of flowers per inflorescence.
3668630|Six inselbergs of Benin have been studied in four localities. This study presents the results of 123 phytosociological "relevs". A total number of 285 plant species have been gathered belonging to 77 families, of which Poaceae (34 species) and Fabaceae (32 species) are the most representative. The 285 plant species identified have been classified in seven groups according to the vegetation types. The analysis of life-form spectra has revealed the abundance of therophytes (38.2% and 36.5%) and phanerophytes (39.7% and 37.2%). The grasslands are dominated by annual species. The number of therophytes increases from south to north; this could be due to decrease of average annual precipitation. The phytogeographical spectrum of species have revealed the abundance of sudano-zambezian elements (21.4% and 23.9%) and African pluriregional elements (21.4% and 21.6%). No endemic species have been noted among the 285 species. The two phanerophytes most frequently encountered and restricted to the inselbergs are Hymenodictyon floribundum and Ficus abutilifolia. The most characteristical species of dry grasslands is Afrotrilepis pilosa. Inselberg vegetation is characterized by its homogeneousness due to harsh environmental conditions. /// Six inselbergs du Bnin, dans quatre localits, ont t tudis. Sur un total de 123 relevs phytosociologiques effectus, 285 espces rparties dans 77 familles ont t rpertories. Les familles les plus largement reprsentes sont les Poaceae (34 espces) et les Fabaceae (32). Les espces recenses sont classes en sept types de formation vgtale. Le spectre biologique brut des espces est un spectre constitu de throphytes (38,2% et 36,5%) et de phanrophytes (39,7% et 37,2%). Les pelouses sont  dominance de throphytes. L'augmentation du nombre d'espces annuelles suivant un gradient sud-nord pourrait tre exlique par une diminution des prcipitations moyennes annuelles. Le spectre phytogographique global a mis en vidence la prpondrance des espces soudanozambziennes (SZ = 21,4% et 23,9%) et plurirgionales africaines (PA = 21,4% et 21,6%). Aucune espce endmique n'a t note parmi les 285 taxons recenss. Les espces ligneuses les plus constamment rencontres et infodes aux milieux tudis sont Hymenodictyon floribundum et Ficus abutilifolia. L'espce la plus caractristique des pelouses sches est Afrotrilepis pilosa. La vgtation des inselbergs reste caractrise par son homognit qui tmoigne des conditions extrmes du milieu.
3668626|The type specimens of Perenniporia mundula and of its presumed taxonomic synonym, Vanderbylia ungulata have been examined as well as several original collections identified as P. mundula. The presumed synonymy is rejected, and the two species are accepted as distinct in their respective genera. The taxonomic placement of both taxa is discussed. Perenniporia mundula belongs to the complex around Perenniporia medulla-panis while V. ungulata is related to Vanderbylia vicina, type species of Vanderbylia. The geographic distribution of V. ungulata is outlined. /// Les spcimens type de Perenniporia mundula et Vanderbylia ungulata ont t re-examins, ainsi que plusieurs collections originales identifies comme P. mundula. La synonymie prsume est rejete sur base de diffrences morphologiques significatives, et les deux espces ont acceptes dans leur genre respectif. La position taxonomique de ces deux taxa est discute. Perenniporia mundula appartient au complexe de Perenniporia medulla-panis, alors que V. ungulata est proche de Vanderbylia vicina, espce type du genre Vanderbylia. La distribution gographique de V. ungulata est propose.
3668632|A new species of Polystachya Hook.f. sect. Polychaete Cribb (Orchidaceae) is described from So Tom, Gabon and Rio Muni (Equatorial Guinea): Polystachya moniquetiana Stvart & Geerinck. It is related to Polystachya polychaete Kraenzl. from which it differs in the lip and plant size.
3668631|A revision of Bertiera Aublet is undertaken, based mainly on a study of Cameroonian herbarium specimens at BR, BRLU, K, P, SCA, WAG and YA. The morphological features (habit, leaves, stipules, domatia, colleters, flower, fruit and seed characters) of the genus are reviewed and documented. The distribution maps of the species show the characteristic distribution pattern of a strict rain forest genus. The taxonomic part gives keys and complete treatments of species (synonymies, descriptions, distributional data, critical notes). The detailed examination of the specimens resulted in some changes. It is proved that Bertiera globiceps K.Schum. var. bityensis (Wernham) N.Hall and Bertiera racemosa (G.Don) K.Schum. var. dewevrei (De Wild. & Th.Dur.) N.Hall are not worth varietal distiction. On the other hand, Bertiera subsessilis Hiern var. congolana N.Hall needs to be returned to its specific status (Bertiera congolana De Wild. & Th.Dur). Two species are new records for the Cameroon flora: Bertiera congolana De Wild. & Th.Dur. and Bertiera arctistipula N.Hall.
3668633|Two new species of Crotalaria, C. cupricola Leteinturier and C. serpentinicola Leteinturier & Polhill, are described from Zimbabwe. Both species belong to section Crotalaria subsection Longirostres and are deceptively similar. The differences and affinities are given. Both are restricted to metalliferous soils (one on a copper hill, the other on serpentine ultramafic rocks).
20649699|A list of 108 endemic taxa from Atlantic Central Africa occuring in Cameroon is given. Among these, 72 (67%) are epiphytes, 7 (6%) are facultative epiphytes and 29 (27%) are terrestrial. These figures may present important local variations: from lowland to montane forest, the proportion of epiphytes decreases with about 20%. Fourty three (40%) taxa are known only from Cameroon and the specific endemism for Orchidaceae in this country is ca. 8.8%. Two genera, Gastroida R.Br. and Ossiculum P.J.Cribb & Laan, are endemic to Cameroon. The species Polystachya bipoda Stvart, Ancistrorhynchus obovata Stvart inedit., Cyrtorchis submontana Stvart inedit., Tridactyle anthomoniaca (Rchb.f.) Summerh. subsp. nana P.J.Cribb & Stvart, Ancistrorhynchus crystalensis P.J.Cribb & Laan and Polystachya kubalae Szlach. & Olsz. are newly recorded for the flora of Cameroon. Twenty four taxa were not recorded in Cameroon by Szlachetko & Olszewski (1998, 2001a & 2001b), but were already cited in the literature as present in Cameroon. For each taxon, exhaustive or thorough literature is provided, as well as the distribution in Atlantic Central Africa, a list of specimens known from Cameroon and an assessment of the conservation status. According to IUCN criteria, 4% of the taxa are Least Concerned (LC), 29% are Critically Endangered (CR), 24% are Endangered (EN) and 35% are Vulnerable (VU).
20649700|Two analyses are carried out for a reconstruction of the phylogeny of the large angiosperm family Rubiaceae. The position of Luculia and Coptosapelta, unresolved or sister to all other Rubiaceae in most of the recently published results, is reanalysed by using five plastid and three nuclear DNA regions sequenced for selected Rubiaceae taxa. A supertree is constructed for more than 500 species in 300 genera, i.e. ca. 50% of the genera known in the family. The supertree is derived from four source trees based on rbcL, rps16, trnL-trnF and atpB-rbcL, the latter with 106 newly generated sequences. The results are confronted with the morphological, anatomical and biogeographical knowledge of the family and discussed in the light of other molecular phylogenies. It is proposed to recognize only two subfamilies, Cinchonoideae (raphides mostly absent; secondary pollen presentation common) and Rubioideae (raphides present; heterostyly common). Luculia and Coptosapelta are found to be basal to the rest of the Cinchonoideae, which are divided in two newly recognized supertribes, Ixoridinae and Cinchonidinae. Also in the subfamily Rubioideae, two major clades may be distinguished and are recognized as supertribes Psychotriidinae (predominantly woody) and Rubiidinae (predominantly herbaceous); the genus Colletoecema and the tribes Urophylleae, Ophiorrhizeae, Lasiantheae and Coussareeae are basal Rubioideae falling outside these two supertribes. Four alliances are spotted as groups for which major problems exist with regard to relationships and tribal delimitation: three neotropical groups, viz. the Calycophylleae/Condamineeae alliance, the Catesbaeeae/Chiococceae complex and the Rondeletieae alliance, and the pantropical Spermacoceae s.lat. The cladogenesis of Rubiaceae depicted by the supertree is strongly correlated with the present geographical distribution of taxa. The results are summarized in a conspectus of the family enumerating the tribes and listing all their genera for which the inclusion is corroborated by DNA sequences. Newly recognized tribes and subtribes are the Henriquezieae-Posoqueriinae, the Palicoureeae and the Rubieae-Theligoninae and -Kelloggiinae. Some tribes are reduced to subtribes, viz. Virectarieae (subtribe of Sabiceeae), Bertiereae (subtribe of Coffeeae) and Isertieae (subtribe of Cinchoneae). Novel positions are proposed for the genera Aulacocalyx, Calycosiphonia, Cremaspora, Crossopteryx and Morelia.
20649719|Psychotria kwewonii (Rubiaceae) from the forests of Liberia, Cte d'Ivoire and Ghana is described and illustrated, and its possible affinities discussed.
20649716|Mantalania longipedunculata De Block & A.P.Davis (Rubiaceae), was recently described from le Sainte Marie, Madagascar, based on a single collection in fruit. Due to the large-scale destruction of native forest on le Sainte Marie, the species was suspected of being critically endangered or even extinct. However, during a recent field trip to the type locality, M. longipedunculata was rediscovered. The species description is emended, particularly with regard to flower characters.
20649712|A new species of Bertiera (Rubiaceae) from Cameroon and Gabon, Bertiera heterophylla Nguembou & Sonk, is described and illustrated. This new species belongs to the subgenus Bertiera and appears to be closely related to Bertiera bicarpellata. Bertiera heterophylla differs from B. bicarpellata in having lateral branches with terminal inflorescences while on the main stem, the inflorescences are axillary.
20649708|This study is based on 598 phytosociological relevs and 1021 plant species taken during an extensive vegetation survey in the Republic of Benin. Site selection was primarily directed towards forest reserves to understand the potential vegetation patterns countrywide. Distributional patterns assessed by means of numerical analyses suggested a meaningful subdivision of Benin into ten phytogeographical districts (PDs). Chorological analysis proved to be valuable as a complementary approach to the characterisation of the phytosociologically-defined districts and allowed their merging into three major phytochorological zones, namely the Guineo-Congolian and Sudanian regions, linked by the Guineo/Sudanian transition zone. The phytogeographical patterns described were consistent with the hypothesis of water availability-driven variation in species and chorotype compositions. While the climate in terms of several climate elements was the primary factor, rainfall considered alone failed to explain the observed patterns. The biogeographical particularities of the PD Pob in southern Benin were elucidated by the exclusive presence of many Guineo-Congolian endemic genera. The PDs Bassila and Atacora Chain turned out to be of great ecological and biogeographical relevance within the Sudanian regional centre of endemism. Evidence is provided for a former floristic connection of these PDs to the West African Forest Blocks. The results show how the phytosociology approach through numerical analyses of a large dataset constitutes an effective methodological tool for clarifying phytogeographical patterns at meso-scale. Moreover, phytosociology and chorology appear as complementary approaches to phytogeography.
20649710|Verbena brasiliensis, of South American origin, is reported for the first time from Sukhumi, Georgia. The species is shortly described and depicted. The spread of this weedy to invasive species outside its area of origin is discussed.
20649714|Since our 2001 Malagasy Peperomia expedition, several new species have been described in this genus. Three more are presented here: Peperomia ankaranensis, Peperomia erythrocaulis and Peperomia richardsonii. /// Depuis notre expdition Malgache de Peperomia 2001, plusieurs nouvelles espces ont t dcrites dans ce genre. Trois en plus sont prsentes ici: Peperomia ankaranensis, Peperomia erythrocaulis et Peperomia richardsonii.
20649709|Fifteen names of taxa in the genus Elaphoglossum Schott ex J. Sm. (Elaphoglossaceae) are here lectotypified in order to stabilize the names. All these names apply to leptosporangiate ferns from the Neotropics. The typification allows a correct nomenclature of the Neotropical Elaphoglossum species. Specimens designated as lectotypes are kept in the three herbariums of Berlin (B), Brussels (BR) or Paris (P).
20649715|Arisaema siangense G. Gusman is described as a new species from northeast India. A. siangense is a member of section Sinarisaema Nakai; its morphological characters are discussed in relation to other species of this section considered closely related to A. siangense.
20649717|Aframomum wuerthii from Nyungwe National Park is described as new species, the third of the genus for Rwanda. It is related to A. angustifolium but differs in the carmin- red and membranaceous scales and bracts, and in the white petals.
20649711|The effect of exotic tree species on the flora of their undergrowth was investigated in an afforested site of Sm in Benin. The main vegetation in the area consists of timber tree plantation and fallow. Widely distributed species were in the majority (68.8% of spectrum) compared to guineo-congolian species (16.9% of spectrum). These plantations were poor in indigenous species and housed an undergrowth quite different from the native flora surrounding the plantations. This impoverishment of the original floristic diversity was related to ecological effects (shallows, litter amount, soil acidity, competition, allelopathy, etc.) induced by exotic trees (Acacia auriculiformis, Acacia mangium, Casuarina equisetifolia and Eucalyptus camaldulensis). In the Acacia plantation, undergrowth was covered by Acacia pods, stems, phyllodes and a litter amount of 21.05 t MS/ha. The Casuarina equisetifolia plantations presented also a high amount of litter and low plant species richness in the undergrowth. Eucalyptus camaldulensis plantations negatively influenced flora diversity through soil acidification and allelopathy. Casuarina equisetifolia alone or in association with Acacia auriculiformis increased the floristic diversity of the undergrowth. /// Une tude d'impact des essences exotiques plantes en futaies sur la flore de leur sousbois a t effectue dans le primtre de reboisement de Sm au Bnin. Les espces  large distribution gographique dominent (68,8% du spectre pondr) dans le primtre tandis que celles de l'lment base Guino-Congolais y sont peu reprsentes (16,9% du spectre pondr). Les plantations sont pauvres en espces indignes et abritent une flore de sous-bois diffrente de celle de la vgtation naturelle du primtre. Cette rduction de la diversit floristique originelle du milieu d'tude est relative aux effets cologiques (ombrage, litire abondante, pH acide du sol, concurrence, alllopathie, etc.) lis pour l'essentiel aux plantations d'essences exotiques (Acacia auriculiformis, Acacia mangium, Casuarina equisetifolia, Eucalyptus camaldulensis). Dans les plantations d'Acacia, le couvert arborescent est plus dense et le sous-bois est peu clair; les gousses, les tiges, les phyllodes d'Acacia forment une litire paisse plus abondante (21,05 t MS/ha). Les peuplements de Casuarina equisetifolia prsentent au sol une paisse couche de ramilles d'cailles et d'aiguilles qui tout comme l'abondante masse de litire d'Acacia, favorise peu le dveloppement du sous-bois. Eucalyptus camaldulensis exerce des effets plus accuss sur la flore par l'acidification du sol et entre autres l'alllopathie. Par comparaison, Casuarina equisetifolia seul ou en combinaison avec Acacia auriculiformis est plus favorable  la diversit floristique.
20649713|In order to compile a catalogue of non-native vascular plants in Belgium the main Belgian public herbaria were revised. During this revision a few cases were encountered where the nomenclature had to be improved. In the present paper Helenium clementii (Asteraceae) is described as a new nothotaxon. In addition, the following new combinations are made: Dysphania pseudomultiflora (Chenopodiaceae), Leptochloa parviflora and Medicago monantha subsp. incisa.
20649718|A species of the genus Inga Mart., Inga edulis Mart. native to Brazil, was introduced twice in Congo-Brazzaville, viz. in 1980 and 1991. The species seems well adapted to the ecological conditions of its new environment and is on the way to naturalisation. /// En provenance du Brsil, Inga edulis Mart., une espce du genre Inga Miller (Leguminosae, Mimosoideae), introduite au Congo-Brazzaville au cours des annes 1980 et 1991, s'est bien adapte aux nouvelles conditions cologiques du Congo et est sur le point de se naturaliser.
3668569|The 124 species of myxomycetes collected by the authors in the years 1999-2001 from the Hunan Province in Southern China are listed with three other species reported in the literature. Some information on their substrata and distribution is given.
3668558|Patterns of ecological succession have been demonstrated for decomposer communities, but the details of such patterns with respect to the role of eumycetozoans have not been addressed. Successional patterns can be inferred from a sequence of closely located sites which differ only in age, but are controlled for other sources of variation. Hawai'i, the largest and youngest of the Hawaiian Islands, offers an ideal site for such studies, consisting of variously-aged landforms underlain by similar substrates, and influenced by similar climates and biotic communities. Soil/litter samples were collected from nine montane mesic sites of similar elevation and rainfall, but ranging in substrate age from 67 to 10,000 ybp. Samples were processed to recover dictyostelid (cellular) slime molds according to established protocols. Results suggest that slightly different assemblages of dictyostelids occupy the soil/litter derived from different-aged parent materials. The density and species diversity of dictyostelids was higher in soil/litter samples from the youngest sites. The time necessary for dictyostelids to colonize a site is less than 67 years. It is hypothesized that colonization of the soil/litter by dictyostelids is followed by the arrival of predators, particularly nematodes, which adversely affect the density and species diversity of soil amoebae in general, and dictyostelids in particular.
3668561|Palm trees (Arecaceae) are specialized ecosystems which host a wide variety of organisms, including Myxomycetes. Copernicia prunifera (Miller) H.E. Moore (wax palm), Mauritia flexuosa L.f. (buriti palm) and Astrocaryum vulgare Mart. (tucum palm) were selected to study incidence, richness and species diversity of myxomycetes in savanna, riverine forest and secondary forest at Sete Cidades National Park (45-415 S and 4130-4140 W, 480 m alt., 6,221.48 ha), Piau State, northeastern Brazil. Fructifications were searched for on both dead and live trunks, leaves, spathes and inflorescences. The specimens are preserved in the Herbarium UFP (Department of Botany, Federal University of Pernambuco). Myxomycetes were found both in dry and rainy seasons, and the highest abundance and diversity of taxa were observed during the rainy period. A high incidence of myxomycetes (70-100%) was registered, with a diversity index of 5.23 (M. flexuosa), 4.25 (C. prunifera) and 5.05-2.94 (A. vulgare). The highest occurrence was registered on petiole, followed by leaf sheath, leaf blade and spathe, being rare on inflorescence and trunk. A total of seven families, sixteen genera, forty-four species and one variety was identified. The most frequent species were Arcyria cinerea (Bull.) Pers., A. denudata (L.) Wettst., Hemitrichia calyculata (Speg.) M.L.Farr, H. serpula (Scop.) Rostaf. ex Lister, Metatrichia vesparia (Batsch) Nann.-Bremek. ex G.W.Martin & Alexop., Physarum nucleatum Pers. and Stemonitis fusca Roth. Comments and geographical distribution of these species in Brazil are presented.
3668564|Nivicolous myxomycetes are an ecological group of species growing in alpine and subalpine regions of the world near to the melting snow. Extensive field work was done in the mountain areas of the Iberian Peninsula from 1991 to 2002 which demonstrates the richness and variety of the myxobiota in this Mediterranean region. Among the areas with optimum conditions of geography, climate and vegetation, 123 localities were sampled from ten mountain ranges. Almost 1500 field collections were made and a first list of 48 different species is presented here. The altitudinal distribution and phenology of the sporulation of these myxomycetes are analyzed. Working hypotheses on how abiotic factors can influence the development of nivicolous species and some adaptative characters of these species are also presented.
3668568|This study examines the diversity and ecology of myxomycetes on seven native tree species in Hunan Province, south-central China. All the trees are being cultivated within less strictly protected parts of Badagongshan National Nature Reserve and similar forest reserves. Community data were collected for epiphytic bryophytes and lichens and corticolous myxomycetes. The data on myxomycetes were acquired by cultivating bark samples in moist chambers. Over 80% of the 200 moist chambers yielded identifiable myxomycete specimens, representing 33 different taxa. There were clear differences in epiphyte community composition between the studied tree species. Non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) was used to produce graphical depictions of community relationships and habitat variables. The three tree species with neutral or slightly acid bark had similar epiphyte communities, while each of the other four species grouped separately. The main trend in myxomycete diversity contrasted with those of epiphytic bryophytes and lichens. Species richness of myxomycetes was highest on relatively acidic bark with a high water retention capacity, while the diversities of epiphytic bryophytes and lichens were highest on less acidic and relatively smooth bark. Data on epiphyte community composition can be used to develop simple and cost-effective methods for preserving biodiversity in local forestry. It can assist in the choice of an optimal tree species composition for forest plantations in buffer zones of nature reserves and in other areas where maintaining biodiversity is a major concern.
3668566|Data are presented on the results obtained from moist chamber cultures prepared with bark samples of three tree species from the United Kingdom and from Spain, which were watered with simulated acid rain. Both the number and variety of myxomycetes were found to be adversely affected by the constant acidification of the substrate, in spite of the buffering action demonstrated by the bark. The average number of species per culture also decreased with increasing acidity. Although some species appeared in acidified cultures at all the tested pH values, most species appeared only at three or fewer of those values. Of the myxomycetes that appeared across the pH range tested, fewer individuals within each species appeared at pH 3 and 4. This study lends further support to the idea that corticolous myxomycetes are susceptible to alterations in pH, and that the pH changes are buffered to some extent on the living tree, either by the microflora or by the bark.
3668567|In 1974-1975 moist chamber cultivations with bark of living trees were made in the Botanical Garden of the University of Helsinki, chosen to represent a polluted area in the centre of Helsinki. At present, in 2002, the air in the area has improved. The concentrations of sulphur dioxide and lead have clearly decreased and average concentrations of nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide have diminished. 28 years ago the pH of the tree barks varied from 2 to 9. It was now more stable varying from 3 to 7. In 1974-1975 only six species of myxomycetes emerged on the barks of living trees. Now, 28 years later, 14 species were identified. During the same period the number of corticolous lichen species increased from two to 18.
3668571|Comparative light microscope (LM) and scanning electron microscope (SEM) observations were made from type specimens and field collections of Diachea subsessilis and D. deviata. The objective was to determine the taxonomic validity of D. deviata. Observations indicate that Diachea subsessilis and D. deviata are conspecific. Diachea deviata was described from an aberrant, prematurely dried collection. Developmental variation was seen in fruiting body size and shape, stalk length, peridium iridescence and texture, and branching patterns of the capillitial threads. Reticulate spore wall ornamentation was a constant character even under unfavorable environmental conditions. A composite species description of D. subsessilis is presented based mostly on SEM observations of specimens from various geographical regions.
3668554|Afrothismia saingei, a new species of Burmanniaceae (tribe Thismieae) from Mt. Kupe in South-West Cameroon is described and illustrated. It differs from the other species of the genus Afrothismia by the size of its flower, the long, distinctly heteromorphic tepals with fringed basal extensions, the dorsal invagination of the perianth tube and the unique shape of the internal flange.
3668559|A critical updating of myxomycete records from the Hawaiian Islands has resulted in 102 identified species. In addition, two or three specimens may represent undescribed taxa and are commented upon. Licea rufocuprea, previously known from Japan and the United States, is reported from Hawaii based upon a previously misidentified specimen. Several species that are common in tropical and warm-temperate regions are found in Hawaii. Since most myxomycete species are widespread it is difficult to discuss myxomycetes from a biogeographical point of view. Many species tend to occur wherever substratum and microclimate are suitable.
3668562|One surprising result from recent studies carried out in Neotropical moist forests is that myxomycete biodiversity seems to be greatest in microhabitats located above the ground, whereas in temperate and boreal forests it is greatest in microhabitats associated with the forest floor. Myxomycetes appear to be organisms adapted to highly fluctuating conditions of environmental moisture, but continuously high moisture levels apparently do not favor their growth and development. In addition to their apparent displacement from forest floor (relatively moist) to aerial (relatively drier) microhabitats, the majority of the myxomycetes encountered in Neotropical moist forests are characterized by a phaneroplasmodium, which is robust, can achieve considerable size in some species, and appears to tolerate the two extremes of the moisture gradient better than the other types of plasmodia found in myxomycetes. The objective of the present study, which is still ongoing, was to investigate the quantitative ecology and distributional relationships of myxomycetes associated with aerial litter microhabitats in tropical forests of northern Queensland, Australia. More than 90% of the 69 moist chamber cultures prepared with samples of aerial litter collected from two study sites yielded some evidence (either plasmodia or fruiting bodies) of myxomycetes. Didymium squamulosum was the single most abundant species, with Physarum compressum and Physarum pusillum also important. All three of these are among the more characteristic myxomycetes associated with aerial litter in Neotropical forests, which suggests that the aerial litter microhabitat may support compositionally similar assemblages of species in the tropical moist forests of Australia.
3668560|During the period of 1995 to 2002, biotic surveys for mycetozoans (slime moulds) were carried out in a number of study areas in Central and South America to document more completely the species associated with tropical forests and other ecosystems in this region of the world. Primary emphasis of these surveys was on myxomycetes; more limited data were obtained for dictyostelids and protostelids, two other groups of mycetozoans that share some of the same microhabitats as myxomycetes. The body of data represented by the more than 8,000 field and moist chamber collections of myxomycetes accumulated during these surveys have provided evidence for a number of ecological patterns not previously reported for myxomycetes. The most important of these are that (1) both overall abundance and species richness of myxomycetes appear to be lower in tropical forests than in temperate forests, (2) species richness and [especially] relative abundance increase with decreasing moisture conditions, and (3) in tropical forests, distinct assemblages of myxomycetes are associated with microhabitats that have no counterparts in temperate forests. The most extensive of the latter is the aerial litter (dead but still attached plant parts) microhabitat, where myxomycetes appear to be especially abundant and diverse. Most of the dictyostelids recovered from samples collected in the various study areas are cosmopolitan forms or species known to have tropical or subtropical affinities. However, one new species (Acytostelium minutissimum), several other forms that possibly represent undescribed species, and a number of species not previously known from the Neotropics also were recorded. For the most part, the species of protostelids associated with Neotropical forests are the same as those found in temperate regions of the world, and species richness in this group appears to be highest in mesic but not wet habitats. Microhabitat trends of particular species of protostelids appear to vary with habitat. Overall in tropical montane habitats, protostelids are more abundant in aerial microhabitats than in ground microhabitats while in mesic habitats they are present in both types of microhabitats, but with some species displaying a preference for one or the other.
3668565|The Myxobiota diversity of the Garajonay National Park (Gomera, Canary Islands) is presented, with preliminary results of a chorological and ecological evaluation. Seventy-one species are registered, twenty of these are reported for the first time in the Canaries. A greater biodiversity is observed in the damp shady zones of the evergreen forest than in areas occupied by introduced vascular plant species or communities of xerophytic scrubs. With regard to the substrate, the ligno-corticolous group is the best represented. Among the myxomycetes of Garajonay National Park, the dominant chorological element is the Holarctic.
3668563|The number of occurrences and areas of fructification colonies of myxomycetes were investigated on decaying wood of deciduous broadleaf and coniferous wood in a natural temperate forest in the Nishikuma ravine (900-1200 m alt.) in Kochi prefecture, Southwest Japan. Forty-seven species of wood-inhabiting myxomycetes were found from 397 collected samples. In the progression of decay, the species of myxomycetes changed on both kinds of wood. The number of recorded species increased and reached their maximum on rather decayed wood and strongly decayed wood of both kinds of wood. They decreased on hard wood and brittle and spongy wood. The distribution pattern of eight species (Physarum viride, Lycogala epidendrum, Arcyria cinerea, Cribraria cancellata and others) on both kinds of wood had something in common. The common species on both kinds of wood were placed regularly according to the state of decay. On the strongly decayed and softer wood, the species distribution was obviously different in terms of species and colony sizes.
3668555|The neotropical shrub genus Ronabea Aubl. has long been included by most authors in Psychotria L. (Psychotrieae), but differs from that genus in characters of the seeds, pyrenes, stipules, and inflorescence arrangement. As shown by morphological features and molecular studies, Ronabea is better placed in the recently described tribe Lasiantheae. It is here circumscribed to comprise three species: Ronabea emetica (L.f.) A. Rich., Ronabea isanae (J.H. Kirkbr.) C.M. Taylor, comb. nov., and Ronabea latifolia Aubl.
3668553|Besides a brief description of Heisteria parvifolia, its distribution is reviewed on the basis of voucher material as well as literature data. Traditional uses are listed. An analysis of the oil contained by its seeds is provided. Results are discussed regarding available data concerning a Brazilian species, Heisteria silvanii.
3668557|The activities of the first tree canopy biodiversity survey for cryptogams (myxomycetes, macrofungi, mosses, liverworts, and lichens) are reviewed. The All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory under the rubric of Discover Life in America represents a research effort to survey all life forms in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The double rope climbing method is described and illustrated. The public understanding of biodiversity was emphasized through print, exhibitions, and the television media. Student research experiences in the GSMNP resulted in the discovery of a new species of Diachea and an unusual epiphytic habitat for the fern Polypodium appalachianum. Students also experienced night field trips to collect myxomycetes with a flashlight and observation and photography of slugs feeding on the immature sporangial stages of the myxomycete Stemonitis axifera. Preliminary results suggest that the myxomycetes are the only group of targeted tree canopy organisms that are restricted to the bark and epiphytes of living trees. Ninety-five myxomycete species were harvested, mostly from moist chamber cultures derived from bark samples taken from the tree canopy. Bark samples were taken from: Juniperus virginiana, Fraxinus americana, Quercus alba, Liriodendron tulipifera, Acer rubrum, and Pinus strobus. Over 500 moist chamber cultures resulted in 52 new myxomycete records from the tree canopy. Seven new records were collected from ground sites. The total myxomycete species now known from the Park is 212. Bark sample characteristics such as pH, tree height, and water holding capacity were analyzed for different tree species to determine their relationship to myxomycete species assemblages. Occurrence and abundance of certain myxomycete species are related to differences in bark pH. Fieldwork during the summer of 2000 resulted in 191 lichen taxa collected from the tree canopy with 83 taxa new to the Park. Tree canopy species of lichens, macrofungi, mosses, and liverworts were also known from ground sites.
3668570|A survey of the biosystematic studies in the myxomycetes indicates that the currently recognized morphospecies are generally species complexes consisting of a number of genetically isolated regional allopatric and/or sympatric biological species and numerous small (rarely large) apomicitic clones. Other variations include a single biological species with or without apomictic clones, or apomictic clones without a biological species. Stalk and sporangial color, columella shape, and sporangial cluster morphotypes, which are produced by variations at a few genes, also occur within a genetic group. Biotypes that have small plasmodia, rapid life cycles, and dwarf or reduced numbers of sporangia can be isolated from ephemeral or low nutrient habitats and are also part of a larger genetic group. This information indicates that many of the recently described species are probably based on restricted clonal lines, which should not be recognized at the species level. Also, some commonly accepted morphospecies are only morphological variants, which can be found within a single biological species. Thus, the description of new species should be based upon an extensive collection of specimens so that these variations and small clonal populations can be excluded.
3668491|The wide variety of forms in myxomycetes, with regard to fructifications as well as the plasmodium, offers a fascinating field for the study of pattern formation. The manner of disposition of the fructifations over the substratum seems to be fairly constant for a given taxon. The evolution from the sessile form to the stipitate, and the subsequent elongation of the stipe has necessitated a strengthening of the stipe and balancing of sporangial weight. These have been achieved in different ways in the different taxa. And then, the spore ornamentation is so diverse that mycological terms seem inadequate to describe them, and the adoption of palynological terms has been suggested. The chemical nature of the different parts of the fructification and of the pigments, is as yet only partially understood. Despite widespread investigations, the metamorphosis of the living, pulsating plasmodium into the exquisitely sculptured, hibernating fructifications remains enigmatic. Morphogenesis in fungi is said to occur within a network of factors which include metabolic processes, macromolecular structures, the mechanical, chemical and electrical field within the organism, and the extracellular matrix; and this would also be true for myxomycetes. For a better understanding of these interactions, we must appeal for a closer collaboration of general myxomycologists with physicists, chemists and molecular biologists.
3668500|The taxonomy of the New World species of Azolla has been the subject of much debate and remains unsatisfactory. Since 1944 most authors, mainly Americans, recognize four species: A. caroliniana, A. filiculoides, A. mexicana and A. microphylla. The present study is based on a comprehensive review of the literature and on original observations, by optical and scanning electron microscopy, of numerous samples cultivated in our laboratory as well as herbarium exsiccata. Observation of the type specimens confirms the opinion of some authors that A. caroliniana and A. microphylla are synonyms of the previously described A. filiculoides. The ferns named A. caroliniana and A. microphylla by most authors, including the American taxonomists in their recent works, are different from their type specimens. The study also shows that the Mettenius conception, proposed as early as 1867, has to be rehabilitated: two species only exist in America. According to the priority rule they must be named A. cristata and A. filiculoides.
3668492|Through several separate studies made in our laboratory we have found that in routine cultures myxomycete plasmodia are invariably associated -- closely and tenaciously -- with one bacterial species, and thus monoxenic. The association is not species-specific, but the bacteria in most cases belong to the Enterobacteriaceae. The bacteria can be easily isolated and grown in pure culture, but this is not always true for the plasmodium. From parallel studies conducted with monoxenic plasmodial structures and pure cultures of the bacterial associate, we find that the monoxenic plasmodia can fix atmospheric nitrogen, produce extracellular enzymes and degrade certain types of wood and litter, and also tolerate high concentrations of various chemical pollutants, while the bacterial associates in pure culture exhibit none of these properties. Thus the association confers on the organism certain properties not manifest in the individual partners. As a result of some of our natural observations we presume this to occur in nature, and ascribe to the myxomycetes a positive role in the recycling of nutrients on the forest floor.
3668497|Arthur Lister (1830-1908) and his daughter, Gulielma (1860-1949), are closely associated with the myxomycete collections at the Natural History Museum (BM), which they used for the three editions of the Monograph of Mycetozoa. The working notebooks of the Listers, with coloured sketches, letters and postcards from correspondents around the world and other memorabilia, are an important adjunct to the collections. There are additional sketchbooks and the working illustrations for a fourth edition of their work.
3668499|As one component of the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) being carried out in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, an ongoing survey of dictyostelid cellular slime molds has yielded a combination of previously reported species together with additional Park records as well as a number of species possibly new to science. As results from previous studies conducted elsewhere in the world have indicated, there appear to be assemblages consisting of particular species of dictyostelids characteristically associated with certain habitats. This certainly seems to be true in the Park. In many cases, the distribution pattern of a given species can be related to the differences that exist from place to place for such environmental parameters as elevation, soil pH and the overall moisture regime. In this paper, we report on the current status of the ATBI dictyostelid survey and discuss some of the more interesting and/or unusual species discovered thus far.
3668496|During the 1991 to 1993 field seasons, samples of soil/litter for isolation of dictyostelids (cellular slime moulds) were collected from four different watersheds on the Fernow Experimental Forest in Tucker County, West Virginia, in the eastern United States. Myxomycete plasmodia recovered from these same samples were subjected to fusion tests, which revealed that one genetic strain of a single species, as yet unidentified, occurred over a total area of at least <tex-math>$1.3\ km^{2}$</tex-math>.
3668494|About thirty Belgian collections (BR, GENT, private herbaria) were assembled for this study. The revision results in the recognition of four species in the Belgian flora: Oligonema flavidum (the commonest species), O. schweinitzii, O. fulvum and O. intermedium (rare). Belgian material of the latter species was previously confused with O. aurantium, from which O. intermedium has only recently been separated. The taxonomic treatment includes a key to species, generic and specific descriptions, illustrations (peridium insides, capillitium, spores) habitat data and comments.
3668502|Ipomoea beninensis Akogninou, Lisowski & Sinsin and Thunbergia atacorensis Akogninou & Lisowski, two novelties found in Benin, are described, illustrated and discussed. Despite the relatively dry climate in this part of West Africa (the "Dahomey Gap"), it appeared that undescribed species not only occur in gallery forest but also in low dry forest adjacent to a main road.
3668501|Diversity and distribution of plant species at 105 sites (63 in the Oases of the Western Desert and 42 in the Nile land) of seven major irrigated croplands in Egypt was surveyed using stratified sampling technique. These sites were distributed as follows: twelve in Siwa Oasis, fifteen in Bahariya Oasis, fifteen in Farafra Oasis, seven in Dakhla Oasis, fourteen in Kharga Oasis, fifteen in Faiyum Governorate and 27 in central Delta region. A total of 328 species belonging to 212 genera and 59 families were recorded. The highest numbers of species were found in the Faiyum Governorate and Bahariya Oasis while those of Kharga and Dakhla Oases were the lowest. The families with the highest number of species (60% of the total) were Poaceae (53 species), Asteraceae (37 species), Fabaceae (29 species), Cyperaceae (ninteen species), Chenopodiaceae (fifteen species), Brassicaceae (thirteen species), Caryophyllaceae (twelve species), Euphorbiaceae and Polygonaceae (ten species each). Six alien weedy species were recorded for the first time. In this study, five main habitat types were recognised which are supported by spatial analysis: i, farmlands (including irrigated crop-fields and orchards); ii, canal banks; iii, reclaimed lands; iv, waste lands (including moist and abandoned saline field plots but not salt marshes) and; v, water bodies. TWINSPAN and DCA analyses of 105 sites & 186 species of frequency percentages >5% showed six site groups, with the Nile land and the Oases croplands as clearly separated agro-ecosystems.
3668495|A world-wide dichotomous key to species of myxomycetes growing on the bark of living trees and vines is provided. It includes two hundred and sixty-three myxomycete taxa plus two common and morphologically similar but unrelated corticolous organisms (Acrasiales and Myxobacteria). One needed new combination is provided: Reticularia simulans (Rostaf.) D.W.Mitch. for Enteridium simulans.
3668493|Populations of cellular slime molds (CSM) isolated from fifteen separate collections by the first four authors were compared from Puerto Rico, St. John, Virgin Islands, and San Salvador, Bahamas. These islands differ in size as well as number of forest habitats. The island populations in turn were compared to those of an optimal mainland habitat at Tikal, Guatemala. Our main objective was to determine what effects habitat diversity, area and insular environment have on CSM diversity. Although other studies have investigated species-area relationships, most have focused on either animals or plants. Our purpose has been to determine how a specific group of microorganisms, the cellular slime molds, responds to island biogeography. In addition, we were also interested in finding endemic examples of speciation in the Caribbean. Two endemics were found: Polysphondylium luridum from Puerto Rico and St. John and P. equisetoides from San Salvador. The latter species is described as part of this paper.
3668498|Samples of tree bark and dung of large herbivores were collected by the second author and subsequently sent to the first author for culturing in moist chamber. Results of these cultures are listed and include eleven spp. that are new to Tanzania. Specimens are preserved in the herbarium of the first author. Localities and substrates are cited with Myxomycete species arranged alphabetically.
3668503|Based on material from Katanga (Congo-Kinshasa), a new species of the genus Sopubia (Scrophulariaceae) is described, compared with related species, and illustrated. It is named in honor of Professor Paul Duvigneaud with some remarks on the taxonomic results of his work. /// Sur base de matriel en provenance du Katanga (Congo-Kinshasa), une nouvelle espce du genre Sopubia (Scrophulariaceae) est dcrite et illustre, par comparaison avec des espces voisines. Elle est nomme d'aprs le Professeur Paul Duvigneaud, avec quelques remarques sur les rsultats taxonomiques de ses travaux.
3668514|The author prepares a revision of Tarenna in Madagascar and assembles in this precursor a number of novelties in preparation for a check-list of the Rubiaceae of Madagascar and the Comores. Tarenna capuroniana is described as a new species from northern Madagascar. Chomelia alleizettei is transferred to Tarenna. Ixora drakei, I. rotundifolia, Tarenna richardii and T. verdcourtiana are placed in the synonymy of Tarenna grevei, and I. nigrescens and I. hildebrandtii in the synonymy of T. sechellensis. A list of the currently accepted Malagasy Tarenna species with their synonymy and types is provided. An identification key is given.
3668512|A revision of Sherbournia G.Don is given, based mainly on a study of the herbarium specimens at BATA, BM, BR, BRLU, K, LBV, MO, P, SCA, WAG and YA. The general part gives a survey of the history of the genus and comments upon fruit morphology. The distribution maps of the species show the characteristic pattern of a strictly Guineo-Congolian genus. The taxonomic part gives keys and complete species treatments (synonymies, descriptions, distributional data, critical notes). The detailed examination of the specimens resulted in one novelty: Sherbournia batesii (Wernham) Hepper subsp. kivuensis Pauwels & Sonk. Some taxonomic changes are made: Sherbournia streptocaulon (K.Schum.) Hepper var. situtunga N.Hall should not be maintened as a variety. Sherbournia bignoniiflora (Welw.) Hua var. brazzaei N.Hall, Amaralia palustris Wernham and Amaralia ekotokicola Wernham are synonymous with Sherbournia bignoniiflora (Welw.) Hua. The subdivision of S. hapalophylla (Wernham) Hepper is reconsidered and two subspecies are proposed in stead of three varieties: S. hapalophylla subsp. hapalophylla and S. hapalophylla subsp. wernhamiana (N.Hall) Sonk & Pauwels. According to those changes, S. hapalophylla var. henrihuana N.Hall is put into synonymy with S. hapalophylla subsp. hapalophylla.
3668511|A new species of Duosperma, D. clarae, is described from Katanga, D.R. Congo. It is the sixth species of that genus to be identified in the Congo. Study of the pollen clearly confirms that the new species belongs to Petaliidinae (Acanthoideae-Ruellieae) and to Duosperma. After Elytraria acaulis (Nelsonioideae), D. clarae is the second species and the second subfamily of Acanthaceae in which orbicules ('Ubisch bodies'; sporopollenin corpuscles covering the inner wall of the anthers) are recorded. Habit and pollen grains are illustrated and the distribution map of the species, with a short description of its habitat, is given. /// Une nouvelle espce de Duosperma, D. clarae, est dcrite du Katanga, R.D. Congo. C'est la sixime espce du genre identifie au Congo. L'tude du pollen confirme l'appartenance de cette nouvelle espce aux Petaliidinae (Acanthoideae-Ruellieae) et au genre Duosperma. Aprs Elytraria acaulis (Nelsonioideae), D. clarae est la deuxime espce et la deuxime sous-famille d'Acanthaceae dans laquelle des orbicules ('corpuscules d'Ubisch'; corpuscules de sporopollnine garnissant la paroi interne des anthres) sont dcouverts. La plante et le pollen de l'espce sont illustrs et sa carte de distribution ainsi qu'un aperu des conditions de son habitat sont donns.
3668510|Desmid samples were collected from Australia's Northern Territory and the northeastern part of Western Australia. The tropical, northern part of Australia appears to be extraordinarily rich in desmid taxa but relatively poorly documented. From the present investigation some twenty taxa, interesting from a taxonomic or biogeographical point of view, are discussed separately. Six species and one variety new to science are described: Cosmarium dichotomum, C. lineogranulosum, C. porosum, C. spinoscrobiculosum, Euastrum scrobiculosum, Micrasterias archeri and Staurastrum sinuatum var. croasdaleae.
3668509|The gleba of white truffles recently collected in Luxembourg was found hosting a very rare hypocrealean species of the Bionectriaceae family: Battarrina inclusa (Berk. & Broome) Clem. & Shear. The brief published descriptions are completed. For the first time for about 150 years since the discovery of the species, the spore ornamentation is accurately illustrated. /// Les auteurs commentent et dcrivent des rcoltes luxembourgeoises rcentes de truffes blanches  glba colonise par une trs rare espce d'Hypocrale de la famille des Bionectriaces: Battarrina inclusa (Berk. & Broome) Clem. & Shear. Les descriptions sommaires publies de l'espce sont compltes. L'ornementation des spores est illustre de manire prcise pour la premire fois, prs d'un sicle et demi aprs la dcouverte de l'espce.
3668513|The present paper describes the piscicultural station of Mutimbuzi situated near Bujumbura town. The waters have a constantly high temperature, a neutral to basic pH, and correspond to calcium-magnesium bicarbonate type. Variations of temperature, pH and ionic composition have been observed for the period between December 1991 and June 1992. 77 planktic taxa have been observed in three ponds. The Euglenophyceae are represented by 39 taxa, the Chlorophyceae by 25, the Cyanophyceae by 12 and the Dinophyceae by one taxon. The algal distribution is heterogeneous within the same pond and differences in algal composition and distribution within the three ponds have been observed. The semi-quantitative study has indicated the dominant taxa and the algal successions for the study period. Only Anabaena spiroides can be considered as a constant species in the three ponds. Two socioecological groups have been clearly identified. /// Le prsent travail dcrit la station piscicole de Mutimbuzi situe prs de la mairie de Bujumbura. Les eaux de cette station ont une temprature constamment leve, un pH neutre  basique; elles sont de type bicarbonat calcico-magnsique  dominance de calcium. Des fluctuations de temprature, pH, et de composition ionique ont t observes au cours de la priode de dcembre 1991  juin 1992. L'tude qualitative de la flore planctonique a rvl la prsence de 77 taxons dans trois tangs. Les euglenophyces sont reprsentes par 39 taxons, les algues vertes par 25, les algues bleues par 12 et les dinophyces par un taxon. Des diffrences dans la composition floristique au sein d'un mme tang et au sein des trois tangs ont t observes. L'tude semi-quantitative a permis de dterminer les taxons dominants et les successions algales pendant les sept mois d'tude. Seule Anabaena spiroides peut tre considre comme espce constante dans les trois tangs. Deux groupes sociocologiques ont t clairement identifis.
3668515|Thirty-two first records of mosses and liverworts are reported for Runion. Daltonia onraedtii Bizot is validated and reduced, together with D. dusenii Mll.Hal. and D. latimarginata Besch., to the synonymy of the American D. pulvinata Mitt. Daltonia stenoloma Besch. is placed in synonymy with D. angustifolia var. angustifolia Dozy & Molk. instead of var. strictifolia (Mitt.) M.Fleisch. Dicranoloma cataractarum Demaret & P.de la Varde and Dicranoloma onraedtii Bizot ex Bizot are placed in the synonymy of Blindia magellanica Schimp. ex Mll.Hal. Macromitrium gimalacii Bizot & Onr. is reduced to a synonym of Macrocoma lycopodioides (Schwgr.) Vitt. A new combination Weissia borbonica (Bizot & Onr. ex Onr.) Arts comb. nov. has been made to accommodate Astomum borbonicum Bizot & Onr. ex Onr.
3668576|The informations here published are related to 328 taxa (species and subspecies): 129 for the volume I, 174 for the volume II, 25 for the families and genera which are not retained by Strid. The adopted order follows that of the Flora of Strid (1986, Strid & Kit Tan 1991). The field work was done from 1981 to 1991; every mountain of Greece was visited one to three times (the Mount Athos excluded). Herbarium samples exist for each of the published data. Some species were new for Greece at the time of the discovery and by reference to Flora Europaea (Aster bellidiastrum, Dryopteris affinis subsp. affinis, Hieracium cf. humile, Hypericum umbellatum, Ribes alpinum), some stations seems to be separated from the main area; some observations corroborate old mentions from the literature. It is specified if an observation is new for the cited mountain or for the district and if the area of that species is significantly widened or not. Those informations appear in chapter 6.1. A list of the biotopes to be visited by priority appears in chapter 6.3.
3668578|Gardenia epiphytica (Rubiaceae) from the forests of Gabon and Cameroon is described and illustrated. It is the fourth record of an epiphytic species in afrotropical Rubiaceae.
3668575|Phytosociological, ecological and dendrometric surveys have been done in the forest plantations of Djigb and Lama in south-Benin. The factorial analysis of correspondence helps to identify two Chromolaena odorata communities: one on the "terre de barre" (ferralitic soil) and the other on the black cotton soils. At 5% of probability level, there is no significant difference between the specific diversity of the two Chromolaena odorata communities: the mean value of the species richness is 33 per relev on the "terre de barre" against 31 on the black cotton soils; the Shannon index value is 1.6 on the "terre de barre" against 2.2 on the black cotton soils; the evenness coefficient of Pielou is respectively 0.48 and 0.44 on "terre de barre" and the black cotton soils. From the specific combination of the Chromolaena odorata communities within the study area, we deduce that these communities can be used to identify general soil-types. However, due to the important variability of plantation productivity within these communities, they can not reliably be used to identify forest sites. /// Les plantations forestires  Chromolaena odorata dans les secteurs de Djigb et de la Lama au sud-Bnin ont fait l'objet d'investigations phytosociologique, cologique et dendromtrique. L'analyse factorielle des correspondances sur un ensemble de 19 relevs a permis d'objectiver l'identification de deux groupements vgtaux  Chromolaena odorata qui caractrisent respectivement la terre de barre et les vertisols. Au seuil de probabilit de 5%, il n'existe pas de diffrence significative entre la diversit spcifique de ces deux groupements. En effet, sur la terre de barre, le groupement vgtal  Chromolaena odorata possde en moyenne 33 espces par relev contre 31 espces pour celui de la Lama; l'indice de Shannon a pour valeur 1,6 sur la terre de barre contre 2,2 sur les vertisols; le coefficient d'quitabilit de Pielou vaut 0,48 sur la terre de barre contre 0,44 sur les vertisols. A partir de la combinaison spcifique des communauts vgtales  Chromolaena odorata, nous dduisons que ces communauts peuvent servir  identifier les types gnraux de sols. Cependant, en raison d'importantes variations des niveaux de productivit des plantations au sein de ces communauts, celles-ci n'ont pas de valeur indicatrice fiable vis--vis des stations forestires.
3668574|Margaritopsis C. Wright has recently been shown to be an older name for Chazaliella E.M.A.Petit & Verdc. and Chytropsia Bremek. and to be a pantropical genus. In the Neotropics this group, apart from three unusual species in Cuba, has long been included variously in Psychotria L. subg. Psychotria and Psychotria subg. Heteropsychotria Steyerm. Margaritopsis in its newly expanded circumscription is distinguished from Psychotria by its characteristic stipules that become indurated and then fragmented, its often flattened costate internodes, its red fruits, and its pyrenes with smooth flat ventral surfaces and dehiscence via two marginal slits. The 27 neotropical species of Margaritopsis are listed and keyed here and the 22 necessary new nomenclatural combinations are made. One species is newly described here: M. inconspicua is a low shrub of the central and western Amazon basin that has previously been confused with M. astrellantha (Wernham) L.Andersson.
3668579|The new species B. kisimbae, restricted to copper outcrops of the Tenke-Fungurume area in Upper-Katanga, is close to B. botryoidea A.Robyns but its leaves are generally shorter (3-8 rather than 8-12 cm), and spaced along the stem attaining 5-11 cm of length instead of being clustered at the top of a short (1-4 cm) stem; the upper face of the lamina is flat and pubescent instead of rolled inwards and glabrous; the lower face is entirely and densely papillose instead of only papillose on the sides of cavities between the veinlets.
3668577|Seasonal lakes are a characteristic landscape element of the semi-arid Sahel zone in West Africa; their vegetation has a significant economic importance and is intensively used; water levels are subjected to large fluctuations. Based upon the example of Burkina Faso, the ephemeral, herbaceous vegetation of standing, seasonal freshwater lakes was studied. Field survey with phytosociological relevs took place at eleven lakes. The vegetation is classified into floristically and ecologically well defined units: several associations and rank-free communities are documented, most of them can be found with subassociations or in fragmentary and floristically impoverished forms. Duration of flooding, height of inundation, and utilisation intensity are the most important differentiating factors. The plant communities are integrated into the existing syntaxonomical scheme of West African wetland vegetation. They can be grouped into two phytosociological alliances: Sagittario guayanensis-Nymphaeion maculatae (vegetation of nutrient rich shorelines with muddy substrate) and Brachiario muticae-Cynodontion dactyli (dense swards at sandy, wet places with an eutrophication through animals). The plant communities are presented in a constancy table. Their distribution, ecological and floristic relationships are described and discussed in a larger geographical context.
20649730|A complete revision, including a key to the species, drawings and distribution maps, of the tropical African Annonaceae genus Annickia (= Enantia Oliv., non Falc.) is presented. The exact phylogenetic position of this genus within the family has long been, and in fact still is, unclear. The status of four species, A. ambigua, A. atrocyanescens, A. kwiluensis and A. olivacea, has been elucidated. All four refer to the same species: A. ambigua. One new combination, A. affinis (Exell) Versteegh & Sosef, was needed. The well-known A. chlorantha, the bark of which is reputed for its anti-malarial activity, appears to be a rare species confined to southern Nigeria and Cameroon. It has been frequently confused with the more widespread A. affinis. The genus Annickia now comprises eight species, several of which show interesting distribution patterns.
20649731|Strombosia fleuryana, a new species from Ngomo on the Ogoou River in West Gabon is described and illustrated. The species is distinguished from the other Strombosia species of Lower Guinea by its leaves with very short petioles and by the subsessile flowers. A key to all Strombosia species of Lower Guinea is presented.
20649728|From the Netherlands four desmid species are newly described: Cosmarium calculus, C. jugatum, C. medioretusum and Roya closterioides. The names of eight taxa are newly given or recombined: Closterium tortitaenioides, Euastrum biscrobiculatum, Staurastrum crassangulatum, S. hirsutum var. arnellii, S. reductum, Staurodesmus cuspidatus var. divergens, Std. extensus var. malaccensis and Std. incus var. indentatus. Taxonomic affinities, habitat characteristics and regional distribution data are dealt with.
20649732|New combinations and new synonyms for the genus Coptosperma are assembled here in preparation for a revision of the Malagasy representatives of the genus and a check-list of the Rubiaceae of Madagascar and the Comores. Ixora pachyphylla, I. sessiliflora as well as Enterospermum 'bernerianum', E. borbonicum, E. coriaceum, E. humblotii and E. madagascariensis are transferred to the genus Coptosperma. Ixora linearifolia is newly placed in the synonymy of C. nigrescens.
20649729|The soil algal flora of limed and unlimed sessile oak (Quercus petraea (Matt.) Lieb.) and Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) forest plots situated in the Belgian Ardenne was investigated. Chlorophyta (61 taxa) were by far the most diverse group, followed by Xanthophyta (ten taxa), Bacillariophyta (three taxa), Cyanophyta (two taxa) and Euglenophyta (one taxon). Elliptochloris incisiformis Hoffmann et Kostikov, Elliptochloris perforata Hoffmann et Kostikov and Dicranochaete terrestris Hoffmann et Kostikov are described as new taxa.
20649738|The Leguminosae (Caesalpinioideae, Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae) of Angola were revised and a catalogue of the taxa endemic to the country is presented together with distribution maps. Up to present, 1016 taxa belonging to 166 genera of Leguminosae have been recorded for the flora of Angola. There are 144 native genera and 863 native species. The endemism is c. 19%, with 185 taxa endemic to Angola, consisting of 165 species and 20 infraspecific taxa. The genera Crotalaria and Indigofera have the highest number of endemics, with 46 and 20 species, respectively. Hula is the province where more endemic taxa occur, with 83 taxa (44%) recorded. As shown by the data analysed, 39 endemic taxa (20%) are only known from the type specimens and 77 (41%) have not been collected since 1960. A total of 93 names that were recorded in the Flora 'Conspectus Florae Angolensis' as endemics, are either synonyms of widespread taxa or are now known to occur also elsewhere.
20649741|Strombosia retivenia S.Moore (Olacaceae) from Nigeria, hitherto treated as a synonym of Diogoa zenkeri (Engl.) Exell & Mendona (Olacaceae), proved to represent a distinct species of that genus. The combination Diogoa retivenia is made. As a consequence Diogoa is no longer monospecific. The two Guineo-Congolese species are geographically separated. Their distributions are mapped. The wide gap in the distribution of Diogoa zenkeri is discussed. Diogoa retivenia, as well as the main distinguishing features of D. zenkeri, are illustrated. A key to the two species is provided. D. zenkeri is lectotypified.
20649740|Ongoing molecular studies of the subfamily Lamioideae have demonstrated that several genera do not correspond to monophyletic groups as currently circumscribed. Leucas R.Br. and Otostegia Benth. are particularly problematic in this respect. To confront the issue of monophyly taxonomically, the genus Rydingia A.-C.Scheen & V.A.Albert is described here with four species formerly assigned to Otostegia. The number of species of Moluccella L. is increased to three with the recognition of Moluccella aucheri (Boiss.) A.-C.Scheen which is transferred from Otostegia. The number of species of Isoleucas O.Schwartz is increased to two with the recognition of Isoleucas somala (Patzak) A.-C.Scheen, which is transferred from Otostegia. It was also necessary to distinguish two different groups of Leucas: 1) Leucas sensu stricto and 2) the "African Leucas clade", which preliminarily may be referred to as Leonotis (Pers.) R.Br. sensu lato due to nomenclatural priority.
20649739|Surirella bifrons var. intermedia O.Mll. and Surirella fuellebornii O.Mll., including its infraspecific taxa, were re-evaluated using historical East African material collected in the early 20th century from which Otto Mller described more than 100 new diatom taxa. In addition, material from the Hustedt Diatom Collection together with material collected during the past decades in the region of the African Great Lakes was studied. The investigation of the original material of Surirella bifrons Ehrenb. in the Ehrenberg Collection allowed to elevate Surirella bifrons var. intermedia to species rank: Surirella kusberi nom. nov. The variation observed in the material studied supported the abandonment of taxonomic recognition of Surirella fuellebornii f. subconstricta O.Mll. and var. constricta O.Mll. On the other hand, var. tumida Hustedt and var. elliptica O.Mll. are here elevated to species rank: Surirella crawfordii nom. nov. and Surirella friedelhinziae nom. nov. respectively. Finally, Surirella fuellebornii var. worthingtonii H.Bachm. was found to belong within the variability of Surirella malombae O.Mll.
10.2307/3668750|This study represents a first attempt to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships in the genus Dictyota by means of an RFLP analysis of the amplified Internal Transcribed Spacer 1 of the ribosomal region (ARDRA-ITS1). To overcome DNA extraction problems, a new protocol based on a combination of a CTAB method and a Sephaglass Bandprep Kit is presented. Seven species, mostly including more than one specimen, were included. Padina boergesenii was used as an outgroup. The inferred phylogenetic picture was congruent with the morphological-anatomical data. Specimens belonging to the same species invariably group together and differences among geographically isolated populations are reflected in the tree. Parsimony-based bootstrap and jackknife supports for basal nodes are generally very low and phylogenetic relationships between species are poorly resolved. This poor resolution can probably be attributed to the considerable variation in length of the ITS1 region among the species. This variation causes difficulties in sequence alignments and calls into question the use of this marker as a general tool in the genus.
10.2307/3668751|A cladistic analysis of 5S nuclear ribosomal DNA non-transcribed spacer (5S-NTS) sequences representing 55 Saintpaulia accessions and one Streptocarpus outgroup taxon is presented. All formally described and potential Saintpaulia taxa are included except for S. 'mafiensis' and the possibly extinct S. inconspicua. Most notably, Saintpaulia shumensis, the highest elevation species in the Usambara Mountains, is resolved, albeit with marginal parsimony jackknife support, as the sister taxon to all remaining members of the Usambaras/lowland clade, which is otherwise poorly structured. It is hypothesized that Saintpaulia shumensis may show a relictual distribution in the Usambaras, as there appears to be a phylogenetic trend from higher to lower elevation among the major clades of Saintpaulia. Further issues discussed include the implications of intra-individual nucleotide polymorphism and the narrow genetic basis for drastic differences in trichome morphology, a cardinal characteristic for Saintpaulia taxonomy.
10.2307/3668747|A new evergreen species of Arisaema from Thailand, A. omkoiense, is described and illustrated. The relationships, geographical distribution and cultural requirements are discussed.
10.2307/3668748|The name in karone, a language of the Lower Casamance Country (Senegal), of 86 plants are recorded. Most of these plants are used by man. /// Le nom en karone, une langue de la Basse Casamance (Sngal), de 86 espces vgtales a t enregistr. La plupart de ces espces sont utilises par l'homme.
10.2307/3668749|Aulacocalyx mapiana is described as a new species from Banyang Mbo, south-western Cameroon. Its relationship within the genus is discussed and a key is provided to all four species occurring in Cameroon.
10.2307/3668752|Perenniporia subdendrohyphidia is described based on a collection originating from Cameroon. The species is compared with Perenniporia dendrohyphidia from which it differs by having a pure white pore surface, smaller, oblong to oblong-ellipsoid, non-dextrinoid basidiospores, and narrower vegetative hyphae. Both P. dendrohyphidia and P. subdendrohyphidia are characterized by possessing dendrohyphidia in their dissepiments.
10.2307/3668754|Relationships among 40 species of the tribe Psychotrieae were estimated by cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in the rps16 intron (cpDNA). One strongly supported clade was found to include the genera Chazaliella, Chytropsia, Margaritopsis and Readea, and a number of species presently referred to Psychotria. It is suggested that this group should be treated taxonomically as one genus, the correct name of which would be Margaritopsis. The names Chazaliella, Chytropsia and Readea thus become synonyms of Margaritopsis. Margaritopsis in this broad sense is diagnosed by non-caducous stipules which are often marcescent, becoming papyraceous when old, by a greenish (rather than reddish or brownish) drying colour, planoconvex pyrenes with horny endocarp and distinct, marginal germination slits, and seeds with pale testa without an ethanol-soluble pigment. With this circumscription, Margaritopsis has ca. 10 species in the neotropics, ca. 25 in Africa, ca. 12 in New Caledonia and Fiji, and a few in SE Asia. It is doubtful if it occurs in The Philippines, New Guinea, Australia, Samoa or Hawaii. Three new combinations are made, Margaritopsis membranacea (Gillespie) L.Andersson, M. astrellantha (Wernh.) L.Andersson, and M. abrupta (Hiern) L.Andersson.
10.2307/3668753|Systematic research on the genus Panicum in the main Belgian public herbaria and some smaller private herbaria revealed a considerable number of new and other interesting data. Sixteen taxa have been recognized in the course of the present study: P. bulbosum*, P. capillare (incl. the subspecies capillare and barbipulvinatum*), P. chloroticum*, P. clandestinum, P. coloratum*, P. cf. decompositum*, P. dichotomiflorum (incl. the varieties dichotomiflorum and geniculatum), P. hillmanii*, P. hirticaule*, P. laevinode, P. miliaceum (incl. the subspecies miliaceum and ruderale*), P. schinzii and P. virgatum*. Several taxa (marked with * above) -- in part ancient and exclusive records of wool aliens originating in the Vesdre valley -- remained unidentified so far and are thus first mentioned for the Belgian adventitious flora. At present the following taxa are becoming more or less naturalized: P. capillare subsp. capillare, P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. schinzii (partially as noxious weeds in maize fields). Regularly introduced with cereals (incl. oil-seeds or commercial seeds) are P. chloroticum, P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. miliaceum subsp. miliaceum. Much rarer but fairly recent casuals are P. capillare subsp. barbipulvinatum, P. clandestinum, P. hillmanii, P. hirticaule and P. miliaceum subsp. ruderale. Misinterpretation within the genus led to numerous wrong identifications. P. compressum, P. flexile and P. repens need to be omitted from the Belgian adventitious flora lists. P. dichotomiflorum s.l. and P. schinzii have widely been confused; the majority of the P. dichotomiflorum collections actually belonged with P. schinzii. P. hillmanii and P. chloroticum are closely related and much confused with P. capillare and P. dichotomiflorum s.l. respectively. P. texanum is regarded as a member of the genus Urochloa, following recent nomenclatural insights. The present paper provides a dichotomous identification key for the genus Panicum in Belgium as well as additional chorological, taxonomic and nomenclatural remarks.
10.2307/3668726|The Mounts Kouff region is located in the central part of Benin between 1 40 and 2 30 N, and 8 25 and 9 15 E. This study dealt with the plant communities of the protected area of Wari Maro and Mounts Kouff. The vegetation is composed of savannah, woodland and patches of dry forests. The aim of this study is to determine the phytogeographical position of the Mounts Kouff region within Benin and western Africa. Between 1996 and 1998, floristical surveys were carried out. Some 159 phytosociological relevs were done. They resulted in 954 herbarium specimens corresponding to 584 species. Species of the Sudanian base element represent 16.1% of the total flora spectrum of Mounts Kouff region. Species of two of the three endemic genera to sudanian regional centre of endemism (RCE) were collected, i.e. Vitellaria paradoxa and Pseudocedrela kotschyi. The species present in both Sudanian and Zambesian RCE made up 13.5% of the phytogeographical spectrum and those of the Guineo-Congolian element accounted for 11.3% of the spectrum. They mostly belonged to gallery forests and dry forests because of the position of this region which is located in the most southern part of the Sudanian RCE close to the regional transition zone of Guinea-Congolia/Sudania. The other species widespread in several RCE's within continental african phytochoria represented 33% of the spectrum. Species of wide distribution represented 25.2% of the spectrum. This vegetation is entirely located into the Sudanian RCE as defined by White, with an important contribution of Guineo-Congolian species. /// La rgion des Monts Kouff est situe au centre du Bnin entre 1 40 et 2 30 N et 8 25 et 9 15 E. Elle regroupe les forts classes de Wari Maro, des Monts Kouff et les terroirs villageois environnants. La vgtation est compose de savanes, de forts claires et d'lots de forts denses sches ou denses semi-dcidues. L'objectif de la prsente tude est d'analyser le spectre phytogographique des espces recenses dans les Monts Kouff au sein des principales formations. Des inventaires floristiques et 159 relevs phytosociologiques effectus dans cette rgion de 1996  1998, rsultent une collection de 954 chantillons d'herbier correspondant  584 espces qui constituent les donnes de base de cette tude. Les espces de l'lment base soudanien reprsentent 16,1% du spectre brut de la florule totale de la rgion des Monts Kouff. Deux des trois genres endmiques du centre rgional d'endmisme (CRE) soudanien ont t rcolts; il s'agit de Vitellaria paradoxa et Pseudocedrela kotschyi. 13,5% des espces sont rpandues  la fois dans les CRE soudanien et zambsien; 11,3% appartiennent  l'lment guinen et se dveloppent dans les forts-galeries et forts denses sches ou semi-dcidues. Ces dernires sont situes dans la zone la plus mridionale du CRE soudanien en contact sud avec la zone de transition guino-congolaise/soudanienne. Les espces plurirgionales africaines reprsentent 33% du spectre brut. Il s'agit surtout des espces afrotropicales. Les taxons  plus large distribution constituent 25,2% du spectre brut. Au vu de ce qui prcde, on peut conclure que la rgion des Monts Kouff est situe entirement dans le Centre rgional d'endmisme soudanien (CRE) dfini par White avec une contribution importante des espces guinennes.
10.2307/3668693|Different opinions on the generic delimitation of Hyacinthaceae are reviewed with emphasis on sub-Saharan taxa. Morphological characters used for identification of genera as well as results from DNA-sequencing data are discussed in relation to different generic delimitations proposed by various authors. Recommendations on the generic delimitation of the family are put forward. The use of a wide generic concept is suggested with emphasis on the use of qualitative characters as diagnostic characters for genera. /// Diffrentes opinions concernant la dlimitation gnrique chez les Hyacinthaceae sont passes en revue. L'accent est mis sur les taxons sub-sahariens. Les caractres morphologiques utiliss pour l'identification des genres ainsi que les rsultats obtenus par squenage d'ADN sont discuts et mis en relation avec les dlimitations gnriques proposes par divers auteurs. Des recommandations pour la dlimitation gnrique au sein de la famille sont avances. L'utilisation d'un concept gnrique largi et celle de caractres qualitatifs pour la diagnose des genres sont proposes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668672|The Centro de Botnica of the Institue for Tropical Scientific Research (IICT) has a herbarium with about 240,000 specimens from sub-Saharan Africa. Most of them were collected in former Portuguese colonies. The Centre develops activities in areas such as taxonomy, phytogeography and ethnobotany. Studies for the publishing of the Conspectus Florae Angolensis, the Flora of Cape Verde Islands, and the Flora of Mozambique are being made, in co-operation with Angolan, Cape Verdean and Mozambican researchers. Studies on the flora, the vegetation and the ethnobotany in Guinea-Bissau are being undertaken in co-operation with governmental and private entities. In Cape Verde Islands and in So Tom and Prncipe, studies on vegetation and land use are being undertaken. The Centre supports Master and Ph.D. theses and trains technicians from Portuguese speaking African countries, contributing to the development of the botanical studies in these countries. /// Le Centre de Botanique de l'Institut pour la Recherche Scientifique Tropicale (IICT) possde un herbier d'environ 240.000 specimens provenant d'Afrique sub-saharienne. La plupart de ces chantillons ont t rcolts dans les anciennes colonies portugaises. Le Centre dveloppe des activits dans des domaines tels que la taxonomie, la phytogographie et l'ethnobotanique. Des tudes sont ralises en collaboration avec des chercheurs angolais, capverdiens et mozambicains dans le cadre de la publication de Conspectus Florae Angolensis, de la Flore des Iles du Cap-Vert et de la Flore du Mozambique. Des tudes sur la flore, la vgtation et l'ethnobotanique sont menes en Guine-Bissau en collaboration avec des entits gouvernementales et prives. Dans les les du Cap-Vert ainsi qu' So Tom et Prncipe, des tudes sur la vgtation et l'occupation du sol sont entreprises. Le Centre supporte des thses de matrise et de doctorat et forme des techniciens lusophones originaires de pays africains, contribuant ainsi au dveloppement des tudes botaniques dans ces pays. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668716|Only recently, ethnobotany has caught the interest of actors involved in the sustainable management of natural resources based on local ecological knowledge. In the perspective of conceiving a website for the African Ethnobotany Network (AEN), a preliminary study was undertaken in order to assess how ethnobotanical data are presented on the Internet. Fifty-two sites were analyzed, as well as the links they propose. The information offered on these sites appears to be heterogeneous and incomplete. Ethnobotanical data are generally presented as a compilation of plant uses. No sites were found discussing theoretical concepts, historical background, or methodological approaches. Bibliographic sources given are incomplete and texts cited may rarely be consulted interactively. This disappointing assessment does not convey the impression that ethnobotany is a dynamic and well-anchored discipline. These shortcomings underline the urgent need to conceive an innovative website enabling a richer exchange of information among members of the AEN, and contributing to present ethnobotany as a substantial scientific discipline. /// L'ethnobotanique n'a que tout rcemment suscit l'intrt des dcideurs uvrant pour une gestion durable des ressources naturelles qui tienne compte des savoirs populaires. Dans la perspective de concevoir un site internet pour le Rseau Africain d'Ethnobotanique (RAE), une tude a t pralablement mene afin de voir comment l'information ethnobotanique est traite sur internet. Cinquante-deux sites ont t analyss, de mme que les liens qu'ils proposent. L'information qu'ils dispensent s'avre htroclite et lacunaire. Les donnes nonces comme "ethnobotaniques" ne sont souvent que des compilations d'usages de plantes. Aucun des sites consults n'aborde les concepts thoriques, la mise en perspective historique de la discipline ou les mthodologies d'enqutes. Les rfrences bibliographiques sont incompltes et ne permettent que rarement un accs interactif aux textes cits. Ce bilan dcevant ne contribue gure  faire valoir l'ethnobotanique comme une science bien tablie et dynamique. Il est urgent de concevoir un site internet innovant, qui soit une plateforme d'change entre membres du RAE, et qui rhabilite l'ethnobotanique en tant que vritable discipline scientifique.
10.2307/3668741|Three samples of Equato-Guinean rain forest have recently been studied under the project of CUREF (Conservacin y Utilizacin Racional de los Ecosistemas Forestales de Guinea Ecuatorial). The rain forest of the Altos de Nsork region, in the eastern part of Equatorial Guinea, has been studied by the present author by 1 km long transects. The two other studies have been carried out by others at the rio Muni's estuary (southwestern part of the country) and in the Ndote reserve (central-western part). A total of 9970 trees with DBH  30 cm, belonging to 341 species determined at least to genus, were found on 93.5 ha. To take the vegetation variability of each site into account, a phytosociological table was established using TWINSPAN with twenty surveys of 160  10 m for DBH  10 cm trees, chosen in homogeneous parts of transect. The following species were found to be prominent in the zone near the coast: Desbordesia glaucescens, Calpocalyx heitzii, Alstonia congensis, Sacoglottis gabonensis, Anthostema aubryanum, Erythrophleum ivorense, Caloncoba glauca, Lophira alata, Croton oligandrus, etc. The species found to have a continental distribution included: Millettia laurentii, Sindoropsis letestui, Entandrophragma congoense, Celtis tessmannii, Dialium pachyphyllum, Dialium spp., Allanblackia floribunda, etc. Because of the abundance of these species, Nsork represents the most continental part of the lowerguinean atlantic region. The forests of the rio Muni's estuary show a huge biodiversity because of their intermediate position and their rich habitat diversity. /// Trois inventaires dans les forts denses de Guine Equatoriale ont rcemment t tudis au sein du projet CUREF (Conservacin y Utilizacin Racional de los Ecosistemas Forestales de Guinea Ecuatorial). Les forts denses de la rgion des Altos de Nsork, dans l'Est de la Guine Equatoriale, ont t tudies par le prsent auteur sur des transects de 1 km de long. Les deux autres tudes furent menes par d'autres dans l'estuaire du rio Muni (au Sud-Ouest du pays) et dans la rserve de Ndot (Centre-Ouest). Un total de 9970 arbres  DBH  30 cm, appartenant  341 espces dtermines au moins jusqu'au genre, fut relev sur 93,5 ha. Afin de tenir compte de la variabilit de la vgtation dans chaque site, un tableau phytosociologique a t ralis en utilisant TWINSPAN avec vingt relevs de 160  10 m, pour les arbres  DBH  10 cm, choisis sur des tronons homognes de transect. Les espces suivantes sont apparues prdominantes dans la zone proche de la cte: Desbordesia glaucescens, Calpocalyx heitzii, Alstonia congensis, Sacoglottis gabonensis, Anthostema aubryanum, Erythrophleum ivorense, Caloncoba glauca, Lophira alata, Croton oligandrus, etc. Les espces  distribution continentale comptent parmi elles: Millettia laurentii, Sindoropsis letestui, Entandrophragma congoense, Celtis tessmannii, Dialium pachyphyllum, Dialium spp., Allanblackia floribunda, etc. Du fait de l'abondance de ces espces, Nsork reprsente l'extrmit continentale du domaine bas-guinen atlantique. Les forts de l'estuaire du rio Muni prsentent une forte biodiversit du fait de leur position intermdiaire et de leur importante richesse en habitats.
10.2307/3668694|The delimitation of the large and very variable paleotropical genus Tarenna sensu lato has been much debated. A detailed study of the morphological, anatomical and palynological characters of the different groups within this genus results here in the exclusion of circa fifty species from Madagasar or continental Africa. These possess unilocular drupaceous fruits with a single suborbicular to ellipsoidal and usually ruminate seed, a character combination not found in other representatives of Tarenna sensu lato. The genus name Coptosperma is revived to accommodate this group of species, occurring in Eastern and Southern Africa, Madagascar, the Mascarenes, the Seychelles and the Comoros. /// La dlimitation du genre palotropical Tarenna sensu lato, vaste et trs variable, a t l'objet de nombreux dbats. Une tude dtaille de caractres morphologiques, anatomiques et palynologiques des diffrents groupes au sein du genre conduit ici  l'exclusion d'environ cinquante espces de Madagascar ou du continent africain. Les fruits de ces espces sont des drupes uniloculaires  graine unique suborbiculaire  ellipsode et gnralement rumine, une combinaison de caractres qui est absente chez les autres reprsentants du genre Tarenna sensu lato. Le nom gnrique Coptosperma est rhabilit pour ce groupe d'espces prsentes en Afrique orientale et australe,  Madagascar, dans les Mascareignes, les Seychelles et les Comores.
10.2307/3668740|Guinea-Bissau is included in the Guinea-Congolia/Sudania regional transition zone. In order to characterize the environmental framework contributing to the phytogeography of this country the available data on the geology, soils and climatic features of his territory have been summarized and related with the vegetation data. In spite of being a small country, it shows some significant heterogeneity in flora and vegetation from north to south and from coastal to inland regions. The coastal western part of the country has humid to moderately humid climate and mostly deep soils. In the southwestern region develops probably the northernmost dry to sub-humid Guinean forests supporting a phytogeographic Guinean affinity of the region. In the inner eastern part of the country with a sub-humid climate and most of the soils shallow, the vegetation is mainly savanna and woodland and this region seems to have a Sudanese affinity. /// La Guine-Bissau fait partie de la zone de transition rgionale guinocongolaise/soudanienne. Afin de caractriser le cadre environnemental contribuant  la phytogographie de ce pays, les donnes disponibles relatives  la gologie, aux sols et aux conditions climatiques de son territoire ont t rsumes et mises en relation avec les donnes de vgtation. Bien qu'tant un petit pays, la Guine-Bissau est caractrise par une htrognit significative de sa flore et de sa vgtation tant du nord au sud que des rgions ctires vers l'intrieur de son territoire. La partie occidentale ctire du pays bnficie d'un climat humide  modrment humide et est caractrise par des sols gnralement profonds. C'est dans la rgion sud-ouest que se dveloppent probablement les forts guinennes sches  sub-humides les plus septentrionales, preuve de l'affinit guinenne de la rgion. Dans la partie orientale intrieure du pays, caractrise par un climat sub-humide et par des sols pour la plupart superficiels, la vgtation consiste principalement en savanes et en forts claires. Cette rgion semble possder une affinit soudanienne. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668680|The database FLOTROP, an initiative of Cnrs and Cirad, is intended to compile observations on the flora and vegetation of rangelands of northern tropical Africa, i.e. from the Saharo-Sahelian to the Sudanian zone. Its consultation allows elaborate output, i.e. cartographic or in relation to interpretative models. March 15, 2000, the database contained 15,000 listings distributed over 70 years, between latitude 4 and 25 north and from Cabo Verde to Somalia, and coming from more than 100 observers. The authors present a complete analysis of its sampling rate and its corresponding space variation. The importance of keeping observations, even old ones, in the database is stressed. /// La base FLOTROP initie par le Cnrs et le Cirad est destine  rassembler les observations sur la flore et la vgtation des pturages d'Afrique tropicale septentrionale, c'est--dire de la zone saharo-sahlienne  la zone soudanienne. Lors de consultations, elle permet des sorties labores, cartographiques ou en relation avec des modles interprtatifs. Au 15 mars 2000, la base porte sur 15 000 relevs rpartis sur 70 ans, entre les latitudes 4 et 25 N, du Cap-Vert  la Somalie et provenant de plus de 100 observateurs; les auteurs prsentent une analyse complte du taux d'chantillonnage correspondant et de sa variation spatiale. Ils insistent fortement sur l'importance de sauvegarder les observations mme anciennes dans la base de donnes.
10.2307/3668669|A floristic study was carried out on terrestrial weed species of Kampala (Uganda). The aim of the study was to identify weed species, to determine their life forms and their phytogeographical distribution and to compile a checklist. An inventory was made throughout the man-made habitats of Kampala and voucher specimens were collected and deposited at the Herbarium of the Department of Botany of Makerere University (MHU). Three hundred and thirty-one species, belonging to 204 genera and 64 families, were identified. The most important families are Asteraceae (45 spp.), Poaceae (44 spp.) and Papilionaceae (33 spp.). Most of the species are therophytes (38.7%) and of pantropical distribution (48.9%). /// Un inventaire floristique des plantes adventices a t ralis  Kampala en Ouganda. Cette tude avait pour objectif d'identifier ces espces, de dfinir et de discuter leurs types biologiques et phytogographiques. Un herbier de rfrence a t constitu et conserv  l'Herbarium du Dpartement de Botanique de l'Universit Makerere (MHU). Au total, 331 espces ont t identifies. Elles sont rparties en 64 familles et 204 genres. Les familles les plus importantes sont: Asteraceae (45 espces), Poaceae (44 espces) et Papilionaceae (33 espces). Parmi les types biologiques, les throphytes forment le groupe le plus important (38,7%). Le spectre gographique, par contre, est domin par des espces pantropicales (48,9% du total).
10.2307/3668698|The phylogeny of Cyperus and allied genera in Cyperaceae tribe Cypereae has been reconstructed using parsimony analysis of a combined data matrix, composed of plastid DNA (rbcL, trnL intron and trnL-F intergenic spacer) sequences and morphological data. Tribe Cypereae are resolved into a strongly supported clade that is defined by the Cyperus-type embryo and absence of perianth segments. Cyperus, sensu stricto, is not monophyletic as other cyperoid genera are embedded within it. The cyperoid taxa resolve into two clades, which are diagnosed by the eucyperoid (C3) and chlorocyperoid (C4) anatomy. Key generic morphological characters are optimised on the phylogeny. /// La phylognie du genre Cyperus et des genres allis de la tribu des Cypereae au sein de la famille des Cyperaceae a t reconstruite en utilisant l'analyse de parcimonie d'une matrice combine de donnes composes de squences d'ADN du plastide (rbcL, trnL intron et trnL-F intergenic spacer) et morphologiques. La tribu des Cypereae constitue une clade bien diffrencie qui est dfinie par l'embryon typique des Cyperus et l'absence de segments au niveau du prianthe. Cyperus, sensu stricto, n'est pas monophyltique car d'autres genres cyprodes y sont ancrs. Les taxons cyprodes constituent deux clades diagnostiques par leur anatomie eucyprode (C3) et chlorocyprode (C4). Les caractres morphologiques cls des genres sont optimiss sur l'arbre phylognique. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668668|The flora and distribution of epiphytes was surveyed on quickset hedges in the Bafou village (1400-2800m above sea level) situated at the Mount Bambouto area (west Cameroon) using Johansson's methodology (1974). The study area was divided into three areas (northern, central and southern part) according to the altitude. The factor analysis shows that the central and the southern regions of the study site were similar as far as the floristic composition is concerned. Because of this fact, two major regions were recognized within the study area: region I (central and southern parts) and region II (northern part). All together, 68 species were recorded on 746 individuals of 12 host tree species (phorophytes). Among the 68 species, 58 species are present in region I while 31 species are in region II. In region I, 46.6% of the species are Monocotyledons, Dicotyledons are represented by 29.3% of the species and Pteridophytes by 24.1%. The largest family among the 16 families present in this region I is the Orchidaceae which is represented by 46.6% of the species. In region II, Dicotyledons are the most abundant group and are represented by 48.4% of the species. Monocotyledons and Pteridophytes are in the same proportion and each of those groups is represented by 25.8% of the species. Among the 14 families present in this region, the Orchidaceae is the most abundant group with 25.8% of the species. In region I, two phorophytes, Cola anomala and Dracaena arborea, are the richest in species and carry 35 and 34 species of epiphytes, respectively. In region II, Dracaena arborea, Spathodea campanulata and Cola anomala with 21, 17 et 16 epiphytes respectively are the richest in species. Otherwise Croton macrostachyus and Ficus chlamydocarpa are the poorest in the two regions. A detailed analysis of the distribution of epiphytes on Cola anomala in the northern, central and southern parts of the study site with the number of epiphytes as the dependent variable and the circumference of the phorophyte as a co-factor shows a significant difference between the three parts of the study site (F = 5,56; d.f. = 2; P < 0,0054). Furthermore, the number of epiphytes and the circumference of the phorophyte appeared correlated in the different parts of the study site (<latex>$P<10^{-6}$</latex>). The examination of the stratification of the epiphytes on Cola anomala tree shows that the species richness is different within the five strates recognized here. /// La distribution des piphytes vasculaires a t tudie sur les haies vives du village Bafou (1400-2800 m d'altitude) situ dans la rgion des monts Bambouto (Ouest Cameroun). La mthodologie utilise est celle de Johansson (1974). Le territoire d'tude a t subdivis en trois ensembles (Nord, Centre et Sud) en fonction de l'altitude. L'analyse factorielle des correspondances nous a permis de constater que le Centre et le Sud sont floristiquement semblables. Ceci a permis la reconnaissance de deux rgions: la rgion I (Sud et Centre) et la rgion II (Nord). Au total, 68 espces d'piphytes ont t recenses sur 746 individus appartenant  douze espces-supports (phorophytes). Parmi les 68 espces d'piphytes rencontres, 57 sont signales dans la rgion I et 31 dans la rgion II. Dans la rgion I, 46,6% des espces sont des Monocotyldones. Les Dicotyldones et les Ptridophytes sont reprsentes respectivement par 29,3% et 24,1% des espces. Les Orchidaceae avec 46,6% des espces, sont de loin la famille la mieux reprsente parmi les 16 familles signales. Dans la rgion II, les Dicotyldones sont les plus nombreuses et reprsentent 48,4% des espces. Les Monocotyldones et les Ptridophytes, en proportion gale, reprsentent chacune 25,8% des espces. Parmi les 15 familles prsentes dans cette rgion, les Orchidaceae sont encore les mieux reprsentes avec 25,8% des espces. Dans la rgion I, Cola anomala et Dracaena arborea sont les phorophytes les plus riches en espces et portent respectivement 35 et 34 espces. Dans la rgion II, Dracaena arborea, Spathodea campanulata et Cola anomala avec respectivement 21 espces, 17 espces et 16 espces, sont les phorophytes les plus riches en espces. Croton macrostachyus et Ficus chlamydocarpa sont les phorophytes les plus pauvres dans les deux rgions de la zone d'tude. Une analyse plus pousse de la distribution des piphytes sur Cola anomala dans le Nord, le Centre et le Sud de la zone d'tude avec le nombre d'piphytes comme variable dpendante et comme co-facteur la circonfrence du phorophyte montre une diffrence entre ces trois parties du site (F = 5,56; d.d.l. = 2; P < 0,0054). Par ailleurs dans ces diffrentes parties, le nombre d'espces d'piphytes et la circonfrence du phorophyte sont deux variables significativement associes (<latex>$P<10^{-6}$</latex>). L'tude de la stratification des piphytes sur Cola anomala permet de constater que la richesse spcifique est diffrente dans les cinq strates reconnues.
10.2307/3668706|This paper presents a preliminary inventory of edible macromycetes found in six Sudano-Guinean vegetation types from the protected forest areas of Wari-Maro in Benin (West Africa). Thirty edible species were found in 18 fixed plots (three per vegetation type). Edibility data were obtained from local populations and the literature. Mushroom productions were assessed per species and per plot using the number of produced carpophores and fresh weight (kg/ha). Edible macromycetes from the studied areas are for 86.6% ectomycorrhizal taxa belonging to Lactarius, Russula and Amanita. The total macromycetous fresh weight production of one season varies from 0.2 to 225.0 kg/ha, depending on the forest type. Open forests, i.e. savanna and woodland savanna, dominated by Caesalpiniaceae yield qualitatively and quantitatively more edible taxa than the denser and rivulet associated or riverain forest types lacking Caesalpinioid trees. Lactarius gymnocarpoides, forming ectomycorrhiza with Isoberlinia doka, is the most common and abundant species in the savannas and woodland savannas. Specific productions of the edible taxa are affected by host tree composition reflected in the forest type. Most species produce quantitatively more fresh weight in the first two months of the rainy season (June-July). Species showing a continuous production throughout the rainy season are rare. The study illustrates that the edible macromycetes from Wari-Maro forest have substantial importance as a renewable non timber forest product (NTFP). The limitations and the main factors, necessary for a succesful valorisation of these NTFP, are discussed. /// Cette tude donne l'inventaire des macromyctes comestibles, trouvs dans six types de formations forestires de la fort classe de Wari-Maro (Bnin, Afrique de l'Ouest) en rgion Soudano-guinenne. Un total de 30 espces comestibles a t obtenu dans 18 placeaux (trois par formation), les donnes de comestibilit ont t obtenues de la population locale et de la littrature. Le nombre de carpophores et la biomasse frache ont t quantifis par espce et par formation. Les macromyctes comestibles sont  86,6% des espces ectomycorhiziennes appartenant principalement aux genres Amanita, Lactarius et Russula. En une saison la production totale, toutes espces confondues, varie de 0,2  225 kg MF/ha suivant la formation forestire. Les formations ouvertes (savane arbustive, savane arbore et les diffrents facis de la fort claire  Isoberlinia doka) domines par les Caesalpiniaceae fournissent le plus d'espces comestibles, tant en richesse spcifique qu'en biomasse frache. Par contre, les formations denses fermes (fort dense de plateau et fort riveraine) pauvres en Caesalpiniaceae enregistrent les plus faibles productions. Lactarius gymnocarpoides, espce symbiote d'Isoberlinia doka, est la plus abondante de la mycoflore des formations  caractre de fort claire. Les productions spcifiques varient d'une formation  une autre. Quelques cas spcifiques sont traits. Les productions des espces sont le plus souvent concentres en dbut de la saison des pluies (juin-juillet). Les espces  production plus tale sont peu frquentes. L'tude dmontre que les potentialits des macromyctes de la fort classe de Wari-Maro, en tant que ressource forestire comestible ou produit forestier non-ligneux (PFNL), sont normes. Les facteurs importants pour le succs de la valorisation des ressources mycologiques dans la rgion sont abords.
10.2307/3668710|An ethnobotanical inquiry allowed to establish an inventory of plants (wild and cultivated) daily used by the autochtonous riverine people of the Lossi forest. The study deals with the edible useful plants. The dietary potential of the forest as well as the impact of picking on conservation of phytogenetic resources and their sustainable exploitation are evaluated. Translated by the journal. /// L'enqute ethnobotanique, auprs des populations autochtones et riveraines de la fort de Lossi, a permis d'inventorier quelques plantes utiles (cultives et sauvages) dont elles se servent au quotidien. Cette tude couvrant le volet alimentaire a conduit  valuer le potentiel alimentaire de cette fort et l'impact de la cueillette sur la conservation du patrimoine phytogntique et son exploitation soutenue.
10.2307/3668725|Woodland occurs in the Sudanian region of northern Benin where the tree stratum is dominated by Isoberlinia tomentosa or Monotes kerstingii at about 10 N. The objective of this study is to characterize floristic composition of herbaceous strata of woodland on the view point of life forms and species geographical distribution. Data were collected in relev plots of <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> that had permitted to distinguish three plant associations. Species richness varied from 48 to 67 in the herbaceous stratum compared to 17 or 18 tree species per <tex-math>$1000\ m^{2}$</tex-math> in tree layer. Therophyte species were the most abundant (34 to 44%), but according to herbaceous strata structure defined by biovolume, hemicryptophyte species were the most abundant (77 to 94%). According to species distribution the base-element abundance varied from one association to another. The abundance of the base-element was low in disturbed stations due to the impact, when abundance of large spreading species was higher. Phanerophyte species abundance was higher among the base-element species than therophyte and geophyte species. While considering widely distributed species, therophyte species abundance was the highest (54 to 63%). This study shows that better of cattle grazing better understanding can be obtained of species richness and ecological patterns in Sudanian woodland using the abundance figures of respectively therophytic and phanerophytic species. /// La rgion soudanienne du Nord du Bnin est celle o l'on rencontre les forts claires qui sont pour la plupart domines au niveau de la strate arborescente par Isoberlinia tomentosa ou Monotes kerstingii  partir de 10 N. Cette tude dont l'objectif est de caractriser la composition floristique de la strate herbace des forts claires soudaniennes du point de vue structural et de leurs types biologique et phytogographique a t conduite dans trois associations diffrentes dans des placeaux de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> en moyenne. La richesse spcifique de la strate herbace varie entre 48 et 67 espces contre 17 ou 18 espces d'arbres sur <tex-math>$1000\ m^{2}$</tex-math> au niveau de la strate arborescente. Les throphytes sont les types biologiques les plus abondants (35  44%), alors que du point de vue structural ce sont plutt les hmicryptophytes cespiteux basiphylles qui contribuent le plus au biovolume de la strate herbace (77  94%). Du point de vue chorologique, l'abondance des espces de l'lment-base soudanien varie d'une association  l'autre. La valeur de l'lment-base est plus faible dans les stations perturbes par une forte intensit de passage des troupeaux bovins o l'on note aussi une contribution plus forte des espces  large distribution. Les phanrophytes sont plus reprsentatifs dans le cortge floristique de l'lment-base soudanien devant les throphytes et les gophytes. Dans le cortge des espces  large distribution ce sont plutt les throphytes qui sont les plus abondants et y contribuent entre 54 et 63%. On peut dduire de cette tude que les espces throphytes et phanrophytes traduisent par leur abondance, respectivement, la richesse spcifique et l'amplitude cologique des forts claires soudaniennes.
10.2307/3668666|In the Ivory Coast, the Sapotaceae comprise fifteen genera with the following distribution: African, eleven; pantropical, two (Chrysophyllum, Manilkara); paleotropical, one (Mimusops); afro-neotropical, one (Pouteria). At species rank, 43 Sapotaceae, all African, have been reported from different vegetation types in the country. They are trees or shrubs, but a single liana also occurs: Chrysophyllum welwitschii. Thirty-six of these species (83.7%) come from rain forest. The sudano-zambezian region counts five species, among them the very common "Karit" (Vitellaria paradoxa). Two shrubs are from the transition between rain forest and savanna: Mimusops andongensis and Pouteria alnifolia. Nine species are West African endemics. Three of them only occur in the Ivory Coast. Six Sapotaceae became rare or endangered due to the unfortunate degradation of the plant cover. Translated by the journal. /// La famille des Sapotaceae compte, en Cte d'Ivoire, quinze genres dont la chorologie est la suivante: africain, onze; pantropicaux, deux (Chrysophyllum, Manilkara); palotropical, un (Mimusops); afro-notropical, un (Pouteria). Au niveau spcifique, 43 Sapotaceae, toutes africaines, ont t rpertories dans les diffrentes formations vgtales du pays. Ce sont des arbres ou des arbustes; une seule espce lianescente est connue chez les Sapotaceae ivoiriennes: Chrysophyllum welwitschii. Parmi ces plantes, 36 (83,7%) proviennent de la fort dense humide. La rgion soudanozambzienne est caractrise par cinq espces, dont le Karit (Vitellaria paradoxa), trs abondant. Dans la zone de contact de la fort dense et de la savane, on note la prsence de deux arbustes: Mimusops andongensis et Pouteria alnifolia. Neuf espces sont endmiques ouest-africaines. Parmi elles, trois sont propres  la Cte d'Ivoire. Suite  la dgradation intempestive du couvert vgtal en Cte d'Ivoire, six Sapotaceae sont devenues rares ou en voie d'extinction.
10.2307/3668721|This work is the first analysis of the totality of the plant biodiversity inventories made in the Odzala National Park. It deals especially with habitat diversity and phytogeographical groups based ou the correctly determined species of the curent flora. The global taxonomic list consists of 1141 species belonging to 125 families. Forest habitat is the most diversified with 806 species reaching 71% of the total, of wich 537 belong to the "fort de terre ferme". Grassy habitat includes 335 species reaching 29% of the total, 143 species belonging to the savanna. At the phytogeographical groups level, the basic Guineo-Congolian element is the most important with 666 species (58% of the flora). Species with very broad geographical area follow with 271 species (24% of the flora). Correlation between habitat and phytogeographical groups has been established. The predominance of the basic Guineo-Congolian element in forest sites where the human influence is lesser displays the stability of these habitats. The importance of species with very broad geographical area in grassy habitats illustrates the secondary or substitution character of these sites, mainly created by human activities. /// Ce travail constitue une premire analyse de la totalit de donnes cumules jusqu'ici, sur la biodiversit des plantes inventories dans le Parc National d'Odzala (PNO). L'analyse porte essentiellement sur les habitats et la diversit des groupes phytogograhiques, et concerne les espces correctement dtermines. Au total 1141 espces appartenant  125 familles ont t inventories. Les habitats forestiers sont les plus diversifis avec 806 espces soit 71% du total, dont 537 appartiennent aux forts de terre ferme. Les habitats herbeux hbergent 335 espces soit 29% du total, dont 143 espces appartiennent aux savanes. Au niveau des groupes phytogograhiques, les espces de l'lment-base guino-congolais sont les plus importantes avec 666 espces (58% de la flore). Les espces  large distribution gographique suivent avec 271 espces (24% de la flore). Il a t tabli une corrlation entre l'habitat et le groupe phytogograhique. La prdominance des espces de l'lment-base guino-congolais dans les sites forestiers tmoigne de la stabilit de ces derniers o. l'influence humaine est moindre. L'importance des espces  large distribution gographique dans les habitats herbeux illustre le caractre secondaire ou de substitution de ces sites conscutif aux activits anthropiques.
10.2307/3668684|The comparison of the grass flora of Cte d'Ivoire and Niger with those several other countries of West Africa shows that the local floras are only partially valid for the neighbouring countries. This study underlines the scientific and practical interest of the regional floras. /// La comparaison des flores des Poaceae de Cte d'Ivoire et du Niger avec celles de plusieurs autres pays d'Afrique de l'Ouest, a montr qu'elles n'ont qu'une validit partielle pour les pays avoisinants. Cette tude met en vidence l'intrt scientifique et pratique des flores rgionales.
10.2307/3668673|The Flora of Tropical East Africa, a project started in 1949, is to be finished in 2006. Over twelve thousand species in 249 families will be accounted for; this relatively small region encompasses a large number of highly diverse habitats, which results in a rich biodiversity. A brief overview of habitats is given, and local endemism is discussed. The second section deals with the strategy of the Flora; its use and its users, and its raison d'tre. Also discussed are some possible action plans for when the Flora has been finished, and a trial family is treated for a suggested new Flora of Tropical Africa. /// La 'Flora of Tropical East Africa', un projet qui a dbut en 1949, sera termine en 2006. Environ 12.000 espces rparties au sein de 249 familles y auront t traites; cette rgion relativement petite est caractrise par une riche biodiversit, rsultat de la diversit des habitats qu'elle renferme. Un bref aperu des habitats est donn et l'endmisme local est discut. La seconde partie concerne la stratgie de la Flore, son utilisation et ses utilisateurs ainsi que sa raison d'tre. Quelques plans d'action envisageables aprs finalisation de la Flore sont galement discuts et le traitement d'une famille  titre exemplatif prfigure ce que pourrait tre une nouvelle Flore d'Afrique Tropicale. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668733|A plant collecting expedition to Nyika National Park, Malawi/Zambia, was completed from 22 March to 10 April 2000 by more than twenty botanists from the southern and eastern African countries of Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The expedition formed part of the SABONET Project which is aimed at developing a strong core of professional botanists, taxonomists and plant diversity specialists competent to inventory and conserve the botanical diversity of the southern African region. During this expedition, 3,343 plant numbers were collected, with preliminary results indicating many new distribution and locality records both for Nyika National Park and the Flora Zambesiaca area. /// Une expdition dans le Parc National Nyika, Malawi/Zambie, en vue de rcolter des chantillons de plantes, a t mene du 22 mars au 10 avril 2000 par plus de vingt botanistes d'Afrique australe et de l'est originaires du Malawi, du Mozambique, d'Afrique du Sud, de Tanzanie, de Zambie et du Zimbabwe. L'expdition entrait dans le cadre du Projet SABONET dont l'objectif est de dvelopper un noyau fort de botanistes professionnels, de taxonomistes et de spcialistes de la diversit vgtale, comptents pour inventorier et conserver la diversit botanique de l'Afrique australe. Au cours de cette expdition, 3.343 chantillons botaniques ont t rcolts. Les rsultats prliminaires indiquent de nombreuses nouveauts quant  la distribution des taxons ainsi que de nouvelles localits de rcolte tant pour le Parc National Nyika que pour la zone couverte par la Flora Zambesiaca. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668664|Numerous botanists have taken an interest in the flora of the copper-containing rocky outcrops of South Central Africa (Katanga, Zambia, Zimbabwe); some botanical collectors came by chance to these sites, while others, and among these the botanists Duvigneaud, Malaisse and Wild, have dedicated sites with copper-containing rocks a sustained interest. According to the number of collections made on these sites, some have been very well prospected, whilst others are still almost totally unknown from a botanical point of view. Moreover, the original vegetation of some sites is still intact, while mining activities in other sites have deeply influenced the vegetation, leading sometimes to total destruction and what appears to be extinction of five local endemic taxa. Maps showing the position of sites in South Central Africa are provided to demonstrate the degree of botanical exploration of the different outcrops; one set shows the total exploration, the other shows the activities of Duvigneaud, Malaisse and Wild. Based on these maps of exploration, and on maps of the degree of alteration of the sites, conclusions are drawn on the current knowledge of the sites and their flora, and on the need for future study of undercollected sites. /// De nombreux botanistes se sont intresss  la flore des gisements cuprifres d'Afrique centro-australe (Katanga, Zambie, Zimbabwe). Alors que certains se sont rendus fortuitement sur de tels sites, d'autres, (et parmi ceux-ci, particulirement les botanistes Duvigneaud, Malaisse et Wild) y ont consacr beaucoup d'intrt. Compte tenu du nombre de spcimens d'herbiers raliss sur gisements cuprifres, certains sites ont t particulirement bien herboriss tandis que d'autres restent pratiquement mconnus voire totalement inconnus d'un point de vue botanique. De plus, la vgtation originelle de certains sites est toujours intacte, tandis que, pour d'autres sites, l'activit minire a profondment modifi la vgtation, amenant parfois  une destruction totale de celle-ci, voire, dans un cas,  la disparition de cinq taxons endmiques locaux. Des reprsentations cartographiques montrant la localisation des sites sont avances pour reprsenter l'exploration botanique des diffrents gisements par l'ensemble des rcolteurs puis, respectivement, par Duvigneaud, Malaisse et Wild. La consultation des cartes d'exploration d'une part, ainsi que de celle ayant trait au degr d'altration des sites d'autre part, a permis d'mettre des conclusions relatives  la connaissance des diffrents gisements et de leur flore et de dgager la ncessit d'orienter des tudes futures vers les sites peu connus d'un point de vue botanique.
10.2307/3668663|The career of Paul Deuse started in Belgium in the "Hautes-Fagnes" during the post-war period, but came to its full expansion in Central Africa. Field worker, phytosociologist, trained as an ecologist and a palynologist, teacher, and endowed with a good experience of how to manage a field station and a museum, P. Deuse left Belgium in 1953 for a first three-month tour in Congo. From 1954 to 1956, he worked as temporary researcher for the "Institut pour la Recherche scientifique en Afrique centrale (I.R.S.A.C.)" in Mabali (Congo belge), where he prepared a doctoral thesis on the vegetation of the moorish "esobe" of the lake Tumba. After submitting his thesis at the "Universit de Lige" (1957), he was appointed senior research worker at the "I.R.S.A.C." and sent to Astrida (now Butare), in order to make a study of the peat bogs of the Ruanda-Urundi till 1959. After the independance of Congo, he returned to Astrida in July 1960, where he cut down on his research in pollen analysis to assume the responsability of Director of the I.R.S.A.C. Center till the independance of Rwanda. After that, the situation of the research center of Butare became still more difficult until the signature of the "convention belgo-rwandaise" end 1964, which founded the "Institut national pour la Recherche scientifique (I.N.R.S.)" of Rwanda, with P. Deuse as Director. P. Deuse was also part-time assistant lecturer (1961-1965) at the "Centre universitaire de Rumuri" (Bujumbura, Burundi), and senior lecturer (1963-1971) at the "Universit nationale du Rwanda" (U.N.R.). A part of the herbarium specimens gathered by P. Deuse before 1955 (406 nos.) are preserved in BR. In 1957 he started a herbarium in Astrida, with duplicates dispatched to Lwiro (LWO). The herbarium of Butare became the "Herbier national du Rwanda" (HNR) in 1965. After the death of P. Deuse, from 1977 onward, the I.N.R.S. was managed by the Government of Rwanda. In 1994, due to the genocide, the research center of Butare was sacked. /// Si la carrire de Paul Deuse a dbut en Belgique dans les Hautes-Fagnes  l'aprs-guerre, c'est en Afrique centrale qu'elle a connu son plus grand dveloppement. Homme de terrain, phytosociologue, cologiste et palynologue de formation, enseignant, nanti aussi d'une bonne exprience de gestion d'une station de terrain et d'un muse, il quitta la Belgique en 1953 pour un premier priple de trois mois au Congo. De 1954  1957, il fut chercheur temporaire au Centre de l'Institut pour la Recherche scientifique en Afrique centrale (I.R.S.A.C.)  Mabali (Congo belge), o il prpara une thse de doctorat sur la vgtation des "esobe" tourbeux du lac Tumba. Suite  la dfense de sa thse  l'Universit de Lige (1957), il fut nomm chercheur senior  l'I.R.S.A.C.  Astrida (aujourd'hui Butare), pour y effectuer l'tude des tourbires du Ruanda-Urundi, jusqu'en 1959. Aprs l'indpendance du Congo, il revint  Astrida en juillet 1960, o ses recherches en palynologie furent fort limites en raison de ses fonctions de directeur du Centre I.R.S.A.C. jusqu' l'indpendance du Rwanda. Ds ce moment, la situation du Centre de Butare devint de plus en plus difficile jusqu' la signature de la convention belgo-rwandaise, fin 1964, par laquelle fut fond l'Institut national pour la Recherche scientifique (I.N.R.S.) au Rwanda, dont P. Deuse devint directeur. P. Deuse fut aussi charg de cours  temps partiel (1961-1965) au Centre universitaire de Rumuri (Bujumbura, Burundi) et professeur ordinaire (1963-1971)  l'Universit nationale du Rwanda (U.N.R.). Les spcimens d'herbiers rcolts par P. Deuse avant 1955 sont en partie (406 nos.) conservs  BR. En 1957, il commena un herbier  Astrida, dont les doubles taient envoys  Lwiro (LWO). En 1965, l'herbier de Butare devint l'"Herbier national du Rwanda" (HNR). Aprs le dcs de P. Deuse,  partir de 1977, la gestion de l'I.N.R.S. fut reprise par le Gouvernement rwandais. En 1994, au moment du gnocide, le Centre de recherches fut saccag.
10.2307/3668742|Western Cameroon has one of the richest floras in Tropical Africa. This paper examines the subject of the phytogeographic delimitation of the area. The Cross River-Sanaga River interval is known to be of importance in primate geography. Is it also important for plants? The characteristics of the area may be more a product of the Cameroon Highlands than of the flora of lowland Guinea: more work is needed to decide this. /// Le Cameroun occidental possde une des flores les plus riches d'Afrique tropicale. Cet article envisage la dlimitation phytogographique de la rgion. L'intervalle entre les rivires Cross et Sanaga est rput pour son importance en gographie des primates. Est-il galement important pour les plantes? Les caractristiques de la rgion peuvent la rattacher aux hautes terres du Cameroun plutt qu' la flore guinenne de basse altitude: d'autres tudes sont ncessaires pour statuer  ce propos. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668708|The identification of plants by indigenous people is based on recognising systems, which vary from one area to another. In order to understand the system used by the Malink, an ethnobotanical study was carried out in some villages of the Department of Sgula (in the north of Ivory Coast). After an inventory of the useful wild species in the area (scientific name, utilisation and ecology), vernacular names (in Dioula) were particularly investigated by the means of their local signification and etymology. This information was analysed and reveals various ways of identification and designation based on analogical or manner characters (morphology, gustatory, olfactory, onomatopeia, etc.). The Malink system takes into account botanical characters and ecological factors (habitat). These different recognising approaches are presented and discussed. /// La reconnaissance des plantes par les populations indignes est base sur des systmes taxonomiques qui peuvent varier d'un territoire  l'autre. Pour mieux comprendre le systme utilis par les Malink, une tude ethnobotanique a t conduite dans des villages du Dpartement de Sgula (au nord de la Cte-d'Ivoire). Suite  un inventaire des espces sauvages utilises dans la rgion (noms scientifiques, usages et cologie), les appellations vernaculaires (en langue Dioula) ont fait l'objet d'une tude approfondie relative aux significations locales et  l'tymologie de ces appellations. L'analyse de ces informations rvle l'existence de diffrentes mthodes d'identification et de dnomination, bases sur des caractres analogiques et imitatifs (morphologique, gustatif, olfactif, onomatopique, etc.). Le systme Malink tient compte de caractres botaniques et de critres phytogographiques, notamment l'habitat. Ces diffrentes approches de reconnaissance sont prsentes et discutes.
10.2307/3668696|Data on the amount of mucilage in mericarps of 400 species of Lamiaceae subfam. Nepetoideae has been obtained by tests and gathered from literature. The relative frequency of myxodiaspory (the condition of having mucilaginous diaspores) has been calculated for groups of species with similar biological characteristics, and the differences tested for statistical significance. The following results have been obtained: 1) Species that grow in dry habitats are more often myxodiasporic than species that grow in moist or damp habitats. However, myxodiaspory seems not to be more frequent in dry habitats in arid floristic regions than in dry habitats in more humid regions. 2) Species with small nutlets are more often myxodiasporic than species with large nutlets. However, most of the myxocarpic species with large nutlets are more strongly myxodiasporic than the myxodiasporic species with small nutlets. 3) Annuals are more often myxodiasporic than perennials. 4) Species with a reticulate or overall hairy nutlet surface are not myxodiasporic. 5) Tropical Africa has a particularly high relative frequency of myxodiaspory. These results suggest that the biological importance of myxodiaspory is primarily associated to the ability of the mucilaginous diaspores to adhere to animals or to the ground. However, the results do not support the prevailing view that atelechory is more important than epizoochory as a function of myxodiaspory. /// Des donnes sur la quantit de mucilage dans le pricarpe de 400 espces de Lamiaceae subfam. Nepetoideae ont t obtenues lors d'essais et rassembles  partir de la littrature. La frquence relative de myxodiasporie (prsence de diaspores mucilagineuses) a t calcule pour des groupes d'espces prsentant des caractristiques biologiques similaires et les diffrences ont t testes statistiquement. Les rsultats suivants ont t obtenus: 1) Les espces qui poussent dans des habitats secs sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que celles rencontres dans des habitats humides. Nanmoins, la myxodiasporie ne semble pas tre plus frquente dans les habitats secs des rgions floristiques arides que dans les habitats secs des rgions plus humides. 2) Les espces  petits nucules sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que les espces  grands nucules. Nanmoins, la plupart des espces myxocarpiques  grands nucules sont plus fortement myxodiasporiques que les espces myxodiasporiques  petits nucules. 3) Les annuelles sont plus souvent myxodiasporiques que les prennes. 4) Les espces prsentant une surface du nucule rticule ou totalement poilue ne sont pas myxodiasporiques. 5) La frquence relative de myxodiasporie est particulirement leve en Afrique tropicale. Ces rsultats suggrent que l'importance biologique de la myxodiasporie est principalement associe  la capacit qu'ont les diaspores mucilagineuses  adhrer aux animaux ou au sol. Cependant, les rsultats ne rejoignent pas l'opinion gnrale selon laquelle l'atlchorie est plus importante que l'pizoochorie du fait de la myxodiasporie. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668703|Symbiotic methods for germinating Eulophia Lindl. and Polystachya Hook. seeds from terrestrial and epiphytic habitats respectively were established. Cultures, initiated from the seeds were grown on 2% oats medium and germination medium, alone, or oats medium supplemented with <tex-math>$10\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> banana fruit homogenate and <tex-math>$0.2\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> activated charcoal. The highest germination/differentiation, which took place after 7 days of inoculation, was obtained on the 2% oats medium with glucose (<tex-math>$2\ g.L-^{-1}$</tex-math>) and <tex-math>$NH_{4}NO_{3}4H_{2}O$</tex-math> (<tex-math>$1.0\ mM.L^{-1}$</tex-math>) as a source of inorganic nitrogen and supplemented with the additives. Development of protocorms in compatible orchid-fungus combination took place after the second subculture (30 days) from which seedling developed. Irrespective of the fact that the orchids showed possible specificity patterns at population level with their fungal partners in their natural habitats the in vitro symbiotic seed germination also showed significant tendency towards fungal specificity. Since germination took a shorter time by this technique to develop protocorms, propagation of endangered orchids could be done and used for ex situ conservation programmes. /// Des mthodes symbiotiques de germination pour Eulophia Lindl. et Polystachya Hook. provenant d'habitats terrestres et piphytiques ont t tablies. Les cultures inities  partir des graines se sont dveloppes sur un milieu  2% d'avoine et sur milieu de germination seul, ou sur milieu d'avoine enrichi d'homognat de banane  <tex-math>$10\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math> et de charbon de bois  0,2 <tex-math>$g.L^{-1}$</tex-math>. La meilleure germination et diffrentiation qui se produit aprs sept jours d'inoculation a t obtenue sur le milieu  l'avoine  2% avec du glucose (<tex-math>$2\ g.L^{-1}$</tex-math>) et <tex-math>$NH_{4}NO_{3}4H_{2}O\ (1.0mM.L^{-1})$</tex-math> comme source de nitrogne inorganique et enrichi avec les additifs. Le dveloppement des protocormes dans une combinaison orchide-champignon a eu lieu aprs la seconde subculture (30 jours), dans laquelle des plantules se sont dveloppes. Indpendamment du fait que les orchides montraient de possibles modes spcifiques au niveau de la population avec leur champignon partenaire dans leur habitat naturel, la germination symbiotique in vitro a montr elle aussi une tendance significative  la spcificit du champignon partenaire. Comme la germination a pris un temps plus court par cette technique pour dvelopper des protocormes, la propagation d'orchides menaces pourrait tre ralise et utilise dans des programmes de conservation ex situ. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668702|Vascular epiphytism in Upper Katanga is approached for the first time. It concerns holoepiphytes and occasional epiphytes but not lianas. Some 127 taxa were encountered. Orchidaceae takes the top position with 79 species. Their distribution regarding the five main woody vegetation units (open forest or woodland, dry evergreen forest, gallery forest, mountain forest, swampy forest) has been recorded by a weekly survey made during twenty years. Regarding diversity, gallery forests take the pole position with 14 taxa restricted to this unit as well as 50 other taxa occurring in other units as well. This is tremendous, notably according to the heavy anthropogenic pressure on this ecosystem, of which the expanse is continuously reduced and which covers far below 1% of the country. Open forests or woodlands, mainly of wetter miombo type, occur in second position with respectively 7 and 48 taxa. Other main vegetation units take a tiny part regarding epiphytic orchid biodiversity. With 36 taxa, pteridophyte diversity is in second position, as in African rain forests. The flowering periods of orchids are tackled. The phenological spectrum is saturated, whilst the phenogram indicates seasonal trends, with a maximum in November-December. Finally, epiphytic diversity confirms to be a suitable information for forest vegetation monitoring. /// Une tude des plantes vasculaires piphytes du Haut-Katanga est effectue pour la premire fois. Elle concerne les holopiphytes et les piphytes occasionnels mais ne considre pas les lianes. Cent vingt-sept taxons furent dnombrs. Les Orchidaceae occupent la premire position avec 79 espces. Leur distribution en fonction des cinq units majeures de vgtation (forts claires ou savanes boises, forts denses sches, forts galeries, forts de montagne et forts marcageuses) a fait l'objet d'une exploration hebdomadaire pendant une vingtaine d'annes. Du point de vue de la diversit, les forts galeries viennent en position de tte avec 14 taxons  distribution limite  cette formation vgtale et 50 autres taxons galement prsents dans d'autres units. Ceci est remarquable, compte tenu de la pression anthropique que subit cet cosystme dont la superficie se rduit sans cesse et qui couvre aujourd'hui bien moins qu'un pour cent du territoire. Les forts claires et savanes boises occupent la deuxime position avec respectivement 7 et 48 taxons. Les autres units majeures de vgtation jouent un rle mineur au point de vue de la diversit en Orchides piphytes. Avec 36 taxons, les Ptridophytes viennent en seconde position, tout comme elles le font dans les forts denses humides africaines. Les priodes de floraison des orchides sont abordes. Le spectre phnologique est satur, tandis que le phnogramme indique l'existence d'une saisonnalit, avec un maximum en novembre-dcembre. La diversit des piphytes se confirme tre un outil performant pour le suivi de la dynamique des formations forestires.
10.2307/3668727|A phytosociological investigation was carried out on fourteen inselbergs from continental Equatorial Guinea. Results are (i) eight vegetation units, (ii) the unequal distribution of those eight units on the different inselbergs, (iii) the high species diversity, (iv) the presence of rare species and plant formations, of species with a disjunct distribution and of mountain species at a low altitude (600-750 m). Twelve differentiating factors that may partially explain the existing differences between the fourteen sites have been recognized. /// L'tude phytosociologique de quatorze inselbergs de Guine Equatoriale continentale a permis de mettre en vidence (i) huit groupements vgtaux, (ii) la rpartition ingale de ces groupements sur les diffrents sites, (iii) la grande richesse spcifique de la vgtation des inselbergs, (iv) la prsence d'espces et de formation vgtales rares, d'espces  aire de distribution disjointes, ainsi que d'espces montagnardes  basse altitude (600  750 m). Douze facteurs de diffrenciation pouvant expliquer partiellement les diffrences existant entre la vgtation des quatorze sites ont t reconnus.
10.2307/3668705|Perenniporia centrali-africana sp. nov. is described based on two Cameroon collections. The species is characterised by a sessile, slightly to broadly decurrent basidiocarp, a sulcate, brown to dark brown pileus, yellowish brown vegetative hyphae, and truncate, dextrinoid basidiospores. The species is compared with P. tephropora, P. mundula, and P. inflexibilis, also occurring in tropical Africa. /// Perenniporia centrali-africana sp. nov. est dcrite sur base de deux collections en provenance du Cameroun. L' espce est caractrise par un basidiocarpe sessile, lgrement  largement dcurrent, un pileus sulqu brun  brun fonc, des hyphes vgtatives brun-jauntre et des basidiospores tronques dextrinodes. L'espce est compare  P. tephropora, P. mundula et P. inflexibilis, galement prsentes en Afrique tropicale. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668743|Recent botanical inventory work on the island of Mayotte (Comoro Archipelago) makes it possible to identify and describe the last remaining vestiges of natural vegetation. The floristic data are used to analyze the territory's floristic affinities with Africa and Madagascar, and to propose hypotheses regarding the origin of its flora, which is characterized by a relatively high number of families and species for an area of that size, and a low level of endemism. Species of Malagasy origin are three times more numerous than those of African affinity. Based on these characteristics, coupled with Mayotte's geological history, we hypothesize that the origin and establishment of the island's flora involved the following steps: an initial wave of migration largely from Madagascar at the end of the Tertiary, a reduction in this original species component during recent volcanic eruptions (-0.5 MA), followed by a reconstitution of the flora by Malagasy elements, and finally a very recent addition (until -10,000 years) of African species, which continues today, especially in coastal and dry components of Mayotte's vegetation. /// Des inventaires botaniques rcents de l'le de Mayotte (Archipel des Comores) ont permis d'identifier et de dcrire les derniers vestiges de vgtation naturelle de l'le. Les donnes floristiques sont utilises pour analyser les affinits de la flore avec celle d'Afrique et de Madagascar et pour proposer des hypothses sur son origine. La diversit floristique est caractrise par un nombre de familles et d'espces lev pour une le de cette taille et un endmisme faible. Les espces d'origine malgache sont trois fois plus nombreuses que celles d'origine africaine. Ces caractristiques et l'histoire gologique de Mayotte permettent d'avancer une hypothse sur l'origine et l'tablissement de la flore sur l'le: une premire vague de migration d'origine essentiellement malgache  la fin du Tertiaire; ce stock ancien d'espces a d considrablement se rduire lors du volcanisme explosif rcent (-0,5 MA) suivi par une reconstitution de la flore  partir d'lments malgaches, puis un apport trs rcent d'espces africaines ( partir de -10 000 ans) qui perdurent surtout dans la composante ctire et sche de la vgtation de Mayotte.
10.2307/3668712|The need for conservation measures for the vulnerable endemic tree Gilletiodendron glandulosum was assessed in southwestern Mali based on the value of Gilletiodendron forest to biodiversity conservation and on present and foreseeable levels of its use by the indigenous Maninka people. Using basic forestry methods, structure and composition of Gilletiodendron forest were analyzed. Additionally, Maninka names and uses of characteristic plants were recorded. Of 121 woody species collected, ten are new records for Mali. The vegetation is overwhelmingly dominated by Gilletiodendron glandulosum, although Grewia bicolor (Tiliaceae) and Hippocratea indica (Celastraceae) are also important. This plant community is a type of Sudano-Guinean gallery forest with a relatively low absolute level of plant diversity, but an apparently high contribution to gamma biodiversity in Mali. Thus, Gilletiodendron forest is an edaphic community which may be a relict of a past moister climate period. Use of Gilletiodendron forest plants by the Maninka is low, although the endangered shrub Vepris heterophylla (Rutaceae) appears locally overharvested. Due to its economic value, Gilletiodendron glandulosum has the potential for overexploitation if human population growth continues or if the transportation infrastructure in western Mali improves to provide access to larger markets. No current conservation measures specifically benefit Gilletiodendron forest, although it is passively protected due to its occurrence in marginal areas within the Maninka land use system. /// La ncessit de mesures de conservation de Gilletiodendron glandulosum, une espce d'arbre endmique et vulnrable du sud-ouest du Mali a t value sur base de la valeur des forts  Gilletiodendron dans le cadre de la conservation de la biodiversit ainsi qu'en fonction de son utilisation actuelle et prvisible par le peuple indigne Maninka. A partir de mthodes classiques, la structure et la composition de forts  Gilletiodendron ont t analyses. Par ailleurs, les noms Maninka et les utilisations de plantes caractristiques ont t enregistrs. Parmi les 121 espces ligneuses collectes, dix sont nouvelles pour le Mali. La vgtation est trs nettement domine par Gilletiodendron glandulosum mais Grewia bicolor (Tiliaceae) et Hippocratea indica (Celastraceae) sont galement des espces importantes. Cette communaut vgtale est du type fort-galerie soudano-guinenne et sa diversit absolue est relativement faible. Elle contribue nnamoins de faon importante  la diversit gamma au Mali. Ainsi, la fort  Gilletiodendron est une communaut daphique qui peut tmoigner d'une poque ancienne  climat plus humide. L'utilisation, par les Maninka, de plantes des forts  Gilletiodendron est faible, bien que Vepris heterophylla (Rutaceae), un arbuste menac, semble localement surexploit. En raison de sa valeur conomique, Gilletiodendron glandulosum prsente galement un risque de surexploitation si la population humaine continue  s'accrotre ou si les infrastructures de transport au Mali occidental permettent un accs plus ais aux grands marchs. Actuellement, aucune mesure de conservation ne protge la fort  Gilletiodendron mais elle bnficie d'une protection passive de par sa prsence dans les zones marginales au sein du systme agraire Maninka. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668676|De nombreux travaux de recherche, entre autres des inventaires botaniques, floristiques, cologiques, phnologiques et ethnobotaniques ont t raliss ou sont mens dans la Rserve de la Biosphre du Dja. Du point de vue institutionnel, ces travaux se font sous l'gide des organismes tatiques (universits, instituts divers), des O.N.G. et programmes nationaux et internationaux. Faute d'une action concerte entre ces diffrents intervenants, on essaye de faire le point des rsultats obtenus depuis quelques annes pour mettre en vidence les efforts fournis pour la connaissance botanique de la Rserve. /// A certain number of studies have been executed in the Dja biosphere reserve, among which botanical, floristic, ecological, phenological and ethnological inventories. At the institutional level, these researches are carried out by state institutes, NGOS, and national and international research programmes. Noting the lack of dialogue between actors, this article aims to take stock of the results obtained during the last ten years, offering a survey of the efforts made for a better botanical knowledge of this reserve.
10.2307/3668720|Twenty-seven abandoned farms of <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> each, grouped into five different age classes (0-2, 3-5, 6-10, 11-30 and >30 years) were assessed in 1995 in the Mount Cameroon area, along with three <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> of primary forest plots, in order to assess primary forest biodiversity recovery after shifting cultivation. Three distinct groups of woody species characterised agricultural fallows: pioneers, mid-successional species and shade-tolerant species. Harungana madagascariensis, Solanum torvum and Vernonia conferta were the common pioneer species in fallows less than 10 years; Cecropia peltata, Macaranga occidentalis, Musanga cecropioides and Polyscias fulva were the abundant mid-successional species in fallows between 11-30 years, and Cyathea maniniana, Dicranolepis sp., Dracaena sp., Homalium sp., Uvariodendron sp. were the most common shade-tolerant species in fallows over 30 years. Species richness increased slowly with age of fallows but remained below that of primary forest even after 30 years. /// Afin d'valuer le rythme de reconstitution de la biodiversit forestire sur les jachres agricoles, 27 champs abandonns de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math>, regroups en cinq classes d'ges (0-2, 3-5, 6-10, 11-30 et >30 ans) et trois parcelles de fort primaire de <tex-math>$400\ m^{2}$</tex-math> ont t tudis en 1995, dans la rgion du Mont Cameroun. Les rsultats ont permis de distinguer trois catgories d'espces ligneuses sur les jachres tudies: les pionnires, les espces de mi-succession et les espces d'ombre. Harungana madagascariensis, Solanum torvum et Vernonia conferta taient les espces pionnires les plus abondantes dans les jachres de moins de 10 ans; Cecropia peltata, Macaranga occidentalis, Musanga cecropioides et Polyscias fulva taient les espces de mi-succession les plus frquentes dans les jachres de 11  30 ans et Cyathea maniniana, Dicranolepis sp., Dracaena sp., Homalium sp. et Uvariodendron sp. taient les espces d'ombre les plus communes dans les jachres de plus de 30 ans. La richesse spcifique a augment avec l'ge des jachres, mais est reste en-dessous de celle de la fort primaire, mme aprs 30 ans. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668719|Using The Braun-Blanquet approach, a phytosociological assessment has been done in the natural undergrowth of teak plantations in south and central Benin. In order to study the phytogeographical spectrums, 108 relevs were submitted to factorial correspondence analysis. The classification variable used was the number of species per phytogeographical type. The results help to identify three phytogeographical groups from south to north. Group I is identified in south Benin; group II is located in north-central Benin, and group III holds an intermediate position between the first two groups. The variance analysis of the phytogeographical types highlights significant gradients at 5% level of probability. The most relevant gradient is that of the guineo-congolian species: 17 as mean number of guineo-congolian species in group I and respectively 1 and 10 for groups II and III. Therefore, the richness of guineo-congolian species decreases progressively from the south to north-central Benin. The species richness shows also a significant gradient at 5% level of probability. /// Un inventaire phytosociologique a t fait selon la mthode de Braun-Blanquet dans le sous-bois naturel des plantations de teck (Tectona grandis) du sud et du centre Bnin. Afin d'tudier les gradients du spectre phytogographique dans cette zone, 108 relevs phytosociologiques ont t soumis  l'analyse factorielle des correspondances. La variable de classification utilise est le nombre d'espces de chaque type phytogographique. Les rsultats de l'analyse factorielle des correspondances ont permis d'identifier trois groupes phytogographiques situs du sud au nord. Le groupe I est situ dans le sud-Bnin; le groupe II occupe le centre-nord Bnin et le groupe III occupe une position intermdiaire entre les deux groupes prcdents. L'analyse de la variance des types phytogographiques des trois groupes a permis de mettre en vidence des gradients significatifs dont le plus remarquable est celui des espces guino-congolaises: le nombre moyen (17) par relev des espces guino-congolaises du groupe I est significativement suprieur au seuil de probabilit de 5%  ceux des deux autres groupes (respectivement 1 et 10). La baisse de la richesse en lments guinocongolais se fait progressivement du sud au centre-nord Bnin; la richesse spcifique montre galement un gradient significatif au seuil de probabilit de 5% entre les trois groupes identifis.
10.2307/3668700|Bacteria have been reported to inhabit the leaf galls of some paleotropical genera of Rubiaceae. Cultivation of these bacteria has not been succesful to date. The use of contemporary macromolecular methods permitted the identification of these bacterial symbionts. The rather low similarity levels towards Burkholderia glathei (Proteobacteria ), the closest validly named neighbour, indicated that these symbiotic bacteria represent novel taxa within the genus Burkholderia. This paper reports on phylogenetic analysis of the bacterial 16S rDNA as a tool for classification of bacteriophilous plants. /// La prsence de bactries dans les galles foliaires de certains genres palotropicales de Rubiaceae a t mentionne. L'utilisation de techniques macromolculaires modernes a permis l'identification de ces symbiontes bactriens. Les niveaux de similarit relativement faibles par rapport  Burkholderia glathei (Proteobacteria ), le voisin valide le plus proche, indiquent que ces bactries symbiotiques reprsentent des taxons nouveaux au sein du genre Burkholderia. Cet article rend compte du fait que l'analyse phylogntique du 16S rDNA des bactries constitue un outil pour la classification des plantes bactriophiles.
10.2307/3668704|Seed germination is consistently poor for the majority of Disa species, with in vitro culture revealing a decrease in species germinability as one moves from the winter to the summer-rainfall areas of South Africa. In an effort to enhance seed culture as a means of promoting conservation in Disa, the seed testa is highlighted as a regulatory factor in germination. A prominent feature of the mature seed is the variable colour of the testa in the ten species investigated, attributable to different levels of phenolic compounds. Total leachable phenolic content correlates positively with germinability and by inference, with species distribution. NaOCl treatment enhanced germination in certain species by scarifying the testa and enhancing permeability to water. Similarly liquid cultures and culture media containing activated charcoal decrease the time taken to, and result in elevated levels of, synchronous germination. Culture of immature seed (before phenolic deposition has occurred) also hastens germination. Scanning electron microscopy has highlighted basic differences between species regarding seed size and testa cell arrangement. All features of the testa and its influence on germinability in the summer-rainfall Disas are explained as adaptations to environmental conditions. The authors speculate on the occurrence of coat-imposed dormancy within Disa species endemic to the summer rainfall areas of South Africa. /// La germination des graines de la majorit des espces de Disa est uniformment faible et la culture in vitro rvle une diminution de la germinabilit des espces lorsqu'on se dplace des rgions d'Afrique du Sud o un hiver est enregistr vers celles o sont observes des prcipitations estivales. Lors de la mise en valeur de la culture des graines pour la conservation des Disa, il est apparu que le tgument sminal constituait un facteur de rgulation pour la germination. La variabilit de coloration du tgument constitue un caractre remarquable des graines matures des dix espces tudies et est li  la quantit de composs phnoliques accumuls. Le contenu lessivable total des composs phnoliques est corrl positivement  la germinabilit et, par consquent,  la distribution des espces. Le traitement au NaOCl amlior la germination de certaines espces grce  la scarification du tgument et  l'augmentation de la permabilit  l'eau. Par ailleurs, des cultures liquides et dans des milieux contenant du charbon de bois activ diminuent le temps ncessaire  la germination et en amliorent la synchronisation. La culture de graines immatures (avant dpt du phnol) hte galement la germination. Des observations au microscope lectronique  balayage ont montr des diffrences inter-spcifiques tant en ce qui concerne la taille des graines que la disposition des cellules tgumentaires. Toutes les caractristiques du tgument et leur impact sur la germinabilit des Disa des rgions  prcipitations estivales sont expliques comme des adaptations aux conditions environnementales. Les auteurs spculent sur l'existence de dormance tgumentaire chez les espces de Disa endmiques des rgions  prcipitations estivales d'Afrique du Sud. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668691|Recent progress in the study of Xyridaceae in Africa is summarised. Three regional accounts have been published or are in press. The centre of diversity of the genus lies in the Zambezian Region but there are subcentres in montane and coastal regions, and on Kalahari Sand. Some suggestions for future work are made. /// Les rcents progrs dans l'tude des Xyridaceae d'Afrique sont rsums. Trois contributions rgionales ont t publies ou sont sous presse. Le centre de diversit du genre Xyris se trouve dans la Rgion Zambzienne, mais il existe des sous-centres dans les rgions ctires et montagnardes, et sur sable du Kalahari. Quelques suggestions sont amenes pour un futur travail. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668677|The paper analyses the distribution patterns of 556 species of vascular plants that occur primarily in mainland sub-Saharan African savanna. Eight percent of these species are known from only one one-degree square, whereas five percent are known from more than a hundred one-degree squares. The maximum number of savanna species per one-degree square is found in eastern Africa and the Angolan-Zambezian region. The same is the case for the highest average species richness per ten-degree squares. The Sudanian and Somalia-Masai regions have lower average numbers of savanna species than the Zambezian region. The highest number of species with restricted geographical range (endemics) is found in the same general area as the highest number of species per one-degree square, but not exactly in the same squares. The maximum number of savanna species is found in areas where the yearly temperature range is about 12 C, where the annual median rainfall is about 1100 mm, and/or where the mean altitude is about 1400-1500 m. Species richness increases with increasing absolute altitudinal range. The more altitudinal levels there are in a one-degree square, the higher is the richness of savanna species. /// L'article analyse les modles de distribution de 556 espces de plantes vasculaires rencontres essentiellement dans les savanes de la partie sub-saharienne du continent africain. Huit pourcents de ces espces ne sont connues que d'un degr-carr, alors que cinq pourcents sont connues de plus de cent degrs-carrs. Le nombre maximal d'espces savanicoles par degr-carr est enregistr en Afrique de l'Est et dans la rgion angolo-zambzienne. La mme observation s'applique  la richesse spcifique moyenne la plus leve par dix degrs-carrs. Les rgions soudanienne et Somali-Masai prsentent un nombre moyen d'espces de savane plus faible que la rgion zambzienne. Le nombre le plus lev d'espces  rpartition gographique limite (endmiques) est observ dans la mme rgion que le nombre le plus lev d'espces par degr-carr, quoique pas exactement dans les mmes carrs. Le nombre maximal d'espces savanicoles est enregistr dans les rgions o l'amplitude annuelle de temprature est d'environ 12 C, la moyenne annuelle des prcipitations avoisine 1100 mm, et/ou l'altitude moyenne est de 1400-1500 m. La richesse spcifique augmente avec l'accroissement du gradient altitudinal absolu. Plus le nombre de niveaux altitudinaux par degrcarr est lev, plus la richesse en espces savanicoles est importante. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668701|Species richness variation among Orchidaceae of So Tom (So Tom and Prncipe; gulf of Guinea) has been investigated using a grid map with 2 km square units. The factors studied were: rainfall and altitude. Disturbance and collection intensity were also considered. The species number in 2  2 km squares varies between 1 and 45. Five orchid diversity classes have been determined and applied to the vegetation of So Tom. The highest values of species numbers were found in submontane forests between 1000 and 1400 m above sea level. Altitude seems to be the most important factor to explain species richness variation, while rainfall below 2000 mm per year appears to be limiting. Disturbance generally reduces species richness. Interpretation of species richness is difficult as the 2  2 km grid is too coarse, especially in areas of marked relief. /// Les variations de la richesse spcifique des Orchidaceae de So Tom (So Tom et Prncipe; golfe de Guine) ont t tudies sur base d'une carte  maillage de 2km  2km. Les paramtres analyss sont la pluviosit et l'altitude. L'anthropisation du milieu et l'effort d'chantillonnage sont aussi abords. Les valeurs de richesse spcifique obtenues varient entre 1 et 45 taxons par maille. Cinq classes de diversit auxquelles nous avons associ les types de vgtation de l'le ont ainsi t reconnues. Les plus fortes valeurs de richesse spcifique ont t obtenues dans les forts submontagnardes entre 1000 et 1400 m d'altitude. L'altitude semble tre le paramtre le plus important pour expliquer ces variations de richesse spcifique, tandis que des prcipitations infrieures  2000 mm par an ont un rle limitant. L'anthropisation du milieu induit gnralement une diminution de la richesse spcifique. L'interprtation des variations de richesse spcifique est difficile en raison de la taille trop importante de la maille choisie, en particulier dans les zones fortement accidentes.
10.2307/3668689|A number of examples exist of Gnidia species closely resembling each another, and possibly being synonymous. Many such species have been established on the basis of other non quantitative differences in character variation, but no studies have tested the validity of morphometric data in distinguishing taxa in this genus. In addition, no studies in this group have tested the patterns in and relationships between character variation. Morphometric analyses of features of involucral bracts, inflorescences and flowers of Gnidia species were performed to investigate patterns of diversity among these organs. In addition, bracts were assigned to classes representing different levels of modification from the leaves, and inflorescences were classified according to flower number and whether capitate or spicate. Species were also scored as having either static infructescences or elongating infructescences. Floral tube lengths, lengths of tubes from flower bases to constrictions above the ovary, sepal lengths and numbers of flowers in inflorescences were measured using species representing the diversity of these characters in the genus. Chi-square analysis, discriminant analysis, univariate nested analysis of variance and correlations were used to test character variation and relationship. Gnidia species are discriminated by their floral tube lengths, lengths of tubes from flower bases to constrictions above the ovary, sepal lengths and flower number. Involucral bract modification is influenced by inflorescence type, and species with elongating infructescences have unmodified bracts. These findings suggest that bracts protect flowers, especially the floral tubes surrounding ovaries. Bracts are most different from leaves in species that concentrate reproductive investment in the production of many-flowered inflorescences. Total floral tube length and length of tube from flower base to constriction are positively correlated as are total tube length and sepal length. Sepal length and flower number per inflorescence are negatively correlated and there is no relationship between total tube length and flower number among species. These results demonstrate how morphometric analyses contribute to testing the validity of taxa, especially within pairs or small groups of similar species, and subspecific taxa. /// Nombreux sont les exemples de ressemblance troite entre espces de Gnidia, certaines d'ailleurs tant probablement synonymes. Beaucoup de ces espces ont t tablies sur base de diffrences non quantitatives relatives  certains caractres mais aucune tude n'a test la validit des donnes morphomtriques qui ont permis la distinction de taxons au sein du genre. Par ailleurs, aucune tude mene dans ce groupe n'a envisag de modliser la variation des caractres et de leurs relations. Des analyses morphomtriques des types de bractes involucrales, des inflorescences et des fleurs de diffrentes espces de Gnidia ont t ralises de manire  tudier et  modliser la diversit de ces organes. Les bractes ont galement t classes en fonction de leur degr de modification par rapport aux feuilles et les inflorescences distingues d'aprs leur caractre capit ou spicul et le nombre de leurs fleurs. Des espces ont aussi t diffrencies d'aprs l'longation ou non de leurs infrutescences. La longueur des tubes floraux, celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire, la longueur des spales et le nombre de fleurs par inflorescence ont t calcules sur des espces reprsentatives de la diversit de ces caractres au sein du genre. Un test Chi-carr, une analyse discriminante, une analyse de variance  un critre et de corrlations ont t utiliss pour tester la variation des caractres et leurs relations. Les espces de Gnidia sont discrimines d'aprs la longueur de leur tube floral, celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire, de la longueur des spales et du nombre de fleurs. La modification des bractes involucrales est influence par le type d'inflorescence et les espces possdant des infrutescences allonges prsentent des bractes non modifies. Ces rsultats suggrent que les bractes protgent les fleurs et, en particulier, les tubes floraux entourant les ovaires. Les bractes diffrent le plus des feuilles chez les espces qui consacrent majoritairement leur effort reproductif  la production d'inflorescences multiflores. La longueur totale du tube floral et celle mesure de la base de la fleur  la constriction surmontant l'ovaire sont positivement corrles. Il en va de mme de la longueur totale du tube et de celle des spales. La longueur des spales et le nombre de fleurs par inflorescence sont corrls ngativement et aucune relation n'existe, au sein des espces, entre la longueur totale du tube et le nombre de fleurs. Ces rsultats dmontrent comment des analyses morphomtriques contribuent  tester la validit de taxons, particulirement au sein de paires ou de petits groupes d'espces similaires ou de taxons subspcifiques. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668695|Long, narrow corolla tubes have evolved several times in genera of southern African Lamiaceae, such as Plectranthus, Thorncroftia, Orthosiphon, Hemizygia, Stachys and Salvia. A study of the pollination of Plectranthus in KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape of South Africa showed a nemestrinid fly, Stenobasipteron wiedemanni, to be the pollinator of the four species that have long corolla tubes. The proboscis length of this fly (19-30 mm) corresponds to the corolla tube lengths of the flowers (20-33 mm). This fly is restricted to forest patches and woodlands along the eastern parts of southern Africa, while long-proboscid species of the nemestrinid genus Prosoeca occur mostly in grassland habitats. It is postulated that S. wiedemanni is the pollinator of Stachys tubulosa, Salvia scabra, Salvia repens var. keiensis and Hemizygia ramosa in forest and woodland habitats. Long-proboscid species of the nemestrinid genus Prosoeca are suggested as pollinators of Orthosiphon tubiformis, Thorncroftia longiflora, T. succulenta, Hemizygia rugosifolia, H. gerrardii and Salvia repens var. keiensis, in grassland habitats. Novel distribution maps for four long-proboscid fly species are provided. This paper aims to discuss the distribution of long-tubed members of the Lamiaceae in relation to that of long-proboscid flies by relating the biogeography of the flies to that of the plant species. /// Des tubes corollins longs et troits se sont dvelopps dans plusieurs genres sud-africains de Lamiaceae, comme Plectranthus, Thorncroftia, Orthosiphon, Hemizygia, Stachys et Salvia. Une tude de la pollinisation de Plectranthus au KwaZulu-Natal et dans l'Eastern Cape en Afrique du Sud ont montr qu'une mouche nemestrinide, Stenobasipteron wiedemanni, pollinisait quatre espces  longs tubes corollins. La longueur du proboscis de cette mouche (19-30 mm) correspond  celle du tube corollin des fleurs (20-33 mm). La prsence de cette mouche est limite aux lots forestiers et aux savanes arbores des rgions situes  l'est de l'Afrique australe, alors que les espces de nemestrides  long proboscis appartenant au genre Prosoeca se rencontrent principalement dans des milieux herbacs. Il est postul que S. wiedemanni est le pollinisateur de Stachys tubulosa, Salvia scabra, Salvia repens var. keiensis et Hemizygia ramosa dans les habitats forestiers et en fort claire. Les espces de nemestrides  long proboscis du genre Prosoeca sont supposes tre les pollinisatrices de Orthosiphon tubiformis, Thorncroftia longiflora, T. succulenta, Hemizygia rugosifolia, H. gerrardii et Salvia repens var. keiensis dans les milieux herbacs. De nouvelles cartes de distribution pour quatre espces de mouches  long proboscis sont tablies. Cet article a pour objectif de discuter la distribution de reprsentants  long tube de la famille des Lamiaceae en relation avec celle de mouches  long proboscis en comparant la biogographie des mouches  celle des espces vgtales. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668665|The paper is a review of the botanical collecting activity in Ethiopia and Eritrea, covering the period after the account by G. Cufodontis (published 1962, data recorded to ca. 1960). In connection with preparation of family accounts for the Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea, and through searches in Ethiopian herbaria, information on collectors has been recorded. The major developments since Cufodontis' account are the establishment and growth of the National Herbarium of Ethiopia (ETH), founded 1959, and the Herbarium of the Alemaya University of Agriculture (ACD), founded 1957, and the progress with the Ethiopian Flora Project since 1980. In close connection with the latter, ETH has grown to at least 72,000 collections. At the same time collections have been accumulating at the other Ethiopian and Eritrean institutions, including the herbaria of the Alemaya Agricultural University (ACD), the International Livestock Research Institute (ILCA) and the Asmara University, and at European and American herbaria. Ca. 275 collectors have been active in the region since 1960. Of these, ca. 160 have collected only during one year and in only one or two floristic regions. Ca. thirty-five have collected during several years in a few floristic regions. Ca. thirty have collected during one year in many floristic regions. Ca. twenty-five have collected for 3-8 years in more than five floristic regions. Ca. fifteen have collected for more than eight years in more than eight floristic regions. Ca. twenty-five scientists published ca. 100 new taxa and combinations from Ethiopia and Eritrea between 1960 and 1979. Ca. fifty scientists, including ca. ten at one time resident in Ethiopia, have published ca. 300 new taxa and combinations based on material from the Flora area between 1980 and 1996. This is a period during which the Ethiopian Flora Project has been active. /// L'article passe en revue la rcolte botanique en Ethiopie et en Erythre et couvre la priode faisant suite au rapport de G. Cufodontis (publi en 1962, donnes enregistres jusqu'aux environs de 1960). Les informations concernant les rcolteurs ont t rassembles paralllement  la prparation de travaux sur les familles pour la Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea ainsi qu' travers des recherches dans les Herbiers thiopiens. Les principaux dveloppements depuis le rapport de Cufodontis sont l'tablissement et la croissance du National Herbarium of Ethiopia (ETH), fond en 1959, et de l'Herbarium of the Alemaya University of Agriculture (ACD), fond en 1957, ainsi que les progrs raliss depuis 1980 dans le cadre du Ethiopian Flora Project. En troite collaboration avec celui-ci, ETH s'est enrichi d'au moins 72.000 chantillons. Au mme moment, des collections se sont accumules dans les autres institutions d'Ethiopie et d'Erythre, notamment les Herbiers de l'Alemaya Agricultural University (ACD), de l'International Livestock Research Institute (ILCA) et de l'Asmara University ainsi que dans les Herbiers europens et amricains. Environ 275 rcolteurs ont t actifs dans la rgion depuis 1960. Parmi ceux-ci, environ 160 ont rcolt uniquement durant une anne et dans une ou deux rgions floristiques seulement. Environ trente-cinq ont rcolt durant plusieurs annes dans un petit nombre de rgions floristiques. Une trentaine ont rcolt durant une anne dans plusieurs rgions floristiques. Environ vingt-cinq ont rcolt durant trois  huit ans dans plus de cinq rgions floristiques et environ quinze durant plus de huit ans dans plus de huit rgions floristiques. Environ vingt-cinq scientifiques ont publi une centaine de nouveaux taxons et de combinaisons pour l'Ethiopie et l'Erythre entre 1960 et 1979. Quinze scientifiques environ, y compris la dizaine qui rsidaient en Ethiopie  un moment donn, ont publi de 1980  1996 environ 300 nouveaux taxons et combinaisons bases sur du matriel de la rgion couverte par la Flora of Ethiopia and Eritrea. Cette poque correspond  la priode durant laquelle l'Ethiopian Flora Project a t actif. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668678|Extraction of botanical information from the database "SIG IVOIRE" processed together with ecological maps, allow us to generate potential distribution maps for Cte d'Ivoire. Habitat Suitability and Environment Similarity methods are used and their respective applicability are discussed. Although the first one provides more accurate results, it needs more species distribution data. In the case of Cte d'Ivoire where these data are often not sufficiently abundant, we need to use the Environment Similarity method. By this mean, we propose potential distribution maps for the species of Sapotaceae and Moraceae. /// L'extraction des informations botaniques stockes dans la base de donnes "SIG IVOIRE" et l'utilisation conjointe de cartes cologiques, permettent de raliser des cartes de distribution potentielle des espces sur la Cte d'Ivoire. Les mthodes d'Habitat Suitability et d'Environment Similarity sont brivement compares. Il ressort que si la premire donne des rsultats plus pertinents, elle ncessite en revanche un plus grand nombre de localits-espce. Dans le cas de la Cte d'Ivoire o ces donnes sont souvent limites, on est contraint de lui prfrer la mthode base sur l'Environment Similarity. Celle-ci a t utilise pour dresser la cartographie potentielle des espces des Sapotaceae et des Moraceae.
10.2307/3668734|The line-transect method has been used for a biodiversity inventory of the Nyungwe Forest between June and August 1999. The results showed that large tracts of intact natural forest still exist. However, serious disturbance is due to destructive human activities. In total 172 tree and shrub species (dbh 10 cm), from 53 families, were found. Out of these, ten species were recorded for the first time: Trichosypha ulugurensis subsp. submontana (Anacardiaceae), Isolona lebrunii (Annonaceae), Discoclaoxylon hexandrum and Macaranga monandra (Euphorbiaceae), Casearia engleri (Flacourtiaceae), Leplaea mayumbensis (Meliaceae), Trilepisium madagascariense (Moraceae), Ardisia buesguenii and A. uregaensis (Myrsinaceae) and Calycosiphonia spathicalyx (Rubiaceae). The presence of Antidesma venosum (Euphorbiaceae) in Rwanda was confirmed. The inventory allowed to identify the sites of large species diversity and those of high human pressure on fauna and flora, information useful for the proposal of conservation measures for the natural forest of Nyungwe. /// La mthode de placette circulaire a t utilise pour l'inventaire de la biodiversit dans la fort de Nyungwe, Rwanda, entre juin et aot 1999. Les rsultats ont montr que d'importantes tendues de forts naturelles intactes existent mais elles font l'objet de fortes perturbations du fait des activits humaines. Au total 172 espces d'arbres et arbustes (dbh  10 cm), regroupes en 53 familles, ont t inventories. Parmi elles, dix espces y sont recenses pour la premire fois: Trichosypha ulugurensis subsp. submontana (Anacardiaceae), Isolona lebrunii (Annonaceae), Discoclaoxylon hexandrum et Macaranga monandra (Euphorbiaceae), Casearia engleri (Flacourtiaceae), Leplaea mayumbensis (Meliaceae), Trilepisium madagascariense (Moraceae), Ardisia buesguenii et A. uregaensis (Myrsinaceae) et Calycosiphonia spathicalyx (Rubiaceae). La prsence de Antidesma venosum (Euphorbiaceae) est galement confirme au Rwanda. L'inventaire a permis en outre d'identifier les sites  grande diversit spcifique et de forte pression humaine sur la faune et la flore, information qui servira au programme de conservation de la biodiversit de la fort naturelle de Nyungwe.
10.2307/3668688|Morphological, anatomical and morphometric studies of leaf and bract diversity among selected species of Gnidia (Thymelaeaceae) were conducted. Surface details of fresh and herbariumdried leaves and bracts were examined using Light Microscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy. Intraspecific and interspecific variation of leaves and bracts based on logarithmic transformations of linear data, was performed using Univariate Nested Analyses of Variance and Univariate Analyses of Variance. A Correlation Analysis was performed to test the correlation between leaf and bract ratios within species. Interspecific variation was examined further using Discriminant Analysis to maximise the separation of species on the basis of leaf and bract dimension data. Newly observed features of leaves and bracts include: hair ornamentation; specialisation of stomata; aerenchymatous-like tissue and reduced mesophyll. Homogenous groups of species were identified on the basis of their similarity of leaf length and width or bract length and width ratios. The species comprising the homogenous groups for leaf ratios are different from the species comprising the homogenous groups for bract ratios. There is no correlation between leaf and bract ratios, and the factors influencing leaf diversity appear to differ to those influencing bract diversity. Results also suggest that inflorescence organisation strongly influences bract diversity. /// Des tudes morphologiques, anatomiques et morphomtriques de la diversit des bractes et des feuilles dans une slection d'espces de Gnidia (Thymeleaceae) ont t menes. Les dtails de la surface de bractes et feuilles fraches ou d'herbier ont t examins au microscope optique et lectronique  balayage. La variation intraspcifique et interspcifique des feuilles et des bractes base sur les transformations logarithmiques de donnes linaires a t donne en utilisant les analyses de variance univaries et univaries hirarchises. Une analyse de corrlation a t excute pour tester la corrlation entre les dimensions des feuilles et des bractes au sein de l'espce. La variation interspcifique a t examine plus  fond en utilisant l'analyse discriminante afin d'optimaliser la sparation des espces sur base des dimensions mesures des feuilles et bractes. Les nouvelles caractristiques observes de feuilles et des bractes comprennent: ornemention des poils, spcialisation des stomates, tissu semblable  l'arenchyme et msophylle rduit. Des groupes homognes d'espces ont t identifis sur base de leur ressemblance quant au rapport de la longueur et de la largeur des feuilles et des bractes. Les espces comprenant les groupes homognes pour les rapports des feuilles sont diffrents des espces comprenant les groupes homognes pour les rapports des bractes. Il n'y a pas de corrlation entre les dimensions des feuilles et des bractes et les facteurs influenant la diversit des feuilles semblent diffrents de ceux qui influencent la diversit des bractes. Les rsultats suggrent aussi que l'organisation de l'inflorescence influence fortement la diversit des bractes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668738|An examination of hitherto published botanical monographs, together with notes from more recent collections, has identified a local centre of endemism focussed on the dissected plateaux inland of Lindi in SE Tanzania. The lowland forests on and around these plateaux contain between 40 and 91 vascular plant species which are not found elsewhere (depending on how rigorously the available data are interpreted), most of which have been collected less than three times and are limited to a single locality. The level of floristic endemism in this area is strikingly greater than in neighbouring areas, in spite of an apparent similarity in topography and vegetation. The full extent of the surviving remnants of forest is still poorly known, and an increased conservation initiative in this area is urgently required, together with further biological studies. /// Une tude des monographies botaniques publies jusqu' prsent, avec des observations tires de collections rcentes, a permis d'identifier un centre local d'endmisme sur les plateaux intrieurs de Lindi dans le sud-est de la Tanzanie. Les forts de basse altitude sur ces plateaux et dans leurs environs hbergent entre 40 et 91 espces de plantes vasculaires, qui n'existent pas ailleurs (selon la rigueur avec laquelle les donnes disponibles seront interprtes). La plupart de ces espces ont t rcoltes moins de trois fois et sont limites  une seule localit. Le niveau d'endmisme floristique dans cette rgion est nettement plus grand que dans les rgions voisines, malgr une similitude apparente dans la topographie et la vgtation. L'tendue complte des relictes forestires est encore peu connue; il est urgent que des mesures de conservation soient prises dans cette rgion et que les tudes biologiques y soient poursuivies. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668690|The caesalpinioid legume genus Berlinia Sol. ex Hook. f. & Benth. as currently circumscribed, comprises about 18 species in two generic sections. A preliminary test of the monophyly of Berlinia and an investigation of its taxonomic position with respect to putative close relatives, Isoberlinia, Anthonotha, Gilbertiodendron, Pellegriniodendron and Librevillea was undertaken using analyses of molecular and macromorphological data. Nucleotide sequence data from two regions of the genome, a chloroplast region, the trnL intron, and a nuclear region, the internal transcribed spacer of the nuclear 28-18s ribosomal gene (ITS), were subjected to separate phylogenetic analyses. Both regions were assessed for phylogenetic utility in species level studies. A combined phylogenetic analysis of ITS data (including coded indels) and macromorphological data was undertaken. TrnL data provided only limited phylogenetic resolution. ITS data provided resolution at genus and species level offering weak support for a monophyletic Berlinia with Isoberlinia weakly supported as sister to Berlinia. Based on the phylogeny inferred from the analysis of ITS data, it was possible to speculate that Isoberlinia may be a recently radiated genus, the monotypic genus Pellegriniodendron may be conspecific with Gilbertiodendron and the genus Anthonotha may be paraphyletic. Macromorphology provided weak support for a monophyletic Berlinia but no support for the monophyly of the Berlinia-Isoberlinia clade. The combined analysis (ITS with macromorphology) provided moderate support, for the monophyly of Berlinia as currently circumscribed and weak support for Isoberlinia as sister group. Indels provided synapomorphies for several clades in the phylogeny inferred from the combined analysis. This paper is an extension of a study recently published (Mackinder 2000 publ. 2001), from which it differs by the inclusion of sequence (ITS) and morphological data for an additional four taxa. /// Le genre Berlinia Sol. ex Hook.f. & Benth. (lgumineuse caesalpiniode) tel qu'il est actuellement dlimit, comprend environ 18 espces rparties au sein de deux sections gnriques. Un test prliminaire de la monophylie de Berlinia et une recherche de sa position taxonomique, par rapport  des genres proches comme Isoberlinia, Anthonotha, Gilbertiodendron, Pellegriniodendron et Librevillea, a t entreprise  l'aide de donnes provenant d'analyses molculaires et macromorphologiques. Les squences nuclotidiques de deux rgions du gnome, l'une chloroplastique, l'intron trnL, l'autre nuclaire, l'ITS du gne ribosomique 28-18s ont t soumises  des analyses phylogntiques distinctes. Une valuation de l'utilit phylognique des deux rgions dans le cadre d'tudes au niveau spcifique a t mene. Une analyse phylognique combine des donnes ITS (incluant les indels cods) et macromorphologiques a t entreprise. Les donnes trnL n'ont montr qu'une rsolution phylognique limite. Les donnes ITS ont permis des rsolutions aux niveaux gnrique et spcifique appuyant faiblement l'hypothse d'un genre Berlinia monophyltique et de Isoberlinia comme taxon-frre. Sur base de la phylognie dduite de l'analyse des donnes ITS, il a t avanc que Isoberlinia pouvait tre un genre rcemment diffrenci, que le genre monotypique Pellegriniodendron pouvait tre conspcifique de Gilbertiodendron et que le genre Anthonotha pouvait tre paraphyltique. La macromorphologie a faiblement appuy l'hypothse d'un genre Berlinia monophyltique et n'a pas soutenu celle de la monophylie de la clade Berlinia-Isoberlinia. L'analyse combine (ITS et macromorphologique) n'a apport qu'un soutien modr  la monophylie du genre Berlinia tel qu'il est actuellement dlimit et un faible support  Isoberlinia en tant que groupe-frre. Les indels ont fourni des synapomorphies pour plusieurs clades de la phylognie dduite de l'analyse combine. Cet article est une extension de l'tude rcemment publie (Mackinder 2000 publ. 2001) et dont elle diffre par l'intgration de donnes de squence ITS et morphologiques pour quatre taxons supplmentaires. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668713|Gnetum africanum and G. buchholzianum, generally called "eru", are species of Gnetaceae whose leaves are edible as vegetables. They constitute a very important commercial non-timber forest product in Central Africa particularly in Cameroon where they are traded as green vegetables in local and regional markets, and exported. The resource has been seriously threatened by unsustainable harvesting and the gradual disappearance of the forests in which they occur. In order to ensure and enhance the sustainability of these species, a production to consumption system of the species has been studied and efforts of conservation through cultivation initiated. This paper describes the importance of the species and reports on the achievements of its domestication initiatives so far /// Gnetum africanum et G. buchholzianum ou "eru" sont deux espces comestibles de la famille des Gnetaces. Leurs feuilles constituent un important produit forestier non-ligneux (PFNL) commercialis en Afrique Centrale, plus particulirement au Cameroun, et export comme lgume. Nanmoins, cette ressource est menace de disparition du fait de l'exploitation illicite et incontrlable de la part de la population et suite  la disparition progressive des forts. Afin d'assurer et d'amliorer la durabilit de ces espces, des techniques culturales particulires ont t adoptes comme mesures de conservation. Nous dcrivons dans cette tude l'importance de ces espces ainsi que les activits de domestication entreprises.
10.2307/3668685|The continental African species of Coptosperma, an Afromalagasy genus recently reestablished and enlarged, are revised. Thirteen taxa are recognized, for which eleven new taxonomic combinations are necessary; a new species from Somalia, C. somaliense, is described. The taxonomy of the species is surveyed, distribution maps are given and the chorology of the genus is discussed. /// Coptosperma est un genre afromalgache rcemment rtabli et largi. Les espces d'Afrique continentale sont revues. Treize taxons sont reconnus, pour lesquels onze combinaisons nouvelles sont proposes; une espce nouvelle de Somalie, C. somaliense, est dcrite. Un aperu de la taxonomie des espces, ainsi que des cartes de distribution sont donns. La chorologie du genre est discute.
10.2307/3668736|Plant surveys were undertaken in 1995 in the 1922 and 1959 lava flows in order to assess species richness on these lava flows on Mount Cameroon. A total of 128 species were recorded out of which 21 (16%) were only found on lava flow and nowhere else in other ecosystems in Cameroon; they could be considered as a contribution of the lava flows to the maintenance of overall species diversity of the mountain area. Also, apart from the lava flow area it is difficult to find in one area such a high diversity of ferns, orchids and even woody species such as Ficus species and Hymenodictyon biafranum. The physiognomy of the recovering vegetation on lava flow is dominated at different stages of succession by different groups of plants, which also illustrates the successional pathway. The bare rock is first inhabited by lichens and mosses, followed by ferns, then herbs and climbers with stunted woody pioneers, and finally by immature woody pioneers. Comparison of observed data on species composition, basal area and density of plants on the 1922 lava flow and similar parameters in the intact nearby rainforest indicated that the turnover time on lava flow in the Mount Cameroon environment is at least 300 to 600 years. /// Afin d'valuer la richesse spcifique sur des coules de lave, un inventaire a t ralis en 1995 sur celles de 1922 et de 1959 au Mont Cameroun. Parmi les 128 espces observes, 21 (16%) taient spcifiques sur les laves et n'taient pas retrouves dans les autres cosystmes du Cameroun; les coules de laves peuvent donc tre considres comme contribuant au maintien de la diversit floristique globale dans la rgion du Mont Cameroun. On note aussi qu'en dehors des zones couvertes de lave, il est difficile de trouver en un mme endroit une telle diversit de fougres, d'orchides et mme d'espces ligneuses telles que les Ficus et Hymenodictyon biafranum. La physionomie de la vgtation reconstitue sur les laves est domine lors de diffrentes phases par des groupes floristiques illustrant la succession. C'est ainsi que les roches sont d'abord domines par les lichens et mousses suivis par les fougres, les herbes, les lianes et quelques pionniers, et finalement par les pionniers ligneux immatures. La comparaison des observations relative  la composition spcifique,  la surface terrire et  la densit des plantes sur la coule de lave de 1922 d'une part, et dans une fort humide intacte  proximit d'autre part, a indiqu que la priode de rgnration sur coule de lave au Mont Cameroun est d'au moins 300  600 ans.
10.2307/3668671|The Southern African Botanical Diversity Network (SABONET) is a donor-funded capacity-building project involving southern African botanists. Incorporating ten southern African countries, the SABONET Project has involved the preparation of botanical inventories, national plant checklists, national and regional plant collecting expeditions, computerisation of herbaria, postgraduate support for herbarium staff, in-service training courses and the production of plant Red Data Lists. Regular monitoring and evaluation is an important component of the project. Support for staff attached to national botanical gardens in the region is scheduled to be mobilised in 2001/2. Since the project's inception in 1996, SABONET has made a significant contribution to the networking and capacity development of botanists in southern Africa and the ex situ conservation of the region's flora. This paper provides an update on the project progress to date, outlines some challenges and opportunities for the future and presents recommendations for similar future projects' design and implementation. /// SABONET: mise en valeur des aptitudes au sein des Herbiers et des jardins botaniques d'Afrique australe. Le rseau d'Afrique australe pour la diversit botanique (SABONET) est un projet financ par des donations et qui contribue  dvelopper le potentiel des Herbiers et jardins botaniques d'Afrique australe en impliquant des botanistes de la rgion. Le projet SABONET, qui couvre dix pays d'Afrique australe, intervient dans la prparation d'inventaires botaniques, la constitution de listes de plantes par pays, l'organisation d'expditions de rcolte tant nationales que rgionales, l'informatisation des Herbiers, le soutien dans la formation du personnel travaillant dans les Herbiers, l'organisation de cours et la production de listes rouges. Le suivi rgulier et l'valuation sont des composantes importantes du projet. Le soutien au personnel des jardins botaniques nationaux de la rgion est programm pour 2001/2. Depuis la mise en oeuvre du projet en 1996, SABONET a contribu de manire significative  la constitution et au dveloppement d'un rseau de botanistes en Afrique australe ainsi qu' la conservation ex situ de la flore de la rgion. Cet article fait tat de l'avancement du projet et, tout en soulignant ses dfis pour le futur, prsente quelques recommandations pour la conception et la mise en oeuvre de projets similaires. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668723|The Ngotto forest is located in the south-west of the Central African Republic. For a better knowledge of the phytodiversity of this forest and to understand the factors by which it is determined, a phytogeographical interpretation of the data gathered is proposed on the basis of systematics (level of the family), biological types, types of diaspores and the spectra of phytogeographical elements. White's phytogeographical typology (1983, 1986) is followed. The results show an equal contribution of endemic species, linking species and species with large distribution. The respective presence of Congolian and Guinean elements is also shown. /// La fort de Ngotto est situe dans le sud-ouest de la Rpublique Centrafricaine. Pour mieux connatre la phytodiversit de cette fort et comprendre son dterminisme, une interprtation phytogographique des inventaires forestiers disponibles est propose sur la base des spectres systmatique (au niveau de la famille), biologique, de types des diaspores et d'lments phytogographiques. La typologie phytogographique de White (1983, 1986) a t suivie. Les rsultats montrent une contribution quilibre des espces endmiques, des espces de liaison et des espces  large dispersion. Les contributions respectives des lments congolais et guinens sont galement mises en vidence.
10.2307/3668714|Garcinia lucida and Garcinia kola (Clusiaceae) are common well-known forest species among local population in Cameroon due to their various medicinal properties. A study of the traditional uses and the harvesting practices of these two species permits to draw together their medicinal, social and economic potentials in order to promote their utilisation and long-term exploitation. Traditional medicines and foods are the main important use categories. The seeds and the bark are the most commonly used parts of these plant species. The seeds are generally gathered under the crown of reproductive trees while the extraction of bark almost always involved ringbarking trees, the extraction of root involved logging of trees. The density of G. lucida varies from 17 to 314 stems per hectare. The average number of G. kola trees is 0.4 stems per hectare. The proportion of trees dying after debarking ranked between 5 and 43% according to the exploited stands of G. lucida. The proportion of debarked and logged trees for G. kola was estimated about 43%. The size-class distribution exhibited by these two species shows a selective exploitation of the largest trees. The quantity of G. lucida fresh bark harvested was estimated at 15 kg per day and per collector. These results indicate a high exploitation pressure using destructive harvesting techniques which could lead to the resource depletion in the future. /// Garcinia lucida et Garcinia kola (Clusiaceae) sont des essences bien connues des populations forestires camerounaises pour leurs nombreuses proprits mdicinales. Une tude des utilisations traditionnelles et des modalits d'exploitation de ces deux espces est faite au Cameroun. Elle permet d'examiner leurs potentialits socio-conomiques et mdicinales dans l'optique d'une valorisation et d'une exploitation soutenue de ces espces. La pharmacope et l'alimentation se classent au premier rang des diffrentes utilisations traditionnelles. Les organes les plus utiliss sont les graines, l'corce et la racine pivot pour de multiples usages. Les graines sont gnralement ramasses sous la couronne des arbres tandis que le prlvement de l'corce se fait trs souvent par annlation du pourtour de la tige et, l'extraction de la racine pivot par dracinement de l'arbre. La densit des arbres de G. lucida varie entre 17 et 314 tiges par hectare. Celle des individus de G. kola est en moyenne de 0,4 tige par hectare. Le pourcentage de mortalit de G. lucida aprs prlvement de l'corce varie entre 5 et 43% selon les sites exploits. Le nombre d'arbres de G. kola corcs ou dterrs pour l'exploitation de la racine, est de l'ordre de 43%. La structure diamtrique de ces espces montre une exploitation slective des plus grands arbres. La quantit d'corce de G. lucida rcolte est estime en moyenne  15 kg d'corce frache par personne et par jour. Ces rsultats indiquent qu'une forte pression d'exploitation, utilisant des techniques entranant l'limination des individus, est exerce sur ces espces et risque d'entraner  long terme l'puisement de la ressource.
10.2307/3668709|The Dja biosphere reserve is located in Cameroon, in the East and the South provinces. It has not yet been subject to forest logging. But the high processing of timber extraction and the hunting of large mammals around the reserve result in fragmentation of the forest. In the south of the Dja reserve, local populations use mainly plant species in the treatment of malaria. Ethnobotanical surveys have been conducted for the traditional usage of medicinal plants against malaria in the Mintom subdivision (south). In all, 34 therapeutic recipes have been prescribed by Fang (eleven households), Nzaman (nine), and Baka pygmies (one) based in the Mintom region. These recipes used 23 plant species in the treatment of malaria. To compare plant species, an index of endangerment (Iv with values between 1 and 3) is defined for each of them, based on an arbitrary scale used for each of the following ten parameters: (1) the popularity of species in the Fang ethnic group, (2) its popularity in the Nzaman ethnic group, (3) the part of the plant used, (4) its developmental stage, (5) the mode of harvesting (6), the pharmaceutical forms used, (7) the habitat of the plant, (8) the type of scattering of seeds, (9) the morphological type, (10) the frequency (abundance) of plants in the field. Fourteen species have endangerment index above 2. Four out of them are said to be more endangered, with Iv > 2.5. According to decreasing Iv values, these species are ranged as follows: Picralima nitida > Alstonia boonei > Rauvolfia vomitoria > Zanthoxylum heitzii. /// La rserve de biosphre du Dja est situe au Cameroun dans les provinces de l'est et du sud. Elle n'a jamais fait l'objet d'une exploitation forestire, mais le fort dploiement de cette activit dans la zone priphrique fragilise les forts du Dja par l'amplification de la dforestation et l'abattage du gros gibier. Ce fait tend  isoler biologiquement la rserve du reste du District Forestier du Dja. Dans le sud de la rserve, les populations ont essentiellement recours aux plantes mdicinales pour soigner le paludisme. Des enqutes ethnobotaniques ont t conduites sur l'usage traditionnel des plantes antipaludiques dans l'arrondissement de Mintom (sud). Au total, 34 recettes ont t prescrites par les Fang (onze mnages), Nzaman (neuf) et Baka (un) bass dans la rgion de Mintom. Ces recettes font intervenir 23 plantes dans le traitement du palu disme. Dans le but de comparer la fragilit des espces cites, un indice de vulnrabilit (Iv avec des valeurs de 1  3) est dfini pour chaque espce. Cet indice est calcul  partir d'un barme arbitraire appliqu  chacun des dix paramtres suivants: (1) la popularit de l'espce chez les Fang, (2) sa popularit chez les Nzaman, (3) le type d'organe vgtal utilis, (4) son stade de dveloppement, (5) le mode de rcolte, (6) les formes pharmaceutiques employes, (7) le biotope de la plante, (8) le type de dissmination des diaspores, (9) le type morphologique, (10) la frquence (abondance) des plantes dans le milieu. Quatorze espces ont des indices de vulnrabilit suprieurs  2. Quatre parmi elles peuvent tre considres comme trs vulnrables, avec des Iv > 2,5. Par ordre dcroissant de la valeur de Iv, ces quatre espces s'ordonnent comme suit: Picralima nitida > Alstonia boonei > Rauvolfia vomitoria> Zanthoxylum heitzii.
10.2307/3668718|The present survey concerns two galleries of the Biosphere Reserve of the "Mare aux Hippopotames", the Leyessa and Bala. A permanent plot of one hectare was installed in a representative part of each forest gallery. The plot has been subdivided into 100 quadrats of <tex-math>$100\ m^{2}$</tex-math> each. Every tree having more than 5 cm Diameter at Breast Height (DBH) was labeled by a label in aluminium; number, geographical coordinates, height, DBH, phenology and number of sprigs were noted, as well as miscellaneous observations (tree cut, dead, partly burned). Three species were mapped within the plot. For every forest, a list of trees DBH  5 cm was prepared. The Leyessa forest counts 392 trees belonging to 25 species and 17 families while the Bala forest amounts 461 trees distributed in 29 species and 21 families. Six important families are noted in this study: Bombacaceae, Caesalpiniaceae, Sterculiaceae, Combretaceae, Apocynaceae and Boraginaceae. Relative diversity, dominance and importance value of every family and every species are calculated for each forest. /// La prsente tude concerne les caractristiques floristiques de deux forts galeries de la rserve de biosphre de la Mare aux Hippopotames: Leyessa et Bala. Une parcelle permanente d'un hectare a t installe dans une partie reprsentative de chaque galerie forestire. La parcelle est subdivise en 100 placeaux de <tex-math>$100\ m^{2}$</tex-math> chacun. Chaque arbre de plus de 5 cm de Diamtre  Hauteur de Poitrine (DHP) est tiquet par une plaque en aluminium portant son numro. Pour chaque arbre, les coordonnes gographiques, la hauteur, le DHP, la phnologie et le nombre de brins ainsi que. des observations gnrales (arbre coup, arbre couch, arbre mort, arbre brl en partie) sont nots. La rpartition de trois espces au sein de la parcelle a t cartographie. Pour chaque fort, la liste des arbres de DHP  5 cm a t dresse. La fort de Bala avec 461 arbres rpartis en 29 espces et 21 familles est plus riche que la fort de la Leyessa qui compte 392 arbres appartenant  25 espces et  17 familles. Six grandes familles se dgagent de cette tude: les Bombacaceae, les Caesalpiniaceae, les Sterculiaceae, les Combretaceae, les Apocynaceae et les Boraginaceae. La diversit relative, la densit relative, la dominance et la "Family Importance Value" de chaque famille sont calcules pour chacune des forts et pour chaque espce ligneuse inventorie.
10.2307/3668697|The circumscription of the tribe Naucleeae has been under debate for a long time. This is the first study to test if the previous circumscriptions are supported as monophyletic. Parsimony analyses of the rbcL sequence data of Rubiaceae, followed by separate and combined analyses of the ITS, rbcL, and morphological data were performed in attempt to propose a new tribal delimitation for Naucleeae. Results did not support any of the previous delimitations of Naucleeae. All favoured a broader circumscription, which includes not only all members of Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale, but also Cephalanthus, Hallea, Mitragyna, and Uncaria, formerly placed in Naucleeae, Corynanthe and Pausinystalia. Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale were shown to be monophyletic without support in the morphology- and combined ITS-rbcL-morphology-based trees. The tribe Coptosapelteae sensu Andersson & Persson appeared polyphyletic. A new tribe Hymenodictyoneae is created to accommodate Hymenodictyon and Paracorynanthe. Descriptions and diagnostic features of the newly circumscribed Naucleeae and Hymenodictyoneae are provided. /// La dlimitation de la tribu des Naucleeae est sujette  dbat depuis longtemps. Cette tude est la premire  tester si les dlimitations prcdemment proposes sont monophyltiques. Des analyses de parcimonie de squences rbcL de Rubiaceae, suivies par des analyses spares et combines de donnes ITS, rbcL et morphologiques ont t ralises pour tenter de proposer une nouvelle dlimitation de la tribu des Naucleeae. Les rsultats ne confirment aucune des dlimitations prcdentes des Naucleeae et favorisent des limites plus larges incluant non seulement tous les membres des Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale mais aussi Cephalanthus, Hallea, Mitragyna et Uncaria, places anciennement dans les Naucleeae, Corynanthe et Pausinystalia. Il a t dmontr que les Naucleeae sensu Ridsdale taient monophyltiques mais sans confirmation par l'arbre morphologique ni par celui combinant les donnes ITS-rbcL et morphologiques. La tribu des Coptosapelteae sensu Andersson & Persson s'est rvle polyphyltique. Une nouvelle tribu, les Hymenodictyoneae, est cre pour recevoir Hymenodictyon et Paracorynanthe. Des descriptions et des caractres diagnostiques pour la tribu des Naucleeae redlimite et pour celle des Hymenodictyoneae sont fournis.
10.2307/3668670|The United Nations University/Institute for Natural Resources in Africa (UNU/INRA) conducted an assessment of the status of herbaria and capabilities in taxonomy and systematics in selected countries in West, East and southern Africa in 1999. The findings pointed to the fact that, except for very few institutions, the infrastructure and facilities were on the whole poor and inadequate, while there were few trained taxonomists. UNU/INRA has identified the way forward in capacity building through support to African centres of excellence for research and training. This paper shows results of the assessment and UNU/INRA's outlook on the future. /// L'Universit des Nations Unies/Institut pour les Ressources Naturelles en Afrique (UNU/INRA) a valu l'tat des herbiers et leurs potentialits en taxonomie et systmatique dans certains pays choisis d'Afrique occidentale, orientale et australe en 1999. Les rsultats ont mis en vidence qu' l'exception de quelques rares institutions, l'infrastructure et les amnagements taient insuffisants et inadquats et qu'elles disposaient de peu de taxonomistes forms. L'UNU/INRA a identifi la manire d'amliorer les comptences en soutenant les centres d'excellence africains impliqus dans la recherche et la formation. Cet article prsente les rsultats de cette valuation et les perspectives de l'UNU/INRA. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668711|A questionnaire was elaborated and submitted orally to Turumbu and Lokele peoples living in the Tshopo District, Democratic Republic of Congo, to know more about the native edible plants they use. For each indicated plant, the vernacular name, edible part, dietary use, frequency and preference of consumption was recorded. The study reveals the utilization of 70 species from 61 genus and 44 families. Thirty-three species are only used by the Turumbu, twelve species by the Lokele and 25 species by both. The methods for preparation are also described. The dietary use of some of these species is confirmed by data on other tribes from the region (Kumu, Wangenia, Foma, Batiabetuwa...) and from Central Africa. Twenty-one species are indicated for the first time in the region as edible. Most of the species are trees and occur in terra firma plant communities. The spontaneous plants with edible fruits are the most used by the Turumbu and Lokele tribes. Most species used as vegetable are eaten throughout the year, whereas availability of edible fruits depends on phenology. /// Un questionnaire sur les plantes alimentaires spontanes a t labor et soumis oralement aux informateurs Turumbu et Lokele du District de la Tshopo en Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo. Le but tait de connatre le nom vernaculaire de la plante, l'organe comestible, son mode de consommation, la frquence et la prfrence de consommation. L'tude a rvl l'utilisation de 70 espces appartenant  61 genres et 44 familles. Trente-trois espces sont exclusivement consommes par les Turumbu, douze espces par les Lokele et 25 espces sont consommes par les deux tribus; leurs modes de prparation ou d'emploi sont dcrits. L'usage alimentaire de certaines de ces espces a t confirm par d'autres tribus de la rgion (Kumu, Wangenia, Foma, Batiabetuwa...) et d'Afrique Centrale. Vingt-et-une espces sont signales pour la premire fois dans la rgion comme faisant l'objet d'habitudes alimentaires. La plupart des espces recences sont des arbres et proviennent surtout des formations vgtales de terre ferme. Les plantes  fruits comestibles sont fortement rprsentes dans la flore alimentaire sauvage des Turumbu et Lokele. La majorit des plantes lgumires sont consommes toute l'anne alors que la disponibilit des fruits dpend de la phnologie de chaque espce.
10.2307/3668731|Regeneration and succession processes in montane forests of Kenya and parts of Ethiopia were investigated. The slowly growing camphor tree, Ocotea usambarensis, regenerates mainly by suckers from old root systems. Undamaged seeds were very rarely seen, and, apparently are viable only for a few days. After natural breakdown of an old tree, the gap is filled by fast growing species, mainly Macaranga kilimandscharica and Neoboutonia macrocalyx, in the shade of which the young Ocotea suckers can establish. After the death of the secondary species, whose germination requires full sunlight and is inhibited in the shade, the Ocotea forest recovers. Large scale logging of Camphor trees predominantly destroys the regeneration of Ocotea and leads to secondary forest types, which regenerate in own cycles. The high number of big game was found to be without impact on the natural regeneration of Ocotea. The Cassipourea malosana dominated forest regenerates as a mosaic-climax without a single species becoming dominant. Cedar forests dominated by Juniperus procera regenerate most efficiently after fire. Without recurrent burning, the forests of the lower and middle part of the montane zone, regenerate to climax associations dominated by broad-leaved trees as Olea capensis ssp. hochstetteri, Olea europaea ssp. cuspidata and Podocarpus latifolius. On higher altitudes Juniperus procera always remains dominant even if fire does not occur for a longer time period. The high population density especially of buffaloes seems to inhibit successful regeneration in many parts of the Juniperion, due to intensive browsing and in particular trampling. The African Bamboo, Sinarundinaria alpina, shows a distinct growth cycle and can grow for extremely long periods in the vegetative state before flowering, especially so at the borders of its area. After flowering and dying of the bamboo, in most areas a dense Sambucus africana shrub is formed into which bamboo is invading from old rhizomes again. In Ethiopia, regeneration occurs directly, without an interspersed Sambucus stage. The uniform age of the Hagenia stands suggests that regeneration in these forests occurs suddenly after a disturbing event. Germination tests yielded, that Hagenia seeds are not germinating unless the competing undergrowth is removed. As fire is the only natural factor able to clear the grass layer of larger areas, it is assumed, that the reproduction of the subalpine forests depends on occasional burning. /// La rgnration et les modes de succession dans les forts d'altitude du Kenya et de parties de l'Ethiopie ont t tudis. La rgnration du camphrier, Ocotea usambarensis, espce  croissance lente, se produit principalement par drageonnement d'anciens systmes racinaires. Des graines intactes ont rarement t observes, et, apparemment, ne sont viables que quelques jours. Aprs la chute naturelle d'un vieil arbre, la troue est colonise par des espces  croissance rapide, principalement Macaranga kilimandscharica et Neoboutonia macrocalyx. Grce  l'ombrage qu'elles provoquent, les jeunes drageons de Ocotea peuvent se dvelopper. Aprs la mort des espces secondaires, dont la germination ncessite la pleine lumire et est inhibe par l'ombrage, la fort  Ocotea se rinstalle. L'exploitation  grande chelle des camphriers empche surtout la rgnration de Ocotea et conduit  la formation et au maintien de forts secondaires. Le nombre important de gros gibier n'a aucun impact sur la rgnration naturelle de Ocotea. La fort domine par Cassipourea malosana se rgnre comme une mosaque climacique, sans qu'une espce ne devienne dominante. Les forts de cdres, domines par Juniperus procera se rgnrent plus efficacement aprs le passage du feu. Sans incendies priodiques, les forts de basse et de moyenne altitude se rgnrent en associations climaciques domines par des arbres  feuillage dcidu comme Olea capensis ssp. hochstetteri, Olea europaea ssp. cuspidata et Podocarpus latifolius. A plus haute altitude, Juniperus procera est toujours dominant, mme si le feu ne svit pas durant de longues priodes. La densit leve des populations de buffles semble empcher la rgnration dans de nombreux endroits du Juniperion, en raison du broutage intensif et du pitinement. Le bambou africain, Sinarundinaria alpina, prsente un cycle de croissance diffrent et peut subsister au stade vgtatif pendant des priodes extrmement longues avant de fleurir, en particulier en bordure de son aire. Aprs la floraison et la mort du bambou, un bosquet dense  Sambucus africana se dveloppe. Il est ensuite  nouveau envahi par le bambou  partir d'anciens rhizomes. En Ethiopie, la rgnration a lieu directement, sans passage par le stade mlang  Sambucus. L'ge uniforme des peuplements de Hagenia suggre que la rgnration dans ces forts survient soudainement  la suite d'une perturbation. Des tests de germination ont dmontr que les graines de Hagenia ne germent qu' condition de supprimer le sous-tage concurrent. Le feu tant le seul facteur naturel pouvant claircir l'tage herbac sur de grandes surfaces, il est suppos que la reproduction des forts subalpines dpend des feux occasionnel. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668699|Molecular phylogenies have been generated to investigate relationships among species of Streptocarpus Lindl., the largest genus of Gesneriaceae in Africa. Of the around 146 species described, 77 have been included in a parsimony analysis using the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of ribosomal DNA. The studies show that Streptocarpus is paraphyletic and at least three other genera are nested within the genus. Incongruence occurs in relation to the subgeneric division. Streptocarpus is currently divided into two subgenera, Streptocarpella and Streptocarpus, mainly on morphological grounds; the former including basically caulescent species with a functional shoot apical meristem, while the latter includes mainly unifoliates and rosulates with an abnormal shoot apical meristem. On the African continent the geographic distribution of caulescent species of subgenus Streptocarpella ranges across tropical Africa from Sierra Leone to the Indian Ocean, while species of subgenus Streptocarpus occur in central and eastern parts of Africa. The molecular data suggest a southwards migration and "progressive latitudinal speciation" of subgenus Streptocarpus in Africa. Some evidence suggests an origin of the genus on Madagascar but this is equivocal. The subgeneric split probably occurred before interchange between mainland Africa and Madagascar ceased, after the geological separation of Madagascar, and is consistent with the hypothesis of a land bridge connection between 45-26Mya. /// Des phylognies molculaires ont t gnres afin d'tudier les relations entre espces chez Streptocarpus Lindl., le plus grand genre de Gesneriaceae en Afrique. Parmi les 146 espces dcrites, 77 ont t utilises dans une analyse de parcimonie en diffrences morphologiques; le premier regroupe des espces caulescentes  mristme apical fonctionnel, alors que le deuxime inclut principalement des espces dont les individus, unifolis ou en rosette, prsentent un mristme apical anormal. Sur le continent africain, la distribution utilisant l'ITS du DNA ribosomique. Les tudes montrent que Streptocarpus est paraphyltique et qu'il regroupe au moins trois autres genres. La division subgnrique est problmatique. Streptocarpus est actuellement divis en deux sous-genres, Streptocarpella et Streptocarpus, principalement sur base de gographique des espces caulescentes du sous-genre Streptocarpella s'tend des rgions tropicales de la Sierra Leone  l'Ocan Indien, alors qu'on trouve les espces du sous-genre Streptocarpus en Afrique centrale et orientale. Les donnes molculaires suggrent une migration vers le sud et une "spciation latitudinale progressive" du sous-genre Streptocarpus en Afrique. L'origine malgache du genre est envisage mais reste quivoque. La diffrentiation des sous-genres a probablement eu lieu avant que l'change entre le continent africain et Madagascar ait pris fin suite  la sparation gologique de Madagascar. Elle est en accord avec l'hypothse d'une connexion terrestre entre 45-26 Mya. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668728|'Chipya' is the term applied to a wooded grassland vegetation type specific to northern Zambia. Based on experimental evidence from Zambia's Kasanka National Park, this paper attempts to answer some of these key questions raised in chipya ecology. Can chipya be clearly defined floristically and edaphically, and if so, how do these factors relate to mateshi-chipya-miombo dynamics? The results from Kasanka National Park suggest that chipya can be differentiated from miombo by the absence of the fire-sensitive genera Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia and Uapaca, and by its luxuriant herbaceous layer comprising the indicator species Pteridium aquilinum, Smilax anceps and Aframomum alboviolaceum. In addition, chipya soils were shown to typically possess high organic matter, low phosphorus and low pH compared to miombo soils. Finally, the evidence in Kasanka National Park suggests that chipya arises from a mateshi-chipya regression driven by fire. There is no evidence that the fire-sensitive miombo genera Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia and Uapaca are part of the sequence. /// "Chipya" est le terme utilis pour caractriser un type de vgtation de savane arbore spcifique au nord de la Zambie. Sur base de rsultats exprimentaux obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka en Zambie, cet article tente d'apporter une rponse  certaines questions-cls souleves par l'cologie des chipya. Le chipya peut-il tre clairement dfini floristiquement et d'un point de vue daphique et, si c'est le cas, quel est l'impact de ces facteurs dans la dynamique mateshi-chipya-miombo? Les rsultats obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka suggrent que le chipya peut tre diffrenci du miombo par l'absence des genres Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia et Uapaca sensibles au feu, ainsi que par sa strate herbace luxuriante caractrise par les espces indicatrices que constituent Pteridium aquilinum, Smilax anceps et Aframomum alboviolaceum. Par ailleurs, les sols des chipya prsentent un taux lev en matire organique, une faible teneur en phosphore et des pH bas en comparaison des sols des miombo. Enfin, les rsultats obtenus dans le Parc National Kasanka suggrent que le chipya provient d'une rgression mateshi-chipya provoque par le feu. Aucune preuve n'existe quant  l'appartenance  cette squence des genres Brachystegia, Julbernardia, Isoberlinia et Uapaca, lis au miombo et sensibles au feu. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668682|This paper presents a rationale and roadmap for producing new forms of floras using computer technologies while building upon the foundation of existing printed floras. Problems with existing printed floras and desirable characteristics of new electronic floras are outlined. Five technologies necessary for moving from one form of flora to the other are described, and the state-of-the-art in each is assessed. Experiments in machine markup of an existing flora are described. /// Cet article prsente la raison d'tre et constitue un guide pour la production de nouvelles formes de Flores, bases sur des Flores existantes et converties grce aux technologies informatiques. Les problmes rencontrs avec les Flores imprimes et les caractristiques recherches dans les nouvelles Flores lectroniques sont souligns. Cinq technologies ncessaires  la conversion d'une Flore d'une forme vers l'autre sont dcrites et l'tat d'avancement de chaque technique est valu. Des expriences de prparation du texte d'une Flore existante sont dcrites. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668687|Species and genus concepts and infrafamilial delimitations in the Aloaceae (subfamily Alooideae of the Asphodelaceae) have often been controversial. Arguments are mostly based on evidence obtained from vegetative and floral morphology, but data from other fields have also been used for speculating on taxonomic affinities within the Aloaceae. For the present study, nectar sugar composition (glucose, fructose, sucrose) was determined for representatives of Astroloba, Chortolirion, the three subgenera of Haworthia and for interspecific haworthioid hybrids and miscellaneous taxa. Two nectar types were distinguished in Haworthia and the two related genera: a Haworthia type (subg. Haworthia only, usually less than 50% sucrose) and a Hexangulares type (subg. Hexangulares, subg. Robustipedunculares, Chortolirion and Astroloba, usually more than 60% sucrose). Results support Uitewaal's subdivision of Haworthia in two main groups, but reveal little substantiation for infrasubgeneric groupings. /// Les concepts spcifiques et gnriques ainsi que les dlimitations infrafamiliales chez les Aloaceae (sous-famille Alooideae des Asphodelaceae) ont souvent fait l'objet de controverses. L'argumentation se base principalement sur des donnes de morphologie vgtative et florale mais des travaux dans d'autres domaines ont galement conduit  spculer sur des affinits taxonomiques au sein des Aloaceae. Dans la prsente tude, la composition du sucre nectarifre (glucose, fructose, sucrose) a t dtermine chez des reprsentants de Astroloba, Chortolirion, des trois sous-genres de Haworthia, chez des hybrides interspcifiques haworthiodes ainsi que chez divers taxons. Deux types de nectar ont t distingus chez Haworthia et chez les deux genres affins: un type Haworthia (subg. Haworthia seulement, gnralement moins de 50% de sucrose) et un type Hexangulares (subg. Hexangulares, subg. Robustipedunculares, Chortolirion et Astroloba, gnralement plus de 60% de sucrose). Les rsultats corroborent la subdivision de Uitewaal du genre Haworthia en deux groupes principaux mais rvlent le peu de bien-fond de groupements infra-subgnriques. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668744|Using a GIS based approach, a new map of African vascular plant species richness is presented. The underlying phytodiversity dataset comprises metadata on the floras of 450 geographical units in Africa and Madagascar, including the data records used by Lebrun and Barthlott and collaborators for their maps. 151 of these were selected as suitable to analyse correlation of species richness with different environmental parameters in a GIS and to generate the map of African phytodiversity. For the production of the map we used a weighted overlay of the raw data, an interpolation approach and a multiple regression model. Best correlation with species richness were found for annual sum of NDVI, number of dry months and water balance. Centres of high species richness in Africa are the Capensis, Eastern Madagascar, the coastal areas of SE Nigeria, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon, as well as the Drakensberg mountains, and the East African Mountains. These areas are also centres of high geodiversity. For one aspect of geodiversity, the topodiversity, we present a first map for Africa. /// Une nouvelle carte de la richesse en plantes vasculaires africaines est prsente sur base de l'utilisation de SIG. L'ventail de donnes sous-jacent sur la diversit vgtale comprend des mtadonnes sur les flores de 450 units gographiques d'Afrique et de Madagascar, incluant les donnes utilises pour leurs cartes par Lebrun et Barthlott et coauteurs. 151 de celles-ci ont t considres comme valables pour analyser la corrlation de la richesse en espces avec diffrents paramtres environnementaux dans le SIG et pour produire la carte de la phytodiversit africaine. Pour la production de la carte, nous avons utilis une couverture pondre des donnes brutes, une approche d'interpolation et un schma de rgression multiple. La meilleure corrlation avec la richesse spcifique a t trouve pour la somme annuelle des NDVI, le nombre de mois secs et la balance hydrique. Les centres de haute richesse spcifique en Afrique sont le Cap, l'est de Madagascar, les ctes du SE du Nigria, du Cameroun, de Guine quatoriale et du Gabon, de mme que les montagnes du Drakensberg et celles d'Afrique orientale. Ces rgions sont aussi des centres de haute godiversit. Pour un aspect de la godiversit, la topodiversit, nous prsentons une premire carte pour l'Afrique. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668722|Forest inventories have been made in the Altos de Nsork region, Equatorial Guinea. Within seven transects covering 33.5 ha, we have inventoried 3886 trees with DBH  30 cm (Diameter at Breast Height, measured at 1.3 m from the ground level), belonging to 226 species, and those with DBH  10 cm (689 trees belonging to 149 species) in eight sections of 160  10 m (1.28 ha). The comparison with other similar inventories made in central Africa showed a quite high biodiversity for the Nsork rain forests. This comparison also allowed us to indicate the characteristic species Engomegoma gordonii (3.2 stems / ha for the trees with DBH  30 cm; Olacaceae) and Stachyothyrsus staudtii (1.8; Caesalpiniaceae), and also the preferential species of the Nsork region as Coula edulis (4.4), Sindoropsis letestui (1.1), Dialium pachyphyllum (1.4), Allanblackia floribunda (3.9), Dacryodes buettneri (1.9),... The Nsork rain forest is marked by the abundance of the Burseraceae and the Olacaceae. Among the 74 emergent species (DBH  70 cm), the most abundant are: Aucoumea klaineana (3.1 stems / ha), Scyphocephalium mannii (1), Engomegoma gordonii (0.6), Coula edulis (0.5), Pterocarpus soyauxii (0.3), Sindoropsis letestui (0.2), Pentaclethra macrophylla (0.2) and Monopetalanthus letestui (0.2). In the lower trees stratum (DBH  10 cm) we find mainly Santiria trimera (61 stems / ha), Microdesmis puberula (45), Heisteria parvifolia (37), Dichostemma glaucescens (20) and Centroplacus glaucinus (9). The biodiversity seems to be highest in the lower trees stratum. /// Des inventaires forestiers ont t mens dans la rgion des Altos de Nsork, en Guine Equatoriale. Sept transects totalisant 33,5 ha ont permis de rpertorier 3886 arbres  DBH  30 cm (Diameter at Breast Height, c'est--dire diamtre mesur  1,3 m de hauteur), appartenant  226 espces, tandis que 689 arbres  DBH  10 cm, reprsentant 149 espces, ont t relevs sur huit tronons de 160  10 m (soit 1,28 ha). La comparaison avec d'autres inventaires similaires raliss en Afrique centrale a montr une biodiversit relativement importante dans les forts denses de Nsork. Cette mme comparaison nous a permis de mettre en vidence les espces caractristiques Engomegoma gordonii (3,2 pieds / ha pour les DBH  30 cm; Olacaceae) et Stachyothyrsus staudtii (1,8; Caesalpiniaceae), ainsi que des espces prfrentielles  la rgion de Nsork telles que Coula edulis (4,4), Sindoropsis letestui (1,1), Dialium pachyphyllum (1,4), Allanblackia floribunda (3,9), Dacryodes buettneri (1,9),... La fort tudie est marque par l'abondance des Burseraceae et des Olacaceae. Parmi les 74 espces d'mergents (DBH  70 cm), les espces les plus abondantes sont Aucoumea klaineana (3,1 pieds / ha), Scyphocephalium mannii (1), Engomegoma gordonii (0,6), Coula edulis (0,5), Pterocarpus soyauxii (0,3), Sindoropsis letestui (0,2), Pentaclethra macrophylla (0,2) et Monopetalanthus letestui (0,2). Quant  la strate arborescente infrieure (DBH  10 cm), on y retrouve principalement Santiria trimera (61 pieds / ha), Microdesmis puberula (45), Heisteria parvifolia (37), Dichostemma glaucescens (20) et Centroplacus glaucinus (9). La diversit tend  tre plus importante dans ces strates arborescentes infrieures.
10.2307/3668681|The Herbarium of Paris (P) houses one of the major reference collections of the African and Malagasy flora. The computerization of its holdings started in 1993 using the SONNERAT database, based on herbarium specimens, and building on a relational multitable model developed under ORACLE. The African and Madagascan collections were chosen as primary target group because of their importance for floristic work both inside and outside the "Laboratoire de Phanrogamie". Three different complementary approaches (taxonomic, geographic, loan management) were carried out and this first step helped to evaluate the system as well as to demonstrate both the feasibility of and the interest in the database approach. Nearly 90,000 African and Malagasy records are currently available on the internet (http://www.mnhn.fr/base/sonnerat.html). Internet accessibility allows researchers worldwide to locate and study the data about the computerized nomenclatural types deposited at P (18,000 thus far). The SONNERAT data are also available as a basis for species chorology analyses, which are of particular importance for biodiversity and conservation studies. /// L'Herbier de Paris (P) constitue l'une des collections de rfrence incontournables pour l'tude de la flore africaine et malgache. Le programme d'informatisation de ses collections a dbut en 1993 avec la mise en place de la base de donnes SONNERAT, base sur les spcimens d'herbier, fonctionnant sur un modle multi-table relationnel dvelopp sous ORACLE. Il a prioritairement t initi sur les collections africaines et malgaches en raison de l'importance des travaux floristiques en cours, tant au laboratoire de Phanrogamie qu' l'extrieur. Trois approches diffrentes et complmentaires ont t menes (groupe taxonomique, rgion gographique, gestion des prts). Cette premire tape a permis d'valuer le systme mis en place, et montr la faisabilit et l'intrt d'une telle dmarche. Prs de 90 000 enregistrements de plantes africaines et malgaches sont actuellement disponibles sur l'internet (http://www.mnhn.fr/base/sonnerat.html). L'accs par le WEB permet notamment aux chercheurs de localiser et d'accder aux donnes des types nomenclaturaux prsents  P (18 000 jusqu'  prsent). Ces donnes sont galement disponibles pour des tudes bases sur la chorologie des espces, en particulier dans le domaine de l'tude de la biodiversit et de sa conservation.
10.2307/3668667|Guinea-Bissau has several kinds of aquatic and wetland ecosystems. A first survey of the flora of these environments is attempted, including its distribution patterns within the taxonomical and chorological groups. More than 300 species, from 49 families, are listed, the Poaceae and Cyperaceae being the most representative families. The chorological analysis of the flora reveals that the species with wide distribution range are predominant -- half of them have a pluricontinental distribution, and one third are afrotropical. /// La Guine-Bissau possde diffrents types d'cosystmes aquatiques et de zones humides. Un premier aperu floristique de ces environnements est propos et prsente notamment les types de distribution au sein des groupes taxonomiques et chorologiques. Plus de 300 espces sont recenses; elles sont regroupes au sein de 49 familles parmi lesquelles les Poaceae et les Cyperaceae sont les plus reprsentatives. L'analyse chorologique de la flore rvle que les espces  large distribution sont prdominantes -- la moiti d'entre elles ont une distribution pluricontinentale et un tiers sont afrotropicales. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668737|The heathy, sclerophyllous vegetation type known locally in South Africa as 'fynbos' is not restricted to the Cape Floral Kingdom (CFK), but occurs throughout sub-Saharan Africa, Madagascar and the Mascarene Islands. The fynbos shrublands of these regions occur mostly in cool, montane environments where rainfall is high and soils are highly leached. Montane environments, however, are not the sole repositories of fynbos-type communities. Outcrops of Msikaba Formation (Pondoland) Sandstone in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, support similar shrublands, including many 'typical' fynbos genera and growth forms. The floristic and physiognomic resemblance of communities to the CFK, especially fragments of the high-altitude eastern (Afromontane) corridor extending into tropical East Africa, has prompted much speculation. A preliminary phytogeographical account is presented concerning the distribution of fynbos ('Cape') elements in the Drakensberg Alpine Region (DAR) and Pondoland Sandstone Region: two biotopes in southern Africa which share Cape elements. The significant sharing of Cape elements between biotopes suggests analogous growth environments. /// Le type de vgtation thermophile et sclrophylle localement connu en Afrique du Sud sous le nom de "fynbos" n'est pas restreint au Domaine floristique du Cap (CFK) mais existe  travers l'Afrique subsaharienne, Madagascar et les Mascareignes. Les fourrs du fynbos de ces rgions se trouvent principalement dans des environnements montagnards froids o les prcipitations sont leves et les sols trs lessivs. Les milieux montagnards ne sont cependant pas les seuls htes des communauts de type fynbos. Les sommets de Msikaba (Pondoland) au KwaZulu-Natal, en Afrique du Sud, portent des fourrs similaires, incluant de nombreux genres et formes biologiques typiques du fynbos. La ressemblance floristique et physionomique de ces communauts vis--vis du CFK, spcialement les fragments du corridor oriental afromontagnard s'tendant jusqu'en Afrique de l'Est ont suscit bien des spculations. Une contribution phytogographique prliminaire est prsente concernant la distribution des lments du fynbos dans la rgion alpine du Drakensberg (DAR) et dans la Rgion Grs du Pondoland, deux biotopes d'Afrique du Sud qui partagent des lments floristiques avec la Rgion du Cap. L'existence commune d'lments du Cap dans diffrents biotopes suggre des conditions environnementales de croissance analogues. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668686|Four species of Sabicea Aublet (Rubiaceae) are present in So Tom (Rpublique dmocratique de So Tom et Prncipe, gulf of Guinea): S. ingrata K.Schum., S. exellii G.Taylor, S. insularis (Wernham) G.Taylor and S. thomensis Joffroy. A principal component analysis undertaken for these species using morphological characters of herbarium specimens shows that S. insularis and S. ingrata cannot be easily separated. As a result the new combination S. ingrata var. insularis (Wernham) Joffroy is made. Distribution maps and an identification key for the four taxa of Sabicea in So Tom are presented. Relations between So Tom taxa and species of continental Africa are also discussed. /// Quatre espces du genre Sabicea Aublet (Rubiaceae) sont signales  So Tom (Rpublique dmocratique de So Tom et Prncipe, golfe de Guine): S. ingrata K.Schum., S. exellii G.Taylor, S. insularis (Wernham) G.Taylor et S. thomensis Joffroy. Une analyse en composantes principales base sur des caractres morphologiques mesurs sur chantillons d'herbier montre que S. insularis et S. ingrata sont difficilement sparables. Ainsi la nouvelle combinaison S. ingrata var. insularis (Wernham) Joffroy est propose. Les cartes de distribution et une cl de dtermination pour les quatre taxons de Sabicea de So Tom sont prsentes. Les relations entre les taxons de So Tom et les espces de l'Afrique continentale sont aussi discutes.
10.2307/3668729|Miombo woodland in Sengwa, dominated by Julbernardia globiflora, Brachystegia boehmii and Brachystegia spiciformis, exhibits clear small-scale patterning and variations in species composition. A hierarchical cluster analysis on species presence/absence data separated miombo woodland into eight sub-types, largely based on variations in the herbaceous and shrub species composition. Direct and indirect gradient analyses with variance partitioning showed that edaphic and disturbance factors accounted for 15.9% and 12.8% of the total variation in species composition, respectively, while their joint influence accounted for 3.1%. There was evidence that elephant-modified Brachystegia-dominated woodlands found on loose sands are being converted to Terminalia sericea-dominated woodland-thickets faster than the Julbernardia globiflora-dominated woodlands found on more compacted soils. It is concluded that fire and elephant herbivory have significantly influenced small-scale variations in species composition of miombo woodland in Sengwa while total exchangeable bases and silt significantly influenced natural floristic heterogeneity. /// La fort claire de type miombo  Sengwa, domine par Julbernardia globiflora, Brachystegia boehmii et Brachystegia spiciformis, montre clairement une diffrenciation  petite chelle et des variations dans sa composition spcifique. Une cluster analyse hirarchise sur les donnes de prsence/absence a permis de distinguer, au sein du miombo, huit sous-types largement bass sur les variations dans la composition en espces herbaces et arbustives. Des analyses de gradient directes et indirectes avec dcomposition de la variance ont montr que les facteurs daphiques et ceux lis aux perturbations intervenaient respectivement pour 15.9% et 12.8% dans la variation totale de la composition spcifique alors que leur influence conjointe tait de 3.1%. Il a t prouv que les forts claires modifies par l'action des lphants,  dominance de Brachystegia et sur sables meubles se sont converties plus rapidement en fourrs  Terminalia sericea que les forts claires domines par Julbernardia globiflora sur sols plus compacts. La conclusion de ces observations est que le feu et l'herbivorie due aux lphants ont influenc significativement les variations  petite chelle dans la composition spcifique du miombo de Sengwa alors que les bases totales changeables et le limon ont eu une influence significative sur l'htrognit floristique naturelle. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668732|The Simen Mountains, a U.N. World Heritage Site in N Ethiopia (Gonder Administrative region), include extensive high plateau areas (roughly 3200 m to over 4000 m), steep escarpments and lower-lying parts (locally known as "Kolla" or "Simen lowlands"; below 3000 to below 2000 m) and are known for their high biodiversity. The "Simen lowlands", primarily harbouring afromontane vegetation, are richest in species, whereas the afroalpine belt -- although the most spectacular part of the mountains -- is the poorest. Erica forests of the escarpments and some of the plateaux areas are also rather species-poor. In general, species diversity decreases with increasing altitude. At present, approximately 550 taxa of angiosperms are recorded. The mountains, primarily known to biologists for their rare and endangered animals (including the endemic Walia Ibex, Capra walie), also harbour endemic plant species (at least 12; e.g. Rosularia semiensis: afroalpine, or Maytenus cortii: afromontane). In addition to these, more than 30 taxa occurring in the Simen are Ethiopian endemics (e.g. the spectacular afroalpine Lobelia rhynchopetalum, or the afromontane Polyscias farinosa). Interesting phytogeographical affinities to SW Arabia are noteworthy, e.g. Dianthus longiglumis or Chlorophytum tetraphyllum (only known from the Simen and Ethiopian mountains, respectively, and Yemen). Numerous taxa, both from the afromontane and -alpine zone, show a distribution stretching from the Simen southwards to the tropical E African mountains (e.g. Psychotria orophila, afromontane, or Trifolium cryptopodium, afroalpine), sometimes also with an extension to the W African mountains (e.g. Galium simense). Others (primarily taxa occurring in the afromontane zone of the Simen) show wide distribution ranges extending to S Africa (e.g. Halleria lucida, to the Drakensberg). Widely distributed Sudanian or Sudano-Zambezian species occurring in the "Simen lowlands" include Sterculia setigera and Stereospermum kunthianum, respectively. The Simen is a historic plant collecting locality, and -- according to our present state of knowledge -- type specimens of ca. 220 afromontane and -alpine taxa of flowering plants (out of ca. 550 recorded; i. e. 40%!) originate from the Mountains (primarily collections made by W.G. Schimper in the past century). In the past few decades, however, plant collecting was largely impossible (socio-political problems in the North of the country!), so that the botanical knowledge of the Simen was much poorer than for the rest of the country. Only in recent years, botanical exploration restarted. It is thus not surprising that during expeditions carried out between 1996 and 1999 nineteen taxa (mostly afromontane elements) were newly recorded for the Simen and Gonder floristic region. /// Les Montagnes du Simen, situes au Nord de l'Ethiopie (rgion administrative de Gonder) et classes Patrimoine Mondial par les Nations Unies comprennent de vastes hauts-plateaux (approximativement 3200 m  4000 m), des escarpements abrupts et des zones basses (connues localement sous le vocable "Kolla" ou "Simen lowlands"; coins de 3000 m  moins de 2000 m) et sont rputes pour leur biodiversit leve. Les "Simen lowlands", couvertes principalement par une vgtation afromontagnarde, ont la richesse spcifique la plus leve, alors que la ceinture afroalpine -- bien que la partie la plus spectaculaire des montagnes -- est la plus pauvre. Les forts  Erica des escarpements et certaines zones de plateaux sont aussi relativement pauvres en espces. En gnral, la diversit spcifique diminue lorsqu'augmente l'altitude. Actuellement, environ 550 taxons d'angiospermes ont t enregistrs. Les Montagnes, principalement connues des biologistes pour leurs animaux rares et menacs (notamment Capra walie, endmique), abritent galement des espces de plantes endmiques (au moins 12; par exemple Rosularia semiensis: afroalpine, ou Maytenus cortii: afromontagnarde). Par ailleurs, plus de 30 taxons des Simen sont endmiques d'Ethiopie (par exemple Lobelia rhynchopetalum, afroalpine spectaculaire, ou Polyscias farinosa, afromontagnarde). Des affinits phytogographiques intressantes avec le SO de l'Arabie sont remarquables, par exemple Dianthus longiglumis ou Chlorophytum tetraphyllum (exclusivement connues respectivement des montagnes du Simen et d'Ethiopie, ainsi que du Yemen). De nombreux taxon de la zone afromontagnarde et afroalpine, prsentent une distribution s'tendant du Simen en direction du sud jusqu'aux montagnes tropicales d'Afrique de l'Est (par exemple Psychotria orophila, afromontagnarde, ou Trifolium cryptopodium afroalpine), parfois aussi avec une extension vers les montagnes d'Afrique occidentale (par exemple Galium simense). D'autres (principalement les taxons de la zone afromontagnarde du Simen) montrent une large distribution jusqu'en Afrique du Sud (par exemple Halleria lucida jusqu'au Drakensberg). Parmi les espces soudaniennes ou soudano-zambziennes largement distribues et qu'on retrouve dans les "Simen lowlands" figurent respectivement Sterculia setigera et Stereospermum kunthianum. Le Simen constitue une localit historique de collecte de plantes et, dans l'tat actuel de nos connaissances, des chantillons-types d'environ 220 taxons afromontagnards et afroalpins de plantes  fleurs (parmi environ 550 taxons enregistrs, soit 40%!) proviennent des Montagnes (principalement des rcoltes de Schimper au sicle dernier). Au cours des dernires dcennies, nanmoins, la rcolte de plantes est devenue impossible (problmes socio-politiques dans le Nord du pays!), et la connaissance botanique du Simen bien plus pauvre que celle du reste du pays. Ce n'est qu'au cours des dernires annes que l'exploration botanique redmarra et il n'est donc pas surprenant qu'au cours des expditions menes en 1996 et 1999, dix-neuf nouveaux taxons (pour la plupart des lments afromontagnards) furent enregistrs pour la rgion floristique du Simen et du Gonder. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668730|Of interest to botanists for nearly 150 years, the vegetation of African mountains has often been studied, but remains poorly understood. Lacunae in our knowledge of the systematics, ecology and biogeography of Afromontane plants are exemplified. The proposal to treat the ericaceous and afroalpine belts as a single entity under the term altimontane is addressed as a contribution towards the stabilisation of nomenclature in Afromontane vegetation. Information is needed to fulfil both intellectual and conservation requirements, and the difficulties of sustainable conservation in the absence of reliable data are discussed. /// Sujet d'intrt pour les botanistes depuis environ 150 ans, la vgtation des montagnes africaines a souvent t tudie mais demeure peu connue. Les lacunes tant dans notre connaissance de la systmatique, de l'cologie que de la biogographie des plantes afromontagnardes en sont la preuve. La proposition de considrer les ceintures  ricaces et afroalpine comme une seule entit dsigne sous le terme d'altimontagnarde est prsente comme une contribution  la stabilisation de la nomenclature de la vgtation afromontagnarde. Des informations sont ncessaires pour satisfaire les exigences tant intellectuelles qu'en matire de conservation et les difficults d'une conservation durable en l'absence de donnes fiables sont discutes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668724|For a phytogeographical analysis, 1706 more characteristic and frequent taxa of the climax and subclimax forests of the Kasai sector were chosen. It shows that widespread species from the Guineo-Congolian regional centre of endemism (R.C.E.) represent the major element (79% of the taxa) of the flora of this sector, wherein two groups may be distinguished: taxa from the Lower Guinean and taxa from the Congolian subcentre of endemism. Widespread taxa from other R.C.E.'s represent 14% of the total; they are in general ecologically plastic. Taxa from the Zambezian R.C.E. represent only 7% while only 5% of the species are endemic to the sector; these forests should be considered as a "prolongation" of the forests of the central Congo basin. The analysis of distribution patterns allows to distinguish widespread, central, northern, western and southern species in the sector. Species with a narrow area seem to be confined to the forest underlayers. /// Pour la ralisation d'une tude phytogographique, 1706 taxons parmi les plus caractristiques et les plus frquents des forts climaciques et sub-climaciques du Secteur du Kasai ont t choisis. L'tude montre que les espces  large distribution du centre rgional d'endmisme (C.R.E.) guino-congolais constituent l'lment dominant (79% des taxons) de la flore de ce secteur, au sein duquel deux groupes peuvent tre distingus: les taxons du sous-centre d'endmisme de Basse-Guine et ceux du sous-centre d'endmisme du bassin congolais. Les taxons  large distribution provenant d'autres C.R.E. constituent 14% de l'ensemble et sont, en gnral, cologiquement plastiques. Les taxons du C.R.E. zambzien reprsentent seulement 7% des taxons alors que 5% seulement des espces du secteur sont endmiques. Ces forts peuvent tre considres comme une "prolongation" des forts du bassin congolais. L'analyse des distributions permet de distinguer des espces largement distribues, centrales, septentrionales, occidentales et mridionales dans le secteur. Les espces  aire restreinte semblent tre confines dans les synusies infrieures des forts.
10.2307/3668674|Presentation, mid-term, of the collaboration between the Netherlands and Benin to produce the first comprehensive analytical Flora of Benin. Besides the Flora book itself, the project has a number of deliverables: a new herbarium building, some 20,000 new collections throughout the country, PhD-fellowships, training of staff and the production of dedicated publications. /// Prsentation  mi-parcours de la collaboration entre les Pays-Bas et le Bnin en vue de publier la premire Flore analytique concise de ce pays. En plus de la Flore elle-mme, le projet est  l'origine d'un nouveau btiment pour conserver l'Herbier national et les 20.000 nouveaux chantillons originaires de tout le pays et acquis pendant la dure du projet mais galement de deux projets de thse de doctorat, de la formation du personnel et de la publication d'articles. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668739|In this study the possibility of rainforest outside the postulated refuge areas is explored by assessing the presence of rainforest Caesalpinioideae in Lop forest savannah mosaic in Gabon. In this dry area twenty-six tree species of this subfamily were located. Their physiological ability to cope with drought stress and their impossible migration from the nearest postulated refuge area strongly suggests that these species remained in the Lop area during the last ice age. Extrapolating this observation and incorporating all refuge indicator species outside the postulated refuge area, supports the idea that small fragments of forest persisted during the last ice age acting as microrefugia. /// L'existence possible de la fort ombrophile  l'extrieur des aires-refuges prsumes est envisage dans cette tude par l'examen de la prsence des Caesalpinioideae dans la mosaque fort-savane  Lop au Gabon. Dans cette rgion sche, vingt-six espces d'arbres de cette sous-famille ont t signales. Leur capacit physiologique  faire face au stress hydrique et l'impossibilit qu'elles aient pu migrer  partir de l'aire-refuge prsume la plus proche suggrent que ces espces ont d subsister dans la rgion de Lop au cours de la dernire priode glaciaire. L'extrapolation de cette observation et la prise en compte de toutes les espces indicatrices d'un refuge hors de l'aire-refuge prsume conduisent  postuler que de petits fragments de forts ont persist au cours de la dernire priode glaciaire, constituant des micro-refuges. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668717|A phase of climatic disturbance and catastrophic destruction of Central African forests (in the region of south Cameroon, south Central African Republic, Gabon and Congo) occurred 2500 years BP (<sup>14</sup>C). This synchronous event for the different sites studied was manifested in either a brutal extension of the savannas, especially for the sites near the north (West Cameroon) and towards the south (Mayombe) of the Forest Domain, or a brutal extension of pioneer vegetation. Forest reinvasion began from 2000 years BP for some sites, or was a little later for others, according perhaps to the position of residual forests. This reinvasion still continues at the present time. Fires in the peripheral savannas can slow up this reinvasion, but in the long term the forests have continued to transgress into open regions. These major variations in the forest environment are illustrated by the history of two tree species of which numerous data have been able to be obtained: oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) and Okoum (Aucoumea klaineana). This massive disturbance which culminated about 2500 years BP is contextualised at the global and regional scale in the broader paleoclimatic framework of the upper Quaternary. Concerning climatic change and the dynamics of the monsoon on Central Africa, the key role which has always been played by Sea Surface Temperatures is shown. It is also shown that this vast disturbance which occurred alongside relatively "warm" regional and global conditions could be an "analog" to what could occur in Central Africa during the phase of "Global Warming" predicted for the 21st century. /// Une phase de perturbation climatique et de destruction catastrophique des forts d'Afrique centrale (secteurs Sud Cameroun, Sud Centrafrique, Gabon et Congo) est survenue vers 2500 ans BP (<sup>14</sup>C). Ce phnomne, synchrone pour les diffrents sites tudis, s'est traduit soit par une extension brutale des savanes, surtout pour les sites vers le nord (Ouest Cameroun) ou vers le sud (Mayombe) du Domaine Forestier, soit par une brutale extension des vgtations pionnires. La reconqute forestire a dbut ds 2000 ans BP pour quelques sites, soit elle a t plus tardive pour d'autres, suivant peut-tre la position des lots forestiers rsiduels. Cette reconqute forestire se poursuit encore  l'poque contemporaine. Les feux dans les savanes priphriques peuvent retarder cette reconqute mais, sur le long terme, les forts ont toujours transgress sur les milieux ouverts. Ces variations importantes du Domaine Forestier sont illustres par l'histoire de deux arbres pour lesquels de nombreuses donnes ont pu tre obtenues: le palmier  huile (Elaeis guineensis) et l'Okoum (Aucoumea klaineana). Cette vaste perturbation, qui a culmin vers 2500 ans BP, est replace dans le cadre paloclimatique plus gnral du Quaternaire rcent, au niveau global et rgional. Concernant les changements climatiques et la dynamique de la mousson sur l'Afrique centrale, on montre le rle cl qui a toujours t jou par les variations des Tempratures Marines de Surface. Enfin, on montre que cette vaste perturbation qui est survenue avec des conditions rgionales et globales relativement "chaudes" peut tre un "analogue" de ce qui pourrait se produire en Afrique centrale au cours de la phase de "Rchauffement Global" qui est prdite pour le XXIme sicle.
10.2307/3668735|Between 1990 and 2000 a number of vegetation surveys were undertaken on the Mount Cameroon area using mainly three methods: 0.25 ha sample plots, 20 m wide transects and rapid botanical surveys. A comparison of these methods in terms of data collected, operational characteristics and output relevance, revealed their strengths and weaknesses. The methods vary markedly in their ecological value (0.25 ha sample plots superior), taxonomic scope and rigour (rapid botanical survey superior) and logistic efficiency (transects superior). The combined outcome of all these surveys is discussed and recommendations made on the use of the rapid botanical survey in order to rapidly fill the remaining gaps on plant distribution. /// Durant la priode 1990-2000, une srie d'inventaires floristiques a t ralise au Mont Cameroun. Ces inventaires taient bass principalement sur trois mthodes: utilisation de placettes d'chantillonnage de 0,25 ha, de layons ou transects de 20 m de large et la technique d'inventaires botaniques rapides. Les points forts et les faiblesses des trois mthodes sont rvls par comparaison des types de donnes collectes, des caractristiques logistiques et des rsultats obtenus. Les mthodes varient nettement quant  leur valeur cologique (technique des placettes de 0,25 ha tant suprieure), leur rigueur et leur dimension taxonomique (technique d'inventaires botaniques rapides suprieure) et leur efficacit dans la ralisation des oprations (technique des transects suprieure). Les rsultats combins de tous ces inventaires sont discuts et des recommandations formules pour l'utilisation de la mthode d'inventaires botaniques rapides afin de combler rapidement les lacunes dans la connaissance de la distribution des plantes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668683|The herbarium ALF is devoted to the flora of especially Sahelian pastures; it comprises the best of the samples analysed by J.-P. Lebrun in Cirad-emvt. This herbarium is now on line. From a binary specific name, the software provides a list of synonyms, the specimen labels preserved in the herbarium or only analysed, the list of countries where this species was collected. Updates will be made gradually. /// L'herbier ALF est ddi  la flore des pturages surtout sahliens; il comporte les meilleurs des chantillons analyss par J.-P. Lebrun au Cirad-emvt. Cet herbier est maintenant en ligne. A partir d'un nom spcifique binaire, le logiciel fournit une liste de synonymes, les fiches des chantillons conservs dans l'herbier ou seulement analyss, la liste des pays o cette espce a t rcolte. Des mises  jour seront faites progressivement.
10.2307/3668715|AFlora is a database of ethnobotanical information collected in tropical Africa. Its purpose is to accumulate the information on plant use and nomenclature, and to facilitate effective information retrieval through Internet Web System. The information is specimen-based rather than taxon-based, and covers a whole range of man-plant relationships, direct and indirect, material as well as non-material uses. Graphic data (photographs) are also included in the database. In this paper, the structure of AFlora database, information included in each record, categorizations of uses and used parts are demonstrated, and some of the uses of the database for reference and comparative studies are discussed. /// AFlora est une base de donnes regroupant des informations ethnobotaniques collectes en Afrique tropicale. Son but est de regrouper l'information relative  l'utilisation des plantes et  la nomenclature et de faciliter une recherche documentaire efficace  travers le rseau Internet. L'information est base sur les chantillons plutt que sur les taxons et couvre la gamme complte des relations directes ou indirectes, matrielles ou non, entre l'Homme et les plantes. Des donnes graphiques (photographies) sont galement incluses dans la base de donnes. Dans cet article sont prsents la structure de la base de donnes AFlora, l'information relative  chaque enregistrement ainsi que les classifications en catgories en fonction des utilisations et des organes utiliss. Certaines utilisations de la base de donnes dans le cadre d'tudes de rfrence et comparatives sont discutes. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668707|An ethnomycological study was undertaken amongst the Nagot people from central Bnin (West Africa). The results show that the ethnomycological knowledge from the Nagot people are through and rich. A list of nearly fifty edible macromycetes with their corresponding Nagot vernacular name and meaning, is given. Aspects concerning the local sources of information, the transmission of indigenous knowledge, attitudes, the role of edible fungi in diets, the importance of mushroom picking and the effect of gender, are treated. The way Nagot people delimit mushroom species, make vernacular names and recognize toxic species is discussed. /// Une tude ethnomycologique a t ralise auprs de la population Nagot du centre du Bnin (Afrique de l'Ouest). L'tude montre que les connaissances ethnomycologiques des Nagot sont profondes et riches. Une cinquantaine d'espces comestibles sont rpertories, leur(s) nom(s) en Nagot et la signification sont donns. Les aspects lis aux sources d'information, la transmission des connaissances endognes, l'attitude gnrale des Nagot, le rle des champignons sauvages dans l'alimentation, l'importance de la cueillette, le savoir et l'impact du sexe, sont traits. La notion d'espce chez les Nagot, la faon de former les noms vernaculaires et de faire la distinction entre espces dangereuses et comestibles, est discute.
10.2307/3668679|The authors start with a short recall of the concepts of diversity; then, sticking successively to alpha-diversity of zero order (local specific richness) and gamma-diversity of zero order (regional specific richness), they show how these concepts are approached by the software FLOTROP. Finally, the variability of results obtained by square degree in the eastern Chad and the origin of noted uncertainties are examined. /// Les auteurs commencent par un bref rappel des notions de diversit, puis, s'attachant successivement aux diversits alpha d'ordre nul (richesse spcifique d'une station) et gamma d'ordre nul (richesse spcifique rgionale), ils montrent comment ces notions sont abordes par le logiciel FLOTROP. Pour terminer, ils examinent la variabilit des rsultats obtenus par degr-carr du Tchad oriental et les origines des incertitudes notes.
10.2307/3668692|The taxonomy of Millettia Wight & Arn. is in need of revision. For Africa, sect. Efulgentes and Opacae are under review. The main distinction between both sections is the shininess of the leaves. In line with the treatments of Asian species the African material has been described and prepared for phylogenetic analysis. A brief overview with preliminary data is given. Full details are intended to be published in the forthcoming revision. /// La taxonomie de Millettia Wight & Arn. demande une rvision. Les sect. Efulgentes et Opacae sont en cours de rvision pour l'Afrique. La distinction principale entre les deux sections est la brillance des feuilles. Dans la ligne des traitements des espces asiatiques, le matriel africain a t dcrit et prpar pour l'analyse phylogntique. Un bref aperu avec donnes prliminaires est prsent. Les dtails seront publis dans la future rvision. Traduit par le journal.
10.2307/3668621|Records are given of 35 Lactarius species (Basidiomycota, Russulales) from drier Zambezian miombo woodlands in Zimbabwe. Most of them represent the first records for this country and all of them are the most southern records of the species on the African continent. Lactarius albocinctus Verbeken, L. brachystegiae Verbeken & Sharp, L. carmineus Verbeken & Walleyn and L. emergens Verbeken are proposed as new taxa. Fully illustrated descriptions are given for the first time for Lactarius aurantiifolius, L. nonpiscis, L. phlebonemus (with typification), L. pulchrispermus, L. roseolus, L. subamarus, L. urens and L. volemoides. Local uses and vernacular names of some species are documented.
10.2307/3668619|The floral ontogeny of Galopina tomentosa is investigated. Inflorescences consist of pleiothyrses whose smallest elements are three-flowered cymes. The upper flowers of each cyme are subtended by a bract with two prophylls, functioning as bract of the smaller flowers, and are surrounded by a variable number of colleters. Sepals fail to develop, are present as two pairs of different size, or as a single lateral pair. The four petals arise as broad diagonally inserted lobes around a central depression. The stamen primordia emerge on the inner slopes of the cup-like flower primordium in the interstices of the large petal lobes. The gynoecium develops externally as two shallow stylar primordia whereas most of the ovary is embedded in the receptacular tissue. The two erect styles are lined on their inner side with stigmatic papillae. Placentation is strictly spoken central-basal; an apical septum is formed after ovule initiation by downward growth of tissue subjacent to the styles and connects postgenitally with the placenta. Sterilisation of one of the sexes occurs at the onset of ovule initiation in staminate flowers, and after anther development in pistillate flowers. Differences of morphs become manifest just before anthesis with reflexed petals in staminate flowers and erect petals in the pistillate forms. There is no trace of a nectary. The use of the terms 'early' and 'late' sympetaly is discussed for the Rubiaceae. It is shown that the nature of a 'corolla tube' is not necessarily homologous in the family and relates to fluctuations of three processes: the extent of growth of a meristematic zone common to stamens and petals (stamen-corolla tube), the growth of a petal tube sensu stricto, and postgenital fusion of filaments with the corolla. The development of a concave floral primordium determines the existence of a peripheral collar or 'early sympetaly.' Gynoecial development is compared with other Rubiaceae. It is suggested that ovaries arise along a common pattern in the family. Differences in position of placentation are related with the heterogenous nature of the septum that consists of a basal and apical section. The flower of Galopina tomentosa is characteristic for the wind-pollinated Anthospermeae with a strong tendency for reduction. A comparison is made with other Anthospermeae and with Theligonum in particular.
10.2307/3668614|After having mentioned the few taxonomic problems still to be solved, the author reviews the 27 species mentioned by error in Jebel Uweinat, the planted and cultivated species, as well as the 8 species whose presence in Uweinat is extremely doubtful. The spectrum of the families shows that about half of the flora consists of Gramineae (23 species), of Leguminosae sensu lato (10) and of Zygophyllaceae (9). The spectrum of the genera (66) shows that they are represented only by a very small number of species (1-4). The spectrum of the species (table 4) shows that the flora of Jebel Uweinat, a massif of 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup>, isolated in the Sahara in the heart of the vast Libyan Desert, in an area where rains are exceptional, is composed of only 87 species and infraspecific taxa. Such a small number reflects the very great poverty of the flora due to the extreme xeric conditions of the environment. From the comparison between these various spectra and those of Ennedi, the nearest massif to Jebel Uweinat (600 km South-West) but situated in the north of the Sahel where it rains for 2 months each year, it results that the flora of Jebel Uweinat is, for 2/3, similar to the flora of Ennedi but considerably impoverished by the excessive dryness, and, for 1/3, composed of eremitic species more specifically Saharan and well adapted to the xeric conditions. After having established the map of the botanical exploration of Jebel Uweinat (fig. 2), the author determines the degree of floristic exploration of the flora (fig. 3; 86 species found out of 87 after 52 days of prospection). In order to give a first outline of the composition of the vegetation, which is particularly scattered and very poor in species and individuals, the author classifies the species according to their total presence coefficient (PT) for the vegetation of the whole massif. In desert regions, this method gives indeed a better general view of the composition of the vegetation. This total presence coefficient is equal to the sum of the presences of each species in all the phytosociological relevs of the vegetation. The classification of species according to their total presence coefficient (table 11) shows that the 4 species most present in Jebel Uweinat are Fagonia indica var. indica (PT 132), Aerva javanica var. bovei (PT 127), Acacia tortilis sensu lato (PT 110) and Cleome chrysantha (PT 92). It appears in addition that 25 species were observed from 1 to 3 times only and this on a surface of 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup> methodically prospected during 70 days. The author comes to the conclusion that various species, all perennial, seem in the process of disappearing, such as Cocculus pendulus, various Convolvulus, Cullen plicatum, Helianthemum lippii var. lippii, Salvadora persica var. persica and Tamarix arborea. From the analysis of the classification of the families according to the sum of the total presence coefficients of their species (table 13), it arises that the 4 families most present in Jebel Uweinat are now Leguminosae sensu lato, closely followed by Zygophyllaceae and, then, Gramineae and Capparaceae. The author gives then an outline of the vegetation of the whole massif of Jebel Uweinat, based on the total presence coefficients and in which are listed the families, genera and species most present in Jebel Uweinat (table 14). The author applies then the principle of the total presence of the species according to the nature of the outcropping rocks, the altitude, the grazing and the biological types. In consequence of the extreme poverty of the flora, the existence of distinct floras according to the nature of the outcropping rocks does not appear at first sight in the field. But the analysis of the flora, using the total presence coefficients of the species, showed the existence of two distinct phanerogamic floras, whether on sandstones or on granites. If many species (30) are present as well on sandstone as on granite, there are also many species (44) present on sandstone and not on granite and relatively many species (12) present on granite and not on sandstone. Several distribution maps of species illustrate the various types of presence met according to the nature of the outcropping rocks (fig. 5-10). After having determined the altitudinal amplitude of the species present on granite or sandstone, the author's conclusion is that there are no specific levels, neither on granite nor on sandstone. On the other hand, in spite of the extreme poverty of the flora, the author has been able to determine uppermost altitudinal limits for groups of species. Three uppermost altitudinal limits and 4 groups of species were determined on granite (fig. 11), 4 uppermost altitudinal limits and 5 groups of species on sandstone (fig. 12). The author determines then the specific richness in function of the altitude on granite and on sandstone (fig. 15-16). The influence of the wild herbivores upon vegetation is then studied: gazelles (Gazella dorcas) and moufflons (Ammotragus lervia). The distribution map of these herbivores and their excrements (fig. 17) shows that they are more present on sandstones, which are characterized by the presence of a greater number of vegetable species and by total presence coefficients much higher than on granites. The list of the grazed species (43) is then given (table 24) and the spectrum by families of the grazed species is established (table 25). These species are mainly Gramineae and Leguminosae sensu lato, two families which represent more than half the sum of the total presence coefficients of the grazed species. Gazelles (one hundred approximately) are mainly present in the lower parts of the sandstones. They graze 34 species whose sum of the total presence coefficients reaches 861. They have therefore sufficient food and the pressure they presently put upon lowland vegetation seems relatively low. A certain balance between the hundred gazelles and the lowland vegetation seems to be reached. Moufflons (around fifty) are almost exclusively present in the higher parts of the massif, whether on sandstone or on granite, where the flora is poorer. They have only about 20 species to graze whose sum of the total presence coefficients only reaches 456. Moufflons are obviously in lack of food and the pressure they put on the high altitude vegetation seems very strong and results in overgrazing which leads to various altitudinal species becoming a rarity. This high altitude vegetation seems to be particularly fragile and its balance with the moufflons seems to be broken. It is therefore to fear that some altitudinal species might disappear. The author then reviews the non-grazed species (43) and gives the reasons of this non-grazing. The above-mentioned statistical data show that the selective pressure of the wild herbivores upon vegetation results not only in the overgrazing and the progressive rarefaction of certain grazed species, but also in the survival, if not the development, of many non-grazed species whose total presence coefficients appear among the highest of the massif. In order to draw up the biological spectrum of the whole vegetation, the species have been classified according to the various traditional biological types, to which is added the category of the pluriseasonal species. According to Gillet (1968:64-65), this category includes species appearing as therophytes but with some individuals behaving like chamaephytes or hemicryptophytes during the following season. These species are therefore remarkably well adapted to desert conditions, since their reproduction is always assured whatever the duration of the interpluvial periods. The total unweighted biological spectrum of the whole vegetation (table 26), based on the number of species which contains each biological type, shows that the therophytes are the most significant group (29%), followed by the pluriseasonal species (25.5%), the chamaephytes (19.8%) and the phanerophytes (11.7%). This spectrum, in which therophytes and pluriseasonal species are more numerous (54.5%) than other biological types, is characteristic of mountainous areas of central Sahara. The comparison between this unweighted spectrum and that of Ennedi (table 27) shows that from Ennedi to Jebel Uweinat, the increase in dryness results in a reduction in the percentage of the therophytes and phanerophytes and in a very strong increase in the percentage of the pluriseasonal species, which are remarkably adapted to xeric conditions. Next, the total weighted biological spectrum is determined (table 28), based now on the sum of the total presence coefficients of the species for each biological type. This spectrum shows that the most significant biological types are the pluriseasonal species (39%), the chamaephytes (28.1%), the phanerophytes (16.4%) and the therophytes (9.8% only). This weighted spectrum reflects the reality much better since it corresponds accurately to the state of the vegetation during the interpluvial periods, when most of the therophytes are inconspicuous, whereas pluriseasonal and ligneous species still persist. This fourth part ends in a toponymic map with the names of the main places of the Jebel (fig. 18). /// Aprs avoir mentionn les quelques problmes taxonomiques encore  rsoudre, l'auteur passe en revue les 27 espces signales par erreur au Jebel Uweinat, les espces plantes et cultives, ainsi que les 8 espces dont la prsence  Uweinat est fort douteuse. Le spectre des familles montre que prs de la moiti de la flore est constitue par des Gramineae (23 espces), par des Leguminosae sensu lato (10) et par des Zygophyllaceae (9). Le spectre des genres (66) montre que ceux-ci ne sont reprsents que par un trs petit nombre d'espces (1-4). Le spectre des espces (tableau 4) montre, lui, que la flore du Jebel Uweinat, vaste massif de 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup>, isol au Sahara au coeur de l'immense Dsert de Libye en une rgion o les pluies sont exceptionnelles, ne se compose  ce jour que de 87 espces et taxons infraspcifiques. Ce nombre si peu lev reflte bien la trs grande pauvret de la flore due aux conditions xriques extrmes du milieu. De la comparaison de ces divers spectres avec ceux de l'Ennedi, massif le plus proche du Jebel Uweinat ( 600 km au sud-ouest), mais situ dans le nord du Sahel et arros par des pluies pendant 2 mois chaque anne, rsulte le fait que la flore du Jebel Uweinat se prsente, pour ses 2/3, comme la flore de l'Ennedi mais trs considrablement appauvrie par suite de la scheresse excessive et, pour 1/3, compose d'espces rmitiques plus spcifiquement sahariennes et bien adaptes aux conditions xriques. Aprs avoir publi la carte de l'exploration botanique du Jebel Uweinat (fig. 2), l'auteur dfinit le degr d'exploration floristique de la flore (fig. 3; 86 espces sur 87 trouves aprs 52 jours de prospection). Afin de pouvoir donner un premier aperu de la composition de la vgtation, particulirement dissmine et trs pauvre en espces et en individus, l'auteur classe les espces selon leur coefficient de prsence totale (PT) pour l'ensemble de la vgtation de tout le massif. Cette mthode permet, en effet, en rgions dsertiques, de donner une meilleure ide gnrale de la composition de la vgtation. Ce coefficient de prsence totale est obtenu en totalisant la prsence de chaque espce dans tous les relevs phytosociologiques effectus. Le classement des espces, selon leur coefficient de prsence totale (tableau 11), montre que les 4 espces les plus prsentes au Jebel Uweinat sont Fagonia indica var. indica (PT 132), Aerva javanica var. bovei (PT 127), Acacia tortilis sensu lato (PT 110) et Cleome chrysantha (PT 92). Il apparat, d'autre part, que 25 espces n'ont t observes que de 1-3 fois seulement et cela sur une superficie de 1500-1750 km<sup>2</sup> prospecte mthodiquement pendant 70 jours. L'auteur en conclut que diverses espces, toutes vivaces, semblent en voie de disparition, comme Cocculus pendulus, divers Convolvulus, Cullen plicatum, Helianthemum lippii var. lippii, Salvadora persica var. persica et Tamarix arborea. De l'analyse du classement des familles selon la somme des coefficients de prsence totale de leurs espces (tableau 13), il ressort que les 4 familles les plus prsentes au Jebel Uweinat sont, cette fois, les Leguminosae sensu lato, suivies de trs prs par les Zygophyllaceae et, ensuite, par les Gramineae et les Capparaceae. L'auteur donne, pour suivre, un aperu de la vgtation de l'ensemble du Jebel Uweinat bas sur les coefficients de prsence totale et dans lequel figurent les familles, les genres et les espces les plus prsents au Jebel Uweinat (tableau 14). L'auteur applique ensuite le principe de la prsence totale des espces en fonction de la nature des roches affleurantes, en fonction de l'altitude, en fonction du broutement et en fonction des types biologiques. Par suite de l'extrme pauvret de la flore, l'existence de flores distinctes selon la nature des roches affleurantes n'apparat pas  premire vue sur le terrain. Par contre, l'analyse de la flore, grce  utilisation des coefficients de prsence totale des espces, a montr l'existence de deux flores phanrogamiques distinctes selon la nature grseuse ou granitique du substrat. Si de nombreuses espces (30) sont prsentes  la fois sur le grs et sur le granite, nombreuses par contre (44) sont les espces qui existent sur le grs et pas sur le granite et assez nombreuses (12) celles rencontres sur le granite et pas sur le grs. Plusieurs cartes de distribution d'espces illustrent les divers types de prsence rencontrs en fonction de la nature des roches affleurantes (fig. 5-10). Aprs avoir dfini l'amplitude altitudinale des espces prsentes sur le granite ou sur le grs, l'auteur arrive  la conclusion qu'il n'y a pas d'tages particuliers ni sur le granite, ni sur le grs. Par contre, malgr l'extrme pauvret de la flore, il a pu reconnatre des limites altitudinales suprieures pour des groupes d'espces. C'est ainsi que 3 limites altitudinales suprieures ont t reconnues sur le granite dlimitant 4 groupes d'espces (fig. 11). Sur le grs, 4 limites altitudinales suprieures et 5 groupes d'espces ont t mis en vidence (fig. 12). L'auteur dfinit ensuite la richesse spcifique en fonction de l'altitude dans la partie granitique et dans la partie grseuse du massif (fig. 15-16). L'influence des herbivores sauvages sur la vgtation est ensuite tudie, celle des gazelles (Gazella dorcas) et celle des mouflons (Ammotragus lervia). La carte de rpartition de ces herbivores et de leurs djections (fig. 17) montre qu'ils frquentent davantage les zones grseuses du massif caractrises par la prsence d'un plus grand nombre d'espces vgtales et par des coefficients de prsence totale nettement plus levs que dans la partie granitique. La liste des espces broutes (43) est ensuite dresse (tableau 24) et le spectre par familles des espces broutes tabli (tableau 25). Ces espces broutes sont principalement des Gramineae et des Leguminosae sensu lato, familles qui,  elles seules, groupent plus de la moiti de la somme des coefficients de prsence totale des espces broutes. Les gazelles (une centaine environ) sont surtout localises dans les parties infrieures de la zone grseuse du massif. Elles broutent 34 espces dont la somme des coefficients de prsence totale atteint 861. Elles ont donc suffisamment de nourriture et la pression qu'elles exercent actuellement sur la vgtation planitiaire semble relativement faible. Un certain quilibre entre la centaine de gazelles et le maintien de la vgtation planitiaire semble donc atteint. Les mouflons (une cinquantaine) sont, eux, presque exclusivement prsents dans les parties suprieures du massif, aussi bien grseuses que granitiques, l o la flore est plus pauvre. Ils n'ont  leur disposition qu'une vingtaine d'espces  brouter dont la somme des coefficients de prsence totale n'atteint que 456. Les mouflons manquent donc manifestement de nourriture et la pression qu'ils exercent sur la vgtation d'altitude semble trs forte et se traduit par le surbroutement qui conduit  la rarfaction de diverses espces d'altitude. Cette vgtation d'altitude semble donc particulirement fragile et son quilibre avec les mouflons semble rompu. Il est  craindre, ds lors, que certaines espces d'altitude viennent  disparatre. L'auteur passe ensuite en revue les espces non broutes (43) et donne les raisons de ce non-broutement. Il conclut en disant que les donnes chiffres prcites montrent que la pression slective des herbivores sauvages sur la vgtation se traduit non seulement par le surbroutement et la rarfaction progressive de certaines espces broutes, mais aussi par le maintien, sinon par le dveloppement, de nombreuses espces non broutes dont les coefficients de prsence totale figurent d'ailleurs parmi les plus levs du massif. Afin de pouvoir dresser le spectre biologique de l'ensemble de la vgtation, les espces ont t rparties selon les divers types biologiques classiques auxquels est ajoute la catgorie des espces plurisaisonnires. Selon Gillet (1968: 64-65), cette catgorie regroupe des espces qui se prsentent sous la forme de throphytes, mais dont certains individus se comportent,  la saison suivante, comme des champhytes ou des hmicryptophytes. Ces espces sont ainsi remarquablement adaptes aux conditions dsertiques, puisque leur reproduction est toujours assure quelle que soit la dure des priodes interpluviales. Le spectre biologique total brut de l'ensemble de la vgtation (tableau 26), bas sur le nombre d'espces que renferme chaque type biologique, montre que les throphytes constituent le groupe le plus important (29%), suivi par les plurisaisonnires (25,5%), par les champhytes (19,8%) et par les phanrophytes (11,7%). Ce spectre, au sein duquel les throphytes et les plurisaisonnires sont plus nombreux (54,5%) que les autres types biologiques, est caractristique des rgions montagneuses du Sahara central. La comparaison de ce spectre brut avec celui de l'Ennedi (tableau 27) montre que de l'Ennedi au Jebel Uweinat, l'augmentation de la scheresse se traduit par une diminution du pourcentage des throphytes et des phanrophytes et par une trs forte augmentation du pourcentage des plurisaisonnires, espces remarquablement adaptes aux conditions dsertiques extrmes. Le spectre biologique total pondr est ensuite tabli (tableau 28), bas cette fois sur la somme des coefficients de prsence totale des espces de chaque type biologique. Ce spectre montre que les types biologiques les plus importants sont les plurisaisonnires (39%), les champhytes (28,1%), les phanrophytes (16,4%) et ensuite seulement les throphytes (9,8%). Ce spectre pondr traduit beaucoup mieux la ralit sur le terrain puisqu'il correspond fidlement  l'tat de la vgtation en priode interpluviale o la plupart des throphytes ne sont plus visibles, mais o persistent les plurisaisonnires et les espces ligneuses. Cette quatrime partie se termine par une carte toponymique avec les noms des principaux endroits du Jebel (fig. 18).
10.2307/3668617|Four new taxa of Orchidaceae are described from So Tom: Liparis rosseelii Stvart (two collections), Bulbophyllum luciphilum Stvart (based one collection), Polystachya albescens subsp. principensis Stvart (sect. Caulescentes; based on ten collections) and Calanthe sylvatica var. geerinckiana Stvart (based on one collection).
10.2307/3668620|Wood of the Australian monotypic genus Monococcus is characterised by short, narrow vessel elements, simple and non-bordered perforation plates, alternate vessel pitting, short fibres with vestigial pit borders, scanty axial parenchyma, and multiseriate rays mainly composed of upright/square ray cells. Styloids are most abundantly present in the secondary phloem. Moreover, secondary growth produced by successive cambia occurs in woody stem parts. These data are compared to other Phytolaccaceae s.l. and a close relationship between Monococcus, Rivina and Petiveria (Rivinoideae or Rivinaceae) is confirmed. However, data on a wider range of taxa are required to support a separation of Rivinaceae from Phytolaccaceae s.s. on the basis of stem anatomy. The presence or absence of successive cambia represents useful taxonomic information for evaluating phylogenetic relationships in Phytolaccaceae s.l. and Caryophyllales.
10.2307/3668618|A new Rothmannia species (Rubiaceae-Gardenieae-Gardeniinae) named Rothmannia ebamutensis found in Banyang Mbo (Cameroon) is described. This species is characterized by its fruit with ten small ribs and covered with small white lenticels. The pedicel of the flower is 50-60 mm long. The species is limited to the submontane rain forest at the south-western part of Cameroon.
10.2307/3668616|Description of a new species, Rungia camerunensis. It is illustrated and a distribution map is given. /// Une nouvelle espce, Rungia camerunensis, est dcrite. Une illustration et la carte de distribution de l'espce sont donnes.
10.2307/3668615|This fifth part consists in the comparative study of the distribution areas of the 86 species known in Jebel Uweinat, a huge isolated massif, 1900 m high, situated in the heart of eastern Sahara, within the Saharo-Sindian regional zone. The purpose of this study is to determine the part of the flora of Jebel Uweinat which belongs to the Saharo-Sindian phytochorion and to estimate the importance of the neighbouring phytochoria. The author first reproduces the maps of the main phytochoria of Africa and S-W Asia (fig. 1-2) and also the map of the subdivisions of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (fig. 3). The species are then classified into Saharo-Sindian endemic species and into various types of linking species. There are 18 Saharo-Sindian endemic species, i.e. a fifth only (20.93%) of the flora of the massif. This low percentage confirms White's opinion according to whom this Saharo-Sindian phytochorion should be considered as a regional zone. Table 1 shows that 6 out of these 18 species are Saharan endemics, 6 are omni-Saharo-Sindian species and 3 Saharo-Arabian species. There are no species endemic to Jebel Uweinat, contrary to various higher Saharan mountains where some endemism exists. The 18 biregional linking species (20.93% of the flora) are mentioned in table 6. It shows that the biregional links between the Saharo-Sindian regional zone take place nearly exclusively with the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism (9 species; table 9) and with the Sahel regional transition zone (5 species; table 8), i.e. with tropical phytochoria situated south of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone. There is no biregional link with the Mediterranean regional centre of endemism, nor with the Indian continent, contrary to various higher Saharan mountains where a residual Mediterranean flora exists in altitude. Table 12, including the distribution of the 18 triregional linking species (20.93% of the flora), shows that 14 out of these 18 links take place with the Sahel regional transition zone and the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism (table 13), therefore confirming the close relations between the flora of Jebel Uweinat and these two tropical phytochoria. The Mediterranean regional centre of endemism is not included among these various triregional links, which confirms the absence of Mediterranean influence. The 22 linking species between more than three phytochoria of the Old World (25.58% of the flora; table 18) are distributed amongst 14 palaeotropical species (table 19) and 8 species, most of them scarcely present in Uweinat, distributed in palaeotropical and in warm temperate regions situated north of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (table 20). Finally, a group of 10 species (11.62% of the flora; table 21) consists of 6 pantropical species (table 22) and 4 subcosmopolitan ones (table 23). Most of these species are very rare in Uweinat and their introduction seems rather recent. The quasi-absence in Uweinat of subcosmopolitan weeds is worth mentioning. The author then undertakes the comparative study of the chorotypes of all species known in Uweinat and establishes the total unweighted chorological spectrum of the whole vegetation (table 24). The number of species of Jebel Uweinat present in phytochoria other than the Saharo-Sindian regional zone is specified (table 25 and fig. 4). It appears clearly that the species of Uweinat exist much more frequently in tropical phytochoria situated south of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone than in phytochoria situated north and east of this zone, like the Mediterranean, Irano-Turanian and Indian phytochoria. Among the various phytochoria situated south of this regional zone, it is in the Somalia-Masai and Sahelian phytochoria that the Uweinat species are more frequently present. It is clearly with these two phytochoria that the flora of Uweinat has the closest links. The total weighted chorological spectrum is then established taking into account the total presence coefficients (PT) of the species. This weighted spectrum (table 26) is more in accordance with the reality in the field since it takes into account the importance of the presence of the species. The links between Uweinat species and other phytochoria are then established taking now into account the importance of their presence in the field, i.e. taking into account the sums of the total presence coefficients of the species (table 27 and fig. 5). The resulting data indicate even more clearly the dominant importance of the existing connections between the flora of Jebel Uweinat, the flora of the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism and those of the Sahel regional transition zone, i.e. with the flora of two tropical phytochoria. The author then reviews the 7 Uweinat species with a discontinuous area (table 29). For 5 of them, the present area seems to be the remnant of a very old, dry and continuous tropical and subtropical area stretching from Sahara to South Africa through East Africa. From the comparative study of the areas of the species, it results that some areal limits appear within the Sahara (Saharan regional subzone, SS1, fig. 3) and within the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism. Within the Saharan regional subzone, three types of distribution have been noticed. Most of the Uweinat species are widely distributed within this regional subzone and are common through all the Sahara (table 30; fig. 6-7). A second group composed of 12 species (14% of the flora; table 31) is distributed in Sahara only south of a subhorizontal median areal limit situated a little north of the Tropic of Cancer (fig. 8-10). These species are distributed in dry tropical African regions and this subhorizontal areal limit through Sahara coincides with the northern limit of their area. This subhorizontal areal limit corresponds fairly well with the phytogeographical limit drawn by various phytogeographers between the Holarctic floral Empire and the Palaeotropical floral Empire. Finally, a third group includes species which, in Sahara, are distributed only east of areal limits situated in the eastern and western parts of Libya. These areal limits coincide with those of the vast Libyan desert (fig. 8). Five species (table 32), three of them being very common in Uweinat (Cleome chrysantha, C. droserifolia and Crotalaria thebaica), are only known east of an areal limit situated east of this desert (fig. 11). This desert seems therefore to constitute a barrier preventing the extension of some species further to the west. Finally, 6 other species (table 33), among which 3 eremitic species of Fagonia very wide-spread in Uweinat, are only known east of an areal limit situated west of this desert (fig. 12). This time, the same desert seems to constitute a barrier preventing the extension further to the east of some species only known west of it. Various phytogeographers have drawn one phytogeographical limit, either east (Eig 1931), or west (Drude 1897, Chevalier 1932) of this Libyan desert. Their phytogeographical limits coincide fairly well with our own areal limits. Our conclusions, contrary to these authors, seem to indicate the presence of two areal limits, one east, another west of this desert, as already suggested by Monod in 1957. The comparative study of the areas of species present in both Uweinat and the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism not only confirms the existence of an areal limit within this centre of endemism (fig. 13), but also shows that 2/3 of these species are known only north of this areal limit (table 34; fig. 14). It is therefore with the flora of the northern half of this centre of endemism that these species show most affinities. This areal limit, here also, coincides with a phytogeographical limit established by some phytogeographers. Considering the importance of this areal limit, it is worth asking whether a subdivision should not be recommended within this regional centre of endemism. In conclusion, according to this comparative chorological study, it appears that the present flora of Jebel Uweinat, except 1/5 of Saharo-Sindian species, is mainly a tropical African one, closely connected with the flora of the northern half of the Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism and with the flora of the Sahel regional transition zone. This flora if nevertheless considerably impoverished by the increasing dryness of the climate and, in altitude, by overgrazing. Moreover the present work confirms the existence of the Saharo-Sindian regional zone (fig. 1-3) as well as the fact that the Saharan regional subzone stretches on either sides of the Tropic of Cancer (fig. 3 and 8). On the contrary, this work does not confirm the existence in Africa of a vast phytogeographical Region called Sudano-Zambezian Region or Sudano-Angolan Region, but it confirms the existence of White's Somalia-Masai regional centre of endemism which clearly extends beyond the Red Sea (fig. 13). As a conclusion, the interest of the comparative study of areas of species is emphasized in order to contribute to the subdivision of phytochoria in general and of the Saharan regional subzone in particular. At the end of this fifth part, some phenological data are given on the flora of Jebel Uweinat. /// Cette cinquime partie consiste en l'tude compare des aires de distribution des 86 espces que renferme la flore du Jebel Uweinat, vaste massif isol de 1900 m d'altitude, situ au coeur du Sahara oriental au sein de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne. Le but de cette tude est de dterminer la part de la flore du Jebel Uweinat qui appartient  la phytochorie saharo-sindienne et d'valuer l'importance des phytochories voisines. L'auteur reproduit tout d'abord les cartes des principales phytochories d'Afrique et du sud-ouest de l'Asie (fig. 1-2), ainsi que la carte des subdivisions de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (fig. 3). Les espces sont classes ensuite en espces saharo-sindiennes endmiques et en divers types d'espces de liaison. Les espces saharo-sindiennes endmiques sont au nombre de 18, soit un cinquime seulement (20,93%) de la flore de ce massif. Ce faible pourcentage confirme donc le bien-fond de considrer cette phytochorie saharo-sindienne comme une zone rgionale au sens de White. Le tableau 1 montre que 6 de ces 18 espces sont des endmiques sahariennes, 6 des espces omni-saharo-sindiennes et 3 des espces saharo-arabiques. Aucune espce n'est endmique au Jebel Uweinat, contrairement  divers massifs sahariens plus levs o existe un certain endmisme. Les espces de liaison birgionale, au nombre de 18 galement (20,93% de la flore), ont t groupes dans le tableau 6. Ce dernier montre que les liaisons birgionales entre la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne s'oprent presque exclusivement avec le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai (9 espces; tableau 9), ainsi qu'avec la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel (5 espces; tableau 8), c'est--dire avec des phytochories tropicales situes au sud de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne. Il n'y a aucune liaison birgionale avec le centre rgional d'endmisme mditerranen, ni avec le continent indien, contrairement  divers massifs sahariens plus levs o une flore mditerranenne rsiduelle existe en altitude. Le tableau 12 de la rpartition des 18 espces de liaison trirgionale (20,93% de la flore) montre que 14 de ces liaisons s'oprent avec la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel et avec le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai (tableau 13), confirmant ainsi les rapports troits de la flore du Jebel Uweinat avec ces deux phytochories tropicales. Le centre rgional d'endmisme mditerranen ne figure pas parmi ces diverses liaisons trirgionales, confirmant de la sorte l'absence d'influence mditerranenne. Les espces de liaison entre plus de trois phytochories de l'Ancien Monde, au nombre de 22 (25,58% de la flore; tableau 18), se rpartissent en 14 espces palotropicales (tableau 19) et 8 espces, la plupart peu prsentes au Jebel Uweinat, rpandues dans les rgions palotropicales et tempres chaudes situes au nord de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (tableau 20). Enfin, un groupe de 10 espces (11,62% de la flore; tableau 21) comprend 6 espces pantropicales (tableau 22) et 4 espces subcosmopolites (tableau 23). La plupart de ces 10 espces sont trs rares au Jebel Uweinat et semblent d'introduction rcente. La quasi-absence au Jebel Uweinat de "mauvaises herbes" subcosmopolites mrite d'tre souligne. L'auteur entreprend ensuite l'tude compare des chorotypes de toutes les espces du Jebel Uweinat et dresse le spectre chorologique total brut de l'ensemble de la vgtation (tableau 24). Le nombre d'espces du Jebel Uweinat prsentes dans d'autres phytochories que la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne est prcis (tableau 25 et fig. 4). Il ressort clairement que les espces du Jebel Uweinat se retrouvent beaucoup plus souvent dans les phytochories tropicales situes au sud de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne que dans les phytochories situes au nord et  l'est de cette zone, comme les phytochories mditerranenne, irano-touranienne et indienne. Parmi les diverses phytochories situes au sud, c'est dans les phytochories de la Somalie-pays Masai et sahlienne que les espces du Jebel Uweinat se retrouvent le plus frquemment. C'est bien avec ces deux phytochories que les rapports de la flore du Jebel Uweinat sont les plus troits. Le spectre chorologique total pondr est ensuite tabli en tenant compte des coefficients de prsence totale (PT) des espces. Ce spectre pondr (tableau 26) correspond beaucoup mieux  la ralit sur le terrain puisqu'il tient compte de l'importance de la prsence des espces. Les liaisons des espces du Jebel Uweinat avec d'autres phytochories sont ensuite tablies en tenant compte cette fois de l'importance de leur prsence sur le terrain, c'est--dire en tenant compte des sommes des coefficients de prsence totale des espces (tableau 27 et fig. 5). Les donnes obtenues traduisent plus clairement encore l'importance dominante des rapports existant entre la flore du Jebel Uweinat, la flore du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai et la flore de la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel, c'est--dire avec la flore de deux phytochories tropicales. L'auteur passe ensuite en revue les 7 espces du Jebel Uweinat dont l'aire est discontinue (tableau 29). L'aire actuelle de 5 d'entre elles semble le reste d'une trs ancienne aire tropicale et subtropicale sche continue qui devait s'tendre du Sahara  l'Afrique du Sud, via l'Est Africain. A la suite de l'examen compar des aires des espces, des limites arales sont apparues au sein du Sahara (sous-zone rgionale saharienne, SS1, fig. 3) et au sein du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai. Au sein de la sous-zone rgionale saharienne, trois types d'aires ont t constats. La plupart des espces du Jebel Uweinat sont largement rpandues dans cette sous-zone rgionale et sont communes dans tout le Sahara (tableau 30; fig. 6-7). Un deuxime groupe de 12 espces (14% de la flore; tableau 31) n'est rpandu par contre au Sahara qu'au sud d'une limite arale subhorizontale mdiane situe un peu au nord du Tropique du Cancer (fig. 8-10). Il s'agit d'espces rpandues dans des rgions tropicales sches africaines pour lesquelles cette limite arale subhorizontale au travers du Sahara constitue la limite septentrionale de leur aire. Cette limite arale subhorizontale correspond assez bien  la limite phytogographique tablie par divers phytogographes classiques entre l'Empire floral holarctique et l'Empire floral palotropical. Enfin, un troisime groupe comprend des espces qui, au Sahara, ne sont rpandues qu' l'est de limites arales situes dans l'est et dans l'ouest de la Libye, limites qui encadrent l'immense dsert de Libye (fig. 8). Cinq espces (tableau 32), dont 3 trs prsentes au Jebel Uweinat (Cleome chrysantha, C. droserifolia et Crotalaria thebaica), ne sont connues qu' l'est d'une limite arale situe  l'est de ce dsert (fig. 11). Celui-ci semble donc avoir constitu une barrire empchant certaines espces de s'tendre davantage vers l'ouest. Six autres espces enfin (tableau 33), dont 3 espces rmitiques du genre Fagonia trs prsentes galement  Uweinat, ne sont connues, elles, qu' l'est d'une limite arale situe  l'ouest de ce dsert (fig. 12). Ce dernier semble cette fois avoir constitu une barrire ayant empch certaines espces, existant  l'ouest de cette limite, de s'tendre davantage vers l'est. Divers phytogographes classiques ont tabli une limite phytogographique soit  l'est (Eig 1931), soit  l'ouest (Drude 1897, Chevalier 1932) de ce dsert de Libye, limites phytogographiques auxquelles correspondent assez bien nos limites arales. Nos observations semblent montrer plutt qu'il existe deux limites arales, l'une  l'est, l'autre  l'ouest de ce dsert, comme l'avait d'ailleurs suggr Monod en 1957. L'tude compare des aires des espces du Jebel Uweinat connues aussi dans le centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai a non seulement confirm l'existence d'une limite arale au sein de ce centre d'endmisme (fig. 13), mais a montr que les 2/3 de ces espces n'taient connues qu'au nord de cette limite arale (tableau 34; fig. 14). C'est donc avec la flore de la moiti septentrionale de ce centre d'endmisme qu ces espces montrent le plus d'affinits. Cette limite arale, ici aussi, correspond  une limite phytogographique reconnue par divers phytogographes. Au vu de l'importance de cette limite arale, la question se pose de savoir s'il ne conviendrait pas d'tablir une subdivision au sein de ce centre d'endmisme. On peut conclure de cette tude chorologique compare que, hormis 1/5 d'espces saharo-sindiennes, la flore actuelle du Jebel Uweinat est avant tout une flore tropicale africaine, troitement lie  celle de la moiti septentrionale du centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai et  celle de la zone de transition rgionale du Sahel, mais qu'elle est considrablement appauvrie par l'asschement progressif du climat et, en altitude, par l'action des herbivores. Le prsent travail a, d'autre part, confirm l'existence de la zone rgionale saharo-sindienne (fig. 1-3), ainsi que le fait que la sous-zone rgionale saharienne (SS1) s'tendait bien  cheval sur le Tropique du Cancer (fig. 3 et 8). Elle n'a pas confirm, par contre, l'tablissement d'une immense Rgion phytogographique africaine dnomme Rgion soudano-zambzienne ou Rgion soudano-angolane. Elle a montr, au contraire, le bien-fond de la reconnaissance d'un centre rgional d'endmisme de la Somalie et du pays Masai, dont la prolongation au-del de la mer Rouge a t raffirme (fig. 13). En conclusion, l'intrt de l'tude compare des aires des espces est soulign dans le but d'apporter une contribution  la subdivision des phytochories en gnral et  celle de la sous-zone rgionale saharienne en particulier. Cette cinquime partie se termine par des considrations phnologiques sur la flore du Jebel Uweinat.
10.2307/3668651|Diatom studies of French running waters over more than twenty-five years revealed the recent appearance of a number of species which could not have been overlooked before because of their abundance or size. Their absence in modern European floras supports the idea of a recent introduction of these taxa in Europe. Their distribution and progression in France are examined according to available data. Taxa not yet found in France until 1990 but showing an important proliferation and rapid dispersal since that time are considered as invasives. This is the case, for example, for Gomphoneis minuta, a diatom originally described in North America, reported in Europe for the first time in the River Ardche in 1991 and presently occurring throughout southern France up to the Loire. Among the so-called exotic taxa, Navicula jakovljevicii, Achnanthes catenata, A. subhudsonis sensu lato and Nitzschia cf. tropica have probably been misidentified in the past. Their distribution must be reexamined from existing slides collections. A new species, Eolimna comperei, is described by light and electron microscopy; its recent discovery in France appears to be related to the introductions in Europe of a number of diatoms from other continents. The most remarkable taxa are of tropical origin and proliferate in summer. The abundance of Hydrosera triquetra in French estuaries and of Diadesmis confervacea in power plant discharges and various rivers in southwestern France, illustrates their recent acclimatization under temperate conditions. The study of the spatio-temporal extension of these as well as of less abundant forms of recent appearance, e.g. Capartogramma crucicula, Encyonema triangulum, Gomphoneis eriensis var. variabilis, Luticola mitigata, Luticola peguana, Nitzschia elegantula, Nitzschia dissipatoides or Gomphosphenia oahuensis, might provide indications of the warming of running waters in Western Europe due to the "greenhouse effect." /// Les investigations menes sur le rseau hydrographique franais depuis plus d'un quart de sicle ont permis de recenser dans les eaux courantes un certain nombre d'espces de diatomes qui n'auraient pas pu passer inaperues auparavant en raison de leur abondance ou de leur taille. Leur absence mme des flores europennes modernes semble conforter l'ide d'une apparition rcente. La localisation d'une quinzaine d'espces est dcrite ainsi que leur progression chaque fois que des donnes sont disponibles. Ont t considres comme "invasives", les espces non encore signales en France avant 1990 et qui ont donn lieu  de vritables prolifrations et dont l'extension est rapide dans les cours d'eau. C'est le cas en particulier de Gomphoneis minuta dcrit en Amrique du Nord, observ pour la premire fois en Europe dans l'Ardche en 1991, et qui colonise aujourd'hui toute la France mridionale jusqu' la Loire. Parmi les formes exotiques, Navicula jakovjlevicii, Achnanthes catenata, Achnanthes subhudsonis sensu lato ou Nitzschia cf. tropica ont probablement fait l'objet de confusions systmatiques par le pass et la confirmation de leur apparition rcente ncessite une consultation des collections existantes. Une nouvelle espce de Naviculaces, Eolimna comperei, est dcrite en microscopie photonique et lectronique. La dcouverte rcente en France de ce taxon est probablement aussi due aux introductions en Europe de diatomes originaires d'autres continents. Le cortge le plus remarquable est constitu par des formes connues comme tropicales qui prolifrent en France en priode estivale. L'abandance dans les estuaires franais d'Hydrosera triquetra ou celle de Diadesmis confervacea dans les rejets d'eau chaude de certaines centrales thermiques et dans diverses rivires du sud-ouest tmoigne d'une acclimatation rcente de ces taxons sous nos climats temprs. L'tude de leur progression en France, comme celle de formes moins reprsentes telles que Capartogramma crucicula, Encyonema triangulum, Gomphoneis eriensis var. variabilis, Luticola mitigata, Luticola peguana, Nitzschia elegantula, Nitzschia dissipatoides ou Gomphosphenia oahuensis d'apparition rcente, pourrait bien apporter dans un futur proche, des lments utiles aux scientifiques proccupes par "l'effet de serre" ou le rechauffement de notre plante.
10.2307/3668649|A total of 119 taxa, belonging to 23 different genera were recorded from 34 terrestrial moss samples in Northeast Greenland. The diatom flora is mainly composed of cosmopolitan taxa. The taxa with an arctic and/or alpine distribution constitute 32% of the total number of taxa observed, but constitute only 16% to the relative abundance. The mean number of diatom valves/g dried sample is 697.000487.000. Most important genera are Eunotia, Nitzschia and Pinnularia. Three assemblages are distinguished by a hierarchic-agglomerate cluster analysis and confirmed by a PCA-ordination. The Pinnularia obscura assemblage lives in the drier mosses. The distinction between the other two assemblages, the Fragilaria pinnata assemblage and the Eunotia fallax assemblage, is possibly due to differences in pH.
10.2307/3668653|The former distribution (1852-1943) in Flemish standing waters of diatoms included in the Red List for Germany and Central Europe is assessed through a survey of diatom assemblages from herbarium exsiccata of macrophytes and old samples. With few exceptions, a good historical representation of Red List taxa is observed in the Campine ecoregion only, as nutrient-poor non-alkaline waters are scarce elsewhere in Flanders due to edaphic conditions. The German list therefore does not appear to be optimal for general use in e.g. site evaluation, as it reflects the availability of a particular habitat much more strongly than habitat quality as such. Within the Campine region and where leached sandy topsoils are present, such applications are possible, however. This is illustrated by a comparison of historical and recent survey data showing that a considerable decline in Red List diatoms occurred here. This decline is especially apparent if relative abundance or abundance ranked data are considered, but less so at the level of species numbers. For regions with naturally more eutrophic waters, development of a specific list seems more appropriate. A more general case can be made to use only Red Lists compiled at the scale of ecologically more homogeneous regions (ecoregions) for applications that are sensitive to biogeographic bias. Whether the number of Red List diatoms, their percentage abundance, or both metrics should be considered in assessing biological impairment or conservation value depends on the water type in question. Accurate estimates of the number of taxa are, however, more difficult to obtain. The use of rank ratios may be considered to compare differently structured assemblages. Among the cryptobiota, diatoms appear to be an exceptionally accessible group for addressing historical changes in biodiversity.
10.2307/3668648|With the routine use of electron microscopy it has now become possible to obtain a detailed knowledge of the global distribution of silica-scaled chrysophytes. After the original opinion that they were restricted to cool temperate and subarctic environments has been abandoned, it is now clear that as a group they occur in all climates. Of the altogether 250 taxa, 19 taxa are definitely cosmopolitan, and further 34 taxa are widely distibuted. In addition, many more very small and insufficiently known species might belong in these groups. Others have specific distributions depending on suitable environment and on dispersal possibilities. The importance of investigation intensity and of available specialists for reaching correct conclusions is emphasized. Correct identifications are indeed necessary, but the species concept is inconsistent and purely morphological, and the use of molecular techniques in chrysophyte taxonomy and biogeography is only in its beginning.
10.2307/3668644|For more than a century Frustulia saxonica was considered to be an infraspecific variety of F. rhomboides. A search for the type of the basionym, Navicula rhomboides Ehrenberg, revealed that Navicula rhomboides is not a Frustulia. A lectotype is presented for N. rhomboides Ehrenberg. As a consequence twelve new nomenclatural transfers within the genus Frustulia have been proposed. From the original material of Frustulia saxonica Rabenhorst, type of the name of the genus, a lectotype is chosen from among the heteromorphic specimens which had been traditionally identified as F. rhomboides.
10.2307/3668643|Surirella brevicostata O. Mller is not a common taxon in tropical Africa. In this study, some morphometric studies could be effected on material from Lake Tanganyika, Lake Malawi (Nyassa) and Lake Malomba. Distribution patterns are given for these lakes, and, based on LM and SEM observations, an amended description of this taxon is presented. Some notes are also made on the rare varieties constricta and elongata.
10.2307/3668645|It is suggested that Euastrum species characterized by cells lacking a sharp apical incision and with broadly rounded lobes, capped with series of conical wall granules, are centred on Euastrum mononcylum. From this species, the other representatives of the group may be considered as being derived by reductions or elaborations in their morphology. Greatest species diversity is found in the tropics and especially tropical Africa. Most of the taxa under discussion seem to be confined to relatively small geographic regions, possibly related to failures in sexual reproduction, dispersal barriers, and their recent evolution. The relatively high percentage of endemic taxa, not only in the Euastrum group under discussion, but also in other genera, renders the desmids an algal group particularly susceptible to losses in biodiversity.
10.2307/3668642|Actinella comperei sp. nov. is described from Clarence Lagoon, an oligotrophic lake in the Tasmanian highlands (Australia). Its frustule morphology, as studied in light and scanning electron microscopy, is compared with that of other recently described Actinella species from Australasia. Actinella comperei differs from other Actinella species in valve shape, stria density and rimoportula arrangement. As most other species described from Australasia, A. comperei appears to be endemic to this region. Moreover, within Tasmania it has hitherto only been found in Clarence Lagoon, which holds several diatom species endemic to Tasmania, and at least one other species endemic to the lake (Biremis clarensis).
10.2307/3668646|Partial 16S rDNA sequences were determined for six Microcystis strains from lakes in the region of Pln (Northern Germany) assigned to four different species on the basis of their morphology. These sequences appear very similar to each other and to those of 71 Microcystis strains from four continents available in the databases. This great genotypic homogeneity, as measured by 16S rDNA sequence similarity (334 characters), is contrasting with the conspicuous morphological differences observed for the studied strains.
10.2307/3668650|Regular observations on the phytoplankton community have been made during two years along the Bia river, modified by the hydro-electric dam of Ayam, and another river without a dam (Ivory-Coast). 280 and 148 phytoplankton taxa have been observed in the Bia and Agnbi river respectively. For each taxon, a short description, an illustration and the observed distribution are given. The composition of the populations is compared and discussed. /// Des observations rgulires sur le plancton vgtal ont t effectues durant deux annes dans le cours de la rivire Bia modifie par le barrage hydrolectrique d'Ayam et dans une autre rivire sans barrage, l'Agnbi (Cte d'Ivoire). 280 et 148 taxons phytoplanctoniques ont t recenss respectivement dans les rivires Bia et Agnbi. Sont donns pour chaque taxon: une description sommaire, une illustration et la distribution observe. La composition des populations est compare et discute.
10.2307/3668654|The province North Brabant consists of 5083 km<sup>2</sup> between 40 m above and 1.5 m below sea level. Most of the land is in intensive agricultural use. Nature reserves consist of dune sands, heath, moorland pools and woods on very poor soils, bogs, low productive (wet) grasslands, stream valleys and a (former) estuary. There are 845 records of twenty charophyte species from 1986-1999. The majority of records were made in a small transition zone between the Pleistocene sand and loam area and the river and sea clay areas. Also the larger number of species (17) was found here. In the transition zone water quality varies considerably, due to the presence of seepage water of various age and origin. Some species are common to the Pleistocene area and the transition zone, others are common to the transition zone and both clay areas. At the loamy part of the Pleistocene area some species occur that grow in the transition zone and in the river clay area as well. In the dug off moor charophytes are only found at the edges of the area. In the former estuary, now a brackish lake, some species preferring slightly brackish to brackish water were found. Quite often charophytes are ephemeral, more so in shallow, eutrophic, and standing water, less so in opposite conditions. Charophytes are not protected by law. They may profit from conservation of rich sites and from nature improvement measures like digging pools for amphibians, restoration of moorland pools and removal of fertilised top soil. Charophytes may suffer from measures that have side effects such as reduction of surface water or deterioration of water quality.
20649775|Crotalaria arrecta Hemp & Polhill, a new species of Leguminosae (Fabaceae) from Kenya that was previously confused with C. rhizoclada Polhill, is described and illustrated.
20649770|In the present paper, a sequel to an earlier discussion on desmid algae from the Botswana Okavango Delta and the annexed Namibian Caprivi Strip, 25 taxa belonging to the genera Cosmarium, Xanthidium and Staurastrum are dealt with. Nine taxa are newly described: Cosmarium doidgei var. depressum, C. fuelleborniforme, C. haynaldii var. africanum, C. moremiense, C. okavangicum, C. permaculatum var. bituberculatum, C. pseudotus, Xanthidium micracanthum var. angustatum and Staurastrum okavangicum. The names of four taxa are newly given or recombined: Cosmarium fritschii, C. haynaldii var. ambadiense, C. taxichondrum var. pentachondrum and C. thomassonii. The majority of the taxa discussed can be characterized as African endemics.
20649771|This paper presents a preliminary list of the diatom flora from Guinea. Marine, brackish and freshwater sampling was conducted in ten sites, mainly in the vicinity of Conakry. The diatom flora consisted of 176 taxa (34 centric and 142 pennate) of which 90 can be considered as freshwater organisms whereas 86 are rather marine or brackish. Most of these taxa are reported for the first time from Guinea. Some rare or interesting taxa are illustrated in light and scanning electron microscopy. A new combination, Achnantidium minutissimum (Ktz.) Czarnecki f. inconspicuum (strup) Compre & Riaux-Gobin, is proposed. /// Une liste prliminaire de diatomes observes en Guine est prsente. Des chantillons marins, saumtres et d'eau douce provenant de dix sites de la rgion de Conakry ont t examins. La liste floristique comporte 176 taxons dont 34 centriques et 142 pennes se rpartissant aussi en 86 taxons marins ou saumtres et 90 taxons d'eau douce. La plupart des taxons observs sont nouveaux pour la Guine. Quelques taxons rares ou intressants sont illustrs par des photos au microscope optique ou au microscope lectronique  balayage. Une nouvelle combinaison, Achnanthidium minutissimum (Ktz.) Czarnecki f. inconspicuum (strup) Compre & Riaux-Gobin, est propose.
20649774|Crotalaria gracilipes O.Lachenaud, a new species from Central African Republic, is described and illustrated. In its sessile, trifoliolate leaves and lateral inflorescences with very slender peduncles, it is closely related to C. leptoclada Harms and C. sessilis De Wild. The diagnostic characters between the three species are discussed. /// Crotalaria gracilipes O.Lachenaud, nouvelle espce de Rpublique centrafricaine, est dcrite et illustre. Par ses feuilles sessiles et trifolioles et ses inflorescences latrales  pdoncule trs grle, elle est trs voisine de C. leptoclada Harms et C. sessilis De Wild. Les caractres distinctifs entre les trois espces sont discuts.
20649772|Three new species of Commelina L. (Commelinaceae) are described from south-central Africa. Commelina sphaerorrhizoma Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo, Zambia, Angola) is distinguished by its moniliform rhizome composed of spherical segments, glaucous leaves that are glabrous above and often have cordate-amplexicaul bases, blue flowers and very large, hairy seeds. Its rhizome is similar only to those of the yellow-flowered Commelina crassicaulis C.B.Clarke and C. welwitschii C.B.Clarke, but its one-seeded capsule locules suggest a different, as yet obscure relationship. Commelina orchidophylla Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo) is distinguished by its tuberous roots, orchid-like pair of large basal leaves that are white-tomentose beneath and appressed to the ground, and free-margined spathes. It may be related to other geophytes or hemicryptophytes with free-margined spathes such as Commelina hockii De Wild., C. scaposa C.B.Clarke and C. psuedoscaposa De Wild., but differs from all of them by its large, distinctively pubescent basal leaves. Commelina rosulata Faden & Layton (D.R.Congo) is distinguished by its basal rosette of large, glabrous leaves and clustered, subglabrous spathes with fused margins. It may be most closely related to Commelina transversifolia De Wild., C. grossa C.B.Clarke and C. grandis Brenan, and may be separated from them by its large, broad basal leaves. Commelina praecox T.C.E.Fr. is a new synonym of C. scaposa C.B.Clarke and C. bianoensis De Wild. is a new synonym of Commelina neurophylla C.B.Clarke.
20649773|The paper presents phytosociological analyses of savannah vegetation infested by Chromolaena odorata and Hyptis suaveolens in the Betecoucou region of the Guinea-Congolia/Sudania regional transition zone of Benin. Some 79 phytosociological plots were analysed according to the Braun-Blanquet method. A total of 199 species of vascular plants have been recorded belonging to 53 families. Hemicryptophytes (4.8%) and geophytes (3.9%) are less abundant in the colonised sites than in the non-colonised ones. The colonised sites are dominated by species that are therophytes (50.8%) or chamaephytes (39.9%). Species that are widely distributed (45.9%), mainly pantropical (26.7%) and paleotropical (18.3%) in distribution, are also more frequent in infested than in non-infested sites. On the contrary, African pluriregional elements, e.g. Sudano-Zambezian species (44.4%) and afrotropical species (16.6%) are more frequent in non-infested than in infested sites. Among the widely distributed species, those that are ruderal or nitrophilous are the most frequent. /// Une analyse phytosociologique des savanes envahies par Chromolaena odorata et Hyptis suaveolens a t effectue  Btcoucou situe dans la zone de transition rgionale guinocongolaise/soudanienne du Bnin. La collecte des donnes a t effectue suivant la mthode de Braun-Blanquet. Sur un total de 79 relevs phytosociologiques effectus, 199 espces ranges dans 53 familles ont t rpertories. Les hmicryptophytes (4,8%) et les gophytes (3,9%) sont moins abondants dans le groupement colonis qu'au sein du groupement non colonis. La physionomie du groupement envahi est dfinie par les throphytes (50,8%) ou les champhytes (39,9%). Sur le plan phytogographique, les espces  large distribution (45,9%) notamment les espces pantropicales (26,7%) et palotropicales (18,3%) sont plus abondants dans le groupement colonis qu'au sein du groupement non colonis. Par contre, le groupement non colonis contient plus d'espces  distribution continentale que sont les espces soudano-zambziennes (44,4%) et afro-tropicales (16,6%) qui dfinissent la physionomie de la vgtation. Parmi les espces  large distribution gographique, ce sont les espces rudrales et nitrophiles qui sont les plus reprsentes.
25746609|In order to preserve the biodiversity of Katanga mining sites before their exploitation, a special investigation was carried out in the Tenke-Fungurume mining concession. As a first result, a new species of Chlorophytum is described. C. unifolium is the third taxon of this genus described has having only one leaf, the two other ones being C. monophyllum Oberm. from S. Africa, Western Cape, and Anthericum monophyllum Baker, now synonym of C. subpetiolatum (Baker) Kativu, from Sudan. These two species have linear or linear-lanceolate leaf-blades, unlike the blades widely ovate and cordate at the base in C. unifolium. The conservation of the new species is critically endangered.
25746606|The genus Polysphaeria was only in 2007 recorded for the Gulf of Guinea Islands. A specimen collected on Bioko ('Fernando Po') by Mildbraed in 1911 remained unnamed in the Rubiaceae until 1967 when it was erroneously filed under Coffea. It is in fact Polysphaeria macrophylla K. Schum., also known from the African mainland (Liberia to Cameroon). Polysphaeria macrophylla is easily distinguished from all other species of the genus by the presence of swollen internodes inhabited by ants, an apparent feature overlooked in the past. The species is neotypified and illustrated, and a key to the Guineo-Congolian species of the genus is provided.
25746607|Sixty-four species are newly reported from the Republic of Congo. The occurrence of seven species reported without specimen citation by Sita & Moutsambot (1988), and which constitute important range extensions, is also confirmed and documented. The vascular flora of the Republic of Congo now includes about 4538 species, fifteen of which are endemic. Its diversity nearly compares with that of neighbouring Gabon (4710 species), which, however, has a much higher number of endemics (508 species). Soixante-quatre espces sont signales pour la premire fois de la Rpublique du Congo. La prsence de sept espces signales sans indication d'chantillons par Sita & Moutsambot (1988) et qui constituent d'importantes extensions de rpartition, est galement confirme et documente. La flore vasculaire de la Rpublique du Congo comporte environ 4538 espces, dont quinze endmiques. Sa diversit est donc presque comparable  celle du Gabon voisin (4710 espces), o le nombre d'endmiques est cependant beaucoup plus lev (508 espces).
25746605|The tropical African genera Brachystephanus Nees and Oreacanthus Benth. are revised. A detailed morphological survey indicates that only a single genus is involved, the name Brachystephanus having priority. A new taxonomic treatment is therefore proposed with Brachystephanus sensu lato divided into three sections: sect. Brachystephanus, sect. Oreacanthus and sect. Pseudoreacanthus. The closely allied American genus Stenostephanus Nees is compared using both available morphological and molecular data. In the newly circumscribed Brachystephanus, 32 taxa within 22 species are presented among which six new species, two new subspecies and two new varieties are described here, together with new combinations or names for four taxa and a new status for two taxa being formalised. Keys to identification and descriptions are presented for each taxon together with notes on habitat and ecology, distribution, phytogeographical considerations and herbarium specimen citations, supported in many instances by illustrations. Pollen analysis with accompanying SE micrographs is provided for 21 taxa. The occurrence of plietesial life cycles, myrmecophily and gynomonoecy within the genus are discussed, together with a summary of the conservation significance of Brachystephanus. Cet article prsente la rvision des genres d'Afrique tropicale Brachystephanus Nees et Oreacanthus Benth. Une tude morphologique dtaille montre qu'il s'agit en fait d'un seul genre, le nom de Brachystephanus tant prioritaire. En consquence, un nouveau traitement taxonomique est propos, divisant Brachystephanus sensu lato en trois sections:sect. Brachystephanus, sect. Oreacanthus et sect. Pseudoreacanthus. Une comparaison avec le genre amricain Stenostephanus Nees est prsente, base sur les donnes morphologiques disponibles et sur des donnes molculaires. Dans son acceptation nouvelle, Brachystephanus comprend 32 taxons inclus dans 22 espces parmi lesquelles six nouvelles espces, deux nouvelles sous-espces et deux nouvelles varits sont dcrites ici, en mme temps que sont dfinies de nouvelles combinaisons de noms pour quatre taxons ainsi qu'un nouveau statut pour deux taxons. Des cls d'identification et des descriptions sont prsentes pour chaque taxon, en mme temps que des notes sur l'habitat et l'ecologie, la distribution, des considrations phytogographiques et les citations des spcimens, supportes dans beaucoup de cas par des illustrations. Une analyse du pollen accompagnes d'images MEB est fournie pour 21 taxons. L'existence de cycles de vie plitsiaux, de myrmcophilie et de gynomonoecie dans le genre sont discutes. Un aperu sur l'importance de la conservation de Brachystephanus est donn.
25746611|A new Humularia is described, based on four specimens from Burundi and two from Tanzania. Humularia reekmansii P.Bamps is related to Humularia multifoliolata Verdc., also from Tanzania, but it differs mainly by the lower number and smaller size of the leaflets, and the shorter corolla.
25746612|Croton gratissimus Burch. var. gratissimus is recorded for the first time from the Democratic Republic of Congo at the base of the Kundelungu Mounts in Katanga. A description of the taxon and a key of the seven Croton species reported from Upper Katanga is given.
25746608|The taxonomic history of Santiria Blume is reviewed. A revision of the African material available in eight major herbaria (a total of 187 specimens) is carried out. The material shows that the morphological characters of vegetative and reproductive organs, except the shape of the fruit, tremendously vary in shape, dimensions or pubescence. Intermediate states make it impossible to distinguish different taxa. Consequently, Santiria trimera (Oliv.) Aubrv. is confirmed as the only species of the genus in Africa and therefore redefined. Seven taxa are newly relegated to its synonymy.
25746610|In 1903 and 1904, Georges Bronckart, a Belgian living in Indochina, corresponded with the orchid specialist Alfred Cogniaux. Five of his letters, in French, conserved in BR, are reproduced here. They deal with specimens send from Annam (Vietnam) to Belgium, ask for information on their identification, and make proposals for trade. The scanty biographical information on this orchid amateur is reviewed. Some Bronckart material became important for horiculture and hybridizing, e.g. Dendrobium bronckartii De Wild.
20649748|In October 2007, a selection of water bodies in the Okavango Delta (Botswana) and the southwestern part of the Zambezi Basin (Namibia) were sampled for desmid algae. In this paper 27 taxa belonging to the genera Penium, Closterium, Pleurotaenium, Triplastrum, Tetmemorus, Euastrum and Micrasterias are separately discussed and figured. Five taxa are newly described: Closterium okavangicum, Tetmemorus euastroides var. africanus, Euastrum attenuatum var. groenbladii, Euastrum okavangicum and Euastrum sudanense. The names of five taxa are newly given or recombined: Euastrum africanum, Euastrum compereanum, Euastrum fritschii, Euastrum scottii and Micrasterias schmidleana. The majority of the taxa discussed can be characterized as African endemics.
20649754|A new species from forests in Gabon and the Democratic Republic of Congo, Vangueria silvicola Lachenaud, is described and illustrated. It is very close to V. apiculata K.Schum. and V. volkensii K.Schum. by its apiculate flower buds, but differs in the shorter and acute calyx lobes, the corolla being entirely pubescent outside and with internal hairs not exceeding the throat, and the lighter coloured bark. It is the first species of Vangueria known from the Guineo-Congolian forest block. /// Une nouvelle espce des forts du Gabon et de la Rpublique Dmocratique du Congo, Vangueria silvicola Lachenaud, est dcrite et illustre. Elle est trs proche de V. apiculata K.Schum. et V. volkensii K.Schum. par ses boutons floraux apiculs, mais diffre par les spales plus courts et aigus, la corolle entirement pubescente  l'extrieur et  poils internes ne dpassant pas la gorge, et les rameaux  corce plus claire. C'est la premire espce de Vangueria signale du bloc forestier guino-congolais.
20649752|The inselberg vegetation in the southern part of Centre-Benin was investigated using floristic relevs within plots of 900 m each. A total of 108 floristic relevs were performed and 380 plant species recorded. Five types of vegetation were identified: dry forest, woodland, tree savannah, fallow, and meadow. The dry forest remnants are located on inselbergs with deep crevices and depressions between the hill tops. The crevices in rocky area constitute moist pockets. Savannah vegetations colonise the rocky that are covered with topsoil. The species richness ranges from 18 species in the meadows to 227 species in dry forest. Two plant species are to be confined to the studied inselbergs in Benin: Cordia millenii and Urera cameroonensis. The most important plant families were Leguminosae (in particular Papilionoideae), Poaceae, and Rubiaceae. /// La vgtation des inselbergs du secteur mridional du Centre-Bnin a t tudie  l'aide de relevs floristiques  l'intrieur de placeaux de 900 m. Au total, 108 relevs ont t effectus et 380 espces ont t inventories. Quatre types de vgtation sont identifis: la fort dense sche, la savane arbore, la prairie et la jachre. Les lots de fort dense sche sont localiss sur les inselbergs  anfractuosits profondes et dans les dpressions intra-rocheuses. Les anfractuosits rocheuses constituent donc des poches d'humidit. Les groupements de savane arbore sont situs sur les inselbergs  dalles rocheuses recouvertes de sols peu profonds. La prairie est localise sur les inselbergs  dalle dnude. La richesse spcifique varie de 18 espces en prairie  227 espces en fort dense sche. les Cordia millenii et Urera cameroonensis sont deux espces infodes  cet habitat saxicole au Bnin. Les familles les plus importantes, par ordre d'importance spcifique, sont les Leguminosae (surtout les Papilionoideae), les Poaceae et les Rubiaceae.
20649753|Pyrenacantha villiersii (Icacinaceae) is presented as the new name for the illegitimate P. cordicula Villiers from Cte d'Ivoire. The identity of Chlamydocarya tessmannii Engl. (Icacinaceae), treated as a nomen nudum under P. cordicula, and of P. acuminata Engl. is established.
20649750|In order to compile a "Catalogue of neophytes in Belgium (1800-2005)" collections of vascular plants in the main Belgian herbaria (public as well as private) were thoroughly revised. This revision considerably enlarged the current knowledge of the alien flora of Belgium and yielded numerous additional taxa. On the other hand it has been shown that in the "Nouvelle Flore de la Belgique, du G.-D. de Luxembourg, du nord de la France et des rgions voisines" a number of non-native vascular plants have been erroneously or doubtfully listed as having occurred spontaneously in Belgium. The present paper provides information on 30 non-native taxa that need to be omitted from future editions of the Flora of Belgium due to reidentification of herbarium collections. Furthermore several dubious records of non-native plants in Belgium have never been confirmed by herbarium collections and are therefore doubtful; they are listed here but have been omitted from the "Catalogue." Finally, some non-native taxa included in the "Nouvelle Flore" have indeed been recorded for the neighbouring territories covered by this Flora, but never for Belgium and therefore they were omitted from the "Catalogue." The importance of a thorough herbarium revision as the main basis for the compilation of a catalogue of non-native plants (in stead of literature data) is stressed. Such a revision surely is more time-consuming but, above all, much more accurate and reliable. As such, it yielded 20% additional taxa in the final catalogue. Inversely, almost 3% of the taxa of the original list of Belgian xenophytes needed to be omitted.
20649749|From the early sixties onwards, the fragility and exceptional biological richness of the forest ecosystem of Aubeville, situated in the Niari valley, has been acknowledged. The region figures on a list of critical sites that urgently need to be conserved. In spite of this status, the forest, of which the flora was very imperfectly known, has suffered from industrial wood exploitation (1953-1988), traditional exploitation of goods and services by locals, and finally, since 1988, from strong human pressure due to slash and burn agriculture. The present study, though incomplete, is the very first one to inventory the floristic diversity of Aubeville forest. As a result, 135 species are identified; they belong to 122 genera and 60 families. They are associated with crop plants and introduced plants. This flora marks three habitats that correspond to microclimatic variations of the mesoclimat. /// L'cosystme forestier aubevillois, dont la fragilit physique et l'exceptionnelle valeur de la biodiversit, au sein de la valle du Niari sont reconnues ds le dbut des annes soixante est inscrit sur la liste des sites critiques  protger prioritairement. En dpit de ce statut, cette fort, qui n'a pas livr les secrets de sa flore, a connu successivement et/ou concomitamment, l'exploitation industrielle de bois d'uvre (1953-1988), l'exploitation artisanale des biens et des services, par les populations locales, et enfin, depuis 1988, elle connat une forte pression anthropique due  la qute de nouvelles terres propices  l'agriculture itinrante sur brlis. Cette tude, quoique partielle, est la toute premire qui marque un intrt  l'inventaire et  la connaissance de sa biodiversit floristique. Au stade actuel des connaissances, 135 espces sont identifies pour 60 familles et 122 genres. Elles sont associes aux plantes cultives et aux spontanes. Cette flore marque trois habitats tenant  des variations microclimatiques au sein de ce msoclimat.
20649751|The African species of Crudia (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae) are revised. Ten species, including two new ones, are recognized. The African species of the genus are confined to the Guineo-Congolian region. A key to the species is presented. To facilitate its use, the stipules of all species are illustrated. The fruits, as far as known, are illustrated as well and the distribution maps of all taxa are added.
20649760|In the Comoro Islands, Rubiaceae are one of the largest families of flowering plants, represented by 33 genera and sixty species. Among these genera, Coptosperma (Pavetteae, Ixoroideae) is represented by two widely distributed species, also occurring in Madagascar and continental Africa, and a third species new to science. Coptosperma mitochondrioides Mouly & De Block possesses large stipules of the "bec de canard" type and ribbed fruits. While this type of stipule is typical for many Malagasy Coptosperma species, ribbed fruits are very rare within the genus. Within the Comoro archipelago C. mitochondrioides is restricted to Mayotte, but the species is also known from northern Madagascar. The new species is described and illustrated and a key to the species of Coptosperma occurring in the Comoros is provided.
20649762|Twenty-five neotropical Asplenium taxa with nomenclatural types deposited in the herbaria B, BR and P are lectotypified.
20649761|This first checklist of the vascular plants of Pongara National Park in coastal Gabon comprises 385 taxa. The checklist is based on a botanical inventory carried out in 2006-2007 and on existing collections from the Park. Information on ecology and chorology is given for each species. Ninety-five species were collected in the littoral savannah, half of which belonged to Poaceae, Cyperaceae and Orchidaceae, and 356 species in the littoral forest, mainly Rubiaceae (33), Orchidaceae (15) and Euphorbiaceae (12). The savannah has a much higher percentage of widespread species than the forest. Eighty-three species are endemic to Lower Guinea, nine of which are endemic or near endemic to Gabon.
20649759|After the transfer in 2006 of two Anthonotha species to Englerodendron (Leguminosae, Caesalpinioideae), the larger, remaining part of the African genus Anthonotha is divided in two genera: Anthonotha sensu stricto and Isomacrolobium. Triplisomeris is synonymized under Isomacrolobium. The characters to separate the two genera are discussed and illustrated, and summarized in a table. For both genera a list of species is added. For Isomacrolobium it includes three new combinations.
10.2307/3668520|A list of 84 vascular plant species, collected in the Odzala National Park (Rp. Pop. Congo -- Congo-Brazzaville), not mentioned in Sita & Moutsambot's Catalogue of Plants from Congo-Brazzaville (1988) is given. Distribution maps and comments are provided for the most interesting species. A short phytogeographical outline of the region is also given. A new combination, Solenostemon giorgii (De Wild.) Champl. (Labiatae), is made and this species is lectotypified.
10.2307/3668521|The discovery of this rare plant at three localities in the Casamance area (Senegal) is reported. The ecological requirements of the species are surveyed. A new association (Bolboschoenetum grandispici) is described. /// La dcouverte en Casamance (Sngal) de trois localits nouvelles de la Cyprace rare Bolboschoenus grandispicus est discute. Des observations sur les exigences cologiques et sur la sociologie de cette espce sont donnes. Une association nouvelle (Bolboschoenetum grandispici) est dcrite.
10.2307/3668528|A revision of all the geofrutescent material of the genus Leptactina from the 'Flore d'Afrique centrale' area indicates that L. liebrechtsiana should be distinguished from L. benguelensis. It is endemic to southwestern Congo(-Kinshasa); a new division in two varieties is proposed. The taxonomic value of corolla trichomes in this group is examined. The geofrutescent taxa of the flora area are keyed out and their distribution is documented. The intraspecific variation of the two other species, L. benguelensis and L. epinyctios, is also discussed; the division of L. benguelensis in two subspecies is accepted, but a refinement of the defining criterions is proposed.
10.2307/3668527|A new species discovered during a revision of the west and central African material of the genus is described. Coffea dactylifera Robbr. & Stoffelen from the Central Forest District in Congo-Kinshasa has cave-domatia of which many have the opening elongated into a narrow, finger-like tubule which is recurved towards the midnerve. This type of domatia is unique, not only in Coffea or the Rubiaceae, but even in the angiosperms as a whole. Three other tentative novelties were delimited during the same revision but sufficient material is lacking for formal description; these are shortly discussed.
10.2307/3668524|The Madagascan species of Landolphia P. Beauv. (Apocynaceae) are revised. The six endemic species of Madagascar (one also occurring on Mayotte, another one on Mauritius as well) are presented with full descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps. A key to species is presented and a list of exsiccata is added. Numerous species are newly reduced to synonymy, especially of the widespread L. myrtifolia. /// Les espces de Landolphia P. Beauv. (Apocynaces) de Madagascar ont t revues. Six espces endmiques existent  Madagascar, dont une se trouve aussi  Mayotte, une autre  l'le Maurice. Elles sont presentes avec descriptions, illustrations et cartes de distribution. Une cl des espces est donne et une liste d'exsiccata est ajoute. De nombreuses espces sont nouvellement rduites en synonymie, surtout de L. myrtifolia, espce  large distribution.
10.2307/3668522|A new species of Sorindeia, S. ripicola, is described from Congo-Kinshasa. It was hitherto confused with Sorindeia sparanoi. The differences between the two species and their distribution maps are given. The new species' distribution and ecology is compared to that of Bridelia ripicola and other Euphorbiaceae.
10.2307/3668526|Description of Sorindeia oxyandra (Anacardiaceae) from Gabon, given with an illustration. /// Description de Sorindeia oxyandra (Anacardiaceae) du Gabon, accompagne d'une illustration.
10.2307/3668523|Plants grown in the tropical and subtropical greenhouses of the National Botanic Garden of Belgium (178 taxa belonging to 148 genera and 85 families) have been studied with regard to flowering and fruiting behaviour. The results are compared with other phenological data published in literature and with observations made on herbarium sheets at BR. Five types of behaviour are distinguished based on duration and frequency of flowering and fruiting periods. A calendar with the periods of maximum flowering is established. Flowering and fruiting periods are taken into account for their rhythm and are compared from year to year. Differences are related to the climatological data for the period studied or to the position of the plants in the greenhouses. A comparison of taxa of tropical and of subtropical origin shows that tropical taxa generally flower continuously or repeatedly while subtropical taxa have their main flowering period during the winter.
10.2307/3668525|Dactyladenia ndjoleensis from Ndjol, NW Gabon, is described and illustrated. /// Dactyladenia ndjoleensis en provenance de Ndjol, NW Gabon, est dcrite et illustre.
10.2307/3668519|Chemical analysis of plant material collected in the D.R. Congo and known at that moment as Sweetia brachystachya revealed very interesting akaloids. This tree species introduced from Central America and used as a fire-break should be named Acosmium panamense Benth.) Yakovlev and belongs to a primitive group of Fabaceae sensu stricto, the Sophoreae. Details on the introduction in central Africa are given.
10.2307/3668542|A morphological documentation of the African 'Chazaliella subcordatifolia' clearly shows that this species belongs to the genus Chassalia; therefore, the new combination Chassalia subcordatifolia (De Wild.) F.Piesschaert is made. The most characteristic features of the species are the short subherbaceous stems that arise from creeping stolons, the obovate leaves with cordate to subcordate leaf base, the dense indumentum on veins and young stems, the black didymous drupes, and the fleshy, red inflorescence axes. C. subcordatifolia is related to a group of monocaulous African Chassalia species with a strongly reduced habit. /// Une documentation morphologique de "Chazaliella subcordatifolia" dmontre que cette espce africaine fait partie du genre Chassalia; par consquent, la nouvelle combinaison Chassalia subcordatifolia (De Wild.) F.Piesschaert est faite. Chassalia subcordatifolia est caractrise par des tiges subherbaces ascendantes de stolons rampants, des feuilles oboves  base cordiformes ou subcordiformes, une pilosit dense sur les nervures et les tiges jeunes, des drupes noires et didymiques et des inflorescences  axes charnus et rouges. C. subcordatifolia est voisine d'un groupe de Chassalia monocaules africains  port rduit.
10.2307/3668541|A new species of Heterotis Benth. is described from Rio Muni: Heterotis obamae sp. nov. The distinguishing characters with the related Heterotis rupicola are given: longer 5-nerved leaf-blades, pentamerous flowers, longer sepals and petals, longer pedoconnective, and longer style. A key to the four species of Heterotis from Rio Muni is given.
10.2307/3668540|After the genus Scenedesmus, dealt with in a previous contribution, the study of the algal microflora of the pond and the piscicultural complex of the National Park of Banco continues with the Cyanophyta, Rhodophyta and Pyrrhophyta. While Cyanophyta, known to be of economical interest, are well represented in this biotope with twenty-five genera, forty identified species and three not yet identified taxa, Pyrrhophyta are present in lower number, with only three genera, three identified species and one taxon identified at the generic level only. Rhodophyta are represented by only one genus and one species. /// Aprs le genre Scenedesmus trait dans un article prcdent, l'tude taxinomique de la microflore algale de la mare et du complexe piscicole du Parc National du Banco se poursuit par les Cyanophytes, Rhodophytes et Pyrrhophytes. Si les Cyanophytes, qui prsentent un intrt conomique certain, sont bien reprsentes dans le milieu avec vingt-cinq genres, quarante espces dtermines et trois non dtermines au niveau spcifique, les Pyrrhophytes le sont moins, avec seulement trois genres, trois espces connues et un taxon dtermin seulement au niveau gnrique. Les Rhodophytes ne sont reprsentes que par un seul genre et une seule espce.
10.2307/3668544|A new species of Pseudocalyx from Congo-Kinshasa is described and illustrated. The species' distribution is mapped. It is endemic to the Kasai phytogeographical district, i.e. the occidental part of the Congolian domain of the Guineo-Congolian Region, and penetrates the Guinea-Congolia/Zambezia regional transition zone by its presence in gallery forests. /// Une nouvelle espce de Pseudocalyx du Congo-Kinshasa est dcrite et illustre. La distribution de l'espce est cartographie. Elle est endmique du district phytogographique du Kasa, c'est--dire de la partie occidentale du domaine Congolais de la Rgion Guino-Congolaise et pntre la zone de transition Guineo-Congolaise/Zambzienne par sa prsence en galeries forestires.
10.2307/3668546|This third part includes the study of the dicotyledons of the Jebel Uweinat, presented by alphabetical order of the families, from Nyctaginaceae to Zygophyllaceae. Besides keys to species, the following data are given for each species: the bibliographical references quoting specimens collected at Uweinat, the list of specimens collected by the author, the habitat, the frequency, the altitudes where the species has been observed, the biological type, the palatability and the detailed geographical distribution. /// Cette troisime partie comprend l'tude des dicotyldones signales au Jebel Uweinat, classes par ordre alphabtique de familles, des Nyctaginaceae aux Zygophyllaceae. Outre des clefs d'espces, les donnes suivantes sont indiques pour chaque espes: les rfrences bibliographiques mentionnant des chantillons rcolts  Uweinat, la citation des spcimens rcolts par l'auteur, l'habitat, la frquence, les altitudes auxquelles elle a t rencontre, le type biologique, l'apptibilit, ainsi que la distribution gographique dtaille.
10.2307/3668547|Seasonal fluctuations in the epilithic diatom flora at five stations along the Burundian coast of Lake Tanganyika were followed at monthly intervals between October 1985 and July 1986. Increased turbulence and sediment resuspension during the dry season, causing seasonality in the diatom composition of the littoral plankton communities, have lesser influences on the composition of the epilithic diatom communities than on the planktonic communities. Relatively, Gomphonitzschia ungeri was most abundant at the beginning of the wet season, followed by Cymbella minuta during the rest of the wet season.
10.2307/3668543|The single species of the genus Bovonia, B. diphylla Chiov. from Congo-Kinshasa is identified; it is found to be conspecific to Aeollanthus homblei De Wild. The latter name has to be applied for this taxon. /// L'unique espce du genre Bovonia, B. diphylla Chiov. du Congo(-Kinshasa) est identifie; elle s'avre tre la mme espce que Aeollanthus homblei De Wild. Ce dernier nom doit tre utilis pour ce taxon.
10.2307/3668539|The 5' half of the ndhF gene of 14 taxa was sequenced and analysed cladistically in order to elucidate the tribal delimitation and their relationships within the Caprifoliaceae. The cladistic analyses strongly support the traditional delimitation of the three tribes Lonicereae, Diervilleae and Linnaeeae, but with the genera Symphoricarpos and Triosteum being members of the Lonicereae. The phylogenetic position of the Diervilleae remains unresolved. The derived Linnaeeae are a sister group of the Valerianaceae-Dipsacaceae clade, suggesting that the Caprifoliaceae are paraphyletic.
10.2307/3668545|Five new Xyris species from Upper Katanga are described and brefly compared with supposed related species.
10.2307/3668609|A revision of the genus Salsola sect. Salsola resulted in the recognition of eighteen species and their regrouping into two sections, Salsola and Kali Dumort. The most important but hitherto neglected characters are the presence or absence of chlorenchyma in the stem cortex, the distribution of unicellular papilla-like hairs, anther structure and fruit types. A synopsis of the species and a chorological survey are given.
10.2307/3668590|The branching system of pseudobulbs in Calypso bulbosa and Malaxis monophyllos has been studied using the method of structural analysis. It has been shown that the pseudobulb of Malaxis monophyllos is a thickened internode of the main axis terminated with an inflorescence. The pseudobulb of Calypso bulbosa is a complicated organ consisting of two order axes and a base of the green leaf.
10.2307/3668593|Roots of selected species within the Araliaceae were inoculated with spores of Glomus albidum Walker & Rhodes, G. mosseae (Nicolson & Gerdemann) Gerdemann & Trappe and G. intraradices Schenck & Smith. After successful establishment of the endophytes, the structural characteristics of the mycorrhizas were investigated. Three groups with different morphotypes could be seen, depending on the plant species. The occurrence of these groups with distinctive mycorrhizal morphology lead us to discuss a possible series related to mycotrophy in the Araliaceae. In addition, data from roots collected from natural sites were used to support the results.
10.2307/3668603|An interpretation of the gynoecium at various stages of development is proposed in Convolvulaceae-Ipomoeae within an ontogenetical framework, that includes changes in fruit structure allowing a classification of ovaries at anthesis. In Ipomoea, all subgenera, which probably differ in pollination syndromes, exhibit an evolutionary acceleration in the formation of fruit features, linked with a weedy annual habit, whereas the genera Stictocardia and Turbina appear to retain archaic characters, such as a woody habit, and a non-globular ovary with a protruding nectariferous disk. /// Une interprtation htrochronique du gynce des Convolvulaceae-Ipomoeae est propose,  l'aide d'un cadre ontogntique incluant la fructification et permettant un classement des ovaires  l'anthse. Chez Ipomoea, tous les sous-genres, probablement dfinissables par les modalits de pollinisation, montrent une ralisation de plus en plus prcoce des structures du fruit, c'est  dire une acclration volutive, corrle  un port herbac et un cycle vgtatif annuel. Les genres Stictocardia et Turbina conservent des traits apparemment primitifs: port ligneux, ovaire non globuleux  disque nectarifere dvelopp.
10.2307/3668602|Structural and functional comparisons are made between the floral vasculatures of Annonaceae and Magnoliaceae. Cortical vascular systems (CVS) are prominent features in the receptacle. Annonaceous flowers exhibit a continuous trend for building a CVS strictly linked to the pollination process, especially in the transition from female to male stages and pollen presentation by the petals. Moreover, Magnoliaceae flowers build an inner CVS connected both to the pollination and fruiting processes. This additional vasculature results largely from the peculiar magnoliaceous gynoecium, which appears as an early morphogenetical unit, caused by the congenital fusion of the sterile lower regions of carpels, which are homologous with the mericarp stipes of Annonaceae. /// Impact fonctionnel de la vascularisation florale des Annonaceae et des Magnoliaceae, et consquence sur l'interprtation du gynce de ces dernires. Les vascularisations florales des Annonaceae et des Magnoliaceae sont compares tant du point de vue structural que fonctionnel. Les systmes corticaux rceptaculaires sont caractristiques dans ces deux familles. Les Annonaceae tendent  difier un systme strictement li aux processus de la pollinisation, notamment le passage de la phase femelle  la phase mle, ainsi que la prsentation du pollen par les ptales. Les Magnoliaceae construisent en outre un systme cortical interne, en relation avec la pollinisation et la nutrition du fruit. Cette vascularisation complmentaire est induite en grande partie par un gynce particulier, dont les stipes carpellaires, congnitalement souds, forment une unit morphogntique nouvelle.
10.2307/3668605|The pollen dimorphism of eight African heterostylous species of Oxygonum Burch. ex Campd. is described for the first time using light and scanning electron microscopy. The pollen grains are mostly 3-colporate, subprolate to prolate with semitectate-reticulate exine. The pollen grains from short-styled (thrum) flowers are larger than those from long-styled (pin) flowers, with the ratios of thrum/pin pollen size varying from 1.01 to 1.35 in polar axis, and 1.07-1.62 in equatorial diameter. O. sinuatum shows the most pronounced pollen dimorphism with respect to size and exine ornamentation. In other taxa, such as O. dregeanum, O. fruticosum and O. stuhlmannii, the pollen dimorphism is weak. In the thrum flowers the exine lumina are slightly larger than in the pin flowers. There is, however, no significant difference in shape and in the number of apertures. Pollen polymorphism as a significant component of heterostyly and its functional significance and evolution are briefly discussed. Moreover, heterostyly is reported here in four additional species of Oxygonum, i.e., O. alatum, O. fruticosum, O. pachybasis and O. tenerum.
10.2307/3668607|The variability in twenty morphological characters was studied in 54 local populations of the Lotus corniculatus L. complex in the European part of Russia and adjacent areas. Chromosome numbers were counted for samples taken from 15 locations. A tendency towards a clinal variation has been demonstrated for several characters, especially for leaflet indexes, indumentum density and flower length. Correlations between some morphological characters (leaflet size, indumentum density and others) and climate parameters have been revealed. On the basis of variability investigations and the results of a factor analysis, four species are distinguished in the complex occurring in the study area: L. krylovii Schischk. et Serg. (2n = 12), L. tenuis Waldst. et Kit. ex Willd. (2n = 12), L. ucrainicus Klok. (2n = 12), and L. corniculatus L. (2n = 24).
10.2307/3668599|The floral development of ten species of Anacampseros sect. Anacampseros (A. angustifolium, A. densifolia, A. filamentosa, A. lanceolata, A. lanigera, A. rufescens, A. schoelandii, A. subnuda, A. telephiastrum, A. crinita) shows major similarities with Talinum regarding the ontogeny of the bracts, perianth and gynoecium: two involucral bracts are incepted successively; five tepals are initiated in a 2/5 phyllotaxis; generally, a three-carpellate syncarpous ovary develops. On the basis of stamen initiation two groups of species are distinguishable: a first group comprises the multistaminate species marked by the initiation of a ring meristem, a sectorial inception of the first stamens and a secondary, centrifugal increase of stamens; a second group includes species with a low stamen number characterised by the absence of a ring meristem, the presence of a first complex 'whorl' and five outer alternitepalous stamens. It is suggested that the first 'whorl', being homologous with the inner 'whorl' of Talinum and Portulaca undergoes a reduction of the stamen number, running concomitant with a centrifugal increase of the remaining stamens. Nectariferous tissue differentiates at the adaxial base of the androecium. It is concluded that the nectaries of Talinum and Anacampseros are homologous. On the basis of floral developmental patterns a close phylogenetic relation among Anacampseros, Talinum and Portulaca is confirmed.
10.2307/3668608|A systematic study of the Viorna group of species (section Viorna sensu Prantl) in the genus Clematis L. (Ranunculaceae) has been attempted. Twenty-five species (out of a total of 76), sixteen from the Old World and nine from North America are compared by means of numerical analyses based on morphological, anatomical and palynological data. The following four subgenera are recognised: Campanella Tamura, Tubulosa T.Y.A.Yang nom. nov., Viorna A.Gray and Integrifolia (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov. Archiclematis Tamura is reduced from its generic status to a section within subgenus Campanella; Tubulosa is raised from sectional to subgeneric rank. The sections Integrifolia (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov., Baldwiniana (R.O. Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov., and Hirsutissima (R.O.Erickson) T.Y.A.Yang stat. nov. are all raised from subsectional rank, and together comprise the subgenus Integrifolia. A checklist of the Viorna group is included.
10.2307/3668591|Plants of Galanthus nivalis L. and G. woronowii Losinsk. with additional inflorescences or additional green leaves were selected for analysis. A formal method of interpretation has been developed. 1. Organs were positioned on diagrams. 2. Diagrams were transformed into axial schemes. Both monopodial and sympodial models were assumed to be equally valid. If necessary for the phyllotaxis correction, the phantom leaves were included in the interpretation. 3. Schemes were sub-divided into monopodial and sympodial groups. 4. Schemes, containing a minimum of phantoms, were compared by superposition. The results revealed that the sympodial model uniformly predicts a phantom prophyll at the base of the innovation bud. A morphological series of prophyll reduction in Amaryllidaceae is proposed. The previous sympodial scheme of Galanthus branching by Mller-Doblies (1971) is modified by the insertion of the phantom prophyll at the base of the main bud. New evidence on the prophyll reduction in Galanthus is obtained.
10.2307/3668597|From about 1993 to the present (1998), millions of plants of Fargesia murieliae, an ornamental bamboo, were flowering monocarpically in western Europe. All plants being ramets of a single genet, introduced in Europe about 80 years ago, the simultaneous flowering of all these ramets constitutes a single giant compound inflorescence. Flowering plants were subjected to different conditions of light intensity and temperature yielding different modes of development of flowering. Under low light intensity and high ambient temperatures (22-25C), reversion of flowering is ultimately observed by development of vegetative shoots from basal buds of flowering culms. Under conditions that induce oxidative stress (full sun and drought) flowering and senescence proceed rapidly. The process of senescence is linked to oxidative stress as measured in elevated activities of superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase in the semelauctant inflorescences. By strong photoreduction of catalase activity, high light intensity is directly responsible for inactivation of one of the major defence mechanisms of the cells, thereby effectively accelerating flowering and senescence. In blades of spathes subtending the semelauctant inflorescences (short paracladial zone), DNA replication as well as loss of DNA from nuclei is observed. As this phenomenon is observed in green spathes prior to the development of the terminal inflorescence, DNA replication is a very early marker for senescence. A role for extra DNA synthesis prior to senescence is suggested in cytokinin biosynthesis.
10.2307/3668600|Flower anatomy and ovule development is described in Comospermum yedoense and Eriospermum natalense. A close relationship between Comospermum and Eriospermum, earlier indicated by rbcL, now seems doubtful, as their seed hair types are not homologous and they differ in other respects. A relationship between Comospermum and Convallariaceae is well supported by both molecular data and several micromorphological characters, notably lack of phytomelan, chromosome number, and tenuinucellate ovules.
10.2307/3668598|A survey of inflorescence morphology was conducted as part of a phylogenetic analysis of the Aristolochiaceae. The two members of the subfamily Asaroideae, Saruma and Asarum, have monotelic inflorescences and sympodial growth. In contrast, polytelic inflorescences are the rule within the subfamily Aristolochioideae, where two types of synflorescences occur: thyrsic (if cymose partial florescences are present), and racemose (if only one ebracteate flower is formed at each node). The partial florescence (PF) is used to compare the taxa within the subfamily. Many-flowered PFs are common in most members of Aristolochia, although 1-flowered PFs occur in all species of A. subsect. Pentandrae, as well as in some members of A. subgen. Siphisia, A. sect. Diplolobus, and A. subsect. Hexandrae. Two types of racemose synflorescences are recognized: frondose (or frondulose) synflorescences, in A. rojasiana (formerly Euglypha) and A. subser. Hexandrae; and rami- or cauliflorous coflorescences (i.e. lateral racemes), in A. reniformis (formerly Holostylis) and A. subser. Anthocaulicae. Cauliflory appears to be independently acquired in different members of the Aristolochioideae. Two different structural (and perhaps functional) types of cauliflory are described: the first occurs when a cymose, often densiflorous, PF, develops late (in members of Thottea, Aristolochia subgen. Siphisia, A. subgen. Pararistolochia, and A. ser. Thyrsicae), and the second when flowering occurs exclusively in short, bracteose lateral racemes (in A. subsect. Anthocaulicae). Characters related to the position and structure of the PF and the specialization of lateral racemes for flowering were found to be informative for a preliminary phylogenetic analysis (Gonzlez 1997). The analysis generated a hypothesis of a transformation from thyrsic to racemose synflorescences, via a reduction in the number of flowers to one on each PF and the loss of the bract. Other derived characters are the frondulose or bracteose pherophylls, and the strictly lateral position of the coflorescences.
10.2307/3668595|Wood anatomy of 16 genera of the Pavetteae has been examined. Except for some general features of the Ixoroideae, such as solitary vessels, presence of fibre-tracheids, and the frequent occurrence of disjunctive ray parenchyma cell walls, diagnostic variation was found in axial parenchyma, rays, and crystal features. Special attention was given to the morphology of vestures associated with vessel pits and two vesture types were defined. The delimitation of an Ixora group is wood anatomically supported by the presence of small bands or lines of axial parenchyma, styloids or elongate crystals, predominantly uniseriate rays, and branched vestures that completely fill the pit chamber. It is suggested that these characters are derived. Wood of Duperrea is different in the ray composition and the presence of remarkable parenchyma bands; this corroborates an exclusion from the Pavetteae. Long chains of prismatic crystals in chambered axial parenchyma cells occur mainly in Bridson's informal group I of Tarenna, but are also present in Nichallea and Pavetta.
10.2307/3668610|Morphological and anatomical investigations confirm the reduction of Schickendantzia Pax to Alstroemeria L. Schickendantzia pygmaea (Herb.) Speg., a small herb growing in the Andean mountains, 3500-4400 m above sea level, was first described in the genus Alstroemeria. Particularly valuable in determining the correct taxonomic position are: the presence of axile placentation, a trilocular ovary, two inner usually spotted, upper tepals, a rhizome with some fleshy-starchy white roots, a six-ribbed loculicidal capsule, umbonate towards the apex with explosive dehiscence, light brown and globose seeds, the outer integument of seed coat dry, with a sculptured surface, ballistic dispersal and pollen grains with striato-reticulate sexine. Therefore, the family Alstroemeriaceae Dumort. should be considered as composed of three genera, Alstroemeria L., Bomarea Mirb. and Leontochir Phil.
10.2307/3668586|Evolutionary biology of flowers has undergone a revolution in the past twenty years. It began with the recovery of excellently preserved Cretaceous fossil flowers and was followed by the improvement of molecular techniques and their application in developmental genetics and systematics, which opened new avenues for evolutionary flower research. In turn, these new fields stimulated comparative floral studies, and traditional approaches in concert with the new ones are now greatly needed. Wilhelm Troll (1897-1978) was a prominent and influential plant morphologist of this century. He and his students were responsible for great advancements in comparative morphological (including floral) studies, although this did not include the addressing of evolutionary questions, since the foundations to understand bauplan evolution were not present at his time.
10.2307/3668592|For the first time attention is drawn to a neglected or overlooked character in Scleria (Cyperaceae), the presence of a genuine ligule. This ligule, present as a fringe of short hairs, is now recorded in five neotropical species of Scleria. A key to the so far known neotropical ligulated species of Scleria is given. The presence versus absence of a ligule, the shape, the density and length of the hairs are very useful diagnostic characters.
10.2307/3668587|Scientific terms should denote similar, comparable, or at the best homologous structures. At the onset of botanical terminology there was often only a very superficial similarity between objects for which the same name was used. Thus, the term "seed" was used for everything that produced a new plant (with the exception of suckers and the like). Later on the term "spore" was introduced by Ehrhart (1778), and in the course of time the differences between seed and spore were better understood. The term spore was first used in a very broad sense, too. It had to be clarified by the exclusion of gametes and zygotes and by the distinction of meio- and mitospores. Several botanical terms that point to analogous rather than homologous structures have been used for a long time. The German term "Eichen" (small egg) for "ovulum" was replaced by "Samenknospe" (seed bud) and finally by "Samenanlage" when it became clear that it was neither an egg nor a small bud. However, the term ovule was kept in English and French. According to the classical morphological view of Goethe (1790), the stamens are named "Staubbltter" and the carpels "Fruchtbltter" in German. No comparable terms exist in English or French. Several other examples are given in order to illustrate the complex connections between terminology and homology in describing and interpreting plant structures.
10.2307/3668585|As a result of his extensive work as botanist and morphologist Wilhelm Troll acquired a worldwide reputation. His scientific research and his activities as an academic teacher influenced not only morphology but also had marked effects on the development of other fields of botanic research, of biology and even beyond biology.
10.2307/3668589|The morphology, distribution and ecology of Cardamine trifida are described. The species has underground fleshy organs. Their origin was interpreted incorrectly by many researchers. The leaf origin of the underground organs is discussed in relation to the taxonomy of this species.
10.2307/3668588|Two exemplary case studies of functional morphology are presented. The first topic, underground plant mobility, illustrates the feedback effect of 'plant structure' and observation of their 'functional role'. Questions are raised in relation to both, 'plant structure' and its 'functional role'. Experiments are developed to obtain answers, and to prompt further questions resulting from these answers. This was shown in an exemplary way in the unusually geophilous strategies of Hemerocallis fulva, well adapted to fulfilling the function 'cryptical survival'. Thus, investigation of functional morphology is useful for a better understanding of plant behaviour. The second case study relates to dispersal of diaspores in Apiaceae. Wind tunnel experiments were carried out to analyze the 'flying ability' of winged or spiny mericarps. In general, winged diaspores fly better than spiny ones, except in the case of Daucus muricatus, the spiny diaspores of which fly better than the winged ones, e.g., of Prangos pabularia. Thus, this topic was useful in showing that functional approaches to 'plant structure' may reveal new perspectives in ecological understanding. However, 'form' and 'function' are frequent in botanical literature, showing that a dualistic treatment of plant structures is very helpful for a better understanding of plant biology. Besides 'underground plant movement' and 'dispersal' there are important topics such as 'floral ecology', 'biomechanics', and many more. All of these could be included in one category, which we propose to call 'plant construction'. Scientific work on 'plant construction' should be based on three basic principles: 1. The starting point of the investigation should be the specific form itself, 2. The scientific question should be functional, and 3. Scientific investigation should be based on targeted observation and experiment.
10.2307/3668601|A study on four species of the genus Phacelia (Hydrophyllaceae) was focused on flower and fruit development. A combination of morphological characters of the corolla and the gynoecium (including formation and distribution of crystals) is shown to be useful in segregating even closely related taxa within the genus. Half inferior ovaries, as demonstrated for two species, seem to be more frequent within the genus than previously assumed. Corresponding stages during early gynoecium development and characters of the nectary disc and corolla may underline a closer relationship between Hydrophyllaceae and Boraginaceae.
10.2307/3668594|In adult woody plants, there is a division of labour between innovation and reproduction: One particular group of meristems, buds or shoot sections guarantees the vegetative continuation, another one only functions for a short period of pollination or diaspore production. The reproductive elements originate from the purely vegetative shoot sections by different ways of segregation. The unit of extension (UE) is used as the reference matrix to describe different types of allocation: (1) terminal flowering in competition with the vegetative apex, (2) lateral inflorescence shoots occupying a vacant UE section, (3) "mixed" structure of 1 and 2, (4) partial or full displacement of strong lateral shoots, (5) accessory buds developing into both vegetative and reproductive organs, (6) long-term reproductive capacity by accessory or prophyll shoots which is widespread in tropical families, (7) alternation between a reproductive and a non-reproductive UE form, (8) insertion of an additional short-shoot-like reproductive UE. Also a change of arrangement is possible because the UE programme undergoes a regressive metamorphosis during tree ageing or at subordinate branches. At the branch level, the allocation is described by the "shoot chain" in terms of monopodial, ananthic-sympodial or anthetic-sympodial. Research is based upon temperate species but the results can be extrapolated to some tropical species.
10.2307/3668604|The effect of irrigation and artificial nutrient supply on nectar secretion and nectary structure of three of the main Labiatae species occurring in a phryganic community (viz. Satureja thymbra, Stachys cretica, and Thymus capitatus) was studied. Experiments were carried out on potted plants taken from the wild, along with control plants (untreated or/and naturally growing). Only T. capitatus clearly secreted a higher nectar volume and sugars after treatment, whereas the yield of S. thymbra did not increase significantly when plants were irrigated or artificially supplied with nutrients. The case of S. cretica was more complicated showing different trends depending on the time of the year. Conclusions are: (i) nutrient supply does not always enhance nectar secretion in the poor-soil phrygana; (ii) irrigation is more important in increasing per flower nectar secretion than fertilization; (iii) nutrient supply results in the presence of nectarless flowers; (iv) nectar analyses made on three plants show that neither of the treatments affects amino acid concentration of the nectar, but they result in either glucose excess in the nectar of woody species (viz. S. thymbra, T. capitatus) or in sucrose excess in the nectar of herbaceous species (S. cretica). Most of these results can be explained through a differential resource allocation of the water-stressed plants grown in the wild on the one hand, and the treated plants on the other. This difference stems from the fact that woody species clearly distinguish between growth and reproductive phases, whereas in herbaceous perennials the growing phase overlaps with reproductive phase and blooming. Under conditions of artificial nutrient supply, plants may continue to allocate to vegetative growth rather than to pollinator allurement; on the contrary, wild growing plants may invest exclusively in pollinator allurement. It is assumed that the approach of the summer is very critical and conclusive for a shorter life cycle of the species. Some intraspecific differences in nectary structure were found as a result of the treatments. However, because these differences were not consistent either with the treatment effects on nectar secretion or with the nectar characteristics studied, it is concluded that the observed differences may be mere intraspecific variations normally occurring in nature.
10.2307/3668606|Tylophora anomala is investigated with emphasis on flower morphology, chromosome numbers and distribution. Two distinct subunits, a hexaploid cytotype (2n = 66) distributed in East and South-East Africa and a dodeca- to decatetraploid cytotype (2n = 132-154) in West Africa, are recognized. A detailed description of both cytotypes and a distribution map are provided. Slight floral differences between the disjunct cytotypes do exist, but formal recognition of the West African representatives is not justified. /// Bltenmorphologie, Chromosomen und Verbreitungsmuster von Tylophora anomala werden untersucht. 2 Untereinheiten sind unterscheidbar, ein hexaploider Cytotyp (2n = 66) in Ost- und Sdostafrika und ein dodeca- bis decatetraploider Cytotyp (2n = 132-154) in Westafrika. Beide Cytotypen werden detailliert beschrieben; eine Verbreitungskarte wird vorgestellt. Kleinere bltenmorphologische Abweichungen zwischen den disjunkten Cytotypen erscheinen jedoch nicht ausreichend, die westafrikanischen Vertreter als Taxon formal anzuerkennen.
10.2307/3668596|New investigations on sporophyte morphology in Lejeuneaceae and Jubulaceae (Hepaticae). Sporophyte features such as form and size of the capsule and ornamentation of the cell walls at the top and the margins of the capsule valves and various characters of the elaters, spores, seta and foot were investigated in order to determine their systematic relevance. It appears that members of Lejeuneoideae (Brachiolejeuneae and Lejeuneae), Cololejeuneoideae and Ptychanthoideae (all Lejeuneaceae) have different cell patterns on the outside of the capsule valves. Sporophytes of Ptychanthoideae correspond in many features with those of Frullania (Jubulaceae), and the capsules of Austrolejeunea (Tyamaelloideae) are similar to those of the Cololejeuneoideae.
3668775|Clerodendrum sassandrense Jongkind (Lamiaceae, Ajugoideae) from the forest of south-west Cte d'Ivoire is described and illustrated.
3668761|Telosma parviflora Merr., an endemic of the Philippines, is recognized as a species of Tylophora, and the new combination Tylophora parviflora (Merr.) Meve, Omlor & Liede is proposed. To date the epithet "parviflora" has only been used erroneously in Tylophora for the Indian species Tylophora pauciflora Wight & Arn.; it arose from a typographic error and is not a validly published name. The epithet "parviflora" is therefore available for the transfer of Telosma parviflora to Tylophora. This unusual night-flowering species is a strong twiner with large leaves, yellowish milky latex and multi-flowered inflorescences. Florally, it indeed resembles species of Telosma, since its yellow flowers are only open late in the evening and night and emit a heavy and sweet fragrance while open.
3668770|Evidence for the biological identity of the two morphologically defined taxa Rosa spinosissima L. and R. pimpinellifolia L. is presented with R. spinosissima L. (1753) as the valid name for the taxon.
3668769|Among the coprophilous Ascomycetes collected during the past four years, two species of Saccobolus (S. quadrisporus and S. saccoboloides) are new to Belgium. Three others have been rarely reported: S. beckii and S. caesariatus from recent collections, S. eleutherosporus from a much earlier one. Four of the species are reported and described here on the basis of freshly collected specimens and compared to previous reports. A key to the eight Belgian species of Saccobolus is included that also includes three additional species likely to occur in the area. /// Les observations poursuivies au cours de ces quatre dernires annes sur les Ascomyctes coprophiles ont mis en vidence la prsence en Belgique de deux espces de Saccobolus qui n'avaient jamais t signales (S. quadrisporus et S. saccoboloides) ainsi que de trois autres (S. beckii, S. caesariatus et S. eleutherosporus) connues toutes trois d'une unique localit. Quatre de ces espces sont dcrites sur base de matriel frachement rcolt; les rsultats sont discuts part comparaison avec les donnes antrieures. Une cl de dtermination des huit espces du genre connues de Belgique est propose; cette cl s'applique encore  trois autres espces qui pourront vraisemblablement tre observes dans la dition.
3668766|A monograph of Chilocarpus, a genus counting thirteen species of the Apocynaceae-Plumerioideae-Chilocarpeae restricted to tropical Asia, is given. Two keys to the species are presented, one for flowering and one for fruiting material. All species are described in detail and maps depict their geographical distribution. The study is based on herbarium specimens; for only five species living material was at disposal. /// Une monographie de Chilocarpus, un genre de treize espces restreint  l'Asie tropicale, est prsente. Deux cls des espces sont donnes, une pour les chantillons florifres et une pour du marriel en fruit. Toutes les espces sont dcrites en dtail et des cartes de rpartition sont produites. L'tude est base surtout sur matriel d'herbier, seulement cinq espces tant disponibles  l'tat vivant.
3668774|Kniphofia marungensis Lisowski & Wiland is a new endemic species from the Marungu Plateau in Upper Katanga (D.R. Congo). This species, very different from all Central African species of Kniphofia Moench is distinguished by its small white flowers and grass-like ciliate leaves. A key to all eight species of Kniphofia from D.R. Congo is presented. Supplementary descriptive and distributional data of another Marungu species, Kniphofia nana Marais, are provided.
3668764|Based on herbarium collections, the Chinese members of the genus Lasianthus are revised. Thirty-three species, four subspecies and three varieties are recognized. One new species, L. austroyunnanensis, is described and two new combinations, L. shimizui and L. trichophlebus var. latifolius are made. Six species names, two subspecies names and ten variety names are reduced to synonyms. All species are described and a key to Chinese Lasianthus is given.
3668760|Mt. Mulanje is a solitary massif in southern Malawi and is the highest point in south tropical Africa. During the preparation of a checklist of the flora of Mt. Mulanje, 69 species were identified that apparently only occurred on the massif; others had local or slightly wider but disjunct distributions. These are compared with a list of 30 species endemic to Mt. Mulanje produced by Wild in 1964. The endemic species represent 5.3% of the naturally occurring and naturalised flora. Mt. Mulanje has been identified as one of the sites in Africa in greatest need of protection and as a Centre of Plant Diversity. It is hoped that the information presented here will be of practical use for the conservation and management plans being proposed for Mt. Mulanje.
3668771|Microsatellites, or simple sequences repeats (SSR), have become genetic markers of choice in many plant species. In the present work, using a rapid method, we have isolated two microsatellite loci <tex-math>$\text{(TC)}_{19}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$\text{(TTC)}_{4}$</tex-math> from the genome of Rosa chinensis 'Old Blush'. For the <tex-math>$\text{(TC)}_{19}$</tex-math> locus, we have designed a functional primer pair and demonstrated allelic diversity among eight wild and cultivated roses. This study is the first approach of the SSR polymorphism in the complex genus Rosa.
3668773|Two species of Justicia, the unrecognized Justicia dalaensis (Katanga) and the new Justicia scutifera (Kwango and Katanga) are described and illustrated. Distribution maps of the two species are provided. /// Deux espces, Justicia dalaensis, mconnue (Katanga) et une nouvelle espce, Justicia scutifera (Kwango et Katanga), sont dcrites et illustres. Des cartes de distribution sont donnes.
3668767|Relationships among 111 species of the Psychotria complex (Rubiaceae tribe Psychotrieae) were estimated by cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in the rps16 intron (cpDNA). The Psychotria complex is characterised morphologically by caducous stipules and (usually) testa with a reddish, ethanol soluble pigment. It was found to be comprised of two major clades, one of which is Psychotria in a strict sense. Psychotria s. str. is characterised by usually having pyrenes without preformed germination slits, a plane or shallowly furrowed adaxial surface and usually numerous distinct ridges on the abaxial side. Most species occur in Africa and the Neotropics, but the genus extends eastwards to the Philippines and Australia. The second subclade comprises species from areas around the Indian Ocean and in the Pacific. Members of this subclade mostly differ morphologically from Psychotria s. str. by pyrenes with distinct marginal preformed germination slits. This subclade includes the tuberiferous, myrmecophile epiphytes, which, it is suggested, comprise a single genus, Hydnophytum. It also includes the genera Amaracarpus, Calycosia, Dolianthus, and Straussia. These genera are not supported as monophyletic by sequence data, but are tentatively recognized based on morphological evidence. Calycosia should be given a broader circumscription than presently and may be characterised by entire endosperm and pollen grains with usually thin exine and small lumina. The name Straussia has traditionally been applied only to Hawaiian species, but is applicable to a more widely distributed group. Its major distinguishing feature is a more or less ruminate endosperm.
3668768|Flower galls in members of the Rubiaceae are described from observations of African herbarium specimens. Corolla-tube galls are distinguished from ovarian galls within the family. The taxonomic incidence of gall-formation and its consequences for flower integrity are discussed.
3668765|Leuconotis Jack, a genus counting five species, is restricted to tropical Asia. A key to the species is presented. All five species, two of which are new to science are described in detail and distribution maps are given for the most wide-spread species. Most of the names known from literature turned out to be synonyms of L. anceps. The study is based mainly on herbarium material as only a few specimens have been seen as living plants. Several type specimens of names, putative synonyms of L. anceps, were sterile, and some were lost. For L. anceps a neotype is selected, as no type material could be traced. /// Leuconotis, un genre de cinq espces est restreint  l'Asie tropicale. Une cl des espces est prsente. Les cinq espces, parmi lesquelles deux sont nouvelles pour la science, sont dcrites en dtail; des cartes de rpartition sont ajoutes pour les deux espces  large distribution. La plupart des noms connus de la littrature apparaissent tre des synonymes de L. anceps. L'tude est fonde surtout sur du matriel de l'herbier, parce que peu des chantillons ont t vus comme plantes vivantes. Plusieurs chantillons types de noms, probablement synonymes de L. anceps, sont steriles, et quelques uns sont perdus. Un notype a t choisi pour L. anceps, parce que son type ne pouvait pas tre retrouv.
3668762|Two taxa were hitherto confused under the name Pseuderanthemum tunicatum. A new species, Pseuderanthemum albo-coeruleum, and a subspecies, subsp. robustum, are described whilst the true P. tunicatum is reassessed, and a variety, var. infundibuliformis, is also described. The distribution maps of these two species of Pseuderanthemum are provided. A new species of Pseuderanthemum from Katanga (Congo- Kinshasa) and Tanzania, P. katangensis, close to P. hildebrantii Lindau, is also described. The species is illustrated and its distribution map is given. An identification key of all the African species of the genus is provided.
3668763|Perenniporia djaensis C.Decock & Mossebo is described as new. The description is based on a collection from the Dja Biosphere reserve, Cameroon, on an unidentified angiosperm. Some additional comments on some records of Perenniporia from the Dja are included.
3668484|Leptoderris sassandrensis from the forests of West Africa (Upper Guinea), is described and illustrated. The differences between the new species and Leptoderris fasciculata are explained.
3668483|Impatiens nyungwensis from Nyungwe Forest in Rwanda is described as new species. It is closely related to I. bururiensis and I. gesneroidea but differs mainly in shape and size of the corolla. The ecology of I. nyungwensis and the endemicity of Impatiens in the Albertine Rift region is briefly discussed.
3668486|References to treatments of the families of phanerogams in the main floras of tropical Africa are presented. Information about synonyms and other taxonomic concepts of some families are given. /// Les rfrences aux traitements des familles de phanrogames dans les principales Flores de l'Afrique tropicale sont prsentes. Des informations concernant des synonymies ainsi que d'autres conceptions taxonomiques de certaines familles sont fournies.
3668479|Monograph of Melodinus, the only genus of the Melodineae (Apocynaceae, Plumerioideae, Carisseae), containing 19 species and restricted to tropical Asia and Australia. Five keys to the species are presented, one for the entire genus, one for the species represented in China, one for the species present in the countries covered by Flora Malesiana, one for the species known from New Caledonia and one for those from Australia. /// Monographie de Melodinus, le seul genre des Melodineae (Apocynaceae, Plumerioideae, Carisseae). Il comprend 19 espces et est limit  l'Asie et  l'Australie. Cinq cls des espces sont presentes, une pour le genre entier, une pour les espces reprsentes en Chine, une pour les espces trouves dans les pays couverts par la Flora Malesiana, une pour la Nouvelle-Caldonie et une pour l'Australie.
3668481|During our 2001 Malagasy Peperomia Expedition several new species of Peperomia (Piperaceae) were discovered, six of which are described here. Peperomia costata was found in the dense evergreen forests of the Anjanaharibe-Sud Special Reserve. Peperomia humbertii is a terrestrial or epiphytic herb found in the nearby Marojejy National Park. Peperomia mantadiana grows terrestrial often on exposed ridges at different forest sites. Peperomia pluvisilvatica was collected in the rain forests of the Montagne d'Ambre National Park. This is also the type locality of another new species: Peperomia terebinthina. Peperomia ratticaudata occurs in the low altitude evergreen forests of southeastern Madagascar. /// Pendant notre Expdition Malgache Peperomia 2001 plusieurs nouvelles espces ont t dcouvertes. Six sont dcrites ici. Peperomia costata est trouve dans les forts denses sempervirentes de la Rserve Spciale de Anjanaharibe-Sud. Peperomia humbertii est une herbe piphytique ou terrestre trouve dans le Parc National de Marojejy. Peperomia mantadiana est terrestre ou piphytique aux endroits exposs dans diffrents sites forestiers. Peperomia pluvisilvatica est collecte dans les forts pluviales du Parc National de Montagne d'Ambre. Ceci est aussi la localit typique d'une autre espce: Peperomia terebinthina. Peperomia ratticaudata pousse dans les forts sempervirentes de basse altitude du sud-est de Madagascar.
3668480|The present status of Arisaema speciosum (Wall.) Mart. is discussed based on an examination of herbarium specimens as well as living material in the field and in cultivation. It results that A. speciosum is recognised as having three varieties: var. speciosum, var. mirabile and the newly described var. ziroense.
3668485|One African and two Madagascan species are transferred from Tarenna to Paracephaelis.
3668482|Floral vasculature, sporogenesis and gametophyte development are observed in Pentastemona egregia (Stemonaceae). Sporogenesis and gametophyte development agree with those of the rest of the family, but they neither provide informative evidence for the further relationship of the genus nor the affinity of the family. Floral architecture indicates that the pentamerous-monocyclic flower of Pentastemona could have been derived from trimerous-dicyclic flowers by a simple modification.
3668487|This paper is a contribution to the floristic knowledge of Desmidiaceae (genera Cosmarium, Actinotaenium and Cosmocladium) in an oxbow lake. From 41 samples (planktic, metaphytic and periphytic) collected in the Diogo Pond, Moji-Guau River floodplain, 53 infrageneric taxa comprising 47 of Cosmarium, four of Actinotaenium and two of Cosmocladium were identified. Most of these taxa belong to a rather trivial, more or les cosmopolitan element; however, the correct interpretation of this observation needs a more complete study of the other desmid genera present in Diogo Pond. The specimens found were mainly represented in periphytic and metaphytic habitats.
3668627|This first-ever revision of Chione DC. (Rubiaceae), a genus of neotropical trees and shrubs, is based on the study of herbarium specimens and field observations. Chione can be diagnosed by a combination of characters, some of which are: entire and caducous interpetiolar stipules, terminal inflorescences that turn white or greenish-white when mature, funnelform corollas with strongly recurved lobes, corolla lobes imbricate in bud, anthers inserted near the base of the corolla tube, fruits maturing red to purple, each fruit with a single, sclerenchymatized pyrene enclosing two locules, and ovules that are solitary and pendulous in locules. Chione has continuous variation among many morphological character states, including those formerly employed to distinguish species. Chione is here considered a monotypic genus, with four varieties: Chione venosa var. buxifolia, var. cubensis, var. mexicana, and var. venosa. C. venosa var. cubensis (distributed in Cuba and Hispaniola) and var. mexicana (distributed in eastern Mexico) are distinguished from the other varieties by having relatively small fruits and smooth pyrenes. C. venosa var. cubensis is distinguished from var. mexicana by typically having thicker leaves and longer corolla lobes relative to corolla tube length. C. venosa var. buxifolia (known only from the immediate vicinity of Cerro Jefe, Panama) is distinguished from var. venosa (distributed from Tamaulipas, Mexico to Junn, Peru, and from the Dominican Republic to Tobago) by its extremely reduced and coriaceous leaves.
3668629|The study of the vegetation of inselbergs and forest types in these two afrotropical countries lead to the description of three new taxa. Justicia amanda subsp. saxatilis, growing on inselbergs in Equatorial Guinea is a vicariant taxon of the typical subspecies which is only known from the mountains of Eastern Congo-Kinshasa, Rwanda and Burundi. Dischistocalyx lithicola, also growing on inselbergs, differs from the other species by its complete glabrescence, its strongly two-coloured, narrow, coriaceous although thin leaves, and from D. strobilinus, the closest species, by its larger corolla. Dischistocalyx alternifolius, growing in rainforest, differs from all other species of the genus by its complete anisophylly, with the complete reduction of one leaf in each pair. /// L'tude de la vgtation des inselbergs et des types forestiers dans ces deux pays d'Afrique tropicale a amen la description de trois taxons nouveaux. Justicia amanda subsp. saxatilis, croissant sur les inselbergs de Guine quatoriale, est un taxon vicariant de la sous-espce type, originaire des montagnes du Congo-Kinshasa oriental, du Rwanda et du Burundi. Dischistocalyx lithicola, croissant galement sur inselberg, se distingue des autres espces du genre par sa glabrescence parfaite, ses feuilles fortement discolores, troites et assez coriaces quoique minces et de D. strobilinus, espce proche, par sa corolle plus grande. Dischistocalyx alternifolius, espce de fort dense humide, diffre de toutes les espces du genre par son anisophyllie complte aboutissant  la disparition d'une feuille de chaque paire.
3668628|A recent revision of Chione (Rubiaceae) has excluded two species, C. exserta and C. seminervis, from the genus on the basis of morphology. The new genus Colleteria is here erected to accommodate those species. The genus Colleteria can be diagnosed by a combination of characters, some of which are: corolla lobes imbricate in bud, anthers inserted at or below middle of the corolla tube, fruit with two pyrenes, the pyrenes adaxially concave, abaxially convex and ridged, with marginal germination slits extending from apex to middle, each pyrene with one locule, ovules solitary and pendulous in locules. Colleteria exserta (distributed in Cuba and Hispaniola) is distinguished from Colleteria seminervis (distributed in Hispaniola and Puerto Rico) by its larger leaf blade size, greater number of secondary leaf veins, longer petioles, longer interpetiolar stipules, and greater number of flowers per inflorescence.
3668630|Six inselbergs of Benin have been studied in four localities. This study presents the results of 123 phytosociological "relevs". A total number of 285 plant species have been gathered belonging to 77 families, of which Poaceae (34 species) and Fabaceae (32 species) are the most representative. The 285 plant species identified have been classified in seven groups according to the vegetation types. The analysis of life-form spectra has revealed the abundance of therophytes (38.2% and 36.5%) and phanerophytes (39.7% and 37.2%). The grasslands are dominated by annual species. The number of therophytes increases from south to north; this could be due to decrease of average annual precipitation. The phytogeographical spectrum of species have revealed the abundance of sudano-zambezian elements (21.4% and 23.9%) and African pluriregional elements (21.4% and 21.6%). No endemic species have been noted among the 285 species. The two phanerophytes most frequently encountered and restricted to the inselbergs are Hymenodictyon floribundum and Ficus abutilifolia. The most characteristical species of dry grasslands is Afrotrilepis pilosa. Inselberg vegetation is characterized by its homogeneousness due to harsh environmental conditions. /// Six inselbergs du Bnin, dans quatre localits, ont t tudis. Sur un total de 123 relevs phytosociologiques effectus, 285 espces rparties dans 77 familles ont t rpertories. Les familles les plus largement reprsentes sont les Poaceae (34 espces) et les Fabaceae (32). Les espces recenses sont classes en sept types de formation vgtale. Le spectre biologique brut des espces est un spectre constitu de throphytes (38,2% et 36,5%) et de phanrophytes (39,7% et 37,2%). Les pelouses sont  dominance de throphytes. L'augmentation du nombre d'espces annuelles suivant un gradient sud-nord pourrait tre exlique par une diminution des prcipitations moyennes annuelles. Le spectre phytogographique global a mis en vidence la prpondrance des espces soudanozambziennes (SZ = 21,4% et 23,9%) et plurirgionales africaines (PA = 21,4% et 21,6%). Aucune espce endmique n'a t note parmi les 285 taxons recenss. Les espces ligneuses les plus constamment rencontres et infodes aux milieux tudis sont Hymenodictyon floribundum et Ficus abutilifolia. L'espce la plus caractristique des pelouses sches est Afrotrilepis pilosa. La vgtation des inselbergs reste caractrise par son homognit qui tmoigne des conditions extrmes du milieu.
3668626|The type specimens of Perenniporia mundula and of its presumed taxonomic synonym, Vanderbylia ungulata have been examined as well as several original collections identified as P. mundula. The presumed synonymy is rejected, and the two species are accepted as distinct in their respective genera. The taxonomic placement of both taxa is discussed. Perenniporia mundula belongs to the complex around Perenniporia medulla-panis while V. ungulata is related to Vanderbylia vicina, type species of Vanderbylia. The geographic distribution of V. ungulata is outlined. /// Les spcimens type de Perenniporia mundula et Vanderbylia ungulata ont t re-examins, ainsi que plusieurs collections originales identifies comme P. mundula. La synonymie prsume est rejete sur base de diffrences morphologiques significatives, et les deux espces ont acceptes dans leur genre respectif. La position taxonomique de ces deux taxa est discute. Perenniporia mundula appartient au complexe de Perenniporia medulla-panis, alors que V. ungulata est proche de Vanderbylia vicina, espce type du genre Vanderbylia. La distribution gographique de V. ungulata est propose.
3668632|A new species of Polystachya Hook.f. sect. Polychaete Cribb (Orchidaceae) is described from So Tom, Gabon and Rio Muni (Equatorial Guinea): Polystachya moniquetiana Stvart & Geerinck. It is related to Polystachya polychaete Kraenzl. from which it differs in the lip and plant size.
3668631|A revision of Bertiera Aublet is undertaken, based mainly on a study of Cameroonian herbarium specimens at BR, BRLU, K, P, SCA, WAG and YA. The morphological features (habit, leaves, stipules, domatia, colleters, flower, fruit and seed characters) of the genus are reviewed and documented. The distribution maps of the species show the characteristic distribution pattern of a strict rain forest genus. The taxonomic part gives keys and complete treatments of species (synonymies, descriptions, distributional data, critical notes). The detailed examination of the specimens resulted in some changes. It is proved that Bertiera globiceps K.Schum. var. bityensis (Wernham) N.Hall and Bertiera racemosa (G.Don) K.Schum. var. dewevrei (De Wild. & Th.Dur.) N.Hall are not worth varietal distiction. On the other hand, Bertiera subsessilis Hiern var. congolana N.Hall needs to be returned to its specific status (Bertiera congolana De Wild. & Th.Dur). Two species are new records for the Cameroon flora: Bertiera congolana De Wild. & Th.Dur. and Bertiera arctistipula N.Hall.
3668633|Two new species of Crotalaria, C. cupricola Leteinturier and C. serpentinicola Leteinturier & Polhill, are described from Zimbabwe. Both species belong to section Crotalaria subsection Longirostres and are deceptively similar. The differences and affinities are given. Both are restricted to metalliferous soils (one on a copper hill, the other on serpentine ultramafic rocks).
