10.2307/2413305|Electromorphic and chromosomal variation is analyzed in 26 populations of Thomomys umbrinus sampled from throughout the range of the species. Interpopulation levels of genic differentiation are extreme, generally exceeding values measured between conspecific populations of most animals or plants. Two principal groups of T. umbrinus are recognized based on chromosomal evidence, one with 2n = 76 chromosomes and the other with 2n = 78. Further, the 2n = 78 group (but not the 2n = 76 group) is bisected into geographic subgroups with respect to chromosome morphology and heterochromatin position. The kind and degree of chromosomal differentiation observed suggests that the three groups may be reproductively incompatible. Allozymic evidence corroborates the above groupings, and an analysis of patterns of allele sharing suggests the absence of gene flow among the groups. A cladistic analysis of electromorphic data indicates that the two 2n = 78 groups may be independently derived from the 2n = 76 lineage. The combined evidence supports the hypothesis that T. umbrinus is actually a composite of at least three biological species and confirms the observation that speciation in the genus Thomomys is unrelated to the level of genic differentiation between populations.
10.2307/2413304|A quantitative approach to Croizat's panbiogeography is developed using graph theory. Croizat's main analytical tool, the "track" (a line on a map representing the distribution of one or more taxa), is equated with the graph-theoretic concept of the minimal-spanning tree. Tracks can be represented by two different matrices that enable incongruent tracks to be detected and shared elements (biogeographic homologies) to be identified. Tracks can be orientated using both phylogenetic and biogeographic criteria. "Nodes," which are regions where there are large numbers of tracks, are related to the concept of the connectivity of a point. The statistical significance of track concordance can be evaluated using permutation tests of association between matrices. Previous discussions of panbiogeography have often considered panbiogeography to be a phenetic technique similar to cluster analysis using matrices of biotic similarity, or a crude precursor of vicariance biogeography. This is rejected, and the relationship between vicariance biogeography and panbiogeography is discussed. Vicariance biogeography is shown to be a clique method based on the less amenable concept of the minimal Steiner tree.
10.2307/2413306|The biometrical consequences of measurement error, environmental effects caused by habitat quality, and effects of allometry transformation were studied in 22 morphometric traits of the skull of the muskrat, Ondatra zibethicus. Analyses were conducted at a regional level using four Finnish muskrat populations living 85-750 km apart, and at a local level using five subpopulations living 2-9 km apart in one Finnish lake. Only spring samples of animals born in the previous summer were used (n = 508), but sexes were pooled because they were not found to differ in variability. Reduced variability was found in traits connected with feeding. In larger variables the coefficient of variation (CV) was moderately negatively correlated with the mean, but in the smallest measurements the variability increased sharply. The dependence of the CV on the mean of the trait, thus, is hyperbolic. Corrected variabilities for each trait were calculated as the residuals from this function. Measurement error was estimated by repeated measurings of the same skulls, using two methods differing in accuracy. The proportion of measurement error in the CV varied from 3 to 23%, if measuring accuracy was 0.1 mm, and from 13 to 45%, if accuracy was only 0.5 mm (mean of the variables ranged from 4 to 63 mm). The proportion of measurement error in the CV increased with a decreasing mean value of the trait, but this cannot alone explain the great variability in the small traits. Environmental effects on variability were studied by grouping animals on the basis of their condition, classified by a growth index that measured body-weight gain per unit of molar wear. Improvement in animal condition decreased general morphological variability. We concluded that habitat quality, especially poor diet, was the main stress factor increasing variation, and specimens with the poorest condition were particularly exposed to this effect. In order to examine and compare allometric relationships on both a local and regional scale, each variable was divided by condylobasal length of the skull (CL; calculated by subtraction in log scale). If the corrected variability of a trait was lower or equal to that of CL, the transformation often induced a negative correlation with general size. In comparisons between local subpopulations, the effect of this bias was not serious: the allometric transformation reduced size differences that depend on habitat quality. If the correlation structure of the data was more heterogeneous, as in regional data, the transformation produced partly confusing results in univariate and principal component analyses, but discriminant function analysis was not seriously affected.
10.2307/2413307|Chronological clustering of morphotypes, based on five characters, detected morphological discontinuities in a stratigraphic sequence of the fossil stickleback Gasterosteus doryssus. Discontinuities that were not detected analyzing individual characters became apparent, and different discontinuities depend on changes in the frequencies of different sets of morphotypes. However, recognition of discontinuities between a group and neighboring groups of samples depended strongly on existing group structure. The results of this analysis generally were consistent with conclusions of a previous study using single characters, which indicated that patterns of chronological variation within the lineage are diverse. Care must be taken in interpreting the results of this chronological-clustering technique because the results depend strongly on criteria for formation of morphotypes, but the technique is useful to detect discontinuities of multicharacter change within biostratigraphic sequences.
10.2307/2413399|Protein products of 51 genetic loci were analyzed by gel electrophoresis using extracts of blood and tissue culture specimens from 12 of the 14 extant canid genera. Genetic distances were calculated and used to derive phenetic trees. The results suggest that the Canidae can be divided into several distinct groups. The wolf-like canids are a group that includes species in the genus Canis and Lycaon pictus (African wild dog). Speothos venaticus (Brazilian bush dog) is weakly associated with this group. Based on the calibration of a consensus tree with a fossil date, Canis mesomelas (black-backed jackal) and Speothos venaticus separated first, approximately 6 million years before present (MYBP). Lycaon pictus and C. latrans (coyote) separated from the line leading to C. lupus (grey wolf) and C. familiuris (domestic dog) approximately 3 MYBP. These results suggest that the blade-like trenchant heel on the carnassial tooth has evolved independently at least twice within the Canidae. Several distinct genetic stocks appear to have led to the extant South American canids. Chrysocyon brachyurus (maned wolf) is estimated to have diverged from Dusicyon vetulus (hoary fox) and Cerdocyon thous (crab-eating fox) approximately 6 MYBP. The divergence time of the last two genera is fairly recent (2-3 MYBP) and is coincident with the opening of the Panamanian land bridge. The remaining South American canid included in this survey, Speothos venaticus, is clustered with the wolf-like canids. The Vulpes-like canids are a distinct phenetic group that includes species in the genera Vulpes, Alopex and Fennecus. Their estimated time of divergence from all the other canids, approximately 9 MYBP, is among the oldest within the Canidae. Among the Vulpes-like canids we surveyed, Alopex lagopus (arctic fox) and Vulpes macrotis (kit fox) appear genetically most closely related. Finally, the biochemical data support the generic status of three canid genera: Urocyon, Nyctereutes, and Otocyon. These taxa are not closely related to any of the surveyed canid species.
10.2307/2413400|The "shear" method of Humphries et al. (1981) is based on a path model intended to explain differences in form by multiple factors: one for size and one or more for shape differences. Its adaptation for "removing" the effects of a within-population size-factor from between-group morphometric analyses is presented in compact matrix form, simplified, and compared to the method of orthogonal projection proposed by Burnaby (1966). While the size-correction methods give similar results for most real data sets, Burnaby's procedure with k = 1 (i.e., using a single composite size variable) is recommended for this purpose owing to its geometrical and computational simplicity. An example based on artificial data demonstrates that sheared principal components are not necessarily uncorrelated with size. Path modeling of size and shape together is a different purpose than size-correction, and is better served by a different procedure.
10.2307/2413402|The total numbers of published synonymous species and genus names were counted for all species of bdelloid rotifers (which are exclusively parthenogenic) and monogonont rotifers (which occasionally reproduce sexually). Synonymous genus names are about equally frequent in both groups, but synonymous species names are less frequent in bdelloids than in monogononts. The difference is not a secondary effect of differences in time since first publication of species, effort or competence of systematists, size of genera, or taxonomic complexity of species. These results suggest that bdelloid species are more consistently recognized than monogonont species, contrary to predictions derived from aspects of the biological species concept and the punctuated equilibrium model of evolution.
10.2307/2413401|This study describes a procedure for constructing and evaluating developmental models by using confirmatory factor analysis which predicts covariation among morphological measures. The principal advantage of confirmatory factor analysis lies in its ability to reject poorly fitting hypotheses in favor of those better able to reconstruct observed variance-covariance structure. Conflicting causal hypotheses of increasing complexity are applied to osteometric measures taken on a sample of one-day-old laboratory rats, then evaluated for their relative ability to reconstruct observed covariance. Models derived from competing hypotheses could not be distinguished. When models are constructed after measurements are chosen, then discrimination between alternatives may require indirect comparisons. In contrast, when hypotheses of integration vary in their predictions and the models differ significantly in fit, then confirmatory factor analysis can be used to decide between conflicting hypotheses.
10.2307/2413403|Megistolotis is a monotypic Australian genus included in the leptodactyloid subfamily Limnodynastinae. In some aspects of its morphology, Megistolotis resembles burrowing frogs of the genus Heleioporus, whereas in others it resembles terrestrial and aquatic frogs assigned to the genus Limnodynastes. Accordingly workers have differed regarding which of the two genera includes the closest relatives of Megistolotis. Studies of albumin evolution using the quantitative immunological technique of micro-complement fixation have shown that Megistolotis shares most recent common ancestry with Limnodynastes convexiusculus, a member of the L. tasmaniensis species group. This finding has implications regarding the parallel evolution of morphological features within limnodynastine frogs. In addition, the albumin data imply that Limnodynastes is a paraphyletic taxon, and illustrate the problem confronting systematists faced with differing tempos of morphological and molecular evolution.
10.2307/2413264|Numerical phylogenetic analyses of G-banded karyotypes were carried out for 22 species of arvicolids belonging to eight genera with diploid numbers among the species ranging from 18 to 64. Interspecific karyotypic comparisons indicate that 38 homologous autosomes or autosomal arms are shared by two or more species. The additional presence of 33 unique elements and 141 euchromatic rearrangements account for the extensive interspecific karyotypic variability. Ten different types of rearrangements were documented with centric fusion (27.0%), tandem fusion (14.2%) and pericentric inversion (12.8%) being the most abundant. Chromosomes and chromosomal rearrangements were quantitatively coded as present, absent, or missing in the karyotype of each species and the resulting data matrix (22 species by 214 karyotypic characters) subjected to cladistic analyses (with Peromyscus as an outgroup). Six analyses were executed where chromosomal rearrangements were weighted equal to or less than the weights assigned to entire chromosomes. Families of equally parsimonious trees were obtained and subsequently distilled into Adams-2 consensus estimates. Consistency indices ranged from 0.75 to 0.84 with reversals accounting for 2-30% of all homoplastic events. Systematically, Clethrionomys, Lemmus, Synaptomys, Lagurus, Neofiber, and six species of Microtus share generally primitive autosomal complements; however, four derived characters suggest a relationship between M. ochrogaster and M. pinetorum. Six other species of Microtus (townsendii, pennsylvanicus, breweri, montanus, canicaudus and the more distant oregoni) share a number of derived characters. Dicrostonyx, Phenacomys, M. longicaudus, and M. oeconomus each possess a series of uniquely derived characters that tend to isolate these lineages. Chromosomal collocations support those derived from paleontology, comparative morphology, and protein electrophoresis in certain respects but not in others. Comparisons of zoogeographic distributions among four pairs of chromosomal sister taxa are interpreted to support an allopatric rather than a stasipatric (chromosomal) means of speciation in all cases except one.
10.2307/2413267|The attempt to calculate a null probability for a given degree of matching among a set of phylogenetic area cladograms (or between a cladogram representing a geographic hypothesis and a set of phylogenetic area cladograms) is a key advance in historical biogeography. It leads to strong inferences about the means by which different groups achieved their current ranges. However, the appropriate procedure for calculating the probability has yet to be determined. For sets of small cladograms the underlying considerations of probability seem straight-forward if two cladograms are scored as either matching completely or failing to match. If two large cladograms are not identical but seem similar, it would seem perverse to score them as "not matching." A possible null hypothesis would be that the degree of matching is no greater than would be expected for independently derived cladograms. For large cladograms, it is not at all obvious from visual inspection whether two cladograms share an improbably high number of features. Large systematic cladograms are likely to have errors and/or to be incomplete. Even though it is currently impossible to assign probabilities to particular construction errors, probabilities of cladogram matching can still be calculated if one posits some conventions.
10.2307/2413265|We conducted cladistic analyses of isozyme tissue expression patterns in representatives of 13 avian genera from two orders (Charadriiformes and Passeriformes) to assess utility of those characters for reconstructing phylogenies. Presence or absence of expression in each of 12 different tissues was determined by means of starch-gel electrophoresis for 30 presumptive gene loci and heteropolymers. Most parsimonious trees were examined for "correct" segregation of the two orders and unification of members of two disparate families (Recurvirostridae and Emberizidae). We found high levels of homoplasy in isozyme expression patterns in the study taxa, with most containing little phylogenetic information. However, some isozyme expression patterns of malic enzyme, aspartate aminotransferase, and aconitate hydratase yielded cladograms approximating the three taxonomic distinctions mentioned above. Reanalysis of isozyme expression characters under the assumption of homologous gains being impossible (Dollo parsimony) resulted in longer (less parsimonious) and less "accurate" trees. S-Acon-A and S-Aat-A showed significantly greater restriction of tissue expression in relatively primitive taxa, whereas Ldh-A, and, to a lesser degree, S-Me-A showed increased restriction of tissue expression in advanced taxa. These opposite polarities in isozyme expression restriction suggest independent evolutionary histories for various loci. The evolutionary trend of decreasing numbers of expressed LDH isozymes accompanying phyletic advance, as observed in fishes (Markert et al., 1975; Toledo and Ribiero, 1978), was not observed in avian systems. The findings of widespread homoplasy, opposite polarities and limited predictive capability for the isozyme tissue expression patterns suggest that most may be more useful in studies of gene regulation than in higher level taxonomy.
10.2307/2413263|Of all the many Definitions for para- and polyphyly, those proposed within the Farris 1974 Model have been adopted as fully acceptable by various phylogeneticists. Close examination of this model shows that it is not always consistent, identical groupings turn out to be paraphyletic in one case and polyphyletic in another. New definitions which circumvent these inconsistencies are proposed, from within a phylogenetic framework and by making reference to the notion of sister groups.
10.2307/2413266|Many descriptive models of chromosomal evolution have been formulated over the past two decades. We review the assumptions and predictions of these models and consider some pertinent evidence. One model of adaptive divergence, the canalization model, is difficult to test, and where predictions are explicitly stated, empirical data generally do not support the model. However, few adequate data sets are available to test this hypothesis, and it deserves further study. Several process-oriented models of chromosomal speciation are reviewed with respect to genetic isolating mechanisms, the fitness components of individual rearrangements, and the permissible population structures. From the last we attempt to estimate qualitatively the expected genetic correlates of each model to maximize its testability. Theoretical and empirical inadequacies are discussed and suggestions are made for improvement. Both phyletic and speciation models of chromosomal evolution have often been based on broad comparative studies of large taxonomic groups, but more precise testing will require multidisciplinary population-level studies of organisms hypothesized to be undergoing some form of chromosomally-mediated speciation or adaptive radiation.
10.2307/2413066|This paper examines four methods of representing multistate transformation series with a numerical code. The three that have the broadest applications are Additive Binary Coding, Redundant Linear Coding, and Nonredundant Linear Coding. The fourth method, internal rooting, has specialized applications for coding basally dichotomous series. The first three methods are capable of unambiguously representing multistate trees with or without specified nodal values. The Nonredundant Linear Coding method is recommended because it produces the most efficient code. The Redundant Linear Coding method can produce unjustified weighting of areas of a multistate tree. We examine coding procedures for working with multistate transformation series of intrinsic organic characters, and with parasite phylogenies as multistate characters of their hosts. Use of the inclusive ORing technique to code for the occurrence of more than one parasite taxon per host taxon can result in the distortion of phylogenetic information and the drawing of incorrect inferences of relationships.
10.2307/2413068|Most workers attempting to infer evolutionary trees from polymorphic data using established parsimony procedures either have ignored frequency information entirely or have tolerated "optimal" solutions that hypothesize ancestors that cannot possibly exist in the space of the original frequencies. We describe a new method for inferring evolutionary trees from gene frequency data that avoids these limitations by enforcing biologically reasonable constraints without discarding the frequency information. The necessity of working directly with frequencies rather than reducing the data by "presence/absence" coding is argued. Our approach appears to be free of logical difficulties affecting a variety of other parsimony methods that have been applied to frequency data.
10.2307/2413067|Patterns of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation were evaluated within and between six species in the five genera of the endemic African mole rats in the family Bathyergidae. A total of 493 distinct restriction fragments was produced by digestion of bathyergid mtDNAs with 15 restriction enzymes. Of these fragments, 126 provided phylogenetic information. The magnitude of mtDNA sequence divergence among the five genera of bathyergids indicates an ancient origin and agrees with levels of nuclear sequence divergence estimated from allozymes. Two sister groups, Georychus/Heliophobius and Cryptomys/Heterocephalus, are apparent based on phylogenetic analyses of the mtDNA data. Although the two species of Bathyergus are closely aligned, this genus is very divergent from the other four genera and is associated with either the Georychus/Heliophobius group or represents a more basal lineage. Two isolated populations of Georychus capensis are as divergent from one another as the genus Heliophobius is from Georychus. mtDNA, allozyme, and chromosomal variation among the three subspecies of Cryptomys hotten totus suggests that C. h. damarensis should be raised to specific rank. The phylogenetic relationships suggested by the mtDNA variation are used to evaluate two aspects of bathyergid evolution. First, the current distribution of bathyergids may be the result of range expansions and vicariant events related to increasing aridity along a corridor between east and southern Africa during past geological time. Second, the sister group relationship of Heterocephalus and Cryptomys suggests that the common ancestor of the eusocial species, Heterocephalus glaber was possibly colonial rather than solitary.
10.2307/2413065|The applicability of expert systems (a branch of artificial intelligence) to identification and classification in systematics is examined. Existing devices used for taxonomic identification (dichotomous, tabular, and computerized keys) are reviewed and compared to expert systems. Expert systems technology is briefly reviewed, and a prototype expert system (SYSTEX) for species identification in one species group of the genus Signiphora Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Signiphoridae) is presented. SYSTEX is a rule-based, backward chaining system with 114 rules. It was developed using a commercially available expert system shell. In building the identification system and in its use, we find the expert system approach to be in most ways superior to the dichotomous key and other identification devices in terms of efficiency and ease of use, tolerance of missing data, explanatory capability, and the ability to provide meaningful output when an unambiguous identification is not possible. The potential for incorporation of phylogenetic hypotheses into an identification device is discussed.
10.2307/2413063|Minimum length tree topology changed in an apparently anomalous, non-local way in response to a change in the data set in the example reported by Rohlf (1984). I define the conditions that such changes in the data must fulfil to cause the kind of change in tree topology observed (which gives an indication of the frequency with which such behavior may occur). The reasons for the sensitivity of minimum length trees to such changes, and the insensitivity of most phenetic clustering techniques, such as UPGMA, to the same changes, may then be characterized. By examining the character states at the intervening nodes in the tree, one can establish an equivalence between this sensitivity of Wagner tree topology and the out-group analysis procedure within traditional, non-numerical cladistics. The sensitivity of Wagner or minimum length tree topology to such changes in the data is demonstrated not to be a problem or "instability" but instead to be the sensitivity of the method to changes in the polarity of a character, and thus an appropriate sensitivity for a method for estimating phylogenies.
10.2307/2413064|Antitropical distributions of continental shelf, Indo-West Pacific species are probably not due to transgression of the tropics during the glacial periods, isothermic submergence, island integration, rising Neogene temperatures, or the Mesozoic dispersal of fragments from a Pacific continental mass. Characteristics of common antitropical patterns, plus information from systematic works on a variety of animal and plant groups, indicate that the long discarded "relict theory" of Theel (1885) appears to best fit the evidence, for it provides a mechanism whereby antitropical distributions may be brought about. The relict theory is compatible with the concept that the East Indies part of the Indo-West Pacific has been functioning as a center of evolutionary origin. It suggests that antitropical and associated disjunct patterns are produced as an older species, that has spread out to occupy a broad range, loses ground and gradually becomes supplanted by a younger species that had subsequently evolved in the East Indies. As this process goes on, the older species becomes restricted to a few isolated localities on the fringe of its original range. These isolates are often found to the north and south of the equatorial region but may include relict populations at the western edge of the Indian Ocean.
10.2307/2992433|Hollow curve distributions (HCDs) of taxonomic diversity are common in nature and are a result of assemblages being dominated by one or a few very diverse taxa. Models of random extinction and speciation can produce HCDs; however, the similarity between real and simulated HCDs has been examined previously only qualitatively. We compare quantitatively dominance observed in 85 real taxonomic assemblages to dominance predicted by five null models (1. Poisson; 2. Raup et al.'s [1973] simulation model; 3. Anderson and Anderson's [1975] simulation model; 4. simultaneous broken-stick; and 5. canonical lognormal distributions). Real assemblages were dominated to a significantly greater extent by one unit than predicted by all null models. This dominance is compounded as one proceeds down the taxonomic hierarchy. We demonstrate that overdominance is common whether phylogenetic or traditional classification schemes are used to assemble taxa. We propose that overdominance reflects real differences in the evolutionary success of units within an assemblage.
10.2307/2992434|Microcomplement fixation of albumin was used to probe evolutionary relationships among the macropodid marsupials. The data, analyzed by the Fitch-Margoliash method followed by jackknifing, support the recognition of at least three clades; one consists of the macropodine genera Macropus, Wallabia, Setonix, Onychogalea, Dorcopsis, Dorcopsulus, Lagorchestes, Dendrolagus, Petrogale, Peradorcas and Thylogale; a second of the potoroine genera Bettongia, Potorous and Aepyprymnus; and a third of the sthenurine Lagostrophus. Hypsiprymnodon either represents a fourth clade, or is allied with the Bettongia-Potorous-Aepyprymnus clade. Bettongia is a monophyletic genus but the phylogenetic relationships of Bettongia, Potorous and Aepyprymnus are not resolved. There is a strong association of Petrogale, Peradorcus and Thylogale along with, unexpectedly, Dendrolagus. Lagorchestes has no immediate relatives whereas Dorcopsulus and Dorcopsis form a clade. Macropus, Wallabia, Setonix and Onychogalea form a clade, within which Macropus may be paraphyletic. Albumin evolves in a clock-like fashion within the macropodines and within the potoroines but not between macropodines, sthenurines and potoroines. However, it is not possible to calibrate the clock for these groups.
10.2307/2992432|Character congruence, the principle of using all the relevant data, and character independence are important concepts in phylogenetic inference, because they relate directly to the evidence on which hypotheses are based. Taxonomic congruence, which is agreement among patterns of taxonomic relationships, is less important, because its connection to the underlying character evidence is indirect and often imperfect. Also, taxonomic congruence is difficult to justify, because of the arbitrariness involved in choosing a consensus method and index with which to estimate agreement. High levels of character congruence were observed among 89 biochemical and morphological synapomorphies scored on 10 species of Epicrates. Such agreement is consistent with the phylogenetic interpretation attached to the resulting hypothesis, which is a consensus of two equally parsimonious cladograms: (cenchria (angulifer (striatus ((chrysogaster, exsul) (inornatus, subflavus) (gracilis (fordii, monensis)))))). Relatively little (11.4%) of the character incongruence was due to the disparity between the biochemical and morphological data sets. Each of the clades in the consensus cladogram was confirmed by two or more unique and unreversed novelties, and six of the eight clades were corroborated by biochemical and morphological evidence. Such combinations of characters add confidence to the phylogenetic hypothesis, assuming the qualitatively different kinds of data are more likely to count as independent than are observations drawn from the same character system. Most of the incongruence occurred in the skeletal subset of characters, and much of that independent evolution seemed to be the result of paedomorphosis.
10.2307/2992431|The degree of underestimation of branch lengths by the maximum parsimony principle is studied. The expected number of nucleotide changes per site under the maximum parsimony principle is computed, and it is compared with the expected number of nucleotide substitutions. A tree topology with no hierarchical structure is considered for mathematical simplicity. It is shown that as long as the evolutionary distance is less than 0.2, the maximum parsimony principle gives good estimates of nucleotide substitutions. When the evolutionary distance is greater than 0.2, however, the method gives gross underestimates of nucleotide substitutions.
10.2307/2992400|The systematic relationships of genera in the artiodactyl tribe Bovini were evaluated using two sets of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences available for Bison, Bos, and Bubalus. One of these sets included 2,726 aligned positions from the two relatively conserved ribosomal RNA genes and three flanking transfer RNA genes; the other consisted of 247 base pairs from the rapidly evolving D-loop region. Most-parsimonious cladograms derived from the two data sets indicated that Bison and Bos are more closely related to each other than either is to Bubalus, as suggested from morphological, paleontological, and reproductive data. However, the traditional arrangement of the genus Bos is seriously challenged, as Bos grunniens groups first with Bison bison rather than with its congener Bos taurus. These results, when coupled with reproductive and other molecular data, strongly suggest that Bison should be treated as a congener of Bos rather than as a distinct genus in the tribe Bovini.
10.2307/2992401|There is an essential difference between convergence and parallelism, the former being due to analogous similarity, while the latter is based on a homologous relationship between characters. Careful application of the recognition criteria of homology and analogy may enable us to distinguish between convergence and true parallelism. Under the assumptions that one works in a genealogical domain wherein parallelism is rampant, and that parallel characters are homologues, derived parallelisms may successfully be used as indicators of propinquity of descent. Therefore, the principle of parsimony is considered a poor selection criterion in situations where parallel evolution is rampant. Character distributions concerning repeatedly evolved homologous structures have been described with a varying terminology: apomorphic tendencies, unique inside parallelism, underlying synapomorphy, nonuniversal derived character states. The paper illustrates the practical use and potential significance of such character state distributions for phylogenetic analysis by detailing several examples from marine triclads. These examples are grouped into cases with outside parallelism and with inside parallelism. In a case of outside parallelism the character state is also present in a more distantly related outgroup, while in cases of inside parallelism the parallelisms are restricted to the ingroup. A theoretical evaluation is given of the use of underlying synapomorphies in phylogenetic reconstruction, and in particular attention is paid to alternative explanations of the character state patterns, viz. convergence, secondary change, and retention of the primitive character state. The use of underlying synapomorphies is "Hennigian" in the most literal sense because Hennig himself used repeated derivations as indicators of genealogical relationship. Some of the practical rules for the application of underlying synapomorphy in phylogenetic inference are still fuzzy. Worthy of future theoretical discussions are questions on the frequency of the character states, cases of outside parallelism, and on falsification of presumed underlying synapomorphies. Repeated evolutionary derivation of structures may result from polyallelism, or from the retention of structural gene complexes and subsequent re-expression due to a change in regulatory mechanisms. For practical purposes, a fruitful synthesis may be achieved by combining a computerized parsimony analysis with the qualitative phylogenetic technique.
10.2307/2992399|Geographic variation trends are often quite complex and consist of variation at different spatial scales. In such cases an analysis of spatial structure by spatial autocorrelation analysis is confounded by this intermixing of different scales. Trend surface analysis (TSA) or canonical trend surface analysis (CTSA) offer ways of overcoming this problem. We subjected residuals from two types of data to spatial autocorrelation analysis: TSA residuals of simulated population-genetic data (isolation by distance with or without migration), and CTSA residuals of morphometric data. This approach was able, in the first case, to separate the effects of isolation by distance from migration, and to give an estimate of the scale at which each process occurred; in the second case, it furnished an estimate of the mean size of the local variation pattern as distinct from its long range pattern. In populations where different variables show structure at different spatial scales, these methods can separate out such effects even if the point-values for the different variables are not located at the same coordinates.
10.2307/2992396|A direct method for calculating expected data from an evolutionary model for two state characters is described. The method uses four vectors p, q, r and s. p and q are the probabilities of a character change on the 2n - 3 edges of a tree T (n is the number of taxa). r and s are properties of the data, are independent of any tree and have 2<sup>n-1</sup> entries. For a given tree T, and with specified probabilities (p or q), we determine r, then s, the expected probabilities of each of the 2<sup>n-1</sup> possible partitions of taxa. For any tree T the relationship can be inverted. This allows the probabilities of change on the tree, p and q, to be estimated directly from observed data (r or s). These relationships have been used to analyse the behaviour of tree building algorithms under conditions when there are sufficient data. (This is when the tree does not change as more data are collected, i.e., convergence to a single tree.) With equal rates of evolution (i.e., with a molecular clock), we show that for n = 4 taxa, parsimony will always converge to the correct tree, but we give examples with n = 5 where parsimony will converge on an incorrect tree, even for equal rates of evolution. A further example with n = 6 shows convergence to an incorrect tree with equal but arbitrarily small rates of change. We interpret a basic difficulty with parsimony as 'long edges attract.' If there are additional taxa that intersect long edges on the tree, then this effect can be reduced. Some distance methods may also converge to an incorrect tree.
10.2307/2992402|Recent critics of distance data have argued that a molecular clock is a necessary assumption for the use of distance data in phylogenetic reconstruction. In fact, several pairwise tree-construction algorithms have been developed that make no such assumptions. When distances are additive, these algorithms efficiently recover the correct tree in spite of any rate-disparity. Furthermore, the correct tree will be unique in exhibiting a perfect-fit to a matrix of additive distances. Finally, net amounts of shared derived change can then be identified if the tree includes an unambiguous outgroup.
10.2307/2992403|The areas where the rates of change of biological variables across space are particularly high may correspond to either steep ecological gradients or regions of limited admixture among demes. A method for detecting such biological boundaries was proposed by Womble (1951), who suggested averaging the absolute values of the derivatives of the functions describing biological variation in space at various locations. We present here algorithms that quantify both the mean magnitude and the mean direction of change in surfaces representing distributions of biological measures (such as gene frequencies, measures of quantitative traits, etc.). Inferences on the microevolutionary processes affecting the populations can be made by comparing the boundaries detected with the distribution of environmental characteristics, or with the location of factors that may have prevented population admixture. Examples of the application of this method to both simulated data and gene frequencies of two natural populations are given.
10.2307/2992398|Geophysical maps depicting continental movement have consistently shown India, as it moved northward, to be located far out in the Tethys Sea. India split off from the African east coast about 148 m.y.a. From that time onward, according to almost all geophysical accounts, India was isolated from all other continents until the early Miocene when it made contact with Eurasia. But the biological data, both fossil and Recent, indicate that this concept cannot be correct. If India had really existed as an isolated, oceanic continent for about 100 m.y., it should have developed a peculiar biota with many endemic genera and families in its terrestrial and shallow marine habitats. But there are virtually no remains of organisms indicating that India was isolated for any substantial time (millions of years). Instead, we find that almost all Indian taxa were possessed in common with other continents. As time went on, the northern relationships became stronger and the southern ones weaker. Most of the recent geophysical accounts show India not making contact with Eurasia until the early Miocene, but fossil materials show that this event must have taken place by the early Eocene. It has been postulated that, as India moved northward, it created a biogeographic barrier that separated marine fish populations and resulted in the east-west provinces that are now apparent in the Indian Ocean. At the same time, the barrier effect was supposed to have resulted in the formation of sister species that are now located far apart. Information currently available indicates that most living, tropical marine species are probably not over 3 m.y. old. Consequently, the northward movement of India, which took place primarily between 148 and 50 m.y.a., could have no bearing on the relationships of modern species.
10.2307/2992397|Cavender (1978) introduced a model of an evolutionary branching process on a sequence of characters, where the characters take either of two states with symmetric probabilities of change between them. From this model, with a given evolutionary tree T and a character change probability p<sub>e</sub> for each edge e of T, we show how to derive some properties of the resulting sequences and distance measures between pairs of taxa. These can be used to test the effectiveness of current algorithms for recovering T, such as parsimony or distance methods. The relationships are described in terms of two matrices of exponential order. Although the matrices involved are large, they have simple inverses, so the initial conditions of the model can be recovered from these predicted properties. Assuming that some observed data are good approximations to the theoretical data derived from Cavender's model on a tree T, we can use a least squares fit estimate to find T, together with the probabilities p<sub>e</sub>. We will refer to the inferred tree with the probabilities p<sub>i</sub>, as the "closest tree" for that data. This provides us with a new criterion for inferring evolutionary trees from sequence data, which has a simple algorithm for its computation and overcomes some of the drawbacks of some earlier criteria. These relationships are illustrated by examples of hypothetical and real data, showing how the calculations are performed in the case of n = 4 taxa.
10.2307/2992379|Under a simple model of DNA sequence dissociation, DNA-DNA hybridization dissimilarity measures are expected to behave like the complement of Gower's coefficient of similarity, calculated for each pair of taxonomic units (j, k) across i homologues (nucleotide positions) with four possible states, multiplied by a constant relating base-pair mismatch to the temperature of DNA dissociation. DNA dissimilarity measures that include information only from homologues, therefore, are expected to conform to the axioms of a metric. Empirically, we have found that measures of dissimilarity between single-copy nuclear genomes regularly conform to 3 of the 4 metric axioms: identity, distinctness, and the triangle inequality. However, reciprocal values frequently fail to conform to the fourth axiom, symmetry. For some measures dependent upon the percent of reassociation (e.g., delta T
10.2307/2992384|Phylogenetic relationships of Pseudophryne and Metacrinia (P. nichollsi) were studied by micro-complement fixation analyses of serum albumin. Metacrinia is not congeneric with Pseudophryne, but Metacrinia and Myobatrachus are sister groups, and the lineage formed by these two genera is the sister group of Pseudophryne. By probing relationships within Pseudophryne we found (1) the western species P. occidentalis and P. guentheri resulted from an early Pleistocene divergence, thus supporting the suppression of Kankanophryne, and (2) P. douglasi evolved earlier from the same western lineage. In the east, P. bibroni, P. australis and P. coriacea are closely related and diverged in the Pliocene; the other four eastern species appear to have evolved in the late Miocene. The eastern Australian radiation is thus coincident with the origin of the western Australian lineages. We see no need to invoke multiple Pleistocene invasions of Tasmania to account for species diversity in southeastern Australia as advocated by Littlejohn and colleagues for 20 years. We argue that the species of Pseudophryne probably evolved through allopatric speciation events.
10.2307/2992380|Horizontal starch gel electrophoresis was used to examine isozymes of L-lactate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.27) found in testicular extracts of 14 avian species. The distribution of the products of the testis-specific lactate dehydrogenase locus (Ldh-X) were systematically informative. This product was found in the Rock Dove (Columba livia) and, for the first time, is reported from doves of the genera Streptopelia and Zenaida. However, products of the Ldh-X gene could not be detected from testicular extracts of the remaining 10 species. Based on the results of this study and a literature review, it is suggested that the columbid Ldh-X, mammalian Ldh-C and piscine Ldh-C may not be orthologous. The use of this character as a synapomorphy uniting Aves and Mammalia is unwarranted. It is hypothesized that the presence of Ldh-X may serve as a synapomorphy uniting members of the family Columbidae and possibly the order Columbiformes.
10.2307/2992381|Although many biologists acknowledge a fundamental relationship between species concepts and the processes thought to give rise to species, there is less agreement on the extent and desirability of this relationship. While some advocate species concepts explicitly linked to particular mechanisms of speciation, others believe that concepts will function best when they are independent of particular notions of process. The existence of a diversity of interpretations of "process" has hampered a clear view of the concept-process link. Although there are general reciprocal constraints between concepts and processes, we suggest that it is profitable to maintain species concepts logically distinct from particular mechanisms of speciation. We analyze an example (from the work of Hugh Paterson) in which such a logical distinction between concept and process has not been maintained. Paterson makes the validity of the biological species concept contingent upon a particular process of speciation (reinforcement). However, such a link occurs only if biologists impose the requirement that a species criterion be a functional trait. We argue that what qualifies the members or parts of evolving populations as different species is not a function of the particular mechanism that drives the divergence.
10.2307/2992383|The bootstrap method developed by Efron allows the estimation of measures of statistical accuracy, such as the standard errors and confidence limits, in cases where the underlying distribution is unknown or where sample sizes are small. This is frequently the case for statistics and data sets of systematic interest, especially in paleontology. The utility of the bootstrap is demonstrated for the reduced major axis (RMA) method for fitting the allometric equation. The results are in good agreement with statistical properties determined by available analytical methods and are superior to many of these methods in capturing the detailed distribution of the parameters. The bootstrap also allows the simultaneous comparison of slope and intercept estimates between taxa. Bootstrap methods should be a valuable tool in morphometrics.
10.2307/2992382|Comparison of allozymes and restriction endonuclease cleavage maps of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was used to infer phylogenetic relationships among four species of minnows in the cyprinid genus Notropis. Statistical analysis of the allozyme data supported the monophyly of N. chrysocephalus and N. cornutus (subgenus Luxilus) relative to N. photogenis and N. rubellus (subgenera Notropis and Hydrophlox, respectively). In contrast, statistical analysis of the mtDNA cleavage site data provided no resolution for these relationships. Given the rapid rate of vertebrate mtDNA evolution, mtDNA data were expected to provide greater taxonomic resolution than allozyme data. Four possible reasons for this discrepancy were considered; two of these, rate heterogeneity between genes and lineages and introgressive hybridization, were analyzed in detail. Comparison of sequence divergence estimates among genetically different regions of the same mtDNA and among mtDNAs of different species revealed significant variation in the relative rates of change. This variation can lead to intramolecular and interspecific differences in levels of convergence, and, thus, to a loss of phylogenetic resolution. Because of the propensity for these species to hybridize and the possibility of mtDNA introgression, the potential impact of hybridization and introgression was also considered. Given the internal factors affecting the evolution of mtDNA and the population genetic processes affecting its transmission, assumptions of rate homogeneity and of strict vertical inheritance should be closely scrutinized when constructing phylogenies with mtDNA data.
10.2307/2992282|Although comparisons of variation patterns with theoretical expectations and across species are playing an increasingly important role in systematics, there has been a lack of appropriate procedures for statistically testing the proposed hypotheses. We present a series of statistical tests for hypotheses of morphological integration and for interspecific comparison, along with examples of their application. These tests are based on various randomization and resampling procedures, such as Mantel's test with its recent extensions and bootstrapping. They have the advantage of avoiding the specific and strict distributional assumptions invoked by analytically-based statistics. The statistical procedures described include one for testing the fit of observed correlation matrices to hypotheses of morphological integration and a related test for significant differences in the fit of two alternative hypotheses of morphological integration to the observed correlation structure. Tests for significant similarity in the patterns and magnitudes of variance and correlation among species are also provided.
10.2307/2992286|Comparative systematic studies may use different sets of data or different sets of taxa to evaluate the quality of phylogenetic data and phylogenetic hypotheses based on levels of homoplasy as implied by the length of minimum length trees. For comparisons involving diverse arrays of characters and taxa, an appropriate index is required to permit comparisons. Examination of the number of steps per character (NSC) on minimum length trees for 28 data sets revealed a highly significant positive correlation between NSC and the number of taxa and, concomitantly, a highly significant negative correlation between the consistency index (CI) of Kluge and Farris (1969) and the number of taxa. Theoretical expectations from a study of the number of steps on random and minimum length trees (Archie and Felsenstein, 1989) agree with this finding. Computer simulations using randomly selected subsets of taxa and characters from the Drosophila data set of Throckmorton (1968) revealed a similar finding. The latter two studies also revealed a negative relationship between the CI and the number of characters in a study. These findings imply that the CI is not an appropriate index of homoplasy for comparative taxonomic studies. A new index, the homoplasy excess ratio (HER), is introduced that takes into account the expected increase in overall homoplasy levels with increasing numbers of taxa in systematic studies. The properties of HER are examined for the 28 data sets taken from the literature and, in conjunction with the simulations using the Drosophila data set, HER is shown to be more appropriate than CI in comparative taxonomic studies that wish to measure the average level of homoplasy in data sets involving different groups of taxa or different characters. Because HER is a computationally intensive statistic to calculate, two estimates are derived and examined. These estimates, the random expected homoplasy excess ratio (REHER) and the homoplasy excess ratio minimum (HERM), can be easily calculated from the formulas of Archie and Felsenstein (1989) and from intrinsic properties of the data matrix, respectively. HERM is shown to be a better estimator of HER and a linear regression equation is derived to estimate HER from HERM.
10.2307/2992284|A new classification of the higher taxonomic levels within the New World bat family Phyllostomidae is presented which designates evolutionary relationships, provides a phylogenetic framework upon which modifications can be made as new comparative data are produced, and resolves certain obvious unnatural taxa that exist in the traditional classification. This new classification is a synthesis of classical morphological, chromosomal, and biochemical data. Within the family three subfamilies, the Desmodontinae, Phyllostominae, and Vampyrinae are recognized. The Desmodontinae includes the three genera of vampires, the Vampyrinae includes Vampyrum, Trachops, and Chrotopterus, and the Phyllostominae contains three tribes, the Phyllostomini (including Phyllostomus, Tonatia, Mimon, Lonchorhina, and Macrophyllum), the Glossophagini (including genera of the previously recognized Glossophaginae and Brachyphyllinae), and Stenodermatini (including genera of the previously recognized Stenodermatinae and Carolliinae). Two genera (Macrotus and Micronycteris), do not share synapomorphies with any of these subfamilies, but have retained a large number of plesiomorphic features and are placed as incertae sedis.
2992285|A randomization procedure is proposed to determine if sets of data used for phylogenetic analysis contain phylogenetically nonrandom information. The method compares the observed number of steps on a minimum length tree with the mean number of steps on minimum length trees derived from the same data set after character state assignments have been randomly permuted within each character. Such randomized data sets will exhibit exactly the same character state distributions as the original data but no phylogenetic information. In tests of 28 separate data sets using this procedure, the minimum lengths of each data set differed significantly from that expected for phylogenetically non-informative data in spite of the fact that observed consistency indices from the original data were as low as 0.230. The high correlation between number of steps per character on minimum length trees and number of taxa among the 28 original data sets is consistent with that expected if a more or less constant frequency of homoplasy occurs per character per taxon. This correlation implies that the consistency index may be an inappropriate, comparative measure of homoplasy among data sets. The observed pattern of increasing homoplasy with increasing numbers of taxa for the original data sets is curvilinear (when forced to pass through a fixed point for all data sets). This is qualitatively different from that expected for random data. Possible uses of the randomization techniques are suggested in cladistic studies using either compatibility analysis or parsimony.
10.2307/2992283|Although phylogenetic analysis based on synapomorphies is said to comply better with the hypothetico-deductive methodology advocated by Popper and other philosophers of science than other approaches to phylogenetic reconstruction, the role of parsimony in cladistic analysis is not consistent with that of the hypothetico-deductive method. Parsimony evaluates the form of a hypothesis but cannot decide on the relative support for hypotheses. Cladistic analysis is not a hypothetico-deductive procedure for testing hypotheses; it is an inductive procedure that summarizes the information from character analysis (the synapomorphies) and not a separate level in the hierarchy of deductively testable hypotheses of phylogenetic analysis. Synapomorphies are not hypothetico-deductive tests of cladistic hypotheses. In contrast, the testing of hypotheses of synapomorphy during character analysis appears to conform to hypothetico-deductive principles. Thus, hypotheses of relationship can be tested deductively only during character analysis. The use of parsimony to inductively generate cladograms is justified but it is unclear which of various procedures based on parsimony is the most appropriate. Because incongruence among synapomorphies can be resolved only by character analysis, emphasis should be placed on the most testable characters as in Neff's (1986) a priori method of character weighting that is based on testing and corroboration.
10.2307/2413219|Eleutherodactylus bransfordii (Cope, 1886) is a highly polymorphic species of frog with a complex and interesting taxonomic history. This taxon was originally divided into multiple species which were later synonymized because the morphological data did not support any unique and defining characters. The present study evaluates the current taxonomic status of E. bransfordii based on an electrophoretic comparison of six Costa Rican localities. The allozyme data were analyzed cladistically and geographically for patterns of relationship and genetic differentiation. These samples could be clustered into three distinct geographic components representing separate evolutionary lineages. The geographic and electrophoretic data suggest that at least two of these components constitute separate species reflecting different biogeographic regions. One form sampled in the Golfo Dulcean region is therefore resurrected as Eleutherodactylus stejnegerianus (Cope, 1893), and the taxon E. bransfordii is restricted to populations represented by Cahuita, Cascajal, La Selva, and Monteverde. Formal taxonomic recognition of a second sympatric form found in the Golfo Dulcean region awaits further study.
10.2307/2413215|The genetic interaction between clinally varying populations of pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae) along the eastern flank of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains in Colorado and New Mexico is examined by comparative karyology, electromorphic analysis of proteins, and colorimetric and morphometric analyses of morphology. Diploid number varies clinally along the transected populations from 76 in the south to 88 in the north. The karyotypic change is unaccompanied by electromorphic divergence as all populations studied share greater than 95% similarity, although similar clines in pelage brightness and mean morphometric coefficient of variation are evident. Individuals with intermediate diploid numbers suffer no apparent fitness deficit. The patterns of genetic interaction at the Sangre de Cristo contact are compared with four other T. bottae "contact zones" previously investigated. These five situations include differentiated parental forms which span the range of known genetic (karyological and electromorphic) divergence in the T. bottae species group, and involve both instances of reproductive isolation and extensive introgressive hybridization. Cline widths for T. bottae zones vary from approximately 1 km to 200 km, with the nature of the environmental setting at a contact being more predictive of cline width than gross measures of genetic differentiation (e.g., electromorphic distance values and chromosome numbers).
10.2307/2413218|Reasons for the lack of consistency in recognition of taxa at the ordinal and higher levels are of two types: disagreement on limits (and ranking) and on the actual names to be used. Agreement on delimitation and ranking is unlikely since these are subjectively determined, but agreement on the correct names for particular taxa is possible. A set of principles to be followed in applying names to animal taxa at the levels above superfamily is formulated, involving the concept of taxonomic group levels, the inappropriateness of typification, the necessity for recognition of priority, rejection of homonymy, recommendations on the form and meanings of names, changes of rank, publication and the establishment of starting points. In order to avoid excessive changes in names, these principles can only be applied prospectively.
10.2307/2413216|Systematists and geneticists often wish to compare two pair-wise distance or similarity matrices based on different characters. Conventional correlation tests are not appropriate in such situations because of dependencies among the entries in each matrix. A broad class of permutation tests for association between distance matrices is described. Specific members of the class are discussed and compared using real and simulated data. Statistics resembling Kendall's tau and Spearman's rho are found to have desirable power and invariance properties.
10.2307/2413217|To maintain that the names of biological species are purely denotative proper names which cannot be defined is to maintain, in effect, that a biological species is confined to the actual world which is to maintain, in turn, that every property of a species is essential to it. The consequence of such a view is to render impossible the explanation of the origin and coherence of named chunks of the genealogical nexus.
10.2307/2413220|Morphological and allozymic variation in the stichaeid fish Anoplarchus purpurescens was compared among samples collected from open-coast localities from Alaska to California and from inner-coastal localities in Washington. We evaluated the possibility that fish from southern California (Monterey Bay southward) are genetically distinct from fish from more northern areas, which has bearing on the relevance of allozymic data from southern California fish in interpreting patterns of allozymic variation in A. purpurescens elsewhere in its geographical range. Examination of three morphological characters and 12 enzyme loci indicated the lack of genetic distinctiveness of southern California populations from more northern ones, which is consistent with the suggestion that current-mediated transport of the planktonic larvae promotes genetic dispersal and/or mixing among populations. The lack of genetic distinctiveness argues against the validity of a separate southern California subspecies (A. p. archolepis; Hubbs, 1927), but more importantly allows us to use the geographical pattern of muscle lactate dehydrogenase (LDH-A) variation in California to refute the hypothesis that the A' allele is directly favored by elevated environmental temperature. Allelic frequencies in Alaska populations provide a second test of, and similarly refute, the hypothesis that elevated temperature per se selectively favors individuals with the A' allele. Although several alternative hypotheses on the evolutionary significance of LDH-A variation in A. purpurescens can be envisioned, presently a plausible one is that heterozygosity at the LDH-A locus is selectively favored by increased environmental thermal variation. This hypothesis is consistent not only with the geographical pattern of variation within Washington innercoastal waters (Johnson, 1971), but also with observed changes in allelic frequencies along the outer coast both to the south (California) and to the north (Alaska). We found no significant correlation between the amount of allozymic variation (at the LDH-A and PGM loci) and morphological variation present within localities, and heterozygous fish were no more variable for meristic traits than were homozygous fish. There was no clear and consistent pattern of association between particular genotypes and morphological characters. The lack of a significant relationship between enzyme and morphological traits probably is due to appreciable environmental (non-genetic) influences on the morphological characters examined, which may obscure whatever enzyme-morphological covariation exists.
10.2307/2413166|Specimen locality data, an essential resource of systematic collections, is often recorded in inaccurate, poorly reproducible, and nonuniform ways that sharply limit the value of specimens, such as citing the nearest town, giving distance and direction from a landmark, or describing a locality in terms of geographic features. In contrast, coordinate grid systems can provide accurate, reproducible, and uniform locality data, and also greatly simplify distribution mapping. Three grid systems are available on large-scale government quadrangle maps in North America. The U.S. land survey grids, while useful locally, do not apply to most areas and are too irregular to use for mapping. The Universal Transverse Mercator Grid, with separate plane grids for adjacent narrow zones, has ample coverage, accuracy, and reproducibility, but relocating and mapping coordinates can be very complex. The decimal geographic grid proposed here, using latitude/longitude with decimal parts of degrees instead of minutes and seconds, seems best for use in North America. Decimal geographic coordinates of any desired accuracy are easy to determine, use, and map. Accuracy of 0.001
10.2307/2413164|We detected hybrids between the bull trout (Salvelinus confluentus) and the brook trout (S. fontinalis) in three samples from the Upper Columbia River drainage in Montana using 10 isozyme loci that differentiate these species. The occurrence of only first generation, male hybrids indicates that these hybrids are almost certainly sterile. We counted 10 meristic characters from all of the bull trout, brook trout, and their hybrids in the sample from the South Fork of Lolo Creek. Univariate and multivariate analyses of the meristic data conclusively indicated that the hybrids are not meristically intermediate to the parental species. The hybrids had counts higher than either of the parental species or counts similar to the parental species with the higher count. The consistent tendency for the hybrids to have high meristic counts is suggested to be due to reduced developmental rate caused by genetic incompatibility between the parental genomes.
10.2307/2413167|G- and C-banded chromosomes of Holochilus brasiliensis, Nectomys squamipes, Neacomys guianae, Sigmodon hispidus, and 11 species of Oryzomys are compared and cladistically analyzed to document direction, type, and magnitude of chromosomal evolution in these species. Direction of chromosomal evolution was determined from the proposed primitive G-band sequences for cricetid rodents. Numbers and types of chromosomal rearrangements identified in the largest 12 chromosomes of Oryzomys were 13 Robertsonian translocations (9 of which are polymorphic), 21 other translocations, 8 pericentric inversions, 1 paracentric inversion, and 12 rearrangements whose nature could not be identified from banding sequences. In 11 species of Oryzomys there are about 2.5 times as many euchromatic rearrangements as found in 18 species of Peromyscus. It is concluded that: (1) The early radiation of the peromyscine-neotomine-oryzomyine lineages was accompanied by little chromosomal evolution. (2) Chromosomal evolution in cricetine rodents does not appear to fit the predictions of the canalization model. (3) None of the currently accepted broadly-based models of chromosomal evolution appears adequate to explain the pattern of variation observed in the cricetines (especially the variation within and between Oryzomys and Peromyscus). (4) Nondifferentially stained chromosomes generally will not be a useful predictor of phylogenetic relationships. (5) For some clades, G-banded sequences provide synapomorphies for the development of systematic hypotheses; however, several branching events cannot be resolved with the quality of G-bands available to us. Some of the phylogenetic hypotheses are: (1) that of the five genera of South American cricetids examined, Oryzomys and Holochilus appear to be the most closely related (based on morphology, Holochilus was thought to be more closely related to Sigmodon); (2) that Neacomys, Holochilus, and species of Oryzomys examined shared a common ancestry after diverging from the Nectomys lineage; and (3) chromosomal characters identified by us failed to document that Sigmodon is more closely related to the other South American genera (Oryzomys, Holochilus, Neacomys, and Nectomys) than it is to the North American cricetids (for example, Neotoma and Peromyscus). One example of lack of congruence documents convergence in chromosomal rearrangements.
10.2307/2413168|The complex arrays of lipids secreted from the exocrine Dufour's glands of short-tongued bees (Colletidae, Halictidae, Oxaeidae, Andrenidae, Melittidae) reflect both (1) occasional evolutionary origins of novel chemical structures, and (2) frequent re-orchestrations of suites of ancestrally derived components. Despite the rarity of unique lipid constituents, cladistic analyses of the combinations of these diverse esters, aldehydes, lactones, hydrocarbons and carboxylic acids yield rooted phylogenies that are often either congruent with well-defined taxa or decisive for otherwise ambiguous taxonomic relationships. The short-tongued bees are chemosystematically divisable by their Dufour's gland lipids into two lineages: the "lactone-producing" bees (Colletidae, Oxaeidae, Halictinae, Nomiinae) and an andrenid-melittid-dufoureine group. Bee taxa that are soundly defined by morphological criteria-such as Perdita, Melitta, Protandrena, and the Calliopsis-Nomadopsis-Hypomacrotera group ("paraffin bees")-also appear to be monophyletic using the lipid characters. The Dufour's gland lipid products of previously unrepresented genera of the Panurginae (16 spp.), Dasypodinae (1 sp.), and Melittinae (1 sp.) are described, as are a new representative each of Andrena, Dufourea, and Melitta.
10.2307/2413163|The relationship between genic and chromosomal distance was examined for 11 sets of mammalian taxa using a matrix regression procedure. Nine of the 11 comparisons were statistically significant, indicating a lack of independence between genic and chromosomal evolution, but not necessarily a causal relationship. The covariation of genic and chromosomal distance may be related to population structure. Genic and chromosomal evolution would be affected in a similar way by a population structure that is sensitive to the influence of genetic drift and inbreeding.
10.2307/2413161|The number and percentage of pages devoted to various topics in Systematic Zoology are traced from the inception of the journal to the present. The categories used include papers that: (a) are largely descriptive; (b) argue for or against a particular taxonomic philosophy; (c) apply the methods of a particular taxonomic philosophy; (d) are primarily quantitative; (e) discuss nomenclatural problems, and are either theoretical or applied papers in (f) evolutionary theory, (g) phylogeny reconstruction, or (h) biogeography. Changes in proportions of contributions in these categories are mapped onto changes in editorship of the journal to see what effects such changes have had on the sorts of papers published. The changes in Editor of primary concern involve the move from the American Museum of Natural History to the University of Kansas in 1963 and the return to the American Museum 10 years later in 1973.
10.2307/2413162|Holomorphological similarities can be based on synapomorphies, symplesiomorphies, convergences, diffuse parallelisms through parallel selection, and underlying synapomorphies (i.e., close parallelism as a result of inherited factors within a monophyletic group causing incomplete synapomorphy). Two sets of minimum criteria for asserting synapomorphies are given; one does not allow for outside parallelism and secondary reductions, reversals or change, while the other allows for reductions in apomorphic part taxa (subgroups) and outside parallelism in groups which cannot be sister groups. A theoretical scheme of argumentation (cladogram) secured through synapomorphies satisfying the strictest criteria is drawn. Three modifications of synapomorphies satisfying the second set of criteria are discussed and exemplified. The remaining six hypothetical trends can be explained as underlying synapomorphies, as diffuse parallel selections (including convergence) or as secondary reductions (and reversals). Hypothetical phylogenetic trees with the distribution of character alternatives for each taxon including hypothetical ancestors are given for each alternate explanation, discussed and exemplified from chironomid morphology. When the monophyly of every taxon is established, underlying synapomorphy may assert monophyly for the collective taxon. As the underlying synapomorphy consists in the capacity to develop synapomorphy, loss of this capacity can be regarded, under certain circumstances, as a new synapomorphy. There appears to be analogy between species genetics (pleiotropy, polygenes, suppressive genes) and supraspecific phylogenetics. The canalized evolutionary potential exemplified through underlying synapomorphies corresponds to the potential information classes of Wiley and Brooks (1982).
10.2307/2413165|A set of 33 descriptions of Vorticella species were selected to represent the range of outline forms observed within the genus. These forms were assigned to one of five groups, quantified and then analyzed by a number of methods including standardization, multivariate analysis, angular measurement and Fourier transformation. All methods were able to resolve the shapes to some degree. The variation in shape seemed to be greater within each of the nominal groups than between the groups.
10.2307/2413279|The Caminalcules are a group of "organisms" generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. A reanalysis of an earlier data matrix of the Caminalcules revealed some inconsistencies and errors which necessitated recoding of some characters. The resulting differences with earlier results are minor. The images of all 77 Caminalcules are featured, those of the 48 fossil species for the first time. The characters of the Caminalcules are defined and a data matrix is furnished for all Recent and fossil species. A new phenetic standard is proposed for the Caminalcules which divides them into five "genera." The true cladogram is revealed for the first time. Recent Caminalcules have evolved over 19 time periods. Five branches correspond to the phenetic genera but originate at greatly differing time periods. Four lines terminate in fossils. A series of measures for quantifying evolutionary change is defined, including measures for homoplasy, parallelism, and reversal. A survey is made of these measures and of other statistics of relevance to systematics for 19 data sets from the numerical taxonomic literature. The Caminalcules turn out to be compatible to data sets on real organisms with respect to all these measures, as well as with respect to evolutionary rates and species longevities. Thus, questions raised by an analysis of the Caminalcules should be of interest to systematists concerned with the analysis of data sets on real organisms.
10.2307/2413278|An attempt was made to repeal computations reported in two previous studies of taxonomic congruence, which concluded that the Wagner method yielded much more stable classifications than did phenetic clustering methods. Two of the nine data sets used in the previous studies could not be reconstructed from the cited sources. None of the values for the consensus index could be confirmed, one reason being that an inappropriate method for computing consensus trees was used which was dependent upon an arbitrary and unspecified system of labelling the internal nodes of the trees being compared (i.e., Adams-1 consensus trees were used rather than Adams-2 trees). In the majority of the data sets, our trees were shorter than those reported in the previous studies. For many of the data sets, a number of distinct tree topologies had the same minimum length. In such cases the congruence between two data sets was estimated both by comparing all possible pairs of trees between two data sets and by computing the strict consensuses of trees found within a data set. Strict consensus trees were used in the comparisons, since Adams-2 trees too often contain sets that are not consistent with either of the two original trees. Since the CI<sub>M</sub> consensus index has been shown to have the undesirable property of being very sensitive to the symmetry of the trees being compared, other indices (CI<sub>C</sub> and CI<sub>R1</sub>) were computed. Contrary to the results of the previous studies, we found that classifications based on minimum length trees were about as stable as those based upon the UPGMA clustering method. The results varied greatly from data set to data set, but the averages for the two methods were very similar (and both were very poor). The implications of these results are discussed.
10.2307/2413276|The stability (measured using matrix correlations) of phenetic classifications based on partitions of continuous morphometric data (skeletal measurements from three groups of birds) was compared for analyses involving two transformations: removal of size and removal of the common part (an estimate of the taxon of the study group). Linear regression was used in both transformations to remove that portion of the variance accounted for by the estimate of either size or the common part. The size estimate was a composite variable computed as the mean of three bone lengths. The estimate of the common part was the set of measurements used to form the data set to be analyzed but taken on a similar species outside the study group. Results derived from three similarity measures (product-moment correlations, average taxonomic distances and Manhattan distances) were also compared. In all cases distance measures produced significantly higher average congruence between classifications than did correlations. For two data sets the transformation to remove the common part resulted in significantly higher mean congruence (for distances) than did the transformation to remove size; for the third data set there was no significant difference. The common-part-removed transformation is suggested for use in phenetic studies of continuous morphometric data.
10.2307/2413275|The Eleutherodactylus rugulosus group of Savage (1975) contains 11 nominal species of frogs distributed throughout Mexico and Central America. Three subgroups are currently recognized from morphological data. The E. fleischmanni subgroup includes E. angelicus, E. escoces, E. fleischmanni, and E. punctariolus, whereas the E. rugulosus subgroup contains E. azueroensis, E. berkenbuschii, E. brocchi, E. rugulosus, E. taurus, and E. vocalis. These two subgroups form a monophyletic component related to the monotypic subgroup, E. merendonensis. A major purpose of the present study is to emphasize that phylogenetic relationships must be constructed with all available information subjected to cladistic methods. The tendency to emphasize one's own data to the complete or partial exclusion of others must be avoided in favor of synthetic approaches. Recently, the morphological data of Savage (1975) have been supplemented with allozyme and karyological characteristics. This recent availability of additional data provides the opportunity to evaluate the relationships of the E. rugulosus group based on a phylogenetic synthesis of multiple character sets. A general cladogram of the E. rugulosus group is constructed from a phylogenetic synthesis of allozyme, morphological, and karyological information. The allozyme, morphological, and karyological data are analyzed separately with the transformation series analysis procedure and the three sets of transformed results are combined into one character set. The combined data matrix is subjected to Wagner analysis and the most parsimonious tree is retained as the general cladogram. The hypotheses (phylogeny and classification) of Savage (1975) are evaluated and modified against the general cladogram. The phylogenetic relationships of the general cladogram do not support the hypotheses (phylogeny and classification) of Savage (1975). Eleutherodactylus azueroensis (the E. azueroensis subgroup) and E. vocalis (the E. vocalis subgroup) constitute separate lineages of a trichotomy originating from the root of the cladogram. All other species belong to the third lineage (the E. punctariolus subgroup) divided into two major components. These components include: (1) E. fleischmanni and the two sister species, E. angelicus and E. escoces (the E. fleischmanni infragroup); and (2) E. berkenbuschii, E. brocchi, E. merendonensis, E. punctariolus, E. rugulosus, and E. taurus (the E. punctariolus infragroup). Eleutherodactylus taurus and the two sister species, E. merendonensis and E. punctariolus, form a distinct cluster related to E. brocchi, E. berkenbuschii, and E. rugulosus in that order.
10.2307/2413280|The ability of numerical methods to estimate the true cladogram is examined, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Estimated cladograms obtained by numerical methods are only moderately good estimates of the true cladogeny. Of the various models applied in numerical cladistics, the closeness of approximation to the true cladogeny is in the following order: best-Wagner parsimony and Camin-Sokal parsimony; second-polymorphism parsimony; third-character compatibility and Fitch's nonsequential method; fourth-UPGMA phenograms; worst-Dollo parsimony. Since the data matrix contains NC (no comparison) states, numerical cladistic algorithms that take account of these states give better results than those that do not. For distance Wagner algorithms, there is little difference in the outcome between midpoint rooting and rooting with a zero vector or with the true ancestor. By separate permutations of the order of the OTUs that are input to the numerical algorithm, trees of varying length were obtained from which the shortest could be chosen. Shortest trees, computed globally over all OTUs or separately for each Caminalcule genus, are not necessarily those that best estimate the true cladogeny. Numerical cladistic estimates separately computed for genera are poorer than those based on the entire taxon. The effects of homoplasy and divergence on the results of phenetic and cladistic algorithms are investigated in general and employed to explain in detail the differences among the true cladogram, the phenogram, and the estimated cladogram. The agreements observed are all in cases where given taxa diverge greatly from ancestral stems. Discrepancies are due to (A) parallelisms in the cladogeny affecting phenetic similarities and (B) divergence of cladistically close relatives increasing the relative phenetic similarity of cladistically more distant relatives. These two cases are about equally frequent.
10.2307/2413277|The phylogeny of the Rana pipiens complex as supported by cladistic analysis of the enzymatic products of 50 gene loci is presented. Two broadly sympatric groups within the complex are identified and named the Alpha and Beta divisions. Within both of these divisions, a dichotomy exists between North American and Middle American species. The two groups in the Alpha division are recognized as the R. montezumae species group and the R. areolata species group; the two in the Beta division are referred to the R. pipiens species group and the R. berlandieri species group. Most of the species within a species group are distributed parapatrically; some hybridization may take place within narrow zones of sympatry. Limited hybridization also occurs in the two narrow zones of sympatry that exist between members of different species groups in the same division. However, although sympatry between Alpha division species and Beta division species is extensive, interdivisional hybridization is relatively rare.
10.2307/2413443|Morphometric variation was studied among samples of fox sparrows taken in 1926-1927 and 1978-1980 at seven sites in California. Samples of males were taken at two of the seven sites in both 1978 and 1979, and five samples of males were measured a second time to assess measurement error. Thus, 21 groups of males (14 "main" samples, 2 samples one year apart, and 5 remeasured samples) and 14 groups of females were used in this study. Thirty-one measurements of skeletal characters were taken on 317 males and 142 females, plus on the 101 males that were remeasured. The main objective was to determine if phenotypic change had occurred over a half century, and to quantify the extent of such temporal change relative to levels and patterns of geographic variation. In the temporal samples, an average of 2.2 (7.1%) significant character differences per site was observed. Hence, most characters showed no significant differences over 50 years. Character differences between remeasured, temporal, and geographic samples were quantified by computing average percentage differences between character means. Taxonomic distances were computed between all pairs of samples (sexes separate). Ten characters were excluded from analyses due to relatively high levels of measurement error. Percentage differences for the remaining 21 character means for remeasured samples averaged 0.33  SD of 0.31% and resulted in an average taxonomic distance between replicates of 0.25. Average percentage differences in character means over 50 years (0.98  0.79%) were similar to geographic differences (1.14  0.88%) among samples taken during the same time period. Average taxonomic distance between samples taken 50 years apart (0.71  0.21) was somewhat less than that between temporally comparable samples from different sites (0.84  0.16). However, samples taken 50 years apart at a site can be as different as those from sites 100 to 200 km apart and assigned to different subspecies. Multivariate analysis of variance revealed that temporal samples at two (of seven) sites differed significantly, and generalized discriminant analysis obtained significant differences between temporal samples at two additional sites. Temporal phenotypic stability was evident in that the same two groupings of samples were obtained in analyses of both old and new samples. However, patterns of variation in the two time periods, within these two main groupings of samples, are not concordant because of phenotypic change over time. That is, temporal change altered geographic patterns. Males and females showed different patterns of variation. No clear temporal trends in morphological change were identified, either in individual characters across sites, or in suites of characters within population samples. Characters with the largest relative differences over 50 years did not tend to show large geographic differences. The average taxonomic distance among old samples did not differ from that computed between recent samples; therefore, the populations at these sites are not diverging phenetically. Although the genetic basis of the phenotypic variation measured here is unknown, temporal variation could be adaptive either through phenotypic response to environmental change or by maintaining a store of morphological variability.
10.2307/2413446|The taxonomic congruence of phenetic and cladistic classifications is tested, as is the closeness of estimated cladograms to the true cladogram as a function of the number of characters employed, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Congruence was tested by random bipartitions of character suites. Results show the stability of phenetic classifications as very much higher than that of cladistic estimates. The consensus of cladistic classifications based on bipartitions is higher with the true cladogram than between cladistic classifications based on complementary bipartitions. But phenetic classifications based on these same bipartitions have an even higher consensus with a phenetic standard classification based on all characters, and a moderately higher consensus with the true cladogram. The following three cladistic estimation methods did not produce materially differing results: distance Wagner procedure with midpoint rooting; the same procedure with rooting at the true ancestor; Wagner parsimony based on additive binary coding, analysis of characters with no comparison states, and rooting at the true ancestor. Estimated cladograms based on all 85 characters are closer to the true cladogeny than phenograms computed for these characters. When estimated cladograms are based on fewer characters, they tend to become less close to the true cladogram than are phenograms based on the identical subsuites of characters. The exact relationships differ with the consensus measure employed. Estimates based on shortest Wagner trees are frequently not as close to the true cladogram as longer trees based on the same characters. The implications of the above findings for systematic theory and practice are discussed.
10.2307/2413445|The consequences of introducing fossil species into a numerical taxonomic data set are examined, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Inclusion of fossils into the phenetic classification introduces some nonconvex taxa at higher phenetic levels, but unites phenetically homogeneous groups of mixed Recent and fossil composition. There is good correspondence of phenetics with phylogenetic sequences. The taxonomic relationships of the phenetic classification of Recent plus fossil forms can be explained by the amount of evolutionary change known to have occurred in given internodes. All but one of the mutually closest pairs in the phenogram are ancestor-descendant pairs. Gingerich's stratophenetic method yields a reasonably good estimated cladogram, but is misled by the occurrence of homoplasy in portions of the tree. Adding fossils improves estimates of the true cladogram based on the distance Wagner method but not estimates based on the Wagner parsimony algorithm. Estimated cladograms approach the true cladogram more closely than phenograms do, yet even the best estimate including the fossils has a strict consensus index no higher than 0.667. There are 10 characters that define genera. Their removal from the data base affects phenetic classifications slightly, cladistic classifications somewhat more. A cladistic classification of the Recent Caminalcules unnecessarily raises the ranks of some taxa. The less speciose and more symmetrical taxa emerge at lower taxonomic ranks than more speciose and asymmetrical taxa. Adding fossils to the Caminalcules requires a greater number of ranks for a cladistic than for a phenetic classification.
10.2307/2413444|Hyperclust is a new clustering method with which we search for hierarchical structure in binary data. These hierarchical trees have the following properties. Any two objects (branches), that are joined at a node, share common characters in a manner consistent with a random allocation model. This model uses a character pool which is explicitly defined for every node. The test statistic (number of characters shared) follows a hypergeometric probability distribution. Furthermore alternative random allocation models can be tested by using different character pools. Finally by constructing alternative trees incorporating overlapping subsets of objects, we can test whether the local structure within those subsets can be adequately described by a hierarchical model.
10.2307/2412812|Multivariate discriminant and canonical analysis techniques were applied to suites of six (A) and eight (B) morphometric characters, respectively, in two separate inbred populations of C57BL/6 house mice. Each population consisted of six classes of male mice which differed only in the particular allele present at the agouti locus. The six genotypes (aa, a<sup>t</sup>a, a<sup>t</sup>a<sup>t</sup>, Aa, A<sup>vy</sup>a, A<sup>y</sup>a) were previously found to exert significant pleiotropic effects on most of the characters, the dominant alleles in general causing a decrease from the standard aa genotype. Among the A characters, the width of the first upper molar was the most powerful genotype discriminator, whereas interorbital width was most important among the B characters. Contributions of the characters to the canonical variates generally reflected known correlation patterns as seen from the results of principal component analyses. Discrimination plots and phenograms of the six genotypes consistently showed the a<sup>t</sup>a<sup>t</sup> and A<sup>y</sup>a genotypes as distinctive. The percentage of correct classification in the discriminant analysis classification matrices was similar (55% and 60%) for both sets of characters. The implications of the results for topics of interest to systematists (pleiotropy, subspeciation, natural selection) are discussed.
10.2307/2412809|The concept of species (as taxa) adopted by an investigator will influence his perception of the processes by which species originate. The concept adopted should have as universal applicability as current knowledge permits. Simpson's definition of a species is modified to state: a species is a lineage of ancestral descendant populations which maintains its identity from other such lineages and which has its own evolutionary tendencies and historical fate. This definition is defended as that which has widest applicability given current knowledge of evolutionary processes. Four corollaries are deduced and discussed relative to other species concepts: (1) all organisms, past and present, belong to some evolutionary species; (2) reproductive isolation must be effective enough to permit maintenance of identity from other contemporary lineages; (3) morphological distinctiveness is not necessary; and (4) no presumed (hypothesized) single lineage may be subdivided into a series of ancestral-descendant "species." The application of the evolutionary species concept to allopatric demes and to asexual species is discussed and it is concluded that the lack of evolutionary divergence forms the basis for grouping such populations into single species. It is suggested that some ecological species definitions lead to under-estimations of the rate of extinction due to interspecific competition because their logical framework excludes unsuccessful species from being species. Finally, the implications of accepting an evolutionary species concept to the field of phylogeny reconstruction are discussed.
10.2307/2412811|The 24 forms of kangaroo rats (Dipodomys) that have been recognized as species by one or more recent authors were studied using phenetic techniques. A total of 41 morphometric characters (4 skin, 16 skull, and 21 post-cranial) were measured for up to 10 males and 10 females of each species. The standardized average measurements were analyzed and then measurements were divided by principal component 1 projections based on unstandardized data to reduce the influence of overall size. Phenograms and three-dimensional principal component models were produced and the results compared with the findings of previous authors, including those from allozyme analyses. Several species pairs and groups involving a few species were stable throughout our studies and consistent with groups identified in phylogenetic, specialization, or other classificatory schemes. These include: compactus and ordii; elephantinus and venustus; agilis, paralius, peninsularis, and antiquarius; nitratoides and merriami; and ornatus and phillipsii. However, marked morphologic gaps (other than those based on size) are not present between many of the species groups and attempts to place species into such groups in classifications probably result in an indication of distinctness that goes beyond what is found in nature. In terms of interspecific comparisons, there was no association between phenetic groups based on morphologic data and those constructed using allozyme findings. When comparisons were made among previous classifications and our results, the allozyme data produced the most divergent classifications. Overall, the associations between our morphologic results and previous classifications were relatively weak, reflecting by and large the variance in arrangements of species groups, rather than major differences within groups. Given the relative indistinctness of morphologic groups, it seems unlikely that any one classification can accurately represent interspecific phenetic, cladistic, and/or phylogenetic affinities within the genus.
10.2307/2412808|Historical explanations of biotic distribution fall into two classes, dispersal explanations and vicariance explanations. Dispersal models explain disjunctions by dispersal across pre-existing barriers, vicariance models by the appearance of barriers fragmenting the ranges of ancestral species. Distributional data seem insufficient to resolve decisively either dispersal or vicariance as the cause of particular allopatric distribution patterns. When faced with such a pattern our first question should therefore be directed not to its cause, but to whether or not it conforms to a general pattern of relationships shown by taxa endemic to the areas occupied. Two-taxon statements are always compatible with a general pattern; three-taxon statements are therefore the most basic possible units of biogeographic (as well as phylogenetic) analysis. Analysis of three-taxon statements involves converting a hypothesis about the interrelationships of taxa (a cladogram indicating relative recency of common ancestry) to one concerning the interrelationships of areas (a cladogram indicating relative recency of common ancestral biotas). The generality of the area hypothesis may be tested by comparison with other groups endemic to the relevant areas. If the area hypothesis is corroborated as general, a statement of the relative recency of interconnections among areas is obtained, and evidence from historical geology may allow us to specify the nature of those interconnections and thereby the cause of those distributions that conform to the general pattern. Analysis of four-taxon statements indicates that the availability of structurally different patterns and of groups that can serve as adequate tests of the generality of those patterns increases with the addition of taxa to the hypothesis, and that neither extinction nor the failure of some groups to respond (by speciating) to given dispersal or vicariance events interferes with the analysis.
10.2307/2412810|A simple method of counting the number of possible evolutionary trees is presented. The trees are assumed to be rooted, with labelled tips but unlabelled root and unlabelled interior nodes. The method allows multifurcations as well as bifurcations. It makes use of a simple recurrence relation for T(n,m), the number of trees with n labelled tips and m unlabelled interior nodes. A table of the total number of trees is presented up to n = 22. There are 282,137,824 different trees having 10 tip species, and over 8.87 x 10<sup>23</sup> different trees having 20 tip species. The method is extended to count trees some of whose interior nodes may be labelled. The principal uses of these numbers will be to double-check algorithms and notation systems, and to frighten taxonomists.
10.2307/2412926|Variation in 26 loci coding for the production of protein products is analyzed in three populations of Plethodon welleri and in 26 populations of Plethodon dorsalis. Protein variation patterns are not consistent with the variation of morphological characters upon which the taxonomic status of these populations has been evaluated. The taxonomic division of P. welleri into subspecies is inconsistent with the electrophoretic data. P. dorsalis includes two groups of populations whose electrophoretic divergence is greater than that observed in any species previously studied. They do not correspond with previously recognized subspecies. Measures of genetic identity (Nei's I) and of population subdivision (Wright's F
10.2307/2412923|For some simple three- and four-species cases involving a character with two states, it is determined under what conditions several methods of phylogenetic inference will fail to converge to the true phylogeny as more and more data are accumulated. The methods are the Camin-Sokal parsimony method, the compatibility method, and Farris's unrooted Wagner tree parsimony method. In all cases the conditions for this failure (which is the failure to be statistically consistent) are essentially that parallel changes exceed informative, nonparallel changes. It is possible for these methods to be inconsistent even when change is improbable a priori, provided that evolutionary rates in different lineages are sufficiently unequal. It is by extension of this approach that we may provide a sound methodology for evaluating methods of phylogenetic inference.
10.2307/2412922|We can represent with a tree structure the dispersion matrix of a group of populations defined by a set of characters. The "treeness" test, T = c log R, where R is the ratio between the determinants of the observed and the estimated expected dispersion matrix and c is the number of characters, evaluates the validity of such a representation for a specific dispersion matrix. The test is based on a model of independent evolution: from an initial population a set of independent populations originates by successive splits. The treeness tends to a 
10.2307/2412927|G- and C-banding analyses were used to determine chromosome homology from representatives of bat families Mormoopidae, Noctilionidae and Phyllostomatidae, subfamily Phyllostomatinae. The karyotype of Macrotus waterhousii 2n = 46, FN = 60 is proposed as primitive for the Phyllostomatoidea. The major strategy involved in karyotypic evolution of taxa analyzed appears to have been reduction of the number of autosomal linkage groups by Robertsonian fusion from the 22 of Macrotus waterhousii to near 15 for the majority of taxa. Chromosome arms were found to be highly conserved. The X chromosomes of all taxa did not vary and were similar to the pattern thought to be characteristic of the primitive X of mammals. Two systematic groups appear recognizable within the Phyllostomatoidea above the family level (Phyllostomatidae in one group and the Noctilionidae and Mormoopidae in the other), whereas three systematic groups are discernible within the Phyllostomatinae. The three groups within the Phyllostomatinae include Macrotus waterhousii in the Macrotus-group, Tonatia minuta, Mimon crenulatum, Phyllostomus discolor and P. hastatus in the Tonatia-Mimon-Phyllostomus-group, and Micronycteris nicefori, M. brachyotis, and M. minuta in the Micronycteris-group. Tonatia bidens and Micronycteris megalotis were karyotypically so divergent that based solely on chromosomal data they could not be placed with any grouping. Examples are shown where extensive chromosomal evolution has been accompanied by little morphological evolution and where extensive morphological evolution has been accompanied by little chromosomal evolution. Such examples are the basis for questioning the hypothesis that chromosomal changes altering the position of regulator genes are a primary mechanism in the evolution of the large magnitude of morphological differentiation in the class Mammalia.
10.2307/2412925|Data from North American terrestrial vertebrates are used to test hypotheses of randomness in several aspects of allopatric speciation (vicariance). The data do not lead to rejection of the following: the initial parapatry of vicariance tends toward randomness as time passes; barriers are random as to affected species (the congruence of barriers is unusual); ranges of geminate species (a pair formed by vicariance) and subspecies (in species with only two) are random in size. The data lead to modification of the following: barriers that lead to subspecific differentiation arise at random places.
10.2307/2412924|Winter distribution and abundance patterns were generated for 65 species of fringillid songbirds, using results of 2,732 Christmas bird counts grouped into 59 latitude-longitude blocks. Similarity coefficients were computed among the blocks, based upon the species occurring in each block and their abundances. Similarity matrices were subjected to cluster and principal components analyses. Results showed four major biogeographic regions: the north, mid-latitudes (with some east-west separations), the southeast, and the southwest. With analyses of abundance, areas of high similarity were those in which the same fringillids were the commonest species in the blocks; in more traditional analyses of presence-absence data, similar areas were those which shared large numbers of species regardless of their relative abundances. Because of these differences, abundance data showed the northern and southeastern regions as larger and more distinctive, while presence-absence data emphasized the extent and patchiness of the southwestern region. Eastern and western latitude-longitude blocks were regularly and increasingly dissimilar with decreasing latitude, a result best shown by principal components analysis of abundance data. This east-west division occurred along the 100th meridian, and the southernmost block along this boundary (southern Texas) had a highly distinctive winter fringillid avifauna.
10.2307/2412969|The congruence (similarity in groupings) between classifications of the same organisms based on different characters measures the stability of classification as new sources of information are considered. Pheneticists have claimed taxonomic stability for their approach and instability for the cladistic system, but have not compared the stability of the results of phenetic and phylogenetic methods. The stability of five phenetic and three numerical phylogenetic methods was assessed using nine pairs of data sets. A phylogenetic method resulted in statistically demonstrable higher stability. All phenetic methods have essentially the same instability behavior. Of the phylogenetic methods, that of Wagner shows consistently greatest stability. The stability of phenetic methods is demonstrably more sensitive to the amount of homoplasious evolution than the Wagner method. Yet, the number of characters has no effect on stability either for the phenetic methods or the Wagner method. Since phylogenetic methodology is more stable than phenetic clustering, the cladistic system should be used as a general reference system for biology.
10.2307/2412970|Geographic coincidence of animal and plant distributions to form recognizable patterns suggests that the separate components of the patterns are historically connected with each other and with geographic history. To seek evidence of these historical connections, cladograms of geographic areas, representing sequences of disruptive geologic, climatic, or geographic events, may be compared with biological cladograms, representing sequences of allopatric speciation events in relation to those geographic areas. Such comparisons, when they meet the minimum requirements of being among dichotomized three-taxon cladograms, can resolve similar or dissimilar historical factors; two-taxon statements do not distinguish between groups with different histories. Congruence of biological and geological area-cladograms at a high confidence level (such as congruence of a five-taxon cladogram or four three-taxon cladograms with a geological cladogram, where the confidence level can be shown in cladistic theory to be 99%) means that specified events of paleogeography can be adopted as an explanation of the biological patterns. In such a cause and effect relationship, where the earth and its life are assumed to have evolved together, paleogeography is taken by logical necessity to be the independent variable and biological history, the dependent variable. Drawing a mathematical simile, the biological cladogram y (dependent variable), is a function of the geological cladogram x (independent variable), as in a simple regression of effect y on cause x where we are given no free choice as to which is the independent variable. Such a view implies that any specified sequence in earth history must coincide with some discoverable biological patterns; it does not imply a necessary converse that each biological pattern must coincide with some discoverable paleogeographic pattern, because some biological distributions might have resulted from stochastic processes (chance dispersal). Determining that all discoverable biological patterns conflict with a given corroborated or observed sequence of geologic, climatic, or geographic change (i.e., that y is not a function of x), in theory, therefore should falsify vicariance biogeography. Because dispersal biogeography presupposes stochastic processes, and any failure to meet the expectation of a postulated dispersal is explained by an additional dispersal, dispersal biogeography is immune to falsification. Without resort to paleontology or earth history, whether a given historical relationship implied by congruence of biological area-cladograms is the result of dispersal or vicariance can also be thought of in terms which minimize the number of necessary assumptions: did the sedentary organisms disperse with the vagile ones or did the vagile organisms vicariate with the sedentary ones? Cladistic congruence of a group of sedentary organisms with a group of vagile ones rejects dispersal for both. Hence, distributions of sedentary organisms have the potential to falsify dispersal theories as applied to vagile organisms, but distributions of vagile organisms cannot falsify vicariance theories as applied to sedentary ones. The problems that arise in various kinds of historical explanation are exemplified by several specific distributions of fishes and other organisms in North and Middle America and in the larger context of Pangaean history, and are discussed in relation to current species concepts.
10.2307/2412971|A distinctive property of polyploids, the loss of duplicate gene expression over time, allows phylogenetic inferences to be drawn from multilocus isozyme data. Once the "loss" of a duplicate gene expression has begun, soon after polyploidization, primitive and derived character states are clearly defined, though not immune to errors in coding. Even with a relatively small number of characters, cladistic, and phenetic trees may be constructed which are similar to each other and to those based on morphology. The Wagner method is shown to be a particularly appropriate method of analysis for handling gene duplication data. Comparison of patristic and phenetic distances has revealed little homoplasy for species in closely related genera of catostomid fishes, but increasing homoplasy for comparisons between more divergent taxa. With increasing employment of isozyme technology, and the concomitant increase in the number of characters it should be possible to analyze many other polyploid taxa with this cladistic technique.
10.2307/2412881|Few supraspecific groups have been defined in North American ranids and the informal groupings which are recognized are often poorly characterized. Two biochemical methods, starch gel electrophoresis and microcomplement fixation, have been used in an examination of the evolutionary relationships among western North American frogs of the genus Rana. Both the electrophoretic and albumin comparisons indicate that the Rana boylii species group presently includes two very different evolutionary lineages. Rana aurora, R. boylii, R. cascadae, R. muscosa, and R. pretiosa are all members of one lineage allied to R. temporaria of Europe. A Mexican species traditionally included in this group, R. tarahumarae, is most closely related to other members of the genus that occur in Mexico and is part of a larger lineage that also includes R. pipiens. Frogs found in eastern North America diverged from western European frogs in mid-Eocene; estimates of divergence time are consistent with the hypothesis that separation of these lineages coincided with the end of a land connection between Europe and North America. The catesbeiana, pipiens, and tarahumarae groups diverged from each other in the Oligocene. Western North American Rana diverged from a Eurasian ancestor in the Oligocene and radiated in this area to form the five members of the boylii group.
10.2307/2412882|Based on a framework of cladistic (genealogical) relationships, the morphological, zoo-geographical, and host relationships of the genera comprising the cestode order Proteocephalidea parasitic in fish, amphibians, and reptilians are examined. The new supra-specific classification scheme proposed differs only slightly from previous classifications. Zoogeographically, the proteocephalideans consist of one family endemic to South America and another exhibiting intercontinental patterns of vicariance. The dispersal-tracks of the second family are consistent with those of ostariophysan fishes, primary hosts for proteocephalideans. Most proteocephalidean genera, including the most primitive and the most specialized, occur in South America. The greatest concentration of species belonging to the most primitive genus occurs in the Northern Hemisphere where the fewest proteocephalidean genera occur. Proteocephalideans are postulated to have originated in South America. In the Southern Hemisphere, all but four piscine hosts are siluriforms, while in the Northern Hemisphere a great diversification of hosts has occurred. An hypothesis of the evolution of the host-parasite relationships of non-piscine proteocephalideans is proposed to explain observed patterns of host relationships. Zoogeographical and host relationships do not contradict the phylogenetic model based on characters of adult morphology. Additional support for the hypothesis that the cestode order Cyclophyllidea is di- or polyphyletic and derived from proteocephalidean ancestors is presented.
10.2307/2412883|The biogenetic law is restated in a falsifiable form; given an ontogenetic character transformation, from a character observed to be more general to a character observed to be less general, the more general character is primitive and the less general advanced. The law, as restated, may be generally valid. In any case, the ontogenetic argument is a valid direct technique of character phylogeny; the anatomical argument ("outgroup comparison") is an indirect technique, the paleontological argument is of uncertain status. Falsification of all three types of arguments is explored in an analysis of L. Agassiz's concept of "threefold parallelism." Neoteny is a falsifier not of the biogenetic law, but of character phylogeny-of all three arguments. Phylogenetic reconstruction in its entirety appears to be an extrapolation of the orderliness of development.
10.2307/2412880|In many groups of animals of restricted vagility very closely related species not only differ in karyotype, but exhibit very extensive differences, due to the establishment of "chains" of several or many structural chromosomal changes. These cases, which until recently appeared anomalous or inexplicable, can now be used to interpret a basic feature of the "stasipatric" mode of speciation (parapatric speciation of some authors). It is suggested that an important reason for the establishment of these chromosomal rearrangements is their role in protecting coadapted gene complexes ("area effects") from disruption by introgression from neighboring populations. A model, based on the mouse (Mus musculus) populations of Italy and Switzerland studied by E. Capanna, A. Gropp, and their collaborators, is proposed; it relies on sequential establishment of chromosomal rearrangements, each within the range of the previous one. By this means the genetic isolation of the area population is progressively reinforced.
10.2307/2412879|The assumption of uniqueness of evolutionary origin of chromosome inversion types is shown not to be adequate to determine phylogenetic reconstructions, but it can be combined with other principles to yield a method of phylogenetic inference. A model is proposed under which the most likely phylogenetic hypothesis given a set of chromosome inversion data can be identified as the most parsimonious tree for those data, a unique origin of each inversion type being assumed. When applied in this way, the method of parsimony can provide information on the ancestral types of inversions. Phylogenetic inferences based on chromosome inversions are thus seen to rest on just the same logical basis as do those from other types of characters.
10.2307/2412374|The bat faunas of the six zoogeographic regions are compared using taxonomic and trophic analyses. Similarity indices are calculated using the percent of total species per area for each genus and the importance of various trophic roles in the areas. Trophic role values were calculated by multiplying generic importance values by indices for the importance of applicable trophic roles for each genus and summing the values for every genus in a given region. Faunal regions are much more similar trophically than taxonomically. Although geographic patterns are discernable from taxonomic approaches, climatic patterns are more important trophically. All of the trophic roles are highly variable from region to region, but foliage gleaning is the least variable. The most important trophic role in all regions is that of the aerial insectivores, followed in order of decreasing importance by frugivory, foliage gleaning, nectarivory, piscivory, carnivory and sanguinivory.
10.2307/2412381|The amino acid compositions of cytochrome c isolated from honeybees, bumblebees, leaf-cutting bees, and yellow jackets have been determined. The composition of the honeybee protein is less related to that of the other insects than is expected from the accepted phylogeny and constant rates of cytochrome c evolution. This suggests that cytochrome c may have evolved faster in the lineage leading to honeybees than in the lineage leading to other insects.
10.2307/2412379|Phylogenetic (evolutionary) taxonomists have often been wrongly accused of circular reasoning. An example is the alleged circularity involved in definitions of "homology" in terms of common ancestry. The gap between phylogeneticism and pheneticism is not as wide as many assume. Phylogeneticists are justified in maintaining that nonphenetic evidence may play an essential role in taxonomy (systematics). Pheneticists should allow such evidence to play a role at least in providing phylogenetic interpretations. The possibility remains that terms like "phenetic" will come to be used in so wide a sense that prevailing controversies are dissolved. This illustrates that part of the disagreements are linguistic in nature.
10.2307/2412375|Karyotypic data indicate that C. ceralbensis, an insular species, is a member of the deppei species group, and that it has the most derived karyotype in that group. The karyotype contains 16 Set II subtelocentric chromosomes, instead of the primitive all-acrocentric condition found in peninsular populations of its close relative C. hyperythrus. In addition to the eight pericentric inversions, ceralbensis is easily separated from hyperythrus on the basis of morphological criteria. The karyotype of whiptail lizards from Isla Espiritu Santo (C. h. hyperythrus) differs from the adjacent peninsular populations by three pericentric inversions, but morphologically they are indistinguishable. The only observable mechanism of chromosomal evolution that has occurred in these two insular lizard populations is pericentric inversion. Karyotypic, geological, and biogeographical data suggest that C. hyperythrus was derived from a population similar to C. lineatissimus in the southern Cape region of Baja California after that portion of the peninsula separated from the mainland approximately 4-5 million years ago. Subsequent to this initial isolation and differentiation, hyperythrus probably radiated northward into the more arid communities of the peninsula and became isolated on several of the newly formed Gulf islands. Several levels of speciation, which correspond to the different geological histories and the variable environments encountered by these lizards, have accompanied the dispersal of this species, the most notable of which is the evolution of the Ceralvo Island whiptail lizard, C. ceralbensis.
10.2307/2412378|A hierarchic clustering, or tree, of several objects can be described by an object x object matrix, whose elements are the number of nodes of the tree lying on the path connecting a pair of objects. It has been suggested that two trees for the same objects might be compared by calculating a coefficient of similarity or difference between the corresponding matrices. This approach has the drawbacks that heterogeneities in the degree of disagreement of the trees with respect to individual clusters cannot be taken into account and that the bounds of the similarity/difference coefficient are difficult to calculate. To avoid these difficulties, a new method, the cluster distortion method, is introduced. This method operates by counting the number of fragments into which the clusters of one tree are broken on another tree, and permits the user considerable flexibility in summarizing the extent and nature of the disagreement between two trees.
10.2307/2412380|The suggestion that caves are habitat islands was investigated by analyzing species diversity and endemism in a set of 48 caves from Tessin, southern Switzerland, using stepwise multiple regression. Measures of environmental diversity (development, representing area; water content; and the presence or absence of bats, representing the presence of guano) and of isolation (altitude, geographical coordinates, clustering of caves) were expected to contribute to the regulation of species diversity and of numbers of endemic taxa. From 50% to 58% of the variance in numbers of species and of endemics can be accounted for with five independent variables in the regression equations. The Tessin caves can be considered insular insofar as an area affect is demonstrated for the total number of species and for the number of endemics, and as a measure of isolation (altitude) helps in accounting for endemism. Deviation from the insular biogeography theory stems from the lack of isolation or distance effects for the numbers of species (whether troglobitic or not), and from the lack of area effect for the troglophiles and troglobites. The number of species of troglophiles and troglobites is correlated with the water scale, and since the latter is correlated with development one can argue that water scale represents an improved measure of habitat diversity over area. The water scale may be an indirect measure of (i) the food input, or (ii) the rigor of the caves in terms of flooding, or else (iii) dispersal. The lack of isolation or distance effect may be attributed to the geographical nearness of the Tessin caves, which can be likened to islands equidistant from the mainland or source region.
10.2307/2412376|A phenetic analysis by numerical techniques was performed on the penis morphology of 28 species of New Guinea murid rodents. A total of 64 traits were scored on each penis. The results were compared to a phylogenetic hypothesis published previously and based on the same data. By this means, the results of the two approaches could be compared, the effectiveness of utilizing a single complex organ in taxonomic studies could be further examined, and the performance of various clustering procedures could be studied in a mammalian group varying in diversity from the subfamily level to that of closely related species. Taxonomic distance similarity coefficients were calulated among all OTU's, and four clustering procedures were used. In two cases, the number of traits analyzed was reduced to those 29 judged to carry the most information on genetic relationships. A diversity of phenograms was generated; the one giving the closest match to the existing phylogenetic hypothesis was based on the subjectively restricted list of traits and complete linkage clustering. It was concluded that: phenograms are easily manipulated to give quite diverse results; it is preferable to select traits for phylogenetic significance and to avoid redundancies; and the use of single character complexes in taxonomy should be avoided, especially with numerical approaches.
10.2307/2412377|Relative weights given to characters are estimated by the amount each must be changed to minimally permit each classical taxonomic decision. An example of the application is followed by a discussion of the classical taxonomic method.
10.2307/2412373|Since morphological analysis of living and fossil material has provided little information on taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships among species in the frog family Ranidae, an attempt was made to obtain such information by comparing their serum albumins. Rabbit antisera were prepared against the purified serum albumins of seven ranid species and tested by the microcomplement fixation method for reactivity with the albumins of 36 ranid species. This method provides a measure of the degree of amino acid sequence difference between albumins. The taxonomic and phylogenetic schemes we have derived from the albumin comparisons are generally in agreement with nonmolecular evidence. In some cases, they go beyond it, permitting demarcations among taxa that were previously unresolved. For example, it is proposed that the North American species of Rana are divisible into at least two major subgroups; an eastern subgroup, which includes R. pipiens and R. catesbeiana, and a western cluster, which includes R. aurora. The nearest relatives of the western cluster appear from albumin comparisons to be the R. temporaria cluster of the Palearctic region. The albumin results also permitted the construction of a phylogenetic tree with a very low percent standard deviation. With the aid of this tree and the molecular clock hypothesis we have estimated the approximate divergence times of various groups, subgroups and clusters of Holarctic ranid species. The molecular differences among Rana species are at least as large as those usually found within orders of placental mammals. This raises an important question regarding the ranking of taxonomic categories. If the genus Rana is equivalent in terms of genetic dispersion to an order of mammals, should one elevate the rank of Rana to the ordinal level? We believe that the molecular findings provide taxonomists with a dilemma.
10.2307/2412952|Physical principles of differentiation play an important part in the morphogeny of complex structures such as shell ornamentations, ammonite septa, and tooth striations. Since they require a relatively small amount of genetic information, resulting patterns may occur in unrelated taxonomic groups and functions as well as in accidental or functionally neutral situations.
10.2307/2412948|When he analyzes an existing biological form, the taxonomist seldom considers alternative forms that might have existed in its stead. Consequently, he does not benefit from the lesson learned by the architect-whose business it is to consider alternative forms-that physical organization is largely determined by the properties of space. A few examples suffice to show that space also imposes order on the development of biological form.
10.2307/2412945|The primary objective of biological classification is to provide the foundation of all comparative studies in biology. These studies require consideration of two factors, namely: (a) the degree of genetic similarity between organisms; and (b) the phylogenetic sequence of events in their history. Classical evolutionary classification provides the best approach to classification, based on Popper's criterion of content, because it attempts to maximize simultaneously both of these semi-independent variables. Evolutionary classification is based on the evolution of organisms, not just their phylogeny. Application of the Popperian philosophy of the demarcation and methodology of science to classification suggests that a major task is the development of severe tests of falsification by which classifications can be tried. Although phenetic methods appear to be the best means of recognizing taxa and deducing classifications, cladistic methods appear to provide the best tests in attempts to disprove these statements of relationships. The best approach to definitions in this historical science is a theoretical one in which the defining criteria and the recognizing criteria may differ. Comparisons, which are closely akin to definitions, must be based on evolutionary theory. Homology is the primary principle in comparative biology with the possibility that all other principles of comparison are reducible to homology. The defining criterion of homology is phylogeny and the only recognizing criterion of homology is similarities of all sorts between features. Any approach to classification that excludes homology and its recognizing criterion of similarity as a primary step in deducing relationships is invalid. Use of falsifying tests suggests that relative weighting of characters may have greatly reduced importance in taxonomic methods. Lastly, the formal classification and the phylogenetic diagram of a group of organisms are not different, but redundant images of each other. Both are essential parts of the conclusions of any study of biological relationships.
2412954|The unicellular eukaryotes are used as an example of extensive adaptive radiation, which in a few evolutionary lines led to the origin of more complex multicellular organisms. The particular kinds of multicellular organisms which were the descendants of a given group of unicellular eukaryotes, whether algae, fungi, metazoa, or slime molds, depended upon particular characteristics which their unicellular ancestors acquired in association with their adaptive radiation. The most significant determining characteristics were autotrophy vs. heterotrophy, presence vs. loss of cellular polarization, rigid vs. flexible cell wall or membrane, and the size and shape of the cell. The most continuously successful groups, the multicellular plants, metazoa and fungi, retained cellular polarity, but their ancestors differed from each other with respect to the remaining characteristics. Based upon this review, the author recognizes three kinds of evolutionary success: narrow success, broad but terminal success, and continuing or progressive success. Hypotheses are suggested about the kinds of characteristics which contribute to each of these kinds of evolutionary success.
10.2307/2412960|Cytochromes c are very widely distributed in bacteria, and many organisms produce several different types of protein,The bacterial cytochromes c vary very greatly in size, in number of hemes, in spectrum, in oxidation reduction potential,and in function,and these differences are reflected in great differences in amino acid sequence.In this paper,the present knowledge of the structure of bacterial cytochromes c is reviewed, and some new preliminary results presented. Sequence variation within classes of bacterial cytochromes c and relationships between cytochrome c classes are considered.The use of amino acid sequence results for the investigation of pre-Cambrian evolution is discussed, and pessimistic conclusions reached.
2412944|Four common, current species concepts are described and their strengths and weaknesses discussed. It is proposed that a review of population biology at the species level will lead to inferences regarding speciational mechanisms, which in turn may lead to a new synthesis of the species concept. Major advances in the study of variation in populations have come through multivariate methodology and biochemical techniques. The relation between genetic, phenetic, and allozymic variation is still unclear. Attention is drawn to the spatial structure of local populations which must play an important role in breeding patterns. Comparisons of patterns in phenetic hyperspace should yield clues to similarities of speciational patterns in sexually reproducing and apomictic populations. There is probably less reproductive connectedness between local population samples of putative species than is commonly assumed. Large-scale population structure will affect geographic variation patterns and reproductive connectedness among populations and needs to be analyzed by various techniques, among them graph theoretical methods. Any theory of species must take into account well-established facts at several levels of biological organization. The great diversity of kinds of species and patterns of species and patterns of speciation is stressed. In In addition to the classical theories of speciation, it is suggested that much local variation is due to the molding forces of local selection, little influenced by gene flow Attention is directed to evidence from patterns of geographic variation of a single species examined over a series of localities, and from phenetic patterns of sympatric species.
10.2307/2412957|Evolutionary trees requiring in toto the fewest nucleotide replacements between ancestors and descendants were constructed from the amino acid sequences of heme-binding globin chains of 22 primates and a wide range of other multicellular organisms. These trees, which maximized the codon indentities due to common inheritance and minimized those due to parallel and backmutations, allowed an evolutionary dimension to be given to the knowledge on structure-function parameters inheme-binding globins. In the gene lineage specifying the monomeric globins out of whichtetrameric hemoglobin evolved, a gene duplication produced the ancestral separation between the myoglobins and hemoglobins in jawed vertebrates. It then appears that at thestage of primitive fish in a common ancestor of teleosts and tetrapods a duplication in agene coding for a ~t4 type hemoglobin produced the separate a and ~t loci. By the time of basal amniotes sophisticated a2/9~ type hemoglobins had evolved. The 7 divergence fromtypicalchains can be traced to a gene duplication in basal therian mammals and the separation of type chains from /gs to later duplications in proto-catarrhines and proto-platyrrhines. From the mutational changes in the lineages emerging from these and other duplications, it was concluded that rates of molecular evolution increased with gene duplication and decreased after selection discovered useful specializations in the products of geneswhich had previously been silent and thus freer to accept mutations. Comparisons of mutational lengths of residue positions with strong functional roles to those without evident functional roles also suggested that the speed of molecular evolution decreases with the intensity of selection. The kinds of nucleotide replacements observed in the descent of theglobin RNA messengers further pointed to the restrictive effects of natural selection by high-lighting the fact that during protein evolution interchanges of amino acids with similarphysical chemical properties were much more readily tolerated than dissimilar interchanges.Evidence was provided by the globin phylogenies for the hominoid affinities of the gibbon and the close phyletic relationship of the African apes to man. Moreover while rates of globin evolution were rapid in the early eutherian radiation, they were extremely slow in the later hominoid radiation. This was related to a more complicated internal organization evolving in human ancestors, thus increasing the possibility that mutations in structural genes would be harmful.
10.2307/2412965|This paper on mangrove-associated molluscs is designed to provide comparative data on physiognomy, diversity, geographic distribution of species, and similarities and differences between parallel assemblages in various geographic regions. In Singapore, both the absolute range and the upper limit of the range of maximum adult size and three other parameters of shell shape are smaller in the littoral-fringe tree-associated gastropod assemblage than in either the intertidal tree-associated or sediment-associated groups. Shells in three of the four families in the littoral-fringe exhibit either internal whorl resorption or apical decollation, possibly resulting from acidic conditions during an aerobic respiration while the animals are exposed to air. Intertidal tree-associated gastropods are morphologically diverse, but there is a tendency toward squatness related to the need for maintaining gravitational stability on hard substrata. In soft sediments, this requirement is obviated, and the diversity of form is even greater.Aside from a number of taxonomic differences between the mangrove assemblages in different provinces, most within-habitat differences in physiognomy and width of geographic distribution are related to species richness. The absolute range, upper limit of the range, and number of categories for all parameters are greater in assemblages of many species than in those with few species. Maximum adult size exhibits a similar correlation with species richness. Physiognomic diversity within a habitat or region is largely independent of taxonomic composition. The high proportion of narrowly distributed species among Singapore littoral-fringe molluscs and the rapid decrease in maximum adult size and number of species in this habitat from Singapore to more peripheral parts of the Indo-West-Pacific suggest that regional differences among littoral-fringe assemblages are greater than those of other mangrove habitats.
10.2307/2412955|Rates of adaptive radiation and taxonomic turnover are much higher for mammals than for bivalve mollusks, largely because characteristic intensity of competition between species indifferent for the two groups.The high degree of interspecific competition typical of mammals is associated with specialized feeding habits, frequent limitation of population densities by food supply,highly developed mobility and behavior, aggressive interactions, and territoriality. Features associated with weak interspecific competition among most coexisting bivalve species are primitive behavior patterns, sedentary modes of life, generalized feeding habits, ability endure long periods of near-starvation, and widespread limitation of population densities by physical disturbances and intense predation. By providing what Mayr has termed a "centrifugal force" in evolution, competition has produced rapid divergence in the Mammalia. Higher taxa of mammals have tended to maintain distinct adaptive zones, and ecologic displacement of one group by another has been common. Rate of appearance of new families has declined since early in the group's Cenozoic radiation because established groups have tended to preempt portions of the overall adaptive zone. In contrast, competition has played a minor role in bivalve evolution and divergence has been gradual. Adaptive zones of subtaxa have tended to overlap, and displacement has been rare. Despite the success of advanced bivalve taxa, many primitive groups have persisted for hundreds of millions of years, and various seemingly primitive groups have arisen quite recently. Competition has also contributed to higher rates of taxonomic turnover among mammals than among bivalves by accelerating rates of extinction.The anomalously high evolutionary rates of reef-building rudist bivalves resulted from competition for space. Similarly, reef-building scleractinian corals have radiated much more rapidly than have nonreef-building forms. The nonmammalian vertebrate classes,the trilobites, and the ammonites have all been characterized by competitive traits like those of the mammals and have also undergone notably rapid adaptive radiations.
10.2307/2412958|The major physicochemical and chemical properties of muscular pachydermum, as known presently, are reviewed, as well as the available indications concerning their occurrence. From these data, and in particular from eight complete or partial sequences, some features of the evolution of these proteins are deduced, and some comparisons are made with other calcium binding proteins.
10.2307/2412953|The potential versatility of form and potential adaptive zone of a higher taxon or body plan depend on the number and range of independent morphogenetic parameters. The actual versatility and adaptive zone of a given higher taxon are determined by interactions of members of that taxon with species belonging to groups with a different body plan. More recently evolved higher taxa tend to exhibit a greater potential versatility of form than related more ancient taxa. In the course of earth history, more potentially versatile taxa have tended to replace less versatile groups in the same or similar adaptive zone. This increase in potential versatility is not the inevitable consequence of the decrease in number of higher taxa through geologic time, but is the result of strong selection favoring some plans of organization over others which may or may not have become extinct. Increasing potential versatility allows for greater homeostasis, efficiency, and exploitation of continuously available resources, and integration of structures and functions. New body plans may arise either from stocks of small adult body size and with relatively simple integration patterns, or else by a process of correlative progression of structures and functions from a relatively specialized ancestral stock.
10.2307/2412963|The problems inherent in deriving phylogenetic treesfrom amino acid sequences are discussed from the point of view of mammalian fibrinopeptides. Sequence data from these hypervariable peptides are currently available from more than forty species representing eight mammalianorders. In the case of four of these-primates, artiodactyls, perissodactyls and carnivores-enough data are available to make some judgments about intraorder variability. A "conservative variability" is observed at certain residue positions whereby the same changes occur repeatedly along different lines of descent. In other cases, the change appears to be more relaxed but still not random. In a few situations, a residue is absolutely invariant. The pattern of these changes is such that direct comparisons of all but the most closely related sequences gives misleading results about taxonomic distances.
10.2307/2412951|In four species of herons with uniform ecological requirements of flight, size-induced differences in values of circumferential wing velocities (and, as a result, increasing angles of incidence in distal sections of the wing with increasing body size) are discovered. To neutralize this departure from dynamic similarity among the four species, regular size-linked departure from geometric similarity develops; this departure manifests itself most obviously in the appearance of wing-tip slots, growing in number with increase in bird size. These slots are an adaptation for utilizing large angles of incidence and for redistributing generated values of thrust and lift. From the viewpoint of the concept of evolutionary transformation of functions, these relationships may be referred to the principle of the evolutionary stabilization of functions.
2412961|The European mistletoe, Viscumal bum L,Coleoptera.Screening of 49 different species of mistletoes representing 9 genera, has shown the presence of such proteins in 9 species from 5 genera,all within the subfamil Viscoideae. The amino acid sequence has been determined for three proteins from Viscum album and one protein from Phoradendron tomentosum subsp, macrophyllum. These proteins all contain 46 amino acid residues with 3 disulfide bridges. The sequences are identical in 29 positions.11 differences can be explained interms of a single base replacement in the coding triplet. For 7 differences two base replacements must be assumed.
10.2307/2412962|Iron-sulfur proteins are found in bacteria, photosynthetic bacteria, algae, plants and animals. Included in the group of iron-sulfur proteins are the ferredoxins, rubredoxins, adrenodoxin, putidaredoxin and High Potential Iron Protein. About nineteen different iron-sulfur proteins have been sequenced. The sequence data has been used to extract genetic and phylogenetic data about the organisms which contain the iron-sulfurproteins. It was concluded that the ferredoxins all have arisen from a common ancestor. The rubredoxin, adrenodoxin, putidaredoxin, and High Potential Iron Protein genomes have evolved separately. The adrenodoxin and putidaredoxin genomes have arisen from the same ancestral gene but have undergone divergent evolution and have different biological activities.
10.2307/2412942|Difficulties in the theory of each of the three main contemporary schools of systematic philosophy are discussed. If categories of taxa are identified with age classes, as proposed by phylogenetic systematists, then changes must be made in the traditional form of the Linnaean hierarchy. The central problem of evolutionary classification is that no satisfactory general measure of evolutionary differentiation has yet been found. The unit character hypothesis in numerical taxonomy is unlikely to be valid, since the logical atomist programme in philosophy proved a failure. Modifications may be expected in the theoretical positions of all schools.
10.2307/2412959|The yield of cytochrome c from different types of plant organs is given and the use ot cytochrome c sequence data for phylogenetic studies is briefly discussed. Sequences of cytochrome c of nineteen angiosperm species and a gymnosperm have been used to construct a molecular tree. This tree is discussed in relationship to existing phylogenetic schemes. The preliminary results of investigations on plastocyanin are mentioned.
10.2307/2412964|A computer program, ALIGN, was developed to test for homology of proteins. This program was used in conjunction with programs previously developed, to set up phylogenetic relationships and ancestral amino acid sequences for 43 snake venom toxins. From these and other studies emerged two mutually exclusive postulates for the evolution of snake venom toxins from digestive tract enzymes. Internal repitition in the sequence of toxins and homology of toxins with various enzymes were found. Evidence seems to favour one of the above postulates to as light extent above the other. According to this it seems as if the short neurotoxins evolved from digestive tract enzymes like, for example, ribonuelease and that the cytotoxins and longneurotoxins evolved from the short neurotoxins. Other toxins have developed from, for example, trypsin inhibitors. The concepts of Darwinian and non- Darwinian evolution are both used to explain the evolution of the protein-toxins in snake venoms.
10.2307/2412966|The systematic position of the family Raninidae De Haan, 1841 (Crustacea, Decapoda, Brachyura) has been widely discussed in the past, but interpretations are rather confused and inconsistent. The reason for this is that these crabs are very aberrant in their organization and shape and therefore isolated in the brachyuran system. Quite an opposite conclusion was drawn after the examination of all available morphological, ontogenetical, palaeontological and ecological evidence in the light of modern evolutionary theory. It is concluded that the raninids have to be placed in the higher Dromiacea as a particular superfamily Raninoidea De Haan, 1841. As highly specialized, burrowing, crabs the raninids have undergone a regressive evolution in both a morphophysiological and ecological sense.
10.2307/2412943|Concepts of phylogenetic relationships are defined, and the possibilities of their expression in a hierarchical classification are explored. Concepts of relationships-either common-ancestor relationships or ancestor-descendant relationships, are precisely and completely expressible in classification, if descendants rather than ancestors are grouped together. Common-ancestor relationships are more efficiently expressed, and are advantageous for groups of unknown or doubtful relationship.
10.2307/2412949|The problems of making functional assessments of human or prehuman fossils are those of relating individual fragments to the spectrum of morphological diversity presented by the nonhuman primates in contrast with the uniqueness provided by man. Although direct biomechanical studies can supply some information towards the functional meaning of such morphologies, indirect inductive methods are also capable of providing considerable insight. In particular, the methods of multivariate morphometrics are sometimes able to characterize the shapes of skeletal regions and their adaptations for function. Multivariate studies of several anatomical regions, shoulder, pelvis, ankle, foot, elbow and hand are now available for the Australopithecinae. These suggest that the common view, that these fossils are similar to modern man or that on those occasions when they depart from a similarity to man they resemble the African great apes, may be incorrect. Most of these fossil fragments are in fact, uniquely different from both man and man's nearest living genetic relatives, the chimpanzee and gorilla. To the extent that resemblances exist with living forms, they tend to be with the orang-utan. This does not, of course, imply genetic affinity with the orang-utan. But it very well could mean that in these fossils we see morphological remnants of adaptations to arboreal locomotion and that if indeed these animals are truly bipedal, then the nature of their bipedality may have differed uniquely from that of modern man.
10.2307/2412950|The percoid fish family Cichlidae possesses a phenomenal ability to colonize lakes and to diversify to an extent unmatched by any other vertebrate family in the presence of predator pressure and strong competition. The invading cichlids successfully occupy contiguous and occasionally overlapping adaptive zones and specialize progressively into diversified subzones, ramifying prodigiously and covering a breadth of total adaptation that would have been entirely unpredictable if we were aware only of the rudiments of the evolutionary process. This evolutionary avalanche can be attributed to the cooccurrence of a wide range of prospective adaptive zones in the lacustrine environment, and the presence of a unique morphological key innovation of maximum versatility. The new adaptive complex has been revealed in this study by electromyographic analysis synchronized with cineradiography of the cichlid pharyngeal jaw apparatus. The morphological novelty characterizing the family Cichlidae involves the development of: a synarthrosis between the lower pharyngeal jaws, a strategic shift of insertion of the two fourth levator externi muscles, and synovial joints between upper pharyngeal jaws and basicranium. This specialized, highly integrated key innovation enables the cichlids not only to transport (deglutination) but also to prepare food, freeing the premaxillary and mandibular jaws to evolve numerous specializations dealing with the collection of dramatically diverse foods. The functional integration of the innovation is so basic and its potential adaptive versatility so rich that it is maintained throughout the adaptive radiation even though numerous non-disruptive evolutionary changes do take place, providing prodigious opportunities for explosive evolution during the exploitation of rich resources of food in the lacustrine environment. The conversion of the preexisting elements into a new and significantly improved cichlid adaptive complex of high selective value may have evolved by rapid steps under influence of strong selection pressure acting on the minor reconstruction of the genotype which is involved in evolutionary changes of the pertinent ontogenetic mechanisms. Such relatively simple evolutionary processes are probably the cause for the general phenomenon that only slight reconstructions of existing structures are necessary for successful and rapid adaptation to drastic shifts of adaptive zones.
10.2307/2412097|The variability in form within the species Oncaea conifera is analysed using principal component analysis. A rapid and repeatable method of measurement was developed. The groupings of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in both the analysis of taxonomic distance and the principal component analysis are found to be similar and in agreement with the subjective grouping with minor anomalies. The effect of removing an aberrant OTU from each analysis was investigated. The trends in variability of "important" measurements (as revealed by the principal component analysis) indicate a complex pattern of between-group variability, thus suggesting that the observed variability is not under the control of a simple polymorphism. The possibilities of more complex genetic control or of genetic isolation, are discussed.
10.2307/2412093|It is proposed that regular use be made of the superphylum as a formal taxonomic category for coelomates. Taxa at this level would serve several important purposes: 1, they are of particular use to paleontologists as a basis for the subdivision of the Animalia during the late Precambrian, before the advent of many modern phyla; 2, they serve to embrace fossils of all ages that do not belong to living phyla; 3, they form a basis for phylogenetic models concerned with the origin of major grades of organization; and 4, they serve simply as a means of organizing phyla, which are now multiplying.
10.2307/2412099|Among twenty Sceloporus woodi populations, levels of fluctuating asymmetry in six characters were not correlated. Populations on hybrid zones between Sceloporus undulatus and S. woodi showed levels of asymmetry near those of nonhybridizing populations of the two species. These results do not support a relationship between genetic coadaptation and population asymmetry level.
10.2307/2412094|Crossing experiments between 8 different species of Trichogramma from the New World are described. Sexual isolation was found to be generally weak, so that substantial numbers of females were frequently inseminated in interspecific crosses and some cases of mechanical isolation resulting in traumatic injury to females when mated with alien males were recorded. Despite high degrees of insemination of females in interspecific crosses, hybrids were rarely produced, or if so, only in small numbers. This suggested the presence of gametic isolation. In most cases where hybrids were produced, unilateral compatibility was observed. All the hybrids obtained were found to be fertile without exception, and hybrid lines could be established. However, on the basis of morphological differences and crossing relationships, it is concluded that some of the populations dealt with bear semispecies status with respect to each other, namely T minutum & T. pretiosum, T. fasciatum & T. pretiosum, T. semifumatum & T. californica, but bear species status with respect to all others. The other species, namely, T. maltbyi, T. perkinsi, T. rojasi, are valid species.
10.2307/2412101|An attempt was made to determine objectively and empirically which combination of transformation and similarity coefficient yields the most predictive results. Standardization and the M.C.D. were found to be the most predictive. A new transformation, "equalization," is presented.
10.2307/2412096|Darwin's barnacle monograph contains an implicit phylogeny which is reflected in the classification system. In accordance with theoretical views he expresses elsewhere, the system has no polyphyletic taxa, but it does have paraphyletic ones. The classification also takes into account degree of difference, gaps, convenience and tradition. His general advocacy of genealogy as the basis of classification never took the form of modern cladistic views.
10.2307/2412100|The constancy and diagnostic utility of setal characters in polychaetes may be questioned on theoretical and empirical grounds. Samples of several populations of Halosydna brevisetosa Kinberg and reconsideration of previous experimental work show extreme intraspecific variation, which is not temperature-induced as formerly believed.
10.2307/2412098|A phenetic assessment of specimens taken along the interface between the ranges of Vulpes velox and V. macrotis, was undertaken using 14 skull measurements. Specimens collected to either side of the area of potential contact in eastern New Mexico and west Texas were used to compare and evaluate the status of 78 specimens from the region of potential contact. Phenetically intermediate specimens occurring in this sample of 78 specimens were concentrated along the interface between the ranges of these foxes, suggesting that they were of hybrid origin. In the Pecos drainage area of eastern New Mexico 4 of 28 specimens (14.3%) were centrally intermediate in skull morphology, and several others were moderately intermediate. However, the presence of at least 13 other specimens from this area, closely resembling the reference material, suggests that selection is generally opposing intermediates and favoring the maintenance of separate adaptive modes. The interface between the ranges of these two foxes corresponds closely to the distribution of desert and high plains grasslands. No evidence of recent shifts in the geographic position of the interface between their ranges was found. It is improbable that any of the phenetically intermediate specimens from eastern New Mexico represented hybrids with Vulpes fulva, the red fox, because they were taken well outside of the known range of V. fulva. A method of standardizing the data matrix to emphasize the importance of discriminating characters before computing a variance-covariance matrix, from which principal components are extracted, was used. This gave somewhat better separation of the suspected groups than did analyses based on principal components extracted either from a character correlation matrix or from an ordinary covariance matrix.
10.2307/2412095|The concordance between phenetics and and phylogenetics in 16 cultivars of oats has been examined through a series of taxometric procedures. Phylogenetic relationships have been established, firstly, from known pedigrees, i.e., the cladogram, which allow the coefficients of common parentage to be computed, and secondly, from the known dates of breeding. Phenetic relationship was assessed by different clustering strategies and by nonmetric multidimensional scaling, using the Gower similarity coefficient computed from a set of characters with agronomic importance, from a set of characters without apparent agronomic value and from the union of these sets. The various methods were compared both by metric multidimensional scaling and single linkage clustering. The main finding is that phenetic relationships shown by the reduced sets of agronomic characters and nonagronomic characters fit best with the cladogram. However, the best of the various clustering procedures, here defined as that which disturbs the original relationships the least, coincides most closely with the genetical relationships. Our data suggest that it is impossible to reconstruct a true phylogeny from phenetic relationships, although some representations of the former may be similar to some of the latter.
10.2307/2412300|New criteria are proposed for describing cases of natural hybridization that overcome the difficulties inherent in schemes based on the history of an interaction (primary or secondary contact) or the taxonomic status of the interacting forms. On the basis of distributional data alone the following types of natural hybrid zones may be recognized: allopatric (corresponding to zones of intergradation), parapatric, peripheral sympatric, localized sympatric, and widespread sympatric. Artificial (extralimital) sympatric hybridization also occurs in nature.
10.2307/2412305|Estimation of evolutionary trees should be treated as a problem in statistical inference, but such treatment requires the explicit formulation of a stochastic model of the evolutionary process. Because an evolutionary inference procedure is likely to be put to such uses as deciding the issue of whether rates of evolution are homogeneous, the stochastic model underlying the inference procedure should not assume homogeneity over time of the evolutionary process, and in fact, should make only the weakest evolutionary assumptions necessary. Such a model is constructed, and it is shown that most parsimonious trees are maximum-likelihood estimated evolutionary trees under the stochastic model. Similarity clustered phenograms appear not to be well justified as statistical estimates of evolutionary trees, even when homogeneity of evolutionary rates is assumed.
10.2307/2412302|Biogeography is the study of biotic areas. The historic development of the essential concepts of areal definition, origin and maintenance are each examined in turn. The early influence of creationism and evolutionism upon biogeographic analysis is discussed and the theoretical bases of some current attempts to apply phyletic analysis to organismic dispersions are examined in detail. The author concludes that biogeography has failed to develop in step with geography as a whole and that a new emphasis on ecologic approaches is required to remedy the situation. Some pioneer efforts by ecologists and biogeographers to integrate ecology and biogeography are discussed in terms of their potential impact on the basic biogeographic questions of areal analysis.
10.2307/2412306|An investigation was made of the biochemical genetic variation within and among Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) and related trout (Salmo spp.). Estimates (based on 19 to 23 loci) of proportion of loci polymorphic and average heterozygosity respectively were: pink salmon (O. gorbuscha)-.111 and .014, chum salmon (O. keta)-.100 and .006, sockeye salmon (O. nerka)-.087 and .018, coho salmon (O. kisutch)-.130 and .018, chinook salmon (O. tshawytscha)-.130 and .015, and rainbow trout (S. gairdneri)-.261 and .037. The differences of these two parameters between populations of salmon and rainbow trout were significant and may reflect the greater habitat diversity of rainbow trout contrasted with Pacific salmon species. Interspecies comparisons were made among the above species plus masu salmon (O. masou) and cutthroat trout (S. clarkii), based on allelic proteins of eight loci and more complex protein patterns assumed to reflect four additional loci. A dendrogram, constructed from indices of similarity which reflected pairwise interspecies protein differences, separated the species into two major groups; one group contained the two trout species which were paired closely and-more distantly-the masu salmon, while the other group contained the remaining five species of salmon. In the latter group the chinook and coho salmon were paired together as were the pink and sockeye salmon; the chum salmon was intermediate between the two subgroups.
10.2307/2412304|The general maximum likelihood approach to the statistical estimation of phylogenies is outlined, for data in which there are a number of discrete states for each character. The details of the maximum likelihood method will depend on the details of the probabilistic model of evolution assumed. There are a very large number of possible models of evolution. For a few of the simpler models, the calculation of the likelihood of an evolutionary tree is outlined. For these models, the maximum likelihood tree will be the same as the "most parsimonious" (or minimum-steps) tree if the probability of change during the evolution of the group is assumed a priori to be very small. However, most sets of data require too many assumed state changes per character to be compatible with this assumption. Farris (1973) has argued that maximum likelihood and parsimony methods are identical under a much less restrictive set of assumptions. It is argued that the present methods are preferable to his, and a counterexample to his argument is presented. An algorithm which enables rapid calculation of the likelihood of a phylogeny is described.
10.2307/2412310|Factor analysis (Q-mode) was used to evaluate interspecific relationships among 27 species of Candaciidae. Twenty-four characters were taken from the first pair of swimming feet, appendages seldom used in copepod taxonomy. The three factors extracted accounted for 93 percent of the total variation among species and identified 4 clusters of species. Clustering of species by factor analysis agrees with a phenogram based upon correlations between species. The four species clusters, reflecting morphological variation of a small, functionally specialized portion of copepod anatomy, are in agreement with many previously suggested interrelationships among the Candaciidae.
10.2307/2412303|Ectoprocts may have descended from a vermiform, burrow-dwelling lophophorate ancestor that would probably be classed with the Phoronida if it were living. Stripped of their adaptations for small size, coloniality, and skeletonization, ectoprocts closely resemble phoronids. We propose that ectoprocts probably arose from a lineage that became epifaunal, reproducing asexually to form tangled aggregations on hard substrates. Under these circumstances the disadvantages of aggregation, chiefly related to crowding, were mitigated through the development of small body size and by adoption of colonial habit. Coloniality was favored because it regulated intraspecific competition by controlling dispersion patterns and the spacing of individuals. It permitted coordinated manipulation of the environment in feeding and waste disposal, enhanced protection, and provided the opportunity for functional differentiation among individuals, thus promoting efficiency. Miniaturization led to the loss of distinct circulatory and excretory systems, while coloniality and eventual skeletonization led to a vast morphological and therefore ecological potential for the group. These factors appear to underlie the important place gained by ectoprocts in many benthic communities from the early Paleozoic until the present time.
10.2307/2412301|Covariant character sets extracted from house sparrow specimens from all sectors of North America by principal component analysis were obtained twice again from specimens taken on an eastwest transect of North America and from specimens generally from western Europe. Uniformity in character covariation is thus evident in ancestral-descendent populations separated by more than 100 generations and in contemporary populations separated by distinct climatic environments. Such covariation is assumed to be a consequence of natural selection, and to represent the genetic ground more immediately than do single characters.
10.2307/2412309|The gradient clustering method of Ihm (1965) was reinvestigated and applied to several sets of real and artificial data. It is based on the technique of defining a function which has the property of being maximal in regions where there are high densities of points and low elsewhere. Points are considered to be in the same cluster if they are "under" the same local maximum of this function. The clusters obtained at different hierarchic levels are not necessarily nested. A generalization of the skyline graph is presented to depict such a system of cluster
10.2307/2412307|In natural populations of Phymata americana year-to-year variation in a character measuring shape (i.e., amount of sculpturing of the exoskeleton) is slight or nonexistent in relatively undisturbed habitats similar to those in which the insects have presumably evolved. In "disturbed" areas associated with urbanization and agriculture, substantial (and statistically significant) year-to-year variation occurs. Year-to-year and locality-to-locality variation of thorax width (selected as a "size" measure) was more complicated, but again variation tended to be less predictable in disturbed than in undisturbed habitats. The interpretation put on these findings is that a stabilization of traits related to fitness (perhaps a more perfect "canalization" of traits) occurs in habitats to which the populations have become acclimated as regards genetic and developmental processes. Amounts of individual variation did not differ in the two types of habitats. A character chosen to represent the color pattern did not show the differences between habitat-types indicated for structural characters. The possible relationship between this result and the similar phenetic differences between geographically marginal and central populations of another insect species is discussed.
10.2307/2412308|To test whether the process of phylogenetic analysis is an unweighted phenetic process, 34 multistate characters were obtained from a recent revision of 29 species of Acanthoscelides, a genus of seed beetles (Bruchidae). Based on these characters, an intuitive unweighted-character phenogram and an intuitive phylogenetic tree were constructed. The intuitive phylogenetic tree was converted to a phenogram format. The characters were treated numerically, generating product-moment and taxonomic distance phenograms for the 29 species. An elementary Wagner tree was constructed from a Prim network. The intuitive and numerical phenograms were analyzed for the topological relationships of closely related OTUs, and the phenograms were compared by means of an "index of positional relationship." This index compares the positions of closely-linked OTUs in two phenograms, regardless of whether the phenogram has been generated by intuitive or numerical means. Within a given numerical technique of calculating similarities (e.g., product-moment), different clustering methods (e.g., weighted-pair and unweightedpair group methods) produced very similar phenograms. Considerably less agreement was obtained between phenograms generated by two different methods of calculating similarities (e.g., product-moment and taxonomic distance). Least agreement was found between the numerical phenograms and the intuitive phylogenetic phenogram, suggesting that the process of intuitive phylogenetic analysis is not solely another form of unweighted phenetic analysis.
10.2307/2412392|The practical application of electrophoretic analyses of proteins of mammalian sera and hemoglobins by simple methods is described. Twenty-five taxonomic relationships, most of which have been controversial, are reviewed, and decisions based on blood proteins and hemoglobins are given. In 19 instances clarifications of relationships were obtained, but in 6 instances the proteins did not help.
10.2307/2412393|Using morphological data from a group of parasitic mites, tests were run to determine the effect on a numerical classification of modifications in technique, involving standardized vs. unstandardized characters, exemplar substitutions, increase in exemplar size, size of group studied and the inclusion of NC (= No Comparison) character values. The results of a test of the hypothesis of non-specificity are also described.
10.2307/2412397|The zoogeography of squirrelfish, genus Myripristis, is discussed, and various hypotheses are presented for derivation of the species. One, M. jacobus, is endemic to the tropical Atlantic, while three species are endemic to the eastern tropical Pacific (M. leiognathos, M. clarionensis, and M. gildi). The following species appear to be restricted to the Pacific Ocean: M. amaenus amaenus, M. amaenus tiki, M. chryseres, and M. woodsi. M. tracyacron and M. vittatus have been taken only in the Indian Ocean and Indo-Australian Archipelago, and M. hexagonus occurs in the Indian Ocean and western Pacific. The following species are found throughout the Indo-Pacific Ocean: M. murdjan, M. kuntee, M. borbonicus, M. parvidens, M. pralinius, and M. violaceus.
10.2307/2412394|This paper is an analysis of patterns of animal distribution by means of (1) calculation and clustering of a distance matrix, (2) factor analysis and trend surface maps of scores of five centroid factors, and (3) a stereogram of the counties projected on the principal axes. The data, which are the incidences of amphibians, reptiles, and mammals in the 105 counties of Kansas, were used principally for illustrative purposes, and comprise 185 OTU's consisting of 137 species (37 of which were subdivided into 85 subspecies). Five factors were extracted from a matrix of correlations among OTU's and mapped by trend surface analysis. These were shown to be of interest even though they yielded overlapping faunal zones. The predictive powers of the method, by the inclusion of environmental variables, is discussed.
10.2307/2412395|A program, written in the computer language BASIC, is described that calculates by various formulas the degree of biogeographical resemblance between areas. The various formulas are described, and the proper machine instructions for each are indicated.
10.2307/2412396|The Fisher multiple discriminant function analysis is used to establish the ten most important morphological characteristics, from a list of forty-three measurements, that best separate the species Cristivomer namaycush, Salvelinus alpinus, S. fontinalis, S. malma, and Salmo gairdnerii of the family Salmonidae.
10.2307/2412391|Difficulties in the concept of stasipatric speciation are examined and a modified version of it proposed. It seems to consist of two components, an allopatric one and a "semigeographic," or parapatric one. The different races of which many species of morabine grasshoppers are composed meet along very narrow zones of secondary intergradation, or "tension zones", these appear to act like semipermeable membranes, allowing free passage to some genetic modifications, but holding back others. The accumulation of genetic differences along these zones is thought to lead eventually to full reproductive (but not necessarily mating) isolation between the two populations. This is the definitive, parapatric phase of the speciation. The races themselves are most simply regarded as originating allopatrically, by random fixation in very small, completely isolated colonies. When these expand and come into contact with the ancestral form, the tension zone is immediately created. This is the preparatory, allopatric phase. The tension zone moves across the country as a front, in the direction of the less adapted form.
10.2307/2412390|The author expounds the main ideas and methods of his conception of exact systematics. The leading principle of his system is an objective evaluation of characters according to their frequency. Thus, the author calls in question the Adansonian principle of equal weights of characters. The indices recommended by the author-indices t-serve for quantitative characterization of taxonomic relationships as well as for evaluating the originality of objects under consideration. The problem of partition of taxa (in general form) is also discussed in the article, and some examples illustrating the recommended methods are given.
10.2307/2412037|The status of the cicindelids with respect to the carabids (Coleoptera) is an issue among taxonomists. Data from immunoelectrophoresis and immunodiffusion were processed using detailed computerized, numerical taxonomic methods which included cluster and principal components analyses. Results indicated that the cicindelids are preferably regarded as a subfamily of the family Carabidae. The genera in the family Carabidae exhibited large amounts of molecular variation. In detailed comparisons, using the computer, unstandardized logarithms of the per cent cross-reaction values gave the highest correlations of the immunological data with morphological classifications of the Coleoptera.
10.2307/2412038|The degree of fit of phenograms (constructed using UPGMA cluster analysis) to similarity matrices based on random data was examined using the cophenetic correlation coefficient. Approximate critical bounds were established for testing for the presence of hierarchic structure in one's data. Sokal's taxonomic distance coefficient was shown to be more sensitive than the product-moment correlation coefficient to differences in the multivariate structure of the sampled distributions.
10.2307/2412041|The relationships of 42 Canadian species of the mosquito genus Aedes were investigated by numerotaxonomic techniques, using the method of matching coefficients. Good agreement with conventional taxonomic arrangements was found when (1) adult mosquitoes and (2) adults and larvae together were considered, but with (3) larvae alone, the agreement was unsatisfactory. The prospects of numerical methods in taxonomy are briefly considered.
10.2307/2412042|Several important terms in biology have recently been criticized for not being "operational." In this paper the course of operationism in physics, psychology and genetics is sketched to show what effect this particular view on the meaning of scientific terms had on these disciplines. Then the biological species concept and the concept of homology are examined to see in what respects they are or are not "operational." One of the primary conclusions of this investigation is that few terms in science are completely operational or completely nonoperational. Some scientific terms, especially theoretical terms, are a good deal less operational than others; but, far from being regrettable, this situation is essential if theoretical terms are to fulfill their systematizing function and if scientific theories are to be capable of growth.
10.2307/2412036|The general structure of taxonomic data sets, the alpha and beta elements of this structure, the departures of this structure from randomness, and the rationale by which departures are viewed as historical evidence have been demonstrated. An operational method for selecting character sets is illustrated, an estimate of the genealogy that produced the species is derived from these sets, and this estimate is presented as a phylogeny In addition, I have demonstrated a method that discloses a stable structure that is relatively insensitive to distortion through addition of new data. Still further, I have shown a procedure that produced clusters of species having phenetic properties that are at least as good as those of clusters produced by direct phenetic methods. It has been demonstrated that different characters have different predictive properties, that different character states of the same character have different predictive properties, and that, in general, derivative states are the sole bearers of valid historical information. Taxonomists cannot, with propriety, weight either characters or character states. They must select and evaluate sets of character states, and this evaluation should be carried out every time new data, breaking established character sets, are incorporated into data tables.
10.2307/2412040|Immunologic analyses of serum proteins, studies of karyotypes, and morphology of spermatozoa reveal that vampire bats (family Desmodontidae) are more closely related to members of the family Phyllostomatidae than is suggested by conventional morphological characters. Immunologic tests show Desmodus to be related to the Phyllostomatidae through the subfamilies Phyllostomatinae and Glossophaginae. When fundamental and diploid numbers of chromosomes are plotted, two monotypic desmodontid genera (Desmodus and Diaemus) have karyotypic values that fall in the area of highest concentration of phyllostomatids. Spermatozoa of Desmodus and the third monotypic desmodontid genus, Diphylla, are indistinguishable in general morphology from those of representatives of five subfamilies of phyllostomatids. It is suggested that the vampires may represent only a subfamily of the Phyllostomatidae.
10.2307/2412039|Immunological precipitin tests were used to determine relative serological propinquity of four subgenera of Spermophilus (Otospermophilus, Callospermophilus, Spermophilus, and Ictidomys). Serum from another sciurid genus, Sciurus, was cross-reacted with antiserum against each of the subgenera of Spermophilus.
10.2307/2412043|This paper consists primarily of an inquiry into the logical status and the epistemological role of nomenifers (literally, "name-bearers"; type specimens). The three major codes of biological nomenclature are ambiguous or misleading or equivocal regarding nomenifers, as evidenced by varying interpretations given by different writers. One important issue which can be isolated is the following: if, as the codes and some writers say, the name is "attached" to the nomenifer, it would seem that the name is a proper name. To know the proper name of a nomenifer would be quite useless scientifically; the practices of biologists would be inconsistent with such a view, since class names are needed for science. To clarify this distinction, the differences between class (common, general) names and proper names are examined. There are at least two differences: proper names name individuals and have no intension; class names name groups (or classes) and have intension. A second difficulty, namely, the difference between attaching a name to a description (a set of words) or to an organism (or class of organisms), is pointed out. A further issue, brought out by noting several writer's views, is the unsettledness regarding whether a type specimen must be typical of its species or only an example of its species. Yet another issue, the alleged diremption between nomenclature and taxonomy, is considered with the conclusion that a total separateness does not exist. Our own view of the epistemological role of the nomenifer is that it, like any other member of the species, can serve to ostensively define the name of the species; the nomenifer is different only in being the "official" instance of the species named by the original investigator and, as such, is required to be included in whatever group is called by that name. Consequently, the nomenifer has no privileged logical status; it is a member of a class like any other member of that class. It bears a name by virtue of its membership in the class but, unlike other members of that class, its name cannot change as long as there is a class with that name.
10.2307/2412357|Phenetic relationships, revealed by multivariate analyses, of 154 black-capped and Carolina chickadees (Parus atricapillus and P. carolinensis, respectively) from 13 localities in Kansas are discussed. It is shown that phenetically (and presumably genetically) intermediate birds occur rather commonly in areas where populations of P atricapillus and P. carolinensis are in contact. The distribution of the intermediate birds not only supports the supposition that interbreeding between the forms occurs, but suggests that occasional back-crosses may take place. Various field observations on chickadees from contact areas are reviewed; these suggest that viability may be significantly reduced by interbreeding.
10.2307/2412355|On being presented with a set of points plotted on a plane space, most observers will agree that the set contains clusters of points if the distribution of the points meets certain conditions. We postulate that these conditions are: (1) that there are continuous, relatively densely populated regions of the space, and (2) that these are surrounded by continuous, relatively empty regions of the space. Using this definition for natural clusters we developed an algorithm for finding such clusters from the relative interpoint distances within a set. Starting with the closest pair of points, additional cluster members are sought by a minimum stepping stone strategy and accepted or rejected on the basis of parameters which indicate a discontinuity of closeness (i.e. a continuous, relatively empty space surrounding the points already admitted to the cluster) The procedure is repeated at a number of levels of resolution to give an overall view of the population. The resolution levels appropriate for a given set of points are determined from an analysis of the interpoint distances. Since the procedure uses only the relative distances between the points, it can be applied to points specified in any number of dimensions.
10.2307/2412358|A model consisting of 37 pieces of hardware, representing as many animal species in a single phylum, has been used successfully at several levels of undergraduate and postgraduate experience to teach problems of beta taxonomy and the arbitrariness, subjectivity, and limitations of higher classifications. Students find this model challenging, stimulating, and thoroughly engaging. The model is simple, durable, inexpensive, and easy to manipulate; it fits comfortably in one laboratory period; it involves a minimum of characters; and it presupposes no familiarity with the morphology and accompanying jargon of any particular group of organisms.
10.2307/2412363|All discussions hitherto on the origin of the coelom have postulated a reduction within the molluscs; moreover, the recent discoveries of Tryblidiacea (Neopilina) have led persistently again to the opinion that the molluscs should have developed from metamerically segmented ancestors. But, as there are neither ontogenetical nor anatomical reasons, the reduction-theory cannot be upheld. The whole organization of the Mollusca (meluding locomotion, muscular system, mesenchyme, digestive apparatus, nervous system, larval features, etc.) proves on the other hand that this evolutionary stem must have developed from turbellariomorphic ancestors. The continuity in the locomotion of the molluscs brought from these flatworms guarantees that they did not need a hydrostatical coelom for locomotion (as in other coelomates) and that, therefore, such a coelom has never existed. According to the `Functional Coelom Theory' the coelom (like every organ) is provided with a special function, and ontogeny as well as the morphological structure of the molluscs refers to the statement that the mollusean coelom has developed as a purely protective pericardium; comparable situations within other animal groups confirm this opinion. The enclosure of the germ cells in the rostral part of the coelom has led to a gonopericardium with double function, and further to a separation in the working organ: pericardium (with coelomoducts) and gonocoel (with gonoducts). The coelomic cavity of the molluscs therefore proves its own development, which is homologous with that of coelomates by way of the cleavage-cell 4d and the derived mesodermal bands. The gonopericardial room itself, however, cannot be considered as a homolog of the secondary body cavity, so that there is a functionally effected diphyletic development of the coelom within molluscs and other coelomates.
10.2307/2412360|This is the first of the newly instituted presidential addresses of the Systematics Association and explores the future of systematics. Simpson's definition of "systematics" as "the study of differentiation" has been followed by developments in the fields of molecular biology, epigenetics, biophysics, prebiology, and exobiology. A "new taxonomy" will arise when the methods of numerical taxonomy are employed for phylogenetic research. Perhaps in the future systematics will invade the province of non-biological evolution.
10.2307/2412362|Nomenclatural procedures in animal taxonomy, especially the application of priority rules in the vast entomological literature, are oppressively inefficient and becoming more so with the passage of time. The authors suggest that the problem be solved in a simple but radical way, by the device of officially recognizing selected monographs as the "new Linnaeus" of the group treated by the monograph. No publication prior to the monograph could then affect nomenclatural usage in the group, but a new monograph could supplant it.
10.2307/2412361|Elongate ocular peduncles have been independently evolved by many non-predatory, burrowing crabs. It is suggested that the burrowing habits of these crabs have provided the selective pressures for the evolution of these structures, primarily in the avoidance of predation whilst feeding on the surface. The development of elongate peduncles has necessitated structural modifications of the anterior carapace; in portunids these modifications are mainly of the anterolateral carapace margins, whilst in ocypodids and goneplacids they are mainly of the front.
10.2307/2412354|The northern form of the common grackle, Q. q. versicolor, mhabiting pine forest and mixed pine-hardwood forest, ranges south in Louisiana to the latitude of Baton Rouge, Opelousas, and De Ridder, where it interbreeds freely in a narrow zone with the southern form, Q. q. quiscula, inhabiting cypress-tupelogum swamp forest and coastal marshes, to produce viable and fertile hybrids. Analysis of geographical variation in four color characters in 637 males from 21 sample areas in Louisiana and the application of discriminant function analysis to form a weighted hybrid index demonstrate that a complete transition in color characters between Q. q. versicolor and Q q. quiscula occurs between 30
10.2307/2412356|The merits of various measures of divergence within a taxon are discussed, and it is concluded that the difference between the two most different OTU's in a taxon is the most reliable measure of divergence. This "maximum difference" criterion of divergence is shown to be related to the categorical rank of a taxon by an equation of the form cd(R) = k2
10.2307/2412010|Species of birds sympatric on islands frequently differ from each other in bill length by a larger amount than do their mainland relatives. Differences between similar species in body size, as indicated by wing length, are smaller than differences in bill length. This suggests that a major adaptation of island birds to potential competitors is a change in feeding habitats. An alternative explanation of the bill features of island birds, that they have been selected for a species recognition function, may be applicable in some instances. But since pairs of species are usually different in plumage features, as well as song and behaviour, species recognition is probably achieved most frequently by these means and not by bill size or shape. Some data show that homogeneric species differ in numbers by a greater amount on islands than on the mainland. Differences in numbers and bill characteristics support the suggestion that for sustained coexistence the requirement of mutual ecological independence of closely related species is often greater on islands than on a mainland. This results from the restricted variety of resources and area of islands.
10.2307/2412005|Ecologic characteristics of species of two genera of soil mites. Veigaia and Asca, were investigated. Among ten species of Veigaia, all collected from deciduous forests in central Maryland, there were considerable differences in vertical distribution: some species were restricted to leaf litter, some occurred mainly down in the A
10.2307/2412007|Although the biomass of the planktivorous fish in any lake is but a few per cent of that of the plant and animal plankton, these fish exert a potent influence upon the composition of these lower trophic levels. The vulnerability of the zooplankton to predation, together with the high degree of selectivity exercised by the planktivores in their choice of prey items are responsible for this pervasive effect. Freshwater planktivores appear to prefer large Cladocera, especially Daphnia. Trout and yellow perch, facultative planktivores, switch to non-planktonic food when large Daphnia are not available. Freshwater populations of the primarily marine genus Alosa are obligate planktivores, shifting to progressively smaller zooplankters as the larger, preferred items become scarce. Within each prey category there is strong preference for the largest items. In an experimental observation of Alosa sp. feeding on a small calanoid copepod, the survival time of each instar was inversely proportional to its mean body length. The strong preferences evinced by lacustrine planktivores can shift the competitive balance between the zooplanktonic herbivores, all of which exploit the same supply of particulate food. Whenever or wherever planktivores are absent, large zooplankters like Daphnia pulex are numerically dominant. When planktivory is more intense the large zooplankters are cropped sufficiently to allow smaller, hitherto suppressed, species to become numerous. The interest displayed by facultative planktivores toward decreasing sizes of prey is considered in relation to the shape-size polymorphism characteristic of most limnetic Daphnia.
10.2307/2412008|Collection and analysis of food samples permitted comparison of the diets of five species of terns that occur together on Christmas Island, Pacific Ocean. All the terns feed mainly while flying, catching fish and squid chased to the surface by predatory fish. Sterna fuscata and Anous stolidus, which are of equal size, catch prey of similar kinds and sizes, but S. fuscata can exploit feeding areas further from land, and is more numerous. Gygis alba and especially Anous tenuirostris are smaller and eat smaller prey. Gygis eats many fish and squid of kinds not important to A. tenuirostris, and may catch them at different times. Procelsterna cerulea, the smallest species, eats mainly fish larvae and tiny invertebrates. The three most closely related species. A. stolidus, A. tenuirostris, and Procelsterna, differ mainly in size. The ratios of their weights are 3.8 : 2.0 : 1, but the ratios of the mean volumes of the largest 2 per cent of their fish prey are 30. ca. 7. 1. The reasons for the discrepancy are discussed. The value of data on bill length, bill thickness, and body size in assessing the extent of competition for food among bird species is considered. It is argued that the phenomenon of ecological segregation need not indicate the operation of competitive exclusion, and it is suggested that many natural habitats cannot be assumed to contain the greatest number of related species that could coexist there indefinitely if the opportunity to establish themselves arose.
10.2307/2412001|The classical definition of a species used by most vertebrate systematists employs interbreeding as a primary criterion. For various reasons this definition is inapplicable and new approaches, defining different kinds of species or eliminating criteria dependent on breeding, are being explored. So far the systematic treatment of uniparental forms has employed the same criteria applied to bisexual species and, by analogy, has recognized them as species too. But in several instances the inability of the uniparental form to breed with morphologically similar and, hence, presumably related species has been used as a species criterion, even though crossbreeding between individuals of the unisexual species is impossible. In other instances supplementary criteria such as continuous range, or distinctive niche, augment the usual criteria. The use of the presumed degree of genetic dissimilarity between two taxa is a hazardous approach to species recognition, for a single gene difference propagated parthenogenetically in a clone might be more distinctive phenotypically than differences involving entire genomes. The best systematic approach to this species problem is still morphological and ecological and infers that the taxon under scrutiny is a lineage evolving separately from other lineages.
10.2307/2412003|A technique is described for summarizing the results of a numerical taxonomic study by a principal components analysis (with projecting the OTU's onto the first three principal components) The three-way scatter diagram which results can be constructed as a solid model, as perspective drawings, or stereo pairs. Data on the Hoplitis complex of bees is used as an illustrative example.
10.2307/2412624|Genetic differentiation and the evolutionary relationships among 30 populations, representing five subspecies of inland cutthroat tout, Salmo clarki (Richardson), were studied by examining geographic variation at 35 genetic loci assayed with starch gel electrophoresis. Analysis of population subdivision using Nei's (1973, 1975) H
10.2307/2412625|The geometric equivalence of loci on organisms is used as a basis for the operational definition of point homology. A mathematical and physical method of transforming the organism outline to a unit circle and of mapping the internal points are compared with reference to taxonomic problems in mesostigmatic mites.
10.2307/2412626|The distribution of sample estimates of the coefficient of variation is studied analytically and by Monte Carlo simulation. Derivations are given for the expected value of a coefficient of variation and for its standard error. Various proposed standard errors for coefficients of variation are evaluated. Standard errors are derived for differences between coefficients of variation for samples of independent and correlated characters. Methods are proposed for testing the homogeneity of sets of independent and correlated coefficients of variation. Tests of homogeneity of variability profiles as well as for parallelism of such profiles are furnished.
10.2307/2412623|A data set of 47 morphological characters derived from the literature and original observation is prepared for the Leptopodomorpha. An argument is presented for considering the Leptopodomorpha as a monophyletic group and the Nepomorpha as its sister group. The data set is analyzed by cladistic (Wagner) and phenetic (UPGMA) methods in an effort to arrive at a most natural classification. Predictivity and stability are measured by comparing classifications based on a complete and partial taxon set as well as a random bipartition of the character set. Cladistic analysis produces more stable and predictive classifications with greater consensus and component information. The minimum length Wagner tree has greater information content than the UPGMA phenogram by virtue of its higher cophenetic correlation coefficient and its more parsimonious description of the character data. The Wagner tree is compared with four existing classifications for the Leptopodomorpha in the form of networks and trees. One of the published schemes is represented by the same network as the most parsimonious tree, but contains additional homoplasies as a rooted tree. The remaining published schemes are represented by different networks and describe the data less accurately (in more steps) than the most parsimonious tree. Wagner, UPGMA, and published results are examined for congruence with available ecological and distributional data. The minimum length Wagner tree and a published scheme of Polhemus show maximum congruence. A classification isomorphic with the Wagner tree is proposed as the one which should be used for future studies in the Leptopodomorpha. Objective criteria for evaluating classifications and properties of cladistic and phenetic methods are discussed.
10.2307/2992340|Latent developmental or physiological responses to environment that can be evoked by laboratory manipulation provide an opportunity to reconstruct the history of latitudinal dispersal and invasion of stressful climates. Examples are given from the photoperiodic regulation of gonadal cycles in birds and from photoperiodic and temperature controls over diapause and polyphenism in butterflies.
10.2307/2992339|Differentiation at 20-21 protein-coding genes was examined by conventional techniques of starch-gel electrophoresis among twelve species and seven genera of North American sparrows and relatives, Emberizidae, subfamily Emberizinae. One species representing Fringillidac was also included. Data were summarized in a distance matrix which was subsequently used to infer phylogenetic trees by a variety of methods. Results were generally consistent with current classification. Two salient results were unanticipated: 1) the relatively close genetic similarity of Pipilo to group I Emberizinae; 2) the relatively large genetic distance of Calcarius from other Emberizinae. A search of the literature revealed that the distribution of a behavioral characteristic, "bilateral scratching," had led to a prediction of phylogenetic relationships for these genera fully consistent with the protein information. This result is significant because it lends support to proposals that some behavioral traits are extremely valuable phylogenetic markers. Levels of protein divergence in birds are compared to previous estimates for other vertebrate taxa. At corresponding levels of the taxonomic hierarchy, birds consistently exhibit far smaller genetic distances than do many fishes and other vertebrates.
10.2307/2412643|The evolutionary models of punctuated equilibria and species selection: 1. rely upon a model of species origin from peripheral isolates, and 2. interpret trends as the net result of selection among daughter species, whose morphologies are random with respect to the trend. The punctuational model asserts that gradual morphological change is less important than the sudden and rapid morphological change which occurs at speciation, and that morphological stasis is the rule through most of the duration of a species' history. Several considerations suggest limitations of these models. 1. Peripheral population model-Evolutionary biologists acknowledge a diversity of speciation models. The extinction-of-intermediates allopatric model and the parapatric model do not require peripheral isolates, and suggest that morphological differentiation may likely arise from typical within-species geographic variation. 2. Anagenesis versus speciation-The punctuated equilibria model, by establishing a dichotomy between evolution at speciation and evolution before and after speciation, obscures more about the tempo and mode of evolution than it clarifies. 3. Stasis-The nature of paleontological species level taxonomy requires the identification of species-specific characters which are invariant with time. This confounds the identification of stasis with species identification. Perhaps a comparison of within- versus among-species character variation might suggest whether within-species variation is the "stuff" of larger scale evolution. 4. Species selection-This requires that morphological characteristics of daughter species be random with respect to a long term trend. Ontogenetic and functional morphological interpretations of phylogeny suggest that trends within species are not necessarily random with respect to trends among species. We describe an example (scallops) where the range of possible daughter species is very restricted. We finally describe a test for the effect of average species duration on rate of anagenesis. Comparing species longevities does not adequately predict the extent of morphological divergence.
10.2307/2412642|Many cladistic systematists consider hypotheses of ancestor-descendant relationship untestable in fossils. Although fossil preservation is never complete enough to know which fossil population is actually ancestral, theoretically it is possible to sample the ancestral population. If all potentially ancestral populations were sampled, then some members of the actual ancestral population must be contained in the sample. Preservation of most vertebrate and macroinvertebrate fossils is notoriously spotty. However, marine microfossil sequences are the most complete available in the fossil record. Since most planktonic microorganisms have biogeographic distributions that closely correspond to the extent of major water masses, it is possible to sample each population by sampling the water masses. Lack of preservation due to non-deposition, erosion, or dissolution can generally be recognized. We can tell if absence of a form from an area is real or due to lack of preservation. Piston cores from the entire world ocean are available for all the water masses since the late Miocene. Their stratigraphy can be carefully worked out by at least three independent means of correlation, and in some cases these cores faithfully record events spaced only hundreds of years apart. Thus, in certain pelagic microfossils it is possible to sample all populations that have existed through millions of years, and be confident that no forms of interest remain unsampled. Therefore, the marine microfossil record can meet the criteria necessary to recognize ancestors. An example from the Radiolaria is discussed.
10.2307/2412644|Albumin immunological distance data obtained primarily from the literature are interpreted cladistically for representatives of virtually all recognized groups of eastern Caribbean Anolis. A classification is proposed that differs substantially from the classification of Williams (1976). We argue that our classification is highly concordant with the character states used by Williams to generate his genealogy, but his interpretation cannot be forced into compatibility with the albumin evidence. We make no assumptions about regularity of rates of the albumin molecule, but the null hypothesis that rates of albumin evolution are equivalent along each lineage cannot be falsified.
10.2307/2412661|Major recent challenges to the view that animal speciation is usually allopatric are reviewed, and are found unconvincing, either because of their theoretical implausibility or because of insufficient evidence. Special attention is given to the theory of stasipatric speciation, and to purported cases, especially in tephritid fruit flies, of sympatric speciation associated with a shift to a new host. Stasipatric speciation is unlikely under population genetic theory; moreover, chromosome rearrangements probably seldom facilitate speciation. In the tephritid genus Rhagoletis, the archetypal case of sympatric speciation, there is little or no evidence of genetic divergence or of sympatric speciation. The conditions under which host-associated sympatric speciation might occur are so exacting as to be met by very few species.
10.2307/2412662|Living and extinct species in Equus have not been reviewed for nearly a century. More than twenty morphological, mostly cranial characters of Equus and Dinohippus are here explained; synapomorphies uniting Equus and Dinohippus and autapomorphies within Equus are discussed. Significant outgroups compared are Dinohippus Quinn, Astrohippus Stirton, and Neohipparion Gidley. Cladistic analysis indicates that Equus is a monophyletic taxon closely related to Dinohippus, and that Equus can reasonably be divided into two (and only two) subgenera, Equus (Equus) and Equus (Asinus), each of which is characterized by a suite of autapomorphic features. The North American fossil record contains close relatives of every living species of equid except E. quagga. An examination of the zoogeographic implications of the cladistic hypothesis here presented indicates a complex pattern of migration from North America to Eurasia during Blancan through late Pleistocene time, and a strong zoogeographic relationship between Africa and North America demonstrated by the equids.
10.2307/2412660|G- and C-band data for seventy-eight species of bats from four families were subjected to a cladistic analysis to determine the number of chromosomal rearrangements required to convert the karyotype proposed as primitive for a family into the karyotype of extant species in that family. The number of rearrangements ranged from 0 to 36, and if the age of families is 60 million years, average rate of incorporation of rearrangements per million years ranged from 0 to 0.6. When chromosomal variation in congeneric species were subjected to a similar cladistic analysis, most (34 of 54) species had undergone no chromosomal rearrangements; however, some species had undergone from 14 to 20 rearrangements and the types of rearrangements that were incorporated in species having the largest amount of change were generally rearrangements that should produce considerable reduction in gamete fertility in individuals heterozygous for such rearrangements. Radically reorganized karyotypes appear not only in bats but in a wide variety of vertebrates. Factors related to demography, breeding structure, and speciation do not appear adequate to explain the occurrence of such radically reorganized genomes. Factors less related to demographic and vagility characteristics, such as mutation rate and mechanisms which reduce the meiotic constraints on the heterozygote, are phenomena which may be involved in evolving a radically reorganized karyotype.
10.2307/2412407|In the quantitative phyletic approach to evolutionary taxonomy, quantitative methods are used for inferring evolutionary relationships. The methods are chosen both for their operationism and for their connection to evolutionary theory and the goals of evolutionary taxonomy As an example of this approach, a detailed analysis of a set of anuran characters is presented and taxonomic conclusions based on those characters are drawn. The methods and conclusions of the quantitative phyletic analysis are compared and contrasted with the methods of previous workers in the field of anuran classification.
10.2307/2412409|Certain confusions about the nature of biological classification and the logical difficulties arising from these confusions are discussed. A simple set-theoretic model for hierarchic classification is proposed. It is shown how the model enables us to define the terms commonly used in describing hierarchic classifications, and how theorems may be derived which correspond to the established rules of usage for such classifications. The ways in which the model can be developed to provide an underlying logic for numerical methods of classification are indicated.
10.2307/2412412|Speculation about the phylogenetic position of the archiannelids is reviewed. The Families Polygordiidae, Protodrilidae, Dinophilidae, Saccocirridae and Nerillidae should form the order Archiannelida within the class Polychaeta. A number of comparisons between each of these families and other polychaetes have been made without demonstrating closer relationships than exist among the archiannelids themselves. It has not been proven that the archiannelids are polyphyletic. The archiannelids should not be assigned to any of the recognized orders of polychaetes. To call the archiannelids either secondarily reduced or primitively simple presupposes that the origin of the annelids is known, which is not the case. The characters which originally were applied to set the archiannelids apart as primitive annelids can now be recognized as more truly representing adaptations for interstitial life. It would therefore be best to refer to the archiannelids as an order of polychaetes, primarily adapted for interstitial life.
10.2307/2412408|The effect of random errors in homology on the results of a numerical taxonomic study was investigated. The correlation coefficient was found to be much more sensitive to the effects of these errors than the distance coefficient. These analyses suggest that in a study composed of around 74 characters one could tolerate confusions about homologies in as many as 6 characters, but not very many more.
10.2307/2412411|I have presented an analysis of the species density of the breeding birds of continental Canada, the United States (excluding Hawaii) and Mexico following the method of Simpson (1964) in his analysis of North American mammals; seabirds were not analysed. A map of species density was constructed using a 153 mile square-quadrant grid system super-imposed upon the range data of each species. Many of the same trends that Simpson found for mammals-latitudinal gradient, topographic effect, east-west gradient, peninsula effect-were also displayed in the avian species density pattern. There appeared to be a greater decrease in species density in southeastern United States in birds, and it is suggested that this may reflect historical factors in the form of repeated glaciation. A family density map and a species/family ratio map were also constructed, and shown to reflect trends similar to the species density map. Species density maps were constructed for the seven largest families of birds; these were the Anatidae, Accipitridae, Scolopacidae, Trochilidae, Tyrannidae, Parulidae, and Fringillidae. The characteristic pattern of each family is discussed in relation to historical factors and present ecological conditions.
10.2307/2412410|Frequency distributions of body scale counts show a positive skewness. Plots of sample standard deviations against sample means confirm the log-normal nature (i.e., the variance proportional to the mean) of scale count distributions. Moreover, variation is conservative. so that related species tend to possess similar coefficients of variation for homologous counts. If certain conditions are fulfilled (approximation to linear relationship, origin intercept, and proportionality of scatter to standard deviation), the mean coefficient of variation not only serves as a short-cut method of obtaining a least squares regression estimate of variation, but simultaneously serves as an index of variability uneffected by changes in the mean scale count.
10.2307/2412183|Anolis lizard species have solitary populations on certain West Indian islands. These populations have a narrow range in mean body size, very different for the two sexes, though they inhabit islands varying greatly in area and environmental diversity. Smallsized exceptions to this uniformity are northerly Sizes of males for solitary forms are collectively significantly larger than sizes of males on the richest islands. With increasing species diversity from island to island, species size distributions for males irregularly decrease in median but increase in range and skewness. On the three richest islands, smaller species are significantly more often restricted in geographic range. From simple assumptions about competition for resources, a relation is derived which holds that snout-vent length or some power thereof for a given species is equal to some multiple of the reciprocal of the number of closely related species on its island plus some constant. This relation is shown to better describe data than two alternatives. The ratio of the length of the principal trophic structure (the head) to the entire body length of a given species is sometimes but not always predictable from the number of congeneric species on its island.
10.2307/2412184|An n x t table, recording the results of n different tests or observations on each of t items, contains information which may be used to classify the items (OTU's) according to their similarities and differences. We equate similarity with relative closeness, and difference with relative distance. Relative closeness and relative distance may be thought of as complementary measures of proximity. The process of converting an n \times t table of test results into a t \times t table of proximities between the pairs of items is called proximity analysis. The process of finding any isolated subsets of similar items is called cluster analysis. Taxometric methods are viewed as approaches to compressing the information in an n \times t table into a graphic, best-fit model for the display of proximity and cluster relations among OTU's. Three general approaches are followed. 1) compression before proximity analysis, 2) compression as an intermediate step between proximity and cluster analysis, and 3) compression after cluster analysis. The utility of these approaches is compared. Taxometric maps are introduced as a means to display proximity and cluster relations. A procedure is given for preparing taxometric maps from cluster analysis results, and two examples are presented for illustration. An appendix on similarity and proximity equates three independently derived similarity coefficients, which are shown to be derivable from a city-block metric proximity measure.
10.2307/2412181|In red-winged blackbirds from central North America, geographic variation in wing length is a good indicator of geographic variation in body size. Multiple regression analysis is used to consider the relationship between geographic variation and eight geographic and climatic factors. Variation in males appears inversely related to two factors, latitude and July wet-bulb temperature, while variation in females is inversely related to only wet-bulb temperature. The statistical associations may indicate natural selection in terms of thermoregulatory efficiency.
10.2307/2412185|Immunological measurements of structural differences among the various carnivore albumins were made in order to develop a quantitative phylogeny of the major pinniped taxa. It is shown that the pinnipeds are definitely of monophyletic origin and that the walrus (Odobenus) is of recent derivation from an otariid stock.
10.2307/2412182|Characters that are reliable for cladistic inference are those that are consistent with the true phyletic relationships, that is, those that have little homoplasy. A set of cladistically reliable characters are correlated with each other in a particular non-linear fashion here referred to as hierarchic correlation. Cladistically unreliable characters can be hierarchically correlated only by chance. A technique that infers cladistic relationships by successively weighting characters according to apparent cladistic reliability is suggested, and computer simulation tests of the technique are described. Results indicate that the successive weighting procedure can be highly successful, even when cladistically reliable characters are heavily outnumbered by unreliable ones.
2412187|A preliminary study of a group of parasitic nematodes tested the usefulness of numerical taxonomy in the recognition of overall similarities and groupings. Two approaches were followed, a 7-OTU study involving average character values, and a 27-OTU study using character values taken from individual replicates. Qualitative and quantitative characters were used, with measurements expressed as percentages of total body length. Distance and correlation coefficients were structured by graphic and cluster analysis, and the various groupings obtained in the two studies were compared.
10.2307/2412604|A method of selecting from a data matrix the characters most likely to lead to valid phylogenetic conclusions is put forward, based on the concept of a uniquely derived character and its logical consequences. A coefficient of character-state randomness is defined which gives a measure of how far the distribution of character-states is random between the different characters. These principles are illustrated by application to published data on the seven species of Argodrepana.
10.2307/2412603|Cerion uva (L.) and Tudora megacheilos (Potiez and Michaud) are the dominant land snails of Aruba, Bonaire and Curacao; both display the high degree of intraspecific character variation so often noted in terrestrial gastropods. This study correlates patterns of morphologic diversity with geographic and environmental distribution. Projected upon factor axes, the samples of each species fall into four groups corresponding to degrees of geographic isolation: Aruba, Bonaire, eastern and western Curacao. Factor axes represent the major trends of variation in shell size and shape. Subgrouping within geographic clusters is influenced by environmental parameters. In Cerion, for example, shells collected from volcanic rocks tend to be larger than those from limestone. In all geographic regions, these volcanic samples are distinguished by their higher projection on an axis representing increased size and concomitant changes of shape. Pulmonates usually favor limestone, but the anomaly of Cerion's smaller size is related to the unfavorable climatic conditions associated with limestone areas in the Dutch West Indies (dry, windy, and poorly vegetated). If the morphologic differences among geographic regions are similar to ecologically-induced variation within regions, then interregional differences are probably adaptive, and not a fortuitous result of geographic isolation, as many have claimed. Cerion is small and Tudora large in eastern Curacao; Tudora is small and Cerion large in western Curacac. This interregional relationship is parallelled by significant negative correlations between sizes of the two species for samples within regions. Diversity patterns did not change significantly during 16 years separating the studies of Baker and Hummelinck. Baker's data show the same distinction of four geographic areas and similar patterns of distribution within areas; significant positive correlation exists between measures made by Baker and Hummelinck on samples collected from the same localities. Fossil samples from cave phosphates do not conform to modern distributions. The basic character diversity pattern-good (presumably genetic) distinction among regions and ecologically induced variation within regions-requires a revision of Baker's classification. Separate names for the four regions are warranted, but the cumbersome nomenclature for intraregional diversity should be dropped.
10.2307/2412601|The general aspects of planktonic foraminiferal radiation during the Cenozoic are shown by the distributional patterns of several morphotypic groups. There were two major radiations, one occurring during the Paleogene, the other during the Neogene. The radiations followed severe reductions in diversity which occurred at the close of the Cretaceous and again during the mid-Tertiary. Distributional patterns are iterative, and the Neogene radiation is essentially a repetition of what occurred during the Paleogene. According to the present interpretation, the iterative patterns reflect major changes in the dynamic structure of surface waters. By analogy with the distribution of the modern fauna, it is suggested that thermal barriers were degraded during times of reduction and the oceans were uniformly cool. During the radiations thermal gradients were restored and the structure of the surface waters was essentially as it is today.
10.2307/2412602|Protein extracts of pupae from eight populations of the Rhagoletis pomonella complex (Diptera, Tephritidae) reared on apple, Crataegus, Vaccinium and Gaylussacia were compared serologically using both quantitative (Boyden method) and qualitative (immunodiffusion and immunoelectrophoresis) techniques. Those populations feeding on apples and Crataegus were indistinguishable but were differentiated in all tests from those forms developed on Vaccinium and Gaylussacia, supporting the recognition of two entities, R. pomonella and R. mendax, within the complex. The serological identity of the apple and Crataegus forms substantiates the hypothesis that the apple form may have evolved from a Crataegus-feeding population.
10.2307/2412605|The phenetics of European sparrows, Passer domesticus, P hispaniolensis, and their hybrids, are here examined by univariate and multivariate statistics to determine the nature and direction of phenetic variation and the possible adaptive significance of this variation. There seems to be a close relationship of dimensional and color characters with climatic and other environmental variables; most instances of character variation are strictly clinal, with longer individuals occuring in southerly localities and shorter individuals at northerly localities. Thicknesses of bony elements tend not to vary geographically, so longer-limbed individuals are relatively thinner. Regression analyses suggest a persistent positive relationship between summer temperature and bone lengths, such as is subsumed by Allen's "ecogeographic rule." There is sexual dimorphism in the size of wing and sternal elements, but not of other dimensional characters, meaning that females are proportionally larger in the head and legs than males. Probable causes for this complex dimorphism lie in (1) selection for large body size in males as advantageous in display and fighting, (2) selection for small body size in females for thermoregulatory advantage in closed nests, and (3) common use by both sexes of a single food resource. Results of multivariate cluster analyses are such that specimen localities show regularity in clustering occurrence when grouped by 33 male specimen characters, by 27 female specimen characters, or by 37 mean monthly climatic characters. Such coincidence suggests that at least part of the character variation used to construct infraspecific classifications of these sparrows is elaborated by finely-graded climatic differences.
10.2307/2412330|A number of cases of specific names of animals of various groups, formed with an incorrect genitive ending, or without a genitive ending when one might better have been used, are cited; correct forms are given, and the whole subject is discussed. An addition to the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature is recommended and a plea made for more care in forming names.
10.2307/2412328|Some numerical methods for group-forming are discussed in relation to the important informational requirements of classification. Departures from these requirements are termed informational distortions. Such distortions seem to be almost absent for Relative Heterogeneity and Homogeneity Functions, which are described in detail. However, they may reach serious proportions in the product-moment correlation coefficient, Jaccard's and Czekanowski's similarity coefficients, and mean Euclidean distance. Care is needed to avoid the informational distortions of scatter diagrams and models. Further distortions and losses of information are pointed out for the clustering systems using single, median and group average linkage. Such difficulties are avoided with average member linkage, which is suitable for sets derived from poor sampling (open arrays) where a `looser', space-conserved classification is needed. Probably minimal space-conservation is given with group homogeneity as the test for clustering. This is suited to sets where the sampling has been effectively complete (closed arrays) A criticism of some aspects of principal components analysis, and some notes on interpreting dendrograms are included.
10.2307/2412329|An analysis of morphologic measurements from geographically separated samples of the American lobster, Homarus americanus, was made. The centour concept, which involved inferring an individual's group membership from multivariate data, was used. The study involved identification of inshore and offshore groups of lobsters by means of small shape differences based on simultaneous consideration of linear measurements from 16 body parts. The results of the study showed that definite profile differences existed between inshore and offshore groups when matched by size and sex. The observed differences were greater between inshore and offshore groups than those occurring within geographically separated samples of both inshore and offshore lobsters. The results of the study suggested that relatively little overlap was discernible between the inshore and offshore areas in the characters measured. These studies support inferences made from tagging studies to date.
10.2307/2412324|Some algebraic properties of the cophenetic correlation coefficient (CPCC) are derived. Conditions under which the CPCC is maximized for a phenogram are calculated, and a strategy for finding a phenogram with largest CPCC is described. The desirability of the CPCC as an optimality criterion for classifications is discussed.
10.2307/2412327|The effects of constraints-external conditions imposed on but not inherent in the data-are subtle, and they are as yet insufficiently understood. In line constraint arises when the character states of each Operational Taxonomical Unit are made to add up to some constant, as might be the case with percentage data. A simple transform is indicated. Cross constraint on a classification of OTUs would arise as a result of operations like row standardization. It shows up as a tendency for correlations to go negative, and such standardizations are best avoided if possible.
10.2307/2412323|The authors discuss the problems of describing geographic variation data and develop statistical methods for categorizing sets of populations sampled from different localities. The general approach of the simultaneous test procedures, available with a variety of statistical tests and for continuous as well as for categorical data, is employed with these techniques. Geographical regions are defined as sets of connected localities, with connectedness being defined geometrically. Maximal acceptable connected sets of localities (defined as regions) or coarsest acceptable connected partitions of the entire set of localities are found by these procedures. These are illustrated with several examples.
10.2307/2412326|Inferences about the evolutionary history of a group based upon studies of its living members can only be made utilizing assumptions about evolutionary rates. One such assumption current among biochemists and serologists is that biochemical evolution has been steady and the same in all lineages. If this were so, cladistic relationships could easily be inferred from phenetics. The assumption of strict time-dependency may be interpreted either as a deterministic or as a stochastic statement. In the former case, the form of phenetic groups is logically determined in ways incompatible with the results of serological studies; this is illustrated by examples from the comparative serology of marsupials. A simple computer model for the evolution of a group of hypothetical taxa of known phylogeny, operating according to the rules of a stochastic interpretation of time-dependency, generates data about those taxa very like empirical data on marsupials. However, the inferred cladistics of the hypothetical group are incorrect in many details, and this is indicated by the incompatibility of phenograms representing the affinities of the taxa with their known cladistics. It is not claimed that the model reproduces the conditions of antigen evolution, but that it does indicate that such evolution, if time-dependent, must be so in a stochastic rather than a deterministic sense; and further, that having introduced chance as a factor in the evolution of biochemical characters, one has only a probability of inferring the correct phylogeny of a group from the resulting data about the similarities of contemporaneous taxa.
10.2307/2412325|Data resulting from an immunological study of relationships among fissiped and pinniped albumins show that albumin evolution has occurred in a regular fashion in these taxa. This finding allows the conclusion that the pinnipeds share much more recent common ancestry with the canoids than either group does with the feloids. It is pointed out that it now appears possible to develop an internally consistent quantitative phylogeny for a group of species through the immunological study of a single protein found in that group.
10.2307/2412777|This paper gives a method for obtaining subgroups of objects related by a dendrogram. After showing the relationship between spanning trees and dendrograms, the proposal is made to use the former to obtain a subset of all possible partitions. To decide which of the subsets is best, it is necessary to use a measure of clustering; the desirable attributes of such a measure lead to one which is based on a comparison between an object in its original disposition and on its conjectured group membership. The minimization of this measure, called a loss function, is proposed as the criterion for choosing the "best" groups. A small example illustrates the method.
10.2307/2412776|Species densities of Texas amphibians and reptiles are highly correlated with several components of the physical environment. Multiple regression and partial correlation analyses of these relationships lead to several conclusions: 1) species densities of salamanders, frogs, turtles, lizards, and snakes increase significantly with increasing topographic relief, probably because of the greater number of habitat types that occur in uneven terrain versus flat terrain; 2) altitude, per se, has a negative effect upon species densities of all five groups, especially lizards and snakes; 3) species densities of salamanders and turtles increase with increasing mean annual precipitation, either because of increasing productivity or increasing numbers of aquatic habitats; 4) mean annual temperature and growing season have significant effects on species densities only for salamanders, temperature having a positive effect and growing season a negative effect; 5) with a few exceptions, seasonality and year-to-year variability of climatic factors are not correlated with species densities; and 6) species densities of snakes and, to a lesser degree, lizards increase with increasing species density of small mammals. The mean number of species per genus in each of the five groups of Texas amphibians and reptiles also exhibits considerable geographical variation. Much of this variation is caused by variation in species densities, since species per genus and species density are strongly positively correlated. However, even after this correlation is statistically removed there is extensive geographical variation of numbers of species per genus. Some of this variation can be accounted for by environmental influences: 1) species per genus of frogs and snakes increase significantly with increasing mean annual precipitation, possibly due to increasing uniformity of habitats and 2) species per genus of frogs and, to a smaller degree, snakes increase with increasing altitude. This may be related to decreasing productivity of food resources with increasing altitude.
10.2307/2412774|The following hypotheses are developed by cladistic methodology, using only synapomorphic characters to assess phylogenetic relationships. The sister group of perissodactyls is formed by phenacodont condylarths, as evidenced in both groups by reduction (or absence) of metapodials and reduction (or absence) of the paraconid-paralophid complex on the lower cheek teeth. The taxon Perissodactyla is monophyletic, as defined by the presence of a saddle-shaped, or concave, navicular facet on the astragalus. Within perissodactyls, Hyracotherium and other equids form a monophyletic group, distinct from all non-equid perissodactyls, as evidenced by confluence of the foramen ovale and middle lacerate foramen in the ventral basicranium, and by the optic foramen that has migrated close to, or has become confluent with, a group of posteroventral foramina; anterior lacerate, rotundum, and anterior opening of the alisphenoid canal. The "Palaeotheriidae" are included in the Equidae at a lesser taxonomic rank. Within equids, Orohippus has apomorphic dental characters (greater degree of molarization of the premolars) relative to Hyracotherium. Orohippus and Haplohippus are morphologically similar. The premolars of Epihippus have a degree of molarization greater than those of Orohippus and Haplohippus. The subfamily "Hyracotheriinae" is a paraphyletic taxon and should be abandoned.
10.2307/2412775|Genetic variation at 21 loci as determined by isozyme electrophoresis was examined from 218 specimens of Macrotus representing two species and including both mainland and island populations. Karyotypic and electrophoretic data suggest that specimens from the Antillean population (Macrotus waterhousii) are conspecific with populations of the southern mainland taxa. This high degree of similarity between Antillean and the southern mainland taxa and the tendency for the average heterozygosity of populations to be higher in peripheral populations than at the zone of contact between the two mainland species are best explained by the classical allopatric model of speciation and the data do not support the centrifugal model of speciation in this genus. A reduced degree of average heterozygosity per individual as is thought to be characteristic of island populations was not found for specimens of Macrotus from Jamaica. A decrease in variation is indicated, however, by a reduced number of loci that are polymorphic with most of the heterozygosity of the Jamaican population being in the esterase loci. The high degree of exomorphological similarity in Macrotus is not reflected in genic similarities. Macrotus display the lowest range of interspecific similarities reported for mammalian sibling species and are comparable in protein identities to sibling species of Drosophila.
10.2307/2412779|Anolis lizards of the northern Lesser Antilles were studied with starch gel electrophoresis. A total of 22 genetic loci was analyzed for 15 populations. These data were used to estimate genetic distance between populations, and genetic variation within populations. Genetic distance estimates between populations are considerably lower than the estimates for the ecologically equivalent Anolis roquet species group of the southern Lesser Antilles. The relative proximity of islands in the northern part of the archipelago increases the probability of multiple colonizations, hence introgression, and a relatively slower rate of genetic divergence. The data also suggest that the northern bimaculatus group is evolutionarily younger than the roquet group, hence has had less time for genetic divergence. There is a geographic pattern discernible in the genetic distance data. One very tight cluster involves the southernmost populations studied from Dominica, Guadeloupe, Marie Gallante, and Montserrat; a second cluster includes more northern forms from Redonda, Saba, and St. Martin. Variability is lowest on the three smallest islands, but beyond that, there is no correlation between island size and heterozygosity. Relative degree of heterozygosity may be related to colonization history. Source populations tend to have higher variability than derived populations. The degree of genetic differentiation as estimated electrophoretically is very poorly correlated with differentiation for morphological characters such as body size, color, or pattern.
10.2307/2412778|Lateral plate polymorphism and asymmetry, gill raker number and asymmetry, body size and certain other traits were compared in 25 Gasterosteus aculeatus populations. Fluctuating asymmetry and mean number of lateral plates as well as body size and proportions were correlated with the presence of predatory fish. In the absence of other fish species, gill raker number was correlated with lake area. Fluctuating asymmetry of the lateral plates and gill rakers did not appear to decrease with age; in three populations the converse occurred. Directional asymmetry was present in six populations. Fluctuating asymmetry in these populations does not seem to conform well to current concepts concerning developmental stability and asymmetry.
10.2307/2412510|The known sirenians of the North Pacific comprise one halitheriine species, which became extinct about 12 million years ago, and an unbranching lineage (the Hydrodamalinae) of two genera and possibly six species, ending in Steller's sea cow (Hydrodamalis gigas). On the basis of the temporal and spatial distribution of these forms, their functional morphology, and several basic generalizations about the biology of sirenians and their food, the causal factors in North Pacific sirenian evolution may be reconstructed. Late Tertiary climatic cooling and marine regression on the west coast of North America restricted and changed the character of food resources and habitat, intensifying competition between sirenians and desmostylians and leading the hydrodamalines toward evolution of novel morphological adaptations in a new adaptive zone. Explanation of the latter event, to which the term "quantum evolution" may be applicable, does not seem to require recourse to the concept of "punctuated equilibria."
10.2307/2412509|Advances in our knowledge of fossil sirenians over the past four decades are reviewed and a cladistic phylogeny of the order presented. Salient features of the recently re-prepared type skull of the most primitive known sirenian, Prorastomus (middle Eocene, Jamaica), are summarised.
10.2307/2412511|Classical studies in comparative anatomy in the last century led to the recognition of a tripartite subdivision of the living Carnivora, modified in this century into a bipartite subdivision formalized in most classifications at superfamily rank (Canoidea and Feloidea). Osteological characters, particularly those of the cranium, support the sister-group relationship of the Canoidea and Feloidea and permit their recognition into early Oligocene time. Analysis of the Canoidea further supports the sister-group relationship of the Canidae (Cynoidea) with the Ursidae-Procyonidae-Mustelidae (Arctoidea) as classically perceived. These groups are also recognizable on osteological criteria in the Oligocene. Recent studies in the comparative anatomy, paleontology and immunology of the pinnipeds have reinforced their phylogenetic affinity with the Arctoidea. Paleontology and comparative anatomy in particular have presented a convincing case of sister-group relationship of the Ursidae (especially the Amphicynodontinae) with the Otarioidea (including the extinct Enaliaretinae). A major gap in the early history of the Phocidae limits paleontological contribution to the question of their precise sister-group within the Arctoidea. The early Miocene aquatic arctoid Potamotherium fulfills many of the morphological criteria deduced for a phocid sister-group when autapomorphous characters of the living and fossil phocids are removed. Posteranial resemblances are particularly strong reflecting the reliance of Potamotherium on body flexion in swimming as in the phocids. Potamotherium retains a differentiated dentition and cranial characters which can be compared with other arctoids and these agree most unequivocably with those of the mustelids suggesting a specific sister-group relationship of the Mustelidae with the seals and Potamotherium. Thus the osteological evidence supports a specific sister-group relationship of the otariids with the ursids and of the phocids (including Potamotherium and its close relative Semantor) with the mustelids within the Arctoidea. By contrast immunological comparisons provided to date suggest a sister-group relationship of the pinnipeds as a whole with the remaining Arctoidea. A cladogram (Fig. 5) summarizes the criteria for recognition of the sister-groups within the Canoidea and suggests a new classification which would express the phylogenetic conclusions of this paper.
10.2307/2412508|Geologic formations on the west coast of North America from Baja California, Mexico to central California, U.S.A., provide fossil evidence for a succession of Tertiary cetacean assemblages. Formations representing time periods of stage magnitude from early Miocene to Pleistocene age produce diverse aggregates of Cetacea containing fewer species than can now be found in latitudes corresponding to the Californian Province in the Pacific Ocean. Most fossil assemblages include a sperm whale, several dolphin-like taxa, and 3 or 4 baleen whales, although taxonomy is unstable, and many specimens cannot be assigned to named genera and species. New records of the earliest North Pacific occurrence of the families Balaenidae, Ziphiidae, Monodontidae, Phocoenidae, and Delphinidae (sensu stricto) date from the Miocene, and of the Eschrichtiidae from the Pleistocene. Squalodontidae are notable by their rarity. Early Miocene assemblages are dominated by Eurhinodelphidae, and late Tertiary ones by Stenodelphininae and primitive Balaenopteridae. On the generic level, there is a high degree of endemism among small Odontoceti, and a low degree among Physeteridae and Mysticeti. Collecting biases and deficiencies prevent recognition of antitropical distributions of fossil taxa, and paleoclimatology can not yet be inferred from the fossils.
10.2307/2412507|Early in the Oligocene Epoch, Cetacea of the primitive suborder Archaeoceti had already declined sharply from their apparent abundance in Eocene seas. By the beginning of the Miocene, archaeocetes are known to have survived only in the northeast Atlantic and southwest Pacific Oceans. Concurrently with this decline, the first members of the suborders Odontoceti and Mysticeti appeared. They are known from only a few specimens, mostly in upper Oligocene deposits, on both coasts of North America, in Germany, Austria, Italy, the Caucasus, Azerbaijan, Australia, and New Zealand. Two important odontocete genera, Agorophius and Xenorophus, come from beds that are probably no older than late Oligocene and that are certainly not as old as Eocene, where these genera have previously been placed. The wide distribution of known Oligocene Cetacea, especially their presence in Australia and New Zealand, indicates the probable existence of a cosmopolitan cetacean fauna by the end of Oligocene time. The Oligocene Odontoceti are represented by Agorophius and related forms and by the Squalodontidae. Several types of skull telescoping are shown by contemporary members of these groups. Recently collected squalodont skulls from the Oligocene of South Carolina show differences in the pattern of eranial bones that may be ontogenetic. Some toothed whales have morphologic features that have led to their being assigned variously to Archaeoceti and Mysticeti because they are regarded as representing a transitional stage between the two suborders. These forms are all of late Oligocene age; they cannot be mysticete ancestors because true Mysticeti are known from middle Oligocene deposits.
10.2307/2412514|The recently discovered fossil seals from the Middle Sarmatian deposits of South Dobrogea provide a basis for clarifying the taxonomic and evolutionary problems of the Paratethyan seals. Few of the named fossil species are satisfactorily known and the lack of stratigraphic controls on these fossils makes interpretation of their evolutionary history difficult. Study of the South Dobrogea fossil seal fauna, representing mainly Phoca pontica, and re-examination of Simionescu's and Macarovici and Oescu's classic collections enables the recognition of specific variability in Phoca pontica which was widely dispersed in Eastern Paratethys. In addition, it enables preliminary characterization of the imperfectly known Phoca sarmatica and Phoca bessarabica which provides a basis for interpreting the evolution of the Paratethyan seals.
10.2307/2412513|Phocid distribution suggests origin in and primary radiation from the North Atlantic-Paratethyan region. Phocines and monachines are equally old groups, known first from the lower middle Miocene Calvert Formation. Phocines dominated Paratethys in semi-isolation. Both groups dispersed freely around the margins of the North Atlantic in Miocene and Pliocene time. Phocines entered the North Pacific, probably from the north, in Pliocene time, and have modernized and radiated in latest Cenozoic time, exclusively in the cold waters of the northern hemisphere. Monachine distribution receded southward in the North Atlantic during latest Cenozoie time, and in the Pliocene they spread into both the southern hemisphere, where they radiated in the empty Antarctic, and into the Pacific via the middle American seaway.
10.2307/2412512|The order Otarioidea includes two living and two extinct families. Of these four, the extinct Enaliarctidae were ancestral to the others and were derived from canoid fissiped carnivores. This family, which was most diverse from 22 to 16 million years ago, rapidly developed the locomotor, cerebral, and olfactory adaptations to marine life. The extinct Desmatophocidae and the extant Odobenidae (walruses) and Otariidae (sea lions) evolved from the Enaliarctidae at different times and in the order in which they have been mentioned. Each of these three went through their period of greatest diversity in the same order; the Otariidae of today represent the period of greatest diversity of this family. Each of these three independently developed similar dental, vascular, and social adaptations to marine existence but in different ways. All families were native to the North Pacific. The odobenids alone entered the North Atlantic through the Central American Seaway about 8 million years ago, and the otariids alone invaded the southern hemisphere by 5 million years ago.
2412515|Although fossil remains of marine mammals were reported from western Oregon as early as 1849, collections and knowledge of them have grown slowly and haltingly until recently. Milestones have been discovery and description of the specimens on which are based the pinnipeds Pontolis magnus (True) 1905 and Desmatophoca oregonensis Condon 1906, the desmostylian Desmostylus cymatius Hannibal 1922, and the cetaceans Cophocetus oregonensis Packard and Kellogg 1934 and Aetiocetus cotylalveus Emlong 1966. Beginning in 1956 and continuing to the present Douglas Emlong of Lincoln City, Oregon, has amassed an unparalleled collection of fossil marine mammals, including approximately 1000 specimens from coastal Oregon, of which some 85 are desmostylians, 360 are pinnipeds, 3 are fissipeds, and the remainder cetaceans. Specimens are known from the Oligocene to the lower Pleistocene; from the Alsea, Yaquina, Nye, Astoria, Empire, Port Orford, and Elk River Formations. As specimens continue to be prepared and studied the Emlong Collection will yield many of the answers to problems of origin, evolution, and interrelationships of many lineages of marine mammals, and will contribute significantly toward establishment of fossil marine mammals as a powerful tool in geologic correlation over long distances.
10.2307/2412739|Tests were made to ascertain the effect upon computed phenetic distance values of using different character-sets. Random selection of various sized subsets of the total character-list were made in order to simulate the differences which occur due to mixed, missing data. The phenetic distances were computed from sub-sets of characters which were selected from lists of characters for bromels, milkweeds, and legumes. Distances are treated as new variates. Means and standard deviations were found for the OTU x OTU distance matrices computed with less than and more than 50% of the total character-set. While significant differences were revealed between means computed with character-sets of 13 and 30% of the total, matrical summary statistics did not differ significantly when the number of characters represented 50% or more of the total set. Some evolutionary connotations are discussed. Tests showed little evidence of heterogeneity of variance. The results support the use of summary statistics of phenetic distance matrices to express intra-group variation, but with the caution that the biologist should be aware of the actual number of characters being used to compute the phenetic distances.
10.2307/2412736|The isopod families Eurycopidae and Ilyarachnidae constitute an important component in deepsea macrofaunal communities. They have been treated as distinct but closely related families by previous workers. We discuss two little known taxa from the deep sea which completely blur the distinction between the families. The condition of these taxa clearly documents the evolutionary origin of the Ilyarachnidae in the Eurycopidae and permits us to discuss major evolutionary events at the intrafamilial level.
10.2307/2412737|New species of opisthobranch mollusks often have been erected on numerical differences of the radular teeth. Regression analyses of radular counts of Discodoris evelinae (comprising also the synonymized species, D. hedgpethi) indicate intraspecific variation is ontogenetic. Predictions are given regarding the occurrence of this phenomenon among opisthobranchs, and suggestions are made for the use of radular characteristics in opisthobranch systematics.
10.2307/2412743|Linnaean nomenclature in its present form cannot represent phylogenies unambiguously when fossil species are included. It is possible to avoid this difficulty by discontinuing the classification of taxa into Linnaean categories. The features of the resulting unclassified hierarchy and the way in which newly discovered taxa may be inserted in it are explained. Taxa may be classified in different ways, for instance into age classes or into evolutionary grades. The Linnaean category names, with their essentialist connotations, are inappropriate in either case. The international codes of nomenclature should be concerned primarily with the rules for naming taxa and should not prescribe how classes (categories) should be named and used. The prescription of suffices to indicate categorical rank conflicts with the stated aim of the codes to promote stability of nomenclature, and should be discontinued. While binomial nomenclature will surely be retained, a difference of logical status between the forenames of Quaternary and earlier species will need to be recognized.
10.2307/2412738|The striking year-to-year color variation in natural populations of Phymata americana Melin is strongly correlated with an environmental variable, average April temperature, i.e., temperature during the egg stage. Amount of dark pigment in the color pattern (as measured by the character Ca) was strongly negatively correlated (-0.42 to -0.89) with April temperature in nine out of ten populations monitored over a period of six to eight years. Comparisons of color variation in P. americana are made with that of some other insects whose adaptive strategies require a more stringent control of year-to-year color variation.
10.2307/2412744|The processes which contribute to the evolution of biological species take place at a variety of levels of organization; e.g., genes give rise to other genes, organisms give rise to other organisms, and species give rise to other species. All of these processes require continuity through descent. If species are to be units of evolution, they need not be composed of similar organisms; instead they must be made up of organisms related by descent. Taxonomists do not impose this requirement on the phenomena; rather it follows from the nature of the evolutionary process itself. In addition to spatiotemporal continuity, species must also possess a certain degree of unity to function as units of evolution. Gene exchange is one means by which such unity can be promoted. The mechanisms by which asexual species maintain a similar unity are problematic; higher taxa pose an even more serious problem. However, if species are chunks of the genealogical nexus, they cannot be viewed as classes. Instead they possess all the characteristics of individuals-that is, if organisms are taken to be paradigm individuals. The major difference between organisms and species as individuals is that organisms possess a largely fixed genetic makeup which constrains their development, whereas species do not. If species are individuals, then their names are most naturally viewed as proper names, names which denote particular individuals but do not possess any intensional meaning.
10.2307/2412740|Results are presented of an empirical analysis on the statistical consequences of compounding ratios of continuous variables. Three commonly employed relationships among the ratio variables Y and Z were examined including 1) Y = X
10.2307/2412735|It is suggested that the role of ballooning as a mechanism of intercontinental dispersal in spiders has been greatly overemphasized, at least for medium-sized and large ground-dwelling species; that most intercontinental distribution patterns in spiders are the result of vicariance in response to changing geography rather than chance dispersal; and that hypotheses based on vicariance, unlike those involving ballooning, are testable (by correlation with known geological events) and have predictive value. An analysis of the vicariance patterns of the genera of the spider subfamily Laroniinae and the species of the genus Callilepis is presented, and is tested by correlation with the geological events involved in the breakup of Pangaea according to current theories of continental drift; this analysis was successfully used to predict the occurrence of Eilica in India before any Asian specimens of that genus were known.
10.2307/2412742|Speciation phenomena are discussed with special consideration of those taxa that are near the species-level borderline. Such forms, when judged to represent full species, have been termed "allospecies," and are designated by use of brackets (Amadon, 1966). There is a need to designate and treat the complementary phenomenon, namely those well-marked forms approaching the level of species, but nonetheless judged to be conspecific. To fill this void we suggest employment of parentheses to designate these latter forms, and we offer "megasubspecies" as a term for them. For example, one can treat the Savannah Sparrow, Passerculus (sandwichensis) sandwichensis, citing its various minor subspecies in the usual way, and, as a megasubspecies, the "Ipwich Sparrow," Passerculus (sandwichensis) princeps, a distinctive isolate that often is considered a separate species. Other examples are provided to illustrate the use of parentheses for megasubspecies as an adjunct to the use of brackets for designating allospecies of superspecies. It is hoped that the use of parentheses for megasubspecies will prove as useful in preparing checklists, in zoogeographical analyses, and in other ways as are brackets for designating allospecies.
10.2307/2412495|Several aspects of present classificatory theory lead to logical weaknesses in phylogenetic classification and practical difficulties in classifying fossil forms. Modifications of classificatory methods are proposed to resolve these problems. The use of monotypic taxa has no logical basis and should be abandoned. (Species and genera must be exempted from this rule for reasons of nomenclature.) In consequence, sister groups may not be required to have the same rank. Phylogenetic classification can nonetheless properly represent sister group relationships. Categorical rank may not be determined by age of origin. Age of differentiation may be used to assign rank, as may temporal span: the elapsed time between the differentiation of a monophyletic group and the extinction of the group's last species (or the present, for living groups). Category names should be generated by a systematic rule, to avoid confusion if many ranks are required. Categorical ranks may not be analogized formally to integers, but should be regarded as rational numbers.
10.2307/2412488|A "center of origin" explanation for the distribution and diversity patterns of the organisms comprising the principal shallow-water habitats in the tropics-hermatypic corals, mangroves, and sea-grasses-is highly unlikely, based on fossil data and the dispersal capabilities of the organisms. Instead, these biogeographic patterns are better explained by the existence of a previously widely-distributed biota which has since been modified by tectonic events, speciation, and extinction, in accordance with modern geological and biogeographical theory.
10.2307/2412489|A conceptual model for the evolution of phenotypic diversity of the threespine stickleback on the Pacific coast of North America is presented. This model takes into account biological characteristics of the three-spine stickleback and climatic changes during Pleistocene times. Biological features considered include: (1) life history patterns in freshwater and anadromous populations; (2) distribution of freshwater and anadromous populations; (3) morphological variation in freshwater populations; (4) genetics of morphological features; (5) the characteristics of highly divergent populations and their distribution in time and space; (6) character displacement. Previous models for the evolution of phenotypic diversity and the interactions of selection and gene flow are considered. Hypotheses concerning protein evolution in Pacific coast sticklebacks are generated from the model. These hypotheses depend on recent evidence that protein evolution does not have a cause and effect relationship with phenotypic divergence and speciation. A causal relationship between the unusual mode of evolution in western North American Gasterosteus and their low haploid DNA content is tentatively suggested. If the model is correct, freshwater subspecies proposed by Miller and Hubbs (1969) for the nominal species Gasterosteus aculeatus are polyphyletic.
10.2307/2412491|A new approach to invertebrate taxonomic keys is presented in the form of identification manuals. These guides are written in a style useful for the professional systematic specialist, but at the same time allow the general biologist to easily and accurately identify invertebrates. The manuals incorporate the use of several distinct but complementary formats, enabling the user to approach identifications from different perspectives. Biramous pictorial keys of the type employed by the U. S. military forces for insect disease vectors during World War II offer inexperienced persons a vehicle for easy and accurate identifications of otherwise difficult and obscure groups. These are followed by the more traditional dichotomous keys which have been modified to include more detailed information than is possible with the pictorial keys. These, in turn, are followed by detailed tabular keys which present complete diagnoses at a glance. Full descriptive material and illustrations are included, the latter also arranged in "tabular" form so that similar aspects of related taxa are presented together. Complete, illustrated glossaries are provided which include corresponding terms employed by other authors; the French and German equivalents are also given where appropriate. It is hoped that this approach will make the primary literature more accessible to the general reader.
10.2307/2412494|In view of the growing concern that evolutionary information obtained from morphological data may differ in content from evolutionary information from molecular data, we have asked whether morphological data yield phyletic interpretations consistent with those inferred from allozymes. Minimum length Wagner trees were calculated from sets of morphometric and allozyme data on sixteen populations representing five nominal species of Menidia (Teleostei, Atherinidae). The two sets of characters yield nearly perfectly congruent evolutionary trees, despite the fact that phenetic analyses reveal very great disparity between the similarity structures of the morphometrics and the allozymes. A quantitative method for estimating convergence and parallelism was developed and revealed no significant differences in the proportions of these types of homoplasy for the two data sets. This cladistical method for estimating convergence is contrasted with partially phenetic methods used in the past; the later are shown to be incorrect. Mosaic evolution between morphometries and allozymes is demonstrated statistically, and shown to result from heterogeneous rates of apomorphy, rather than from a preponderance of plesiomorphy in one data set. This mosaicism is the probable source of the large phenetic disparity. We conclude that 1) cladistical, rather than phenetic, methods are required for the analysis of character evolution, and 2) that the ease of obtaining sufficient information, rather than presumed inherent differences between characters, should determine which characters are used for evolutionary taxonomic inference.
10.2307/2412490|Electrophoretic analysis of proteins encoded by polymorphic loci demonstrates that Etheostoma spectabile populations show greater differentiation in allelic frequencies in an area of sympatry with E. radiosum than in an area of allopatry. The data are more compatible with the assumption that degree of gene-flow rather than natural selection is the primary mechanism maintaining local differentiation. Increased heterogeneity in sympatry is attributed to exclusion of spectabile from downstream areas through competition with radiosum, thereby isolating spectabile in headwater areas and restricting gene flow between populations. In sympatry, spectabile showed greater differentiation than radiosum, presumably because of greater gene flow in the latter.
10.2307/2412492|Recent improvements in construction and use of tabular keys are described. These are (1) an increase in the cognitive value of codes for character variants by use of longer codes, (2) routine inclusion of up to 20 characters at each level, both in the tables, and also on the data cards, (3) introduction of cross-references of characters between different key groups in the tables, (4) the introduction of a standardized card for statements of characters, and (5) the adoption of a uniform system of numbering key groups to show their level in the key. Additional information is given on (1) how compound characters may be used to enhance clarity of statements of characters, (2) the coding of continuously varying characters, and (3) techniques for expediting the coding of characters. Preparation of diagnoses of species or other taxa from the tables or from the data cards is described. Advantages and disadvantages of computerization of tabular keys are discussed briefly with the balance being in favor of non-computerized keys.
10.2307/2412493|A set of intuitively obvious properties of a coefficient of similarity for binary data is established. Critical examination of the coefficients available from the literature shows that none of them satisfies all these properties, and a new coefficient is proposed to obviate this inconvenience. The distribution of the new coefficient is studied on very large, perfectly random samples of OTU's, and a table is constructed to show its critical values at different significance levels. A mathematical appendix is given to demonstrate the procedure used to construct perfectly random samples of different size.
10.2307/2413341|Previously developed phylogenetic hypotheses for Neotropical colubrids are used as a framework to interpret the biogeographic history of these lineages. The distributions of members of two lineages of xenodontines, which comprise most of the Neotropical colubrid fauna, are documented. One lineage, the Central American clade, has its greatest generic diversity throughout Central America and is poorly represented in North and South America. In contrast, the other major Neotropical xenodontine lineage shows its highest generic diversity in Amazonian and southern South America. Species richness patterns for each clade generally correspond with those shown at the generic level, with the exception that the Central American component has a high species richness in the Andes of Colombia and Ecuador due primarily to the presence of a large number of species of Atractus. Significant dispersal by Central American xenodontines into South America is inferred, but South American xenodontines are poorly represented outside South America. The major phyletic separation of Neotropical xenodontines into Central and South American clades is inferred to result from a late Cretaceous or early Tertiary vicariance or concordant dispersal event. This pattern corresponds to that shown by other components of the Neotropical biota. The relationships of the West Indian xenodontines do not conform to the commonest pattern predicted by general biogeographic models for the Caribbean; moreover, the suggested temporal framework for this radiation implicates dispersal as a plausible mechanism for its deployment. Xenodontines are suggested to be the oldest members of the Neotropical colubrid fauna, and probably date from the late Cretaceous or early Tertiary in that region. Their earlier history is uncertain, and may be with either northern taxa or with a Gondwanan-derived fauna in South America. Colubrines and natricines are much more recent components of the Neotropical fauna. For investigating mechanisms in historical biogeography, the desirability of deriving temporal estimates for the separation of major components of a biota independently of biogeographic considerations is emphasized.
10.2307/2413344|Some systematists, pattern cladists in particular, have recently argued that phylogenetic patterns are essentially a reflection of the "orderliness of ontogeny." In fact, these authors contend that information derived from the study of ontogenetic sequences is the most reliable source to determine character polarities. Heterochronic analysis, in spite of its emphasis on process over pattern, shares many of the same assumptions about ontogeny. This is because both systematic and heterochronic analyses belong to the comparative tradition of embryology. Essentially, ontogeny is viewed as a sequence of morphological stages that are assumed to be conserved. Furthermore, in spite of claims that the analyses are based on Von Baer's law, the approach is fundamentally Haeckelian, since its comparison of ontogenies (at least in the manner currently done in systematics and heterochrony) requires that embryonic stages be homologized with adult stages. Nelson's revised "biogenetic law" is used as an example to illustrate these points. The nature and informational value of ontogenetic sequences are examined and I conclude that, in contrast with strictly temporal sequences, the only "meaningful" sequences (in the sense that they will be conserved through phylogeny) are the causal ones, where the antecedent stage is required for the expression of the subsequent one. However, I present some examples of causal sequences where inductive relationships change through phylogeny. Therefore, there are no good arguments to assume a priori that ontogenetic sequences are conserved. A more fundamental problem is pointed out when I discuss that the methodology of comparison of ontogenetic sequences, used by systematists and heterochronists, is not compatible with the dynamic perspective of development endorsed by experimental and mechanistically-oriented embryologists. Examples are provided where, although the process can be arranged in a sequence of stages, these are effectively meaningless and useless in a systematic context. Two additional empirical cases are discussed where a heterochronic analysis is integrated within a dynamical framework of development. A paradox emerges, since the resultant morphology in the derived species is not represented in the primitive ("ancestral") ontogenetic sequence, in spite of the fact that it has been produced by a regulation in the timing and developmental rates of the ancestral ontogeny. I conclude that these problems result from the usage of a static and unrealistic view of ontogeny. A major challenge in systematics will be to incorporate the dynamic perspective of development into a methodological framework amenable to comparative analysis. I agree with Nelson and others in that development is ordered and that this internal order structures pattern. However, the information is not necessarily in the ontogenetic sequence.
10.2307/2413343|The hypothesis of monophyly of the avian family Tyrannidae is tested using outgroup comparison of traditional characters, as well as several characters examined in recent studies of the group. No characters support the original hypothesis, but possession of internal cartilages in the syrinx and an intrinsic syringeal muscle, M. obliquus ventralis, supports monophyly of a slightly larger group. A published phylogeny based on DNA-DNA hybridization data suggests a different view: that the Tyrannidae is not monophyletic; and that some traditional tyrannids are more closely related to members of the Cotingidae and Pipridae than to the rest of the family as currently recognized. The significance of the different results of these approaches is discussed.
10.2307/2413342|Cladistic analysis of restriction endonuclease cleavage map data, particularly from animal mitochondrial DNA, is considered within a maximum-likelihood framework. The required probability model of evolutionary change is developed from current empirical evidence, and is specific to mtDNA. A large asymmetry is shown to exist between the probabilities of gaining a new site and losing an existing site, with the loss of a site being the much more common event. Since Wagner parsimony assumes that the probabilities of forward and reverse changes are equal, it is a very inefficient estimator of relationships for these data. Dollo parsimony, on the other hand, assumes that the probability of a loss is much greater than that of a gain, an assumption of Dollo parsimony which fits restriction map data well. Dollo parsimony is shown to be a consistent and efficient estimator of phylogeny for mtDNA restriction map data.
10.2307/2413345|An image-analytic technique that automatically determines the outlines for simple silhouettes is described. These outlines are numerically characterized using elliptic Fourier decomposition. Since the resulting Fourier coefficients can be normalized so that they are invariant to changes in magnification and rotation as well as other such transformations of the original silhouette, they quantify shape per se, and can be used as variables in multivariate analysis of form. In an application, discriminant analysis distinguishes between electrophoretically distinct populations of the mussel Mytilus edulis. While the technique was able to demonstrate an association between genotype and morphology, it was not able to identify reliably the population from which each specimen was collected.
10.2307/2413203|The systematic relationships within the speciose genus Corydoras have been very difficult to elucidate due to similar body forms among species, lack of discrete morphological features, and uncertain homologies of pigmentation patterns. Most taxa have been described on the basis of pigmentation and of proportional differences in body measurements, which often are variable within and among conspecific populations. Multivariate comparisons of body form among species indicate that both meristic and mensural attributes are highly correlated with body size, thus displaying strong evolutionary allometry. Most ratios of measurements, including those often considered diagnostic among taxa, are as strongly dependent on body size as are untransformed measurements; however, some bivariate ratios reflect multivariate patterns of shape variation and, thus, may be useful in descriptive taxonomic studies. Size-independent variation in form seems to be continuous among species, with no apparent morphological gaps with which to distinguish "natural" species groups. Thus, changes in morphology in these fishes are highly conservative and result from subtle, perhaps heterochronic changes in relative growth rates among body structures.
10.2307/2413207|Forms of Levene's test for evaluating relative variation (univariate) are compared by simulation, along with the F-test of ratios of squared coefficients of variation, the F-test of ratios of variances of logarithms, and Bartlett's test on logarithms. Only the Levene's tests using the medians were always robust. These consisted of transforming each of a set of sample variates X<sub>i</sub> to Y<sub>i</sub> = |X<sub>i</sub> - Md(X<sub>i</sub>)|/Md(X<sub>i</sub>) or to Y<sub>i</sub> = |ln X<sub>i</sub> - Md(ln X<sub>i</sub>)| for comparison by ANOVA, where the Md's represent the medians. The use of medians with the log transformation was slightly more powerful when the underlying distributions were positively skewed, while the use of the untransformed ratio form of the test was slightly more powerful when the distributions were symmetrical or negatively skewed. Recommendations and some problems that remain are discussed.
10.2307/2413205|Allelic frequency data were used to identify familial limits within the avian superfamily Tyrannoidea. Several hypotheses were generated from this data set using distance-Wagner, Fitch-Margoliash, and cladistic analyses. In addition, a jackknifing procedure was employed to identify those portions of the phylogenetic hypotheses that were robust to such factors as the choice of taxa analyzed. The genus Sapayoa, previously considered to be a manakin (Pipridae), was found to be distant from all other taxa considered. The true affinities of this taxon, therefore, may lie outside of the Tyrannoidea. The electrophoretic data also indicated that the 12 cotinga species (Cotingidae) analyzed belong to five distinct lineages, each of unknown affinity within the superfamily. Finally, sister taxa were identified for the monogeneric families Oxyruncidae and Phytotomidae. The former was found to be closely related to tityras, becards, and flycatchers (as indicated by Myiarchus), while the latter family is closely related to the cotinga genera Ampelion, Doliornis, and Zaratornis. The improved ability to determine higher-level relationships within this assemblage was considered a consequence of the use of biochemical characters, the interpretation of which is greatly simplified because of the stochastic nature of molecular evolution. However, conflicts between this and a recent DNA-DNA hybridization study indicate that the extraction of phylogenetic information from biochemical data may not be as free from assumptions as we would like. Several explanations for this lack of concordance are discussed.
10.2307/2413204|Phylogenetic trees, derived from distance measures, may be of variable reliability due to variance in the quality of the data sets from which they are produced. Such trees, therefore, are of questionable value as a means of summarizing large data sets. To improve our confidence in these trees, a jackknife technique is presented that, in combination with existing consensus techniques, identifies those portions of evolutionary history that are poorly known due to inconsistencies in the data. Such trees more accurately represent the results of a study than do current tree-generating algorithms that obscure areas of uncertainty. The approach is a simple modification of existing tree-generating methods. As an illustration, a biochemical data set is analyzed using this technique.
10.2307/2413206|Phyletic, biogeographic, and ecologic relationships among relictual montane populations of least chipmunks (Eutamias minimus) from Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico were examined by analysis of pelage color, cranial and bacular morphology, protein electrophoresis, and habitat characteristics. Unlike previous investigations of geographic variation involving these populations, a pattern of relationship and differentiation corresponding to contemporary geographic discontinuities in the Southwest is demonstrated. Populations along the east and west sides of the Rio Grande Valley constitute distinct evolutionary lineages, with the most geographically isolated populations exhibiting the greatest amount of genetic divergence. This pattern of differentiation is consistent with the hypothesis that montane corridors present during the Pleistocene facilitated colonization by ancestral northern stocks in accordance with vicariant biogeographic theory. Microhabitat assessments demonstrate that least chipmunks inhabit a diverse spectrum of environmental regimes ranging in elevation from 2,400 to 3,900 m, and encompassing several habitat types. These results are consistent with observations on other populations of this species, yet contradict the hypothesis that least chipmunks in the Southwest have such restrictive ecologic requirements as to be predisposed to rapid extinction during interglacial episodes of the Pleistocene. The significance of this study to the most recent vicariant explanation of southwestern montane mammal biogeography is discussed.
10.2307/2413326|A method to measure how similar are two phylogenetic trees for the same collection of evolutionary units (EUs) is described. The measure does not change with changes in the direction of evolution in either of the two trees being compared, and thus it depends only on the convexity and proximity of the groups of EUs within the collection under study. It can also be used with only partially resolved phylogenetic trees. The measure is based on the idea that a group of four EUs is the smallest group for which there is more than one possible distinct undirected phylogenetic tree. For a given phylogenetic tree, the undirected subtree inherited by a group of four EUs is the tree that results when all the branches containing only EUs not in this group of four are removed. Every group of four EUs either inherits one of three distinct types of undirected phylogenetic trees, or is unresolved. Two phylogenetic trees can be compared on the basis of which groups of four EUs inherit the same type of undirected phylogenetic tree. The ideas can be extended to comparisons of three or more trees.
10.2307/2413321|Computer selection of random sets of real characters was used to elucidate the relationship between character number and the reliability of multivariate patterns of geographic variation. The simple pattern of geographic variation was a distinct pair of parapatric races (categorical or "stepped clinal" variation) in the grass snake (Natrix natrix) in Europe. The characters used were 71 significant characters of low within-group correlation drawn from six different character systems (e.g., scalation, color pattern and internal morphology). The pattern was assessed by principal coordinate analysis, and the congruence was taken as the absolute correlation between the "first" principal coordinates. The investigation was based on two procedural models: (A) the congruence between completely independent character sets using from 1 to 35 characters; and (B) the congruence between the analysis based on the total 71 characters and analyses based on from 1 to 65 characters. The relationship between congruence and character number is expressed by one of two mathematical models depending on the procedural model employed. Congruence is clearly asymptotic with respect to character number. This indicates the existence of a stable, overall pattern of racial variation that, once established, is unlikely to be influenced by the addition of further characters. The asymptotes are reached at an early stage and, between 8 to 10 characters, reveal the distinct patterns of racial variation with at least 90% confidence, depending upon whether one is characterizing patterns on the basis of a geographic transect or a scatter on the first two principal coordinates. It does not appear to be cost effective to use more than 18 significant characters, because each additional character increases the minimum congruence by very little beyond this point. Univariate characters, and those patterns based on too few characters, can misrepresent this stable pattern. The observed failure of univariate/conventional studies to reveal this pattern, or to agree with one another, is related to the low probability of selecting the appropriate individual characters, even though they occur.
10.2307/2413323|For three species in the presence of a molecular clock, it is possible to compute how many steps a phylogeny must have to be significantly worse than the most parsimonious phylogeny. This analysis extends the pioneering work of Cavender (1978, 1981) by taking advantage of the constraints imposed by the assumption of a molecular clock. The distribution of two statistics is obtained by direct enumeration of all possible outcomes in a worst-case phylogeny which has a trifurcation. The two statistics are the number of fewer steps in the best tree than in the next best tree, and the number of "phylogenetically informative" characters supporting the best tree. These two statistics prove to be approximately equivalent in statistical power, and tables of 95%-significance values are provided for each. The possible extension of these results to more than three species is discussed. The enumeration of all outcomes also allows us to compute exact tail probabilities for Templeton's (1983) test of one tree against another. His test is not exactly correct, but usually is conservative when used as a two-tailed test.
10.2307/2413324|Twelve taxonomic characters of the genera in the phylum of marine worms, Sipuncula, are examined and polarities assigned to the various states. A Hypothetical Ancestral Sipunculan is proposed and probable evolutionary pathways are presented. The PHYLIP "Cam-in-Sokal" and the PAUP "Wagner" parsimony programs are used, as well as Dice's similarity coefficient and UPGMA cluster analysis. These provided both cladistic and a hybrid phenetic/cladistic analyses. Only 5 of the 12 characters are clearly not homoplastic. While monophyly is not demonstrated in all cases, the 17 genera are now grouped into six families, four orders, and two classes as a result of using evolutionary, phenetic, and phylogenetic methodologies. The selective removal of homoplastic characters within the two classes did not significantly alter the composition of the orders or families. The evident congruence among these methods affirms the value of a synthetic approach.
10.2307/2413322|Patterns of taxonomic congruence were examined in 17 species of Rhytidoponera endemic to New Caledonia, using disparate data sets based on allozymes and morphology. These ants belong to four informal "species groups," one of which is monotypic. Both phenetic (UPGMA clustering) and cladistic (minimum-length tree estimation) methods were employed. Adams-2 and strict consensus trees were constructed for all pairs of equivalent rival trees. Since the rival trees were fully resolved or nearly so, the degree of resolution of the consensus trees was used to assess the amount of taxonomic congruence and was measured with the consensus indices of Colless (1980; Cl
10.2307/2413320|Electrophoretic examination of the products of 29 gene loci in the five species of Pholidobolus and three species of Proctoporus largely substantiates the taxonomic arrangement that was based on earlier morphological work. The electrophoretic data are used to construct a phylogeny of the species and the morphological data are reanalyzed for comparison; these data sets are largely consistent. The hypothesized phylogeny places Ph. affinis as the sister species to the other Pholidobolus, Ph. macbrydei as the sister species to the remaining taxa, and the two populations referred to Ph. prefrontalis as the sister species to Ph. montium plus Ph. annectens. Because of the small size of the genus Pholidobolus and the concomitant small number of possible phylogenetic hypotheses, comparisons among various methods of constructing phylogenetic trees from electrophoretic data are facilitated. All 105 possible bifurcating unrooted trees were examined for each of 13 goodness-of-fit statistics; three similar trees were consistently favored by all criteria. If outgroup rooting is used, the most favored of these trees is identical to the most parsimonious cladogram. However, with midpoint rooting, almost all phylogenetic information is lost and the resulting tree is identical to the UPGMA phenogram. The midpoint-rooting option of distance trees reinvokes an assumption (equal rates of change) that the distance methods are supposed to avoid. This assumption is clearly not met for the genus Pholidobolus. Biogeographic analysis of the species of Pholidobolus with respect to the hypothesized phylogeny of the genus reveals that no contact zones of this parapatric complex involve two sister species. This emphasizes the need for phylogenetic reconstruction as the first step in the examination of speciation mechanisms. This finding also suggests that competing species, rather than geographic barriers, may at times serve to isolate differentiating populations.
10.2307/2413325|In the panbiogeographic evolutionary synthesis, orthogenesis is referred to as a process which involves an inherent tendency to vary in certain directions, as ancestors vicariate or break apart into descendants. Orthogenesis has origins in the studies of form, but is given a biogeographic perspective in panbiogeography. The panbiogeographic use of orthogenesis is compatible with the origin of the term as presented by Haacke and Eimer. Misinterpretations of orthogenesis describing it as mystical, teleological and linear are invalid. The orthogenetic aspect of evolution was recognized by Darwin as "laws of growth," but was neglected in favor of natural selection. Although an internal component to evolution is recognized by contemporary biologists, it is often considered to be secondary to natural selection. Where recognition is given to an internal tendency for evolution to proceed without requiring the action of natural selection, terms such as "constraints," "bias," and "potential" may imply orthogenesis.
10.2307/2413150|Distance data have posed a number of problems for phylogenetic analysis. Among these are the loss of information about individual character states, and the frequent departures from metric properties of distance matrices derived by molecular techniques. The common degree-of-fit methods for the analysis of such data imply possibly unrealistic assumptions about these distances. As an alternative, a minimum-length criterion is considered. This has the appeal of requiring more conservative assumptions about distance data and represents the equivalent criterion to that for the analysis of character data by numerical cladistic techniques. Based upon its similarity to the character-Wagner algorithm, the distance-Wagner algorithm is suggested as a possible heuristic method for the approximation of most-parsimonious trees from distance data. Both the distance-Wagner algorithm and a recent modification have weaknesses in this role. Computer simulations demonstrate that the new algorithm developed in this study compares favorably with not only the distance-Wagner algorithm but also the character-Wagner algorithm in the approximation of most-parsimonious trees.
10.2307/2413147|Characteristics of organisms often vary widely across geographic space as a result of natural selection, migration and environmental heterogeneity. I present canonical trend surface analysis as an approach to the study of this variation. The method is based on the canonical correlations between sets of orthogonal axes in the space defined by the characteristics of the organism and in the space defined by the coordinates of the localities (and their squares and crossproducts). I apply this method to simulated data sets of trends and patches; the basic patterns are recovered. Next, 1 analyze two real data sets; the distribution of 21 HLA human blood types at 58 localities in Europe; and the distribution of 26 species of Foraminifera in 61 sediment core top samples from the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The derived patterns are similar to those developed by other investigators using different methods on these same data. However, canonical trend surface analysis is shown to be less sensitive to geographically unpatterned data than the methods used in these earlier studies of the same data. The canonical trend surface method extracts that part of the character variation that is most nearly coincident with the geographic information, and leaves unresolved the other covariances.
10.2307/2413148|In an attempt to clarify the relevance of ontogenetic transformations for systematics, the ontogenetic method for determining character polarity (the biogenetic law of Nelson, 1978) is analyzed from the perspective of phylogenetic systematics. In phylogenetic systematics, as defined here, the relationships sought are those of common ancestry and, thus, the concept of phylogeny is taken as an axiom from which systematic methods are deduced. This perspective has a number of consequences concerning the role of ontogenetic transformations in systematics, among which are the following: (1) Von Baer's second law, which states that less general characters are developed from the most general, is not universally true. (2) The validity of Nelson's biogenetic law (not to be confused with other concepts of similar name) does not depend on the validity of von Baer's law. (3) As a theory about the relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny, Nelson's biogenetic law can only be tested by known character phylogenies. However, outgroup, paleontological, and ontogenetic methods of polarity determination need not be interpreted as scientific theories; instead, they can be interpreted as theorems deduced from the axiom of phylogeny and certain auxiliary assumptions. (4) The usefulness of the ontogenetic method rests on an assumption of ancestral character retention. If ancestral characters are retained in descendant ontogenies, then ancestral characters will be more general than their phylogenetic derivatives. (5) The sequence of ontogenetic transformation is irrelevant to the usefulness of the ontogenetic method; generality is the critical factor. (6) An "ontogenetic" method based on generality may be useful for determining evolutionary polarity when characters are instantaneous morphologies, but ontogenetic transformations rather than instantaneous morphologies are more appropriately considered characters when attempting to determine phylogenetic relationships among organisms. When ontogenetic transformations are viewed as characters, there can be no ontogenetic method for determining evolutionary character polarity; however, the comparative phylogenetic method properly involves a comparison of ontogenetic transformations. (7) Ontogenetic polarities are different than phylogenetic polarities; the two have the relationship of part to whole, respectively. (8) For characters that exhibit ontogenetic transformation, homology is distinct from synapomorphy. (9) Finally, there is no threefold parallelism in phylogenetic systematics. Comparative anatomy, paleontology, and embryology are not three separate disciplines within systematics; rather, the three form a single comparative method unified in the organism by the concept of evolution.
10.2307/2413151|Five methods of coding character differences for meristic or continuous variables when variability within taxa exists are discussed: (1) scaling by among-group variability; (2) scaling by within-group variability; (3) simple gap-coding; (4) homogeneous-subset coding; and (5) generalized gap-coding. Scaling by among-group variability is ineffective as it does not use within-group variability for coding purposes. Scaling by within-group variability does not effectively alleviate computational and theoretical problems associated with within-group character variability. The implications of gap-coding for character differentiation are examined, and the relationship between increasing sample size and decreasing information content of gap-coded characters is reviewed. The technique of generalized gap-coding is proposed to eliminate the problems apparent with simple gap-coding. Homogeneous-subset coding is developed in more detail than previously and compared to generalized gap-coding. The two techniques differ only in the critical values used to establish homogeneous or discriminant groups. These differences are most pronounced with unequal sample sizes for taxa. For moderate to large sample sizes, homogeneous-subset coding will detect more differentiation than generalized gap-coding for most choices of critical gap size. Seven data sets, representing a range of number of taxa and characters, as well as types of taxonomic units, were coded following the three procedures (3, 4, and 5, above), and phylogenetic trees were constructed. The results are discussed with regard to the amount of useful information retained by the coding procedures, the number of minimum-length trees found, and character consistency of the characters on the constructed trees. Consistency levels for all the coding methods were low and inversely related to the number of taxa present in the study. Finally, character-coding methods for phylogenetic analysis are discussed with regard to implications from the Kluge-Kerfoot phenomenon.
10.2307/2413152|Methods are described for the automatic measurement of morphological features of mosquito wings (wing outline and venation) from TV images of specimens mounted on microscope slides. The digitized images were preprocessed to locate the "ridge points" in the gray-scale image surface and the digitized images were thinned so that veins could be represented by curves only a single pixel wide. The image was then segmented into the wing outline and the 10 longitudinal wing veins. Polynomial functions were fitted to each vein. The coordinates of the end points of each vein and the coefficients of the polynomials could then be used as descriptors of each wing for subsequent multivariate analyses. Comparisons are made with other algorithms and the results are shown.
10.2307/2413149|Inferring phylogenies from gene frequencies should be regarded as a statistical problem rather than treated in the framework of the hypothetico-deductive method. The approximations involved in a statistical treatment are discussed, as are the models of gene frequency change implicit in the use of statistical methods. In particular, the different genetic distance statistics have different assumptions. These are pointed out, and a Markov chain treatment of genetic drift in a small population is used to evaluate the behavior of a number of the most popular genetic distances. Distance measures that are standardized to correct for the effect of initial gene frequencies behave as expected, but only for moderate amounts of time and when initial gene frequencies are not extreme. The distance measures such as those by Balakrishnan and Sanghvi and by Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards, which are standardized for the effect of the initial gene frequencies, perform acceptably if the initial gene frequencies are not too extreme and the divergence time is not larger than twice the effective population size. A genetic distance based on discrete character coding of alleles according to their presence or absence shows quite unusual behavior. No genetic distance copes very well with extreme initial gene frequencies. The prospect of getting useable additional information from population samples of sequences is also discussed. Criticisms by J. S. Farris of an earlier paper that used statistical criteria to evaluate parsimony and compatibility methods are rebutted.
10.2307/2992220|The phylogenetic relationships of the osmeroid fishes are examined in the context of character congruence. The Osmeroidei is monophyletic, and its sister taxon is the monophyletic Argentinoidei. The division of osmeroids into Northern and Southern Hemisphere groups is largely corroborated. Two problematic taxa, the neotenic Salangidae and the monotypic Lepidogalaxias salamandroides, are hypothesized to be members of the Southern Hemisphere clade; in which reductive evolution has been common. The Northern Hemisphere clade includes the Osmeridae proper and the Japanese Plecoglossus altivelis. The utility of reductive characters in phylogeny reconstruction is discussed, with examples from the osmeroid fishes.
10.2307/2992222|Theoretical considerations and the results of computer simulations demonstrate that Swofford and Berlocher's (1987, Syst. Zool. 36:293-325) reason for preferring the Manhattan metric over Rogers's distance for inferring phylogenetic trees from allele frequencies under the principle of maximum parsimony is not necessarily valid. The theoretical considerations lead to the proposal of a new general criterion for choosing between cladograms or trees of equal length for qualitative characters as well-when two trees are of equal length, the one that is consistent with more possible transformation series of the characters under consideration is preferable. Rogers's genetic distance also is shown to be less sensitive to the overestimation of distance produced by heterozygous loci and finite sample size than the Manhattan metric, Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards's distances, or Hillis's (1984, Syst. Zool. 33:238-240) modified Nei's distance. Finally, Rogers's distance is preferable to Wright's (1978, Evolution and the genetics of populations, Volume 4, Univ. Chicago Press, Chicago) modified Rogers's distance for inferring phylogenetic trees because the latter distance results in unnecessary homoplasy on a minimum-length tree.
10.2307/2992223|A method for quantifying levels of observed homoplasy in cladistic analyses is proposed. The homoplasy slope is a function that describes the relationship between number of taxa in a cladistic analysis and the observed number of extra steps per character. The homoplasy slope ratio (HSR) relates the homoplasy slope of a cladistic analysis (real data) to that of an analysis based on random binary data sets of the same size. Tests show that HSR is not correlated with numbers of characters and taxa, and this quality makes the index particularly useful for comparing the levels of observed homoplasy among cladistic analyses based on data sets of different sizes. All of the other homoplasy indices currently available-including the consistency index (CI), retention index (RI), and homoplasy excess ratio (HER)-are correlated with number of characters and/or number of taxa.
10.2307/2992221|Simberloff et al. (1981, pages 40-63 in Vicariance biogeography: A critique [G. Nelson and D. E. Rosen, eds.], Columbia Univ. Press, New York) proposed three different sampling distributions of trees for testing cladistic biogeographic hypotheses. Two of these distributions involved sampling from a uniform distribution of cladograms (either labeled or unlabeled), whereas the third distribution was calculated by a simple Markovian model. This paper presents a proof that the third distribution of cladograms is identical to the uniform distribution of dendrograms (rooted trees with internal nodes ranked). Hence, all three sampling distributions are uniform distributions that differ solely in the kind of tree being sampled. The paper concludes by suggesting ways of constructing nonuniform tree distributions.
10.2307/2992218|We present a phylogenetic methodology to test hypotheses of adaptation and to discriminate adaptation from alternative causal explanations of character evolution. To constitute an adaptation, a character must be shown to provide current utility to the organism and to have been generated historically through the action of natural selection for its current biological role. The criterion of current utility is applied by comparing the performance of a derived trait to that of its phylogenetically antecedent state. If the performance of a trait exceeds that of its antecedent state, it constitutes an "aptation" for its observed biological role. Alternatively, if the performance of a trait equals or falls below that of its antecedent state, it constitutes a "nonaptation" or "disaptation," respectively. The criterion of historical genesis is applied using the concept of "selective regime," the aggregation of organismal and environmental factors that combine to determine the expected action of natural selection on actual and potential character variation. An aptation that arose on a lineage having the same selective regime as the focal taxon constitutes an "adaptation," whereas one that arose on a lineage having a different selective regime constitutes an "exaptation." For nonaptations and disaptations, the criterion of historical genesis serves to determine whether the nonaptive or disaptive status arose coincident with the trait itself or secondarily through a change of selective regime. We suggest that this phylogenetic approach will help to overcome general criticisms of adaptationist studies and will serve to bridge the gap between microevolutionary and macroevolutionary studies of adaptation.
10.2307/2992219|The problem of identifying all of the possible tree cross sections in a given slice of time for an observed change of the diversity is solved using the theory of branching processes and the multinomial theorem. The methods can be used in exploratory fashion to examine the ways in which the numbers of possible cross sections and their properties can differ with the starting and ending diversities, for instance. But, because tree cross sections can be stacked together, the methods can also be applied to answering certain statistical questions regarding complete phylogenetic trees. A phylogenetic tree for the Elephantidae (Mammalia) is tested for statistical significance using the methods developed. Because the focus is on examining the possible tree cross sections and complete trees for observed changes of diversity, the solution may be of particular value for testing hypotheses about phylogenetic trees that are constructed using data from paleontology.
10.2307/2992238|Methods of polarity determination are governed by both the basic assumptions of the analysis and particular auxiliary assumptions. Differences in basic assumptions between phylogenetic systematics and pattern cladistics result in different approaches to polarity determination. In phylogenetic systematics outgroup comparison, the ontogenetic method and the paleontological method are valid procedures for determining polarity because they can be derived from basic evolutionary axioms. The applicability of each method of polarization in particular instances depends on the veracity of auxiliary assumptions. Auxiliary assumptions entail necessary conditions implicit in the rationale of the method or the adequacy of available information. Each method has a unique combination of auxiliary assumptions and is not a special case of, or dependent on, other methods. Much of the recent debate regarding the overall relative applicability of the three methods suffers from the failure to properly consider auxiliary assumptions. Outgroup comparison has the broadest utility, but the applicability and utility of all methods should be considered in each instance.
10.2307/2992240|Computer-generated phylogenies were used to examine the relationship between the temporal position and completeness of additional taxa in a phylogenetic analysis and the rate of evolution or, equivalently, the temporal scope of the phylogenetic problem. In the simulations, four fossil taxa of varying temporal position and completeness were added to an analysis that included four living taxa. Additional taxa varied in completeness (25%, 50%, 75%, and 100% completeness) and in temporal position (0%, 33%, 66%, and 100% of the distance from the ancestor to the living time plane). Fifty trees were generated each for low, low intermediate, high intermediate, and high rates of evolution or temporal scope. Because additional taxa that are 100% complete and 100% of the distance to the living time plane are equivalent to the addition of living taxa, this study directly compares the effects of addition of living versus fossil taxa in phylogenetic analysis. The importance of fossil taxa varied depending on their completeness and temporal position and on the rate of evolution under which the phylogeny was generated. In general, high completeness and temporal position near the ancestor of a clade improved phylogenetic resolution as measured by the percentage of the tree-length distribution that contains the real tree. Furthermore, the conditions of completeness and temporal position under which fossil taxa improved phylogenetic resolution over living taxa became less restrictive as the rate of evolution or the temporal scope of the tree increased. A simple analytical model is proposed to explain these results.
10.2307/2992235|The comparative analysis of DNA molecules is a useful means for phylogenetic reconstruction, because different types of genetic elements yield resolution at different levels of taxonomic divergence. A single individual is usually characterized for each operational taxonomic unit (OTU), based on the premise that within-OTU variation can be safely ignored. Whereas that premise is expedient, it may not be generally valid. Sometimes variation within OTUs can affect the analysis. We develop a formal analytic treatment of variation in phylogenetic output as a consequence of intraspecific variation. Using restriction site data from the mitochondria of three species of cyprinid fishes to illustrate, we show that genetic variation within taxa impacts on tree topology. Genetic variation among populations is most important; that within populations is small. Genetic variation should be expected within any taxon, and it is generally useful to sample (replicate) one taxonomic level below that of interest.
10.2307/2992236|Multivariate methods for "size correction," such as shearing or multiple-group principal component analysis, assume that the groups under consideration share a common allometric growth pattern. However, this assumption has rarely been tested empirically. A variety of patterns of allometric growth in larvae of 17 species of marine fishes is revealed by principal component analysis. The bootstrap technique is used to assess statistical accuracy, and the hypothesis of one common growth pattern is clearly rejected. Even taxonomically related species are not always similar in their growth patterns. This indicates that techniques for "size correction" should not be applied without testing the assumption of a common growth pattern. To summarize the variation in allometric patterns, a recent approach, principal points, is used to find a small number of "typical" patterns. Flury (1990, Biometrika 77:33-41) defined the k principal points of a multivariate random vector X as those points that minimize the expected Euclidean distance of X from the nearest principal point. For our data set, four typical allometric patterns are thus characterized by means of principal points. Some common features of allometric patterns are possibly of functional importance, but combinations of different allometric patterns and initial morphologies can lead to a variety of body forms in fish larvae.
10.2307/2992241|An implementation is explored for standard assumptions (zero and one) for historical biogeographic analysis based on three-area statements specified by widespread taxa and nodes of taxon cladograms. Analysis of simple examples suggests that three-area statements permit a better measure of fit between an area cladogram and data on area relationship than do existing implementations of assumption zero, such as Brooks parsimony analysis, or existing implementations of assumption one, such as that of Nelson and Platnick (1981, Systematics and biogeography: Cladistics and vicariance, Columbia Univ. Press, New York, London), which proves defective in its oversensitivity to information specified by widespread taxa. Aspects of assumptions one and zero are adapted for evaluation of alternative assumption-two cladograms, first with data for nodes and then with data for widespread taxa.
10.2307/2992239|This study was undertaken to determine the range of consistency index (CI) values obtainable from random data sets. We generated multiple random data matrices for each of 49 different matrix sizes ranging from 5 taxa and 4 (binary) characters to 49 taxa and 124 characters. The CI of the minimum-length tree(s) was calculated for each. CIs decreased in a monotonic, nonlinear fashion with addition of either taxa or characters. The influence of addition of taxa was far greater than that of addition of characters, and an interaction effect was recognized. The general curvilinear relation we found between CIs and number of taxa is consistent with results obtained by other authors, but our random data CIs were lower than those of other studies. Mean random CIs varied from 0.70 for the smallest data sets to 0.072 for the largest. Maximum random CIs reached 0.80. A regression through means of random CIs against number of taxa was calculated with a 95% confidence interval. This CI<sub>random</sub> is the minimum value that real data sets should exceed to be considered to contain phylogenetic information. The CIs of real data sets can be adjusted with the CI<sub>random</sub>, and these values are found to meet current criteria for adequate measures of homoplasy. However, the homoplasy indices that are uncorrelated with taxa are also insensitive to internal data set structure, and no current index is adequate for comparison of homoplasy among data sets.
10.2307/2992237|Cleavage site variation of 18 restriction endonucleases in the transcribed portion of the ribosomal DNA gene complex was mapped from 42 genera of New World leaf-nosed bats (family Phyllostomidae). These data were used to test the higher taxonomic relationships of a traditionally recognized phylogeny against a recently revised phylogeny and classification for the family. Major conclusions from this study are that (1) support is provided for the theory that early phyllostomid radiation proceeded by the diversification of three or four lineages; (2) New World leaf-nosed bats, including vampire bats, compose a monophyletic group; and (3) the newly proposed classification and topology are supported. This study demonstrates that additional resolution can be obtained by testing new data for congruence with existing phylogenies.
10.2307/2992254|Historical biogeographic patterns of relationships among southern and northern South America, North America, and southern temperate areas were investigated by a cladistic biogeographic analysis of 17 taxon cladograms. Three techniques were applied: Wiley's biogeographic parsimony analysis, Nelson and Platnick's component analysis, and Humphries, Ladiges, Roos, and Zandee's quantification of component analysis. Biogeographic parsimony analysis yielded two general area cladograms (CI = 0.74). Under component analysis, six general area cladograms (two under Nelson and Platnick's assumption 1 and four under their assumption 2) were obtained through the intersection of a maximum of 10 sets of area cladograms. Quantification of component analysis produced nine cladograms (CI = 0.50) under assumption 1 and one (CI = 0.45) under assumption 2. The results support a hybrid origin of the South American biota. The northern South American biota is most closely related to that of North America, and southern South America constitutes a monophyletic group together with Australia, Tasmania, New Guinea, New Caledonia, and New Zealand, reflecting the existence of an ancient austral biota. Four conflicting hypotheses of area relationships concerning southern South America and the other austral areas are proposed, suggesting that southern South America may be a composite area in itself.
10.2307/2992253|Advocates and adversaries of single-copy DNA hybridization find both promise and pitfalls in the application of this technique to phylogenetic reconstruction. Measurement error, biased sampling of sequences, and homoplasy reduce the additivity of DNA hybridization data, although numerical corrections exist. If distortions of hybridization data can be rectified, pairwise tree construction algorithms should provide reliable estimates of phylogeny. We used single-copy DNA hybridization studies to elucidate interfamilial relationships within diprotodontian marsupials. Peroryctes longicauda, a peramelid, was included as an outgroup. To improve their additivity, data were corrected for nonreciprocity (the compression effect), reduced normalized percentages of hybridization, and homoplasy. Results of DNA hybridization experiments suggest an initial radiation of diprotodontian marsupials into three major lineages: (1) vombatiforms, (2) macropodids, and (3) phalangeroids plus petauroids. Subsequent diversification occurred first in the phalangeroid-petauroid group, second in vombatiforms, and last in macropodids. Within the phalangeroid-petauroid clade, phalangerids and burramyids form one monophyletic group whereas acrobatids, petaurids, and pseudocheirids form a second. This branching pattern obtains for both uncorrected and corrected data.
10.2307/2992252|We sequenced 2.7 kilobase pairs of contiguous coding mitochondrial DNA from Antilocapra americana (Antilocapridae), Capra hircus (Bovidae), and Tragulus napu (Tragulidae) and compared these to previously published orthologues for other ruminant species. Phylogenetic analysis of these sequences provided no robust patterns of relationship for the four families of pecoran ruminants studied. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that the pecoran families resulted from a rapid radiation in the Early Miocene to Late Oligocene. This hypothesis is supported by the short internal branch lengths of our most-parsimonious solutions and, more importantly, by the narrow range of interfamilial sequence divergence, suggesting that the radiation may have occurred over a period of 5 million years (about 23-28 million years ago). The importance of using large amounts of conservative sequence data for resolving relationships among members of a rapid radiation is discussed.
10.2307/2992255|Geographic variation in color pattern, body dimensions, and scalation of the low-altitude populations of the Tenerife gecko (Tarentola delalandii) is analyzed and depicted by multivariate ordination and contouring. Comparison with parallel geographic variation in other lizards on Tenerife and an adjacent island suggests an "ecogenetic" rather than "phylogenetic" cause (i.e., adaptation to current latitudinal habitat types with different climate and vegetation). Three quantitative procedures that may be of use in distinguishing between ecogenetically and phylogenetically caused geographic variation are used to test the geographic variation in the Tenerife gecko (i.e., investigating congruence by random resampling, anagenesis in putative phylogenetic trees, and partial correlation/Mantel tests). The latter two procedures appear to be the most useful; in particular, simultaneous Mantel tests indicate that scalation is significantly associated with latitudinal habitat types irrespective of the effects of spatial proximity.
10.2307/2992256|A recently described test for a consistent pattern of timing of cospeciation between host and parasite taxa uses the correlation between observed genetic distance matrices for the hosts and parasites. In this paper I argue that this method can be improved by comparing trees rather than distance matrices. In the special case of a molecular clock, the test compares cluster heights in dendrograms for the hosts and the parasites. Because tree topology alone can cause a significant correlation between the cluster heights, a randomization test is described that allows for this autocorrelation. The degree of autocorrelation is a function of tree topology, increasing as the trees become more unbalanced. Balanced trees offer more sensitive tests of hypotheses concerning timing of cospeciation.
10.2307/2992326|The jaw morphology of needlefishes (Beloniformes: Belomdae) passes through distinctive ontogenetic stages. When hatched, larvae have short jaws of equal length. The lower jaw first elongates to produce a "halfbeak" form, then the upper jaw elongates to produce the adult "needlenose" morphology. Onset and duration of the halfbeak stage vary among belonid species. We tested the hypothesis that heterochronic evolution produced this diversity in jaw morphology. First, a cladogram was developed for 27 belonid species. Ontogenetic trajectories for upper and lower jaw elongation were determined for 18 of these species. For upper and lower jaw elongation, trajectories of these 18 species were statistically compared to determine character transitions, which were then mapped onto the cladogram. The results showed that the growth trajectories of upper and lower jaws changed independently of each other, and that neoteny and acceleration occurred repeatedly during belonid evolution. Evidence suggests postdisplacement and predisplacement were also important mechanisms. The resulting morphological diversity may be interpreted as adaptations to food availability, because jaw morphology (halfbeak vs. needlenose) seems to be correlated with feeding modes (planktivory vs. piscivory). [Heterochrony; ontogenetic trajectory; Belonidae; jaw morphology; character coding; M-coding.]
10.2307/2992321|Computer simulations in which phylogenies were generated under various conditions were used to examine the relationship between the phylogenetic signal of a character data set, the skewness of the tree-length distribution, and the position of the real tree relative to the most parsimonious tree for a four-character-state system. Character data that are consistent with one phylogenetic hypothesis produce tree-length distributions that are highly skewed to the left, whereas character data consistent with many phylogenetic hypotheses produce more symmetrical tree-length distributions that cannot be distinguished from tree-length distributions produced by random character data. The relationship between the skewness of the tree-length distribution, as measured by the g
10.2307/2992325|The set of most-parsimonious trees for a data matrix may include several distinct classes (islands) of trees. An island is defined as a collection of trees, all less than a specified length, each tree connected to every other tree in the island through a series of trees, and each one differing from the next by a single rearrangement of branches. One advantage of this method of defining classes of trees is that islands are easily found by tree-searching programs. Multiple islands can be discovered by conducting many searches using a tree-searching program, each search beginning with a different tree. Among 37 data matrices examined, all 8 data matrices with two or more islands have retention indices less than 0.67. Trees are generally more similar within islands than among islands, as judged by analysis of partition metric distances between trees. As a consequence, trees in different islands may have different implications for character evolution, and for this reason should be sought.
10.2307/2992323|Extremely conflicting phylogenetic conclusions for the same taxa derived from different data sets are rare. When conflicts do occur, they may result from homoplasy as well as nonindependence of characters. We present an analysis of the phylogenetic relationships of the salamander family Ambystomatidae, based on variation at 26 allozyme loci. Our results conflict strongly with those derived from Kraus's (1988, Syst. Zool. 37:106-141) morphological analysis of the same taxa. The major conflict involves five species traditionally placed in the Ambystoma subgenus "Linguaelapsus." This group, and the clades within it, are each diagnosed by many morphological synapomorphies, providing unambiguous evidence for the monophyly of the subgenus. However, our allozyme data provide equally compelling evidence that "Linguaelapsus" is polyphyletic. We jackknifed and bootstrapped our allozyme data in a likelihood and a cladistic parsimony framework, respectively; all analyses point to the same conclusions. Subdividing the allozyme data into rapidly and slowly evolving loci, and analyzing each separately by maximum likelihood, does not change our conclusions. Our results demonstrate that even apparently "well-corroborated" nodes of a cladogram may be suspect if the assumption of character independence is violated.
10.2307/2992324|A direct algorithm is described to reconstruct on a phylogenetic tree the ancestral states of a continuous-valued character, using a parsimony criterion that minimizes the sum of squared changes along the branches. It is shown that when the squared changes are inversely weighted by the lengths of the branches, the squared-change parsimony reconstruction is that which has maximum posterior probability under a Brownian motion model of evolution. The squared-change parsimony estimates are also closely related to the contrasts in Felsenstein's test of character correlation.
10.2307/2992322|Studies of sexual dimorphism commonly focus on male morphology, often viewing males as divergent both evolutionarily and ontogenetically. For example, in continuously growing vertebrates such as lizards and fishes, it has been assumed that adult dimorphism arises from growth rate changes in male characters at the onset of maturity. However, there has been little explicit treatment of the ontogenetic origin of morphological sex differences. I present here a method for testing hypotheses of sex-specific allometric change, and offer an example of its application in four species of labrisomid blennies. I develop three hierarchical models to test for allometric divergence: (1) the null model, in which adult allometries of both sexes are simply an extension of the juvenile allometries (model A); (2) a model in which either adult males or females (but not both) diverge from the juvenile trajectory (model B); and (3) a model in which adults of both sexes diverge from the juvenile allometry (model C). Growth that fits either of the two latter models results in shape dimorphism. Although size dimorphism may occur in all three cases, it is not explicitly treated here. The models were tested with size-series of four species of fish (Paraclinus, Labrisomidae). To further explore overall shape similarity among males, females, and juveniles, a multivariate analysis of shape (independent of size) was applied. Analysis of 42 mensural characters showed that divergence from juvenile allometry occurred as frequently in female traits as in male traits. Multivariate analysis showed that in all four species, female shape diverges more from juvenile shape than does male shape. In addition, similarity among adult dimorphic character states often resulted from quite different growth patterns, suggesting that resemblance of adult characters among related species is insufficient evidence to conclude character homology. Interpretations of sexual dimorphism, currently emphasizing male morphology, may be biased and may underestimate the importance of selection on the female form as a cause of sexual dimorphism.
10.2307/2411501|Representative members of the fauna of Central Europe are discussed in relation to the present and probable past distribution of the groups to which they belong. The effects on this fauna of geological changes during the Tertiary and especially of Pleistocene glaciation are emphasized.
10.2307/2411503|A computer method for aid in biological classification based on graph theory is presented. The program not only defines hierarchical clusters but discovers intermediate forms and provides measures of internal affinity and external isolation for each cluster. The theoretical biological justification for this technique is given. A test of the method is presented, using 31 specimens selected from different genera of the subtribe Oncidiinae of the Orchidaceae.
10.2307/2411499|The occurrence of a special type of polymorphism in some leptodactylid frogs is reported. The polymorphism differs from normal polymorphism in crossing species lines and is termed tautomorphism. The polymorphic variants are named tautomorphs.
10.2307/2411498|The author proposes a system of identification, positional, and phyletic numbers for taxa that makes possible a significant relationship between numerical classification and phylogeny.
10.2307/2411497|Geographic variation of quantitative characters may be represented by a polynomial model and plotted automatically as a contour map with a digital computer. Linear, quadratic, and cubic surfaces are fitted to the variation patterns of two characters of the fathead minnow, Pimephales promelas, from 54 localities distributed over a large area of North America. The cubic surfaces describe the variation pattern quite well and account for as much as 90% of the variability among localities. Regional trends are simply represented by the contour plots, while local variability and breaks in the variation pattern may be analyzed by examination of the automatic plots of residuals.
10.2307/2411504|The Dusky Flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri Phillips) and the Gray Flycatcher (Empidonax wrightii Baird), sibling species which usually breed in allopatry in the western United States because of altitudinal separation of preferred habitats, occur in local sympatry along the western edge of the Great Basin. Here extensive populations of each species defend mutually exclusive territories where the vegetation forms a mosaic of habitats suitable to both. An analysis of bill size and shape of 774 specimens, comparing allopatric and sympatric populations, revealed no evidence for character displacement, implying that interspecific competition for food is lacking. Sexual dimorphism in the bill, varying geographically in extent, indicates intraspecific competition, probably between the members of a pair on their territory. Differential niche utilization, within and between the two species, is also suggested by differences in wing shape. Apparently these two species evolved distinct enough habitats and foraging spheres when in allopatry so as to preclude competition when in sympatry. Gene flow from extensive regions of allopatry may suppress divergence in bill dimensions of the sympatric individuals.
10.2307/2411500|Discrimmation of adults of the three closely related species of the Hoplopleura hesperomydis complex of lice (Anoplura) is discussed, including a standardized system for taking measurements, followed by various statistical analyses of the data. Certain measurements are shown to have taxonomic value in discriminating between species after analysis, and the method of a posteriori selection of such characters is described. The literature on statistical means of species differentiation is reviewed.
10.2307/2411502|A method is proposed whereby existing biological nomenclature might be stabilized without discarding the familiar binominal system.
10.2307/2411989|Many species of relict boreal insects reside along the postglacial border in central and eastern United States in scattered series of sphagnum bogs. The distributional patterns of these insects are often influenced to a considerable extent by climatic factors and may reflect past climatic conditions, especially if the species involved are restricted by specific microclimatic requirements and are themselves mcapable of active dispersal beyond these limits. Over 20 species of pselaphid beetles with boreal affinities are characteristic bog inhabitants. The range of each species is correlated with glacial processes and the contemporary distribution of bog plants. Included among the factors discussed affecting their distribution are glacial influences, ecological limits, and species dispersal potentials. None of the true bog pselaphids are known beyond the limits of Wisconsin glaciation, except for the Wisconsin driftless area and New Jersey breaches paralleled by bog plant distributions. The specificity of most species to these relict boreal habitats bespeaks their value as indicators of biotic displacement.
10.2307/2411984|Taxonomy and nomenclature cannot be separated. Taxonomic results can be expressed only through nomenclature, and therefore the system of nomenclature in use at any time constitutes a framework within which taxonomists must work. The existing system of zoological nomenclature cannot function simultaneously for traditional methods and for the quantitative methods that will be necessary in the near future. The rigid framework of a mandatory Code, and in particular its type-system are incompatible with quantitative methods based on a long series of specimens. The International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature should plan for a date, not too far ahead, after which all traditional taxonomy shall cease at the species-level and below. The Commission should give a lead in exploring the problems and possibilities of quantitative methods, and in devising an entirely new nomenclature appropriate to these. Above the species-level, traditional methods should continue, but the Code should cease to be mandatory, and names should be stabilised by usage.
10.2307/2411991|The obstacles which have prevented the haplosporidans from fitting into the classification prepared by the Committee on Taxonomy and Taxonomic Problems of the Society of Protozoologists have no objective basis but are essentially semantic in nature. The resemblance between the different kinds of filaments in spores is largely verbal. Therefore, the notion that the presence or absence of a "filament" is the essential character for segregating different groups of sporozoans into subphyla should be rejected. Then, if the subphylum names Sporozoa Leuckart, 1879, and Cnidospora Doflein, 1901, are replaced with the appropriate ones, Rhabdogena Delage and Herouard, 1896, and Amoebogena Delage and Herouard, 1896, all obstacles to putting the order Haplosporida Caullery and Mesnil, 1899, into a satisfactory position are removed. Likewise, it then becomes logically possible to put the order Paramyxida Chatton, 1911, into the classification. Accordingly, these two orders are placed in subphylum Amoebogena, in classes Microsporea Corliss and Levine, 1963, and Myxosporea Butschli, 1881, respectively. The latter class, having two groups of orders which are in sharp contrast to each other with respect to structural complexity, is here divided into two subclasses, Myxosporia Butschli, 1881, (with orders Myxosporida Butschli, 1881, and Actinomyxida Stolc, 1889) and Paramyxia (with orders Paramyxida Chatton, 1911, and Helicosporida Kudo, 1931). It is suggested that the older name Sporozoa Leuckart, 1879, be used (after appropriate change of ending) to replace the class name Telosporea Schaudinn, 1900, and that the latter be discarded.
10.2307/2411986|In an earlier paper, numerical techniques were developed and used to analyze distribution patterns of the native terrestrial mammals of North America. An error in method is here corrected, indicating that 35 provinces, 13 superprovinces, four subregions, and one region may be recognized. The methods used are relatively objective, quantitative, and suited to computerization.
10.2307/2411987|The small six-rayed sea stars on the rocky shore of San Juan Island, Washington, have been previously classified by different authors into at least two species: Leptasterias hexactis and Leptasterias aequalis. Examination of adult morphology reveals three morphologically distinct groups, among which two are L. hexactis and one is L. aequalis. However, a study of distribution and reproduction has shown that these three groups are not isolated ecologically or reproductively. They do not constitute separate populations, and they are capable of interbreeding. It is concluded, therefore, that all the six-rayed sea stars of this area belong to one biological species, L. hexactis. The morphological variations are discussed in terms of polymorphism and geographical races.
10.2307/2411988|Evidence is presented for the thesis that a taxometric analysis using haphazardly assembled, equally weighted characters results in a haphazard classification, at least in the Basidiomycetes. We consider that not all characters, in the currently accepted sense of that word, contain equal amounts of phylogenetic information, and that a proper taxonomic value can be placed on each character only if its degree of conservatism within the group is understood. So far, not only has it been impossible to instruct a computer to take conservatism into consideration, but also the limitations of the taxonomist's knowledge about homology and analogy in the fungi restrict his ability to designate characters in taxometric terms.
10.2307/2411985|The multituberculate mammals declined in numerical abundance from the late Cretaceous to their extinction in the late Eocene. Their maximal diversity, however, occurred in the late part of the middle Paleocene, suggesting an increase in specialization in the face of competition from placental mammals, which diversified very rapidly in the Paleocene. Various lines of evidence lead to the conclusion that first condylarths, then primates, and finally rodents contributed to the gradual extinction of multituberculates, at least in part by evolution in the same region of competing resource requirements. A phylogeny of the Cenozoic Multituberculata and their ancestors is given, the mammal faunas of the Paleocene are listed by more or less their absolute ages, and the fauna of Bear Creek is analyzed in detail. A theory of replacement of supraspecific taxa is presented and applied.
10.2307/2411628|The Linnaean hierarchy is a system of nested classes whose members are individual organisms. It will be the purpose of this paper to set out the logic of this system in a manner which is faithful to taxonomic theory and practice, which avoids certain paradoxes in previous attempts, and which is in terms that a biologist might reasonably be expected to understand.
10.2307/2411629|This paper proposes that not only do species arise and subsequently become extinct but may behave in fundamentally similar fashions between their times of origin and extinction. Four major steps in the species' life cycle are recognized, based on the relative success of the organism as reflected in such traits as relative abundance, extent of subspeciation, and characteristics of geographic distribution. The first stage, or neospecies, is characterized by increasing abundance and expanding range; representatives are found in many introduced forms, including the English sparrow and European starling. The second stage, or mesospecies, has stable range boundaries, a relatively great abundance, and extensive subspeciation, as illustrated by the song sparrow, gray wolf, house rat, and many others. In the third stage, or euspecies, the level of abundance is generally high and the range boundaries stable, but subspeciation is scant or absent. The final stage, or telospecies, is marked by reduction in range, absence of subspeciation, and a low level of abundance and is exemplified by the whooping crane and other forms nearing extinction.
10.2307/2411630|Some errors in systematic theory have arisen by attempts to define things instead of words. The abstract concept of the biological species definition is discussed, together with objections to it. The author shows that "homology" is a theoretical term and that phylogenetic definitions of it are not circular.
10.2307/2411634|Available data on the marine shore faunas of the old (apparently Pliocene or earlier) and well isolated oceanic islands (300 miles or more from nearest land) reveal a very interesting pattern of endemism. The endemic rate is very low in the north and middle Atlantic, markedly greater in the south Atlantic and Pacific, and exceedingly high in the Sub-Antarctic waters. It is suggested that this peculiar pattern of endemism may be correlated with the extent of the drop in sea surface temperature that occurred during the Pleistocene glaciations. Contrary to most of the literature on the subject, it seems that the effect of the ice ages on ocean temperature may have been quite different in various parts of the world. The islands that demonstrate the least amount of endemism were probably exposed to the greatest decline in surface temperature.
10.2307/2411631|A connection is established between matching coefficients and distance in n-dimensional space for a variety of character scoring procedures. Following this, geometric interpretations are given of some clustering methods used for matching coefficients, and the merits of the methods are considered. As a consequence, it is suggested the average coefficient method should be replaced by the centroid method.
10.2307/2411633|The evidence for race formation in the three major schistosome parasites of man is reviewed. Evidence comes from egg morphology, differences in number and placement of adult testes, length of adult worms, prepatent period, snail penetration studies, and virulence and pathology (egg distribution) in the definitive host. At least four races (Japanese, Chinese, Formosan and Philippine) are currently believed to exist in the Schistosoma japonicum complex, and five (Caribbean, Brazilian, Egyptian, Tanganyikan and South African) have been demonstrated for S. mansoni. Two races have been demonstrated for S. haematobium in Ghana. More work needs to be done on this species and on S. mansoni. S. japonicum has been most extensively studied. The importance of elucidating subspeciation in these parasites is discussed briefly from an evolutionary standpomt. On the basis of virulence, an origin of formation on Formosa is postulated for S. japonicum. No similar speculation can be made on the other parasites due to insufficient study.
10.2307/2411388|Many problems which involve organizing data into homogeneous groups can be approached by defining a function for measuring or evaluating the structure present in a given partition of the set of data, and then attempting to find that partition for which the function is optimized. In general, different functions are required for different types of problems. One possible measure of structure is presented here, together with a discussion of the types of problems to which it applies. Also described is a general hill-climbing algorithm which can be used with any measure of structure to attempt to climb to the optimum partition. The algorithm does not require a numerical measure, but only a decision as to which of two partitions is more highly structured, or more valuable. Areas of application include biological taxonomy; isolation of disease syndromes in medicine; information retrieval; business applications such as "types" of sales offices, TV audiences, etc., anthropology (categorization of civilizations), and sociology (categorization of tribes).
10.2307/2411391|Chromosomes from 14 species representing the six subgenera of the ground squirrel genus Spermophilus are evaluated as indicators of taxonomic relationships. The diploid number and karyotype of S. franklini (2n = 42), subgenus Poliocitellus, are described here for the first time, together with supplementary chromosomal characters from S. beecheyi (2n = 38) and S. variegatus (2n = 38), subgenus Otospermophilus, and S. lateralis (2n = 42), subgenus Callospermophilus. Chromosomal characters are diagnostic at the subgeneric level in Poliocitellus, Otospermorphilus, Xerospermophilus, Callospermophilus, and Ictidomys. The subgenus Spermophilus cannot be differentiated at this level because of a striking degree of interspecific variation (2n = 30-46). An evaluation of possible mechanisms for karyotype evolution within the genus Spermophilus provides additional taxonomic data. The subgenera Ictidomys and Poliocitellus appear to share an equally close chromosomal relationship to Spermophilus. Because more complex chromosomal rearrangements must be postulated to explain the differences observed between Callospermophilus, Otospermophilus, and Xerospermophilus greater evolutionary divergence may exist between these taxa than between Ictidomys, Spermophilus, and Poliocitellus.
10.2307/2411398|The concept of "superspecies," as applied to a monophyletic group of allopatric or nearly allopatric taxa that are known or believed to have evolved to the species level, was introduced to the literature by E. Mayr and by B. Rensch. The concept is of great utility in many studies of evolution and zoogeography. The use of superspecies has been somewhat retarded by the absence of any formalized notation for them in Linnaean nomenclature. It is here proposed that brackets (= square parentheses) enclose the first named species of a superspecies: thus, superspecies Bubo [bubo], or Bubo [bubo] virginianus to indicate that the species virginianus is a member of the superspecies Bubo [bubo]. The term "allospecies" is suggested for the species comprising a superspecies. The use of parentheses ( ) should be restricted to indicating "semispecies," that is, forms believed to be subspecies, but approaching, or possibly of, species status, e.g., Accipiter (gentilis) atricapillus.
10.2307/2411390|The division of pocket gophers (Geomyidae, Rodentia) into many subspecies has been criticized frequently in recent years. The history of the nomenclature and taxonomic practice in one complex of species of the genus Thomomys is analyzed, and continuous progress is apparent. Studies of Thomomys in Chihuahua, Mexico, are summarized. Thomomys baileyi is synonymized with Thomomys bottae. T. bottae is not conspecific with T. umbrinus. More field work is needed since inadequate material, rather than the concept of subspecies, has limited advances in knowledge of gopher classification and relationships.
10.2307/2411389|Small specimens can be stored safely in vials, tightly stoppered with cotton and placed upside down in a larger jar. Due to the unavailability of tight jars, methods used in several institutions to prevent alcohol loss have been tried out. Either plastic tape (3M no. 472) or dipping in plastic coating (Uniroyal Adhesive no. 6273) appreciably slows evaporation. Seventy to eighty per cent alcohol is the best preservative; 40-70% isopropyl alcohol seems an excellent substitute, and is easily obtained. Methods of reconditioning dried specimens are controversial. All locality labels should be typed or mimeographed or the labels can be photo-offset, or Xerox copied on good bond paper.
10.2307/2411397|Louis Agassiz was under the false impression that the shells of brachiopods were lateral in position and that the group was related to mollusks. N. S. Shaler considered the shells to be anterior and posterior in position. E. S. Morse proved that the shells are dorsal and ventral, and showed that brachiopods form a distinct group somewhat related to tubicolous annelids. Journal records of Morse give historical sidelights which illuminate his controversy with Agassiz. Morse's classification of Brachiopoda became one of his principal contributions to zoology.
10.2307/2411392|A number of philosophical arguments for taxonomic doctrines appear based upon misinterpretations of valid logical principles. Among these, definition of words is confused with identification of things, circularity of definition with circularity of argument, operational verifiability with the practicality of such verification, biological individuals with logical individuals, logical proof with convincing argument, logical derivation with historical derivation, the logically prior with the psychologically prior, the relation of similarity with the impression of similarity, hypotheses with questionable premises, and objective reality with the consistency of the subject's reasoning. A failure to grasp the distinction between induction by simple enumeration and the modern, hypothetico-deductive scientific method seems in part responsible for many of the errors, suggesting that the fundamental nature of science has been imperfectly understood.
10.2307/2411395|A rearrangement of Orders, Suborders, Families, and Subfamilies is essayed for those Sarcodina of the Superorder Lobida, as included in the Subclass Cyclia, Class Hydraulea, within a classification for the Sarcodina based on mechanisms of movement. The genera included are listed with the designation of each familial group; but the families are not given names. The problem of naming families, using those within the Lobida as examples, is discussed, with emphasis on the need to use logic, whether or not the International Rules of Nomenclature provide for or permit it. An example is given of the confusion sometimes occurring due to impedance of logic by the rigidity of rules. Some other difficulties are considered. It is concluded that the extension of the Rule of Priority to include names of family groups imposes a rigidity of mental behavior which is often counter to logic in the naming of families, especially new ones based on new approaches and/or new data. It is further concluded that the Rule of Priority cannot be supported by the authors for any familial group or higher taxon.
10.2307/2411519|This study of House Sparrows was undertaken to determine the nature and degree of differentiation in color and morphology along a 1000-mile transect of the Great Plams and montane Colorado, and to relate these patterns of variation to climatic gradients encountered along the transect. The study is based upon examination of 785 specimens collected at 12 different localities in Illinois, Kansas, and Colorado. The results confirm earlier reports that North American House Sparrows have undergone conspicuous adaptive differentiation in color and morphology. Interpopulational variation in tarsus length is clinal and conforms with Allen's ecogeographic rule. Wing length of House Sparrows varies geographically, but variation of this character is not a function of altitude or isophane. Interpopulational variation in bill length of House Sparrows is thought to reflect differences in wear consequent to differences in abrasive action of food at the respective localities. There seems to be no relation between bill length and annual precipitation or ambient temperature. Partitioning of the food niche has not occurred in North America. Color of cryptic plumages of adult and subadult male House Sparrows varies clinally in accord with Gloger's ecogeographic rule. Auricular display plumage of adult males also varies in color, but the clinal pattern is opposite to that which obtains in cryptic plumages. No such trend in coloration is apparent in auricular plumage of subadult males. Clinal variation in color in accord with Gloger's rule is manifest in adult female House Sparrows, but not in subadults. Local differentiation has occurred in no more than 90 years. Slow rates of evolution thought to obtain for birds cannot be attributed in every instance to rigid restraints upon the genetic system; in some cases barriers to dispersal or relative constancy of the environment over long periods of time must have dictated rates of differentiation.
10.2307/2411512|An examination of certain basic concepts employed in phenetic taxonomy provides a logical framework within which the taxonomic process may be operationally defined, with little or no violence to traditional views. There remain elements of apparently subjective choice for methods adopted in practice, but the "non-probabilistic" approach, based on the concept of "association," is conceptually simple and corresponds closely to traditional methods. There is available for such an approach a "general coefficient of association," which incorporates both qualitative and quantitative information.
10.2307/2411516|A bionumeric code, used by the BCF Exploratory Fishing Base in Pascagoula, Miss. is presented and discussed. The basic code consists of 9 digits divided into phylum-class, class-order, family, genus, and species categories. The code, a modification of one proposed by the FAO in 1960, has facilitated the handling of large quantities of faunal data from the southwestern North Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean Sea. Expansion capabilities are inherent in the code structure and are discussed. Comparisons are also made with several code systems previously suggested by other workers. The present need for bionumeric coding systems is emphasized and a suggestion is made for establishing a central agency wherein all taxonomic records would be maintained and coded.
10.2307/2411513|Coastal lowlands on the western side of the Americas are irregularly narrow and squeezed between the shoreline and adjacent montane country. The 407 species belonging to 189 genera (marine and insular forms excluded) that are recorded as living on this coastal strip are best arranged in sectors north to south as follows: in Nearctica, the Tundran (67
10.2307/2411514|Chromosome numbers are reported for 30 species representing eight families of anurans. These, together with previously published records, provide some evidence of trends in numbers of chromosomes at the family level. With the exception of two genera of leptodactylids, diploid numbers range from 20 to 36 and haploid numbers, from 10 to 18 in anurans studied to date.
10.2307/2411520|In female Tetraopes tetraophthalmus there is significant heterogeneity in allometric growth ratios of prothoracic tubercle size and prothorax width among different areas of the range. This suggests that different relative growth rates in the formation of the adult prothorax may have been selectively favored in different areas of the range. However, males do not show the effect. Furthermore, the relationship between individual and population allomorphosis is also strikingly different in the two sexes; estimates of growth ratios at these two levels are similar in females, very dissimilar in males.
10.2307/2411515|The meaning of "relationship" in taxonomy is discussed. An exact meaning of evolutionary relationship is derived, and operational methods for placing organisms according to evolutionary relationship are considered.
10.2307/2411517|Immunological comparisons of beetles involving 66 species from 24 families were made by photodensitometrically measuring the precipitin zones that developed in agar-gels. Comparisons at the intrageneric and intergeneric levels were most suitable for study using the photodensitometric technique, and results obtained at these levels agreed with predicted results based on morphological studies. Unusually high immunological correspondences of Melanotus (Family Elateridae) and Oryzaephilus (Family Cucujidae) to Tenebrio molitor suggested previously unsuspected relationships. The high degree of reciprocal correspondence between members of the families Cerambycidae and Chrysomelidae indicated that relegation of these families to subfamilial status would be reasonable. An interfamilial cluster analysis revealed systematically useful data.
10.2307/2412152|Qualitative identification and quantitative estimation both of aromatic biogenic amines and pharmacologically active polypeptides in the skin of amphibians appear to offer a valuable contribution to studies in taxonomy and evolution of this vertebrate class. Several examples of the accordance of the biochemical data herein reported with the data of traditional taxonomy are described for the neotropical family of frogs Leptodactylidae, but particular emphasis is laid on the striking correspondence between the systemic distribution of the spectra of biogenic amines and morphological taxonomy which is demonstrated by the species of the genus Leptodactylus.
2412149|Karyotype evolution apparently involving Robertsonian centric fusion of chromosomes in iguanid reptilian species (Sceloporus clarki and Sceloporus magister) is consistent with the recent evidence pertaining to the evolution of North American Desert species of animals and plants derived from tropical and subtropical communities of the Madro-Tertiary Geoflora during the evolution of the North American Desert.
10.2307/2412150|The relationships of adult butterflies were evaluated using the techniques of numerical taxonomy and various sets of characters. Using a total of 196 characters of the external and internal anatomy produced phenograms quite similar to the one arrived at by classical taxonomic techniques. There were, however, significant differences (e.g., relatively low similarity of the Papilionidae and Pieridae). Relationships based on most subsets of characters showed a "family resemblance" to one another and to the classical relationships. Relationships based on 96 internal and 100 external characters were compared by a randomization test. When evaluated by correlation coefficients the internal and external relationships were significantly different. When evaluated by distances they were not. Our results in general seem to support a "weak" version of the nonspecificity hypothesis-analysis of different large samples of characters ordinarily will yield positively correlated but non-identical patterns of relationship. This study has led to an appraisal of ideas of general classification and the utility of numerical taxonomy. Theoretical considerations make it seem unlikely that the idea of "overall similarity" has any validity. In any case it is clear that overall similarity cannot be dealt with operationally. All classifications are inherently special, and no one special classification is any more or less "correct" than any other. It is suggested that numerical taxonomy is a more sophisticated tool than is required for doing most routine taxonomic jobs. Numerical taxonomy, however, can be used in those situations where refined answers seem to be desirable, either where economic problems are involved or where light can be shed on general problems of population biology.
10.2307/2412151|Numbers of papers, subjects discussed and major workers on the Phylum Ectoprocta were compiled from the literature published from 1555 to 1963. The average yearly number of papers on ectoprocts increased greatly throughout the Nineteenth Century, stayed about constant from 1900 until after the second world war, and has been increasing modestly since then. Approximately 5500 papers have been written on ectoprocts, of which about 3600 deal with systematics and other biologic topics (excluding ecology), the remainder are on the use of ectoprocts in ecologic or stratigraphic studies. About 75 per cent of the literature is in English (50 per cent), French (15 per cent) and German (10 per cent). Since the limited catalogues published in 1900 and before, no catalogue of the literature on ectoprocts has been prepared. As a consequence, the literature on all aspects of the study of ectoprocts is poorly organized for modern workers. Probably more than any other single publication, a modern Catalogue of Ectoprocta, cross-indexed to taxonomic names and subjects, would lead to greatly increased interest and work on these animals. A journal devoted to all aspects of ectoprocts apparently has a large enough group of potential contributors (more than 100) to be viable.
10.2307/2411408|Molluscs had a common origin with the annelids, as shown by remarkable ontogenetic similarities. Their common ancestors were non-segmented (non-eumetameric), acoelomate animals. Molluscs developed from the common stock through incorporation of the distinguishing molluscan characters such as the shell, mantle, mantle cavity, radula and etenidium and annelids by the adoption of coelomic segmentation and of changes accompanying it. The assertion that molluscs hand ancestors with coelomic segmentation is contradicted by ontogenetic and anatomical facts as well as by theoretical considerations. The common molluscan-annelid stock most likely originated from ancestral flatworms; this is indicated by the developmental, and to a lesser extent, structural similarities between the flatworms, molluscs and annelids, and by the lower level of organization of the flatworms. The coelom is a phylogenetically new structure in the molluscs and annelids, and was acquired independently in the two phyla. Coelomic segmentation also is a phylogenetically new acquisition of the annelids; it came about through developmental changes affecting the growth of the mesoderm bands. These views are the corollaries of ontogenetic considerations.
10.2307/2411404|Shrew populations on the islands in the Bering Strait region (Sorex pribilofensis, S. jacksoni, S. hydrodromus) were regarded as related to Sorex arcticus of the Alaskan mamland. Our data indicate that S. pribilofensis and S. jacksoni are members of the S. (Otiosorex) cinereus group, which occurs both in Alaska and eastern Siberia. Sorex hydrodromus apparently does not exist on Unalaska Island, and is a synonym of S. pribilofensis. The Holarctic evolution of the S. cinereus and S. arcticus-S. araneus groups, and their occurrence on the Bering land connection in the late Pleistocene, is discussed.
10.2307/2411403|The effect of using only intercorrelated characters in a numerical taxonomic study was investigated using 74 external morphological characters of pupae in 45 species of North American mosquitoes. Correlation and distance coefficients were computed based upon standardized data. Cluster analyses and factor analyses were performed and compared. In addition, analyses were made of the correlation among the characters using centroid components analysis and multiple factor analysis with rotation to simple structure. The only effect of using correlated characters appears to be that it causes the generic clusters to appear very elongated in the n dimensional character space. Standard methods of cluster analysis have a tendency to make the OTU's at the ends of these clusters appear much more isolated than they "should be." Methods for correcting for this bias were discussed.
10.2307/2411407|A method of equalized scaling is proposed for taxonomic or classificatory systems, designed so that problems involving a mixed set of variables (some quantitative and others multistate qualitative) can be handled automatically and so that variables of neither class will unduly dominate the classifying process. The method is formulated in terms of Euclidean distance in n-dimensional space but is easily adapted to a system using similarity coefficients. Other advantages of the method are discussed.
10.2307/2411405|Karyotypic data are presented for members of the Lesser Antillean Anolis of the roquet group, and their geographic near neighbors. The roquet group is characterized by six pairs of metacentric macrochromosomes. The near neighbors to the south (A. chrysolepis) and west (A. lineatus) have seven pairs of macrochromosomes. The species to the north, A. oculatus, has a distinctly different karyotype, with no sharp distinction between macrochromosomes and microchromosomes, and shows male chromosomal heteromorphism. Within the roquet group, five forms have 12 pairs of microchromosomes, and three forms have 11 pairs. The latter is considered a specialized condition that only arose once within the group and is indicative of close taxonomic relationship.
2411406|A factor analysis with a Varimax rotation of the initial solution was applied to a system of 27 dental and cranial measurements in the house mouse. Five common "factors" were identified with respect to the 27 variables. These factors in decreasing order of their contribution to the total variation, were width, anterior length, posterior length, skuil and M3. The proportion of the total variance accounted for by the total communality was 73.99%.
10.2307/2412069|The relationships of 83 species of psocids of the family Peripsocidae (Insecta: Psocoptera) were analysed numerico-taxonomically, using alternative methods of processing. The results of using different sets of adult morphological characters and different combinations of them were compared. The effect of admitting a large number of species with incomplete data (known from one sex only) into the system was investigated. Certain modifications of the accepted classification of the family were suggested.
10.2307/2412068|The distributional data for the metabolic amino acid 3-hydroxy-L-kynurenine as a wing pigment in nymphalid butterflies would suggest taxonomic groupings essentially in contradiction with those resulting from more broad-scale morphological, breeding and behavioral studies; this indicates that the storage of this pigment is a taxonomically relatively unimportant unit character. The inherent danger of taxonomic misuse of single-compound chemical analysis is discussed, as is the significance of the use of the same chemical compound to achieve a given color by several divergent but mutually mimetic forms.
10.2307/2412066|A numerical taxonomic study of the acarine family Dermanyssidae comprised 17 OTUs, including the females of all described species of the genus Dermanyssus and one representative of the genus Liponyssoides (=Allodermanyssus). OTU distances and correlations were computed on the basis of 135 characters taken from all areas of the body, and these similarity values were structured by means of graphic analysis, cluster analysis, contour diagrams and centroid factor analysis. A technique developed for the identification of OTUs poorly placed in a phenogram also provided a method supplementary to the cophenetic correlation coefficient for the assessment of phenogram distortions. Several taxonomic changes are proposed as a result of the study.
10.2307/2412070|Use of the scientific method to achieve valid generalizations in biology rests on classifications. If a proposition is empirically known to be true of several organisms, it is normally postulated, as a hypothesis to be tested, that it is true of all members of the smallest taxon to which all the known instances belong. If possible, further instances testing the hypothesis, are sought among the organisms most distantly related to those already known while still within the taxon about which the generalization has been postulated.
10.2307/2412071|Random masks made from twenty-five IBM cards, each perforated with twenty-five randomly chosen holes, were placed over black and white drawings of twenty-nine "species" of Caminalcules and pupae of thirty-two species of Culicine mosquitoes. Black lines appearing through a hole were scored "1," and empty holes were scored "0." Similarity matrices were constructed on the basis of matching scores for corresponding masks and holes. The resulting phenograms agreed well with previous numerical taxonomic studies obtained by deliberately looking for and scoring characters. Complete scanning of the entire image also gave satisfactory results, but classifications were not necessarily better than by the random scanning method. Increasing the size of the apertures in the mask degraded the classification somewhat when compared with the complete scans, but it is not obvious that the overall classifications so obtained are worse than those from the complete scan. Some of the problems of scanning organisms for taxonomic analysis and the implications of such work for taxonomy are discussed.
10.2307/2412067|The purpose of the work described in this paper is to review several data centering techniques and to evaluate their effect on the outcome of component analysis. Data centering is defined as a translation of the co-ordinate origin to the centroid of the system. The conditions under which the R- and Q- techniques of component analysis are applicable as alternative strategies are discussed and the techniques are illustrated in a numerical example. A mathematical appendix is included.
10.2307/2413187|The analysis of the world distribution pattern of 38 inland fish families is undertaken. I present areography as an approach to assess area-interrelationships among these families. The spatial aspect of quantitative biogeography is studied with classification and ordination methods similar to those used in ecological biogeography, although my aim is not ecological determinism and, besides, the spatial and temporal limits characteristic of ecology are here exceeded. The evolutionary and time-dimensions are also considered, but the approach is historical and has not a strict phylogenetic background. First, cluster analysis is performed from the similarities between areas measured in terms of surface-overlap; then, the inverse approach is developed, namely, cluster analysis of arbitrarily defined geographical areas which are compared through the extent of their common family ranges. The derived pattern of fish distribution does not fit the traditional zoogeographical regions and reflects past geographical connections. Finally, principal coordinates analysis (PRA) from present biotic distances among the arbitrary geographical areas permits to verify statistically that a concordance exists between these biotic distances and past geography, and this shows the biogeographical projection of evolution. The parallelism between this approach and Croizat's method of generalized tracks is discussed, as well as the extension of the approach to other groups of organisms and to taxa of lower rank.
10.2307/2413188|This paper analyses the ecological concept of niche that Mayr (1982) adopts in his new, adjusted biological species definition. It is argued here that this concept is part of a typological paradigm still persisting in ecology and thus does not fit the remainder of Mayr's concepts of evolutionary processes based on population thinking. Consequently, adopting this concept in such a definition confuses matters more than it helps. In this analysis particular attention is given to the question of being able to measure niches and populations independently, together with chosing a spatio-temporal scale of variation. Some concepts central to the typological paradigm are also briefly mentioned, together with an alternative approach that could fit better Mayr's population thinking. This alternative approach does not rely on these concepts, nor on a particular choice of scale of variation and allows for the spatio-temporal dynamics of individual species resulting from environmental instability. Thus, it also allows for gradual speciation which the approach using the ecological typological paradigm cannot. Adopting the concept of niche within biological species definitions is not recommended.
10.2307/2413185|In the context of a numerical systematic analysis of dental occlusal morphology of extant hominoid Primates, consideration of alternative procedures for each of several analytic tasks revealed that: 1) ordination of sample means for hominoid primate molar occlusal landmark co-ordinates gave results similar to those of methodologically more rigorous canonical variate analyses (Hartman, 1986); 2) analysis of metric variables (e.g., group means) standardized by character may give biologically less meaningful results than use of variables not so standardized; 3) nonmetric multidimensional scaling may often give a superior two- or three-dimensional summary of phenetic relationships, compared to ordination techniques restricted to rigid transformation (e.g., principal component or co-ordinate analyses); 4) elimination of a latent "size" vector as an adjustment for intergroup size differences will often be inappropriate; and 5) under certain circumstances regression adjustments for the influence of size on shape (allometry) may be unsuitable.
10.2307/2413186|A characterization of Simpson's categories of relict species allows discrimination between relictual coevolved associations and associations due to a sequence of host-switching or colonization that coincidentally matches the host group phylogeny. Relictual groups are recognized by (a) highly speciose sister groups and (b) biogeographic distributions indicating great age. Numerical relicts are the relatively few surviving members of a once-speciose group, such as crocodilians. In the absence of a fossil record, past diversity can be inferred from the degree of ecological diversity among surviving members of the clade. Coevolved numerical relicts show spotty distribution among ecologically diverse members of an inclusive host clade. Phylogenetic relicts are "living fossils," members of old groups that have persisted relatively unchanged for a long period of time, such as horse-shoe crabs. Coevolved phylogenetic relicts are either restricted to host groups that are themselves phylogenetic relicts, or inhabit members of a non-relictual host group that share a common plesiomorphic ecology. Three examples drawn from flatworm parasites and their vertebrate hosts are discussed.
10.2307/2413189|A computer simulation suggests that, for large cladograms, it is impossible to intuit by visual examination whether an observed degree of similarity is non-random. Drift may hinder our ability to see that several large area cladograms reflect one underlying sequence of vicariant events. Natural selection, by contrast, may cause area cladograms to resemble one another even if they represent taxa that underwent very different sequences of vicariant events. In other words, drift and selection can both becloud phylogeny. But these hindrances do not prevent phylogenetic inferences altogether, and even apparently minor similarities between apparently dissimilar cladograms can be so highly non-random as to implicate a common sequence of vicariant events.
10.2307/2992196|The principle of the common cause and a background theory concerning the dependence-independence of the events responsible for allopatric lineage splitting are used to justify the concept of parsimony in the study of vicariance biogeography. A quantitative vicariance method is formulated, which in many respects is analogous to numerical cladistics. Syntaxon, the unit of evidence, is a composite of sister lineages which occupy two or more different areas of endemism. A new coding/weighting scheme also allows sympatric terminal taxa to be used in the analysis. Widespread terminal taxa and those missing from recognized areas of endemism are not considered relevant sources of evidence, and they are scored in a neutral manner. A Greater Antillean example illustrates the vicariance methodology. Five taxonomic sources of evidence, including boid snakes belonging to Epicrates, suggest the following biotic history: (mainland ((Cuba, Jamaica) (Hispaniola, Puerto Rico))).
10.2307/2992201|The spanning-tree approach to biogeography developed by Craw and Page offers results even when little or no cladistic information about taxonomic relationships is available. Because relationships are effectively resolved on the basis of present-day geographic proximity, however, those results may frequently be artifacts of the method.
10.2307/2992200|The relationships of the Antillean terrestrial arthropodan and onychophoran taxa are reviewed using track analysis, in which tracks are considered the connected areas of endemism of cladistically unresolved monophyletic groups. The West Indian fauna is shown to be of complex affinities, with elements related to Central and South America, North America, Africa, Asia, and Australia. Numerous taxa in a variety of insect orders exhibit Antillean-African relationships, suggesting that resolved cladistic analyses of such groups will allow testing of vicariance hypotheses of Antillean geohistory. Relationships among taxa on Cuba, Hispaniola and Puerto Rico support a geologic reconstruction in which proto-Hispaniola is composed of eastern Cuba, central and northern Hispaniola and Puerto Rico during the early Tertiary. Cladistic analysis of a clade within the carabid beetle genus Platynus is used to generate taxonarea cladograms. The clade is composed of 32 species, 8 from the mainland, 14 from Hispaniola, 4 from Jamaica, 4 from the northern Lesser Antilles, and 2 from Cuba. Fitch optimization is used to generate area transformation series from the taxon-area cladograms. Of the 39 equally parsimonious character cladograms generated in the cladistic analysis, two taxon-area cladograms most parsimoniously account for the area relationships of the Platynus species. These are compared to two contrasting geologic hypotheses of area relationships: a mobilist geologic hypothesis and a stabilist geology/taxon dispersal hypothesis. Using component analysis and a graphical representation of the area transformation series, called closed biogeographic graphs, the mobilist geologic hypothesis is shown to better account for the area relationships of the Platynus clade. These area relationsips include: 1) a relatively earlier association of portions of the northern Lesser Antilles with the Greater Antilles; 2) a hybrid origin for Hispaniola, with the central and northern cordilleras related to eastern Cuba, and the southern Haitian peninsula related to Jamaica; 3) a relatively later relationship of Jamaica and northern Central America. The techniques of biogeographic graph analysis are compared to recent attempts at track analysis and to the methods of cladistic biogeography. The biogeographic graphs are shown to be a useful adjunct to component analysis, but suffer from a loss of directed component information.
10.2307/2992197|The North American freshwater fish fauna exhibits considerable species diversity and patterns of endemism. The fauna has enormous potential for use in investigations and tests of biogeographic and evolutionary theories. Many of these studies are presently impossible to execute, however, because of our impoverished knowledge of native fish species relationships. Fish communities of the Central Highland Regions of eastern North America are exceptions to this observation. The fauna is diverse and contains patterns of endemism identifiable as generalized biogeographic tracts. This ichthyofauna is reviewed and employed as a case study in applications of phylogenetic relationships of organisms in vicariance biogeography. In this new method species relationships and distributions are coded in a binary and multistate data matrix and analyzed using a parsimony algorithm to elucidate the age, origin, and biogeographic history of the fauna. Rivers inhabited by species are analogous to taxa; relationships between species and their distributions are analogous to characters possessed by each of the taxa (Rivers). From seven fish clades, 33 equally parsimonious cladograms are obtained for the Central Highland drainages. The resulting strict consensus cladogram is consistent with the known pre-Pleistocene geological history of eastern North American rivers and supports the hypothesis of an ancient ichthyofauna. With this group of fish clades the Mobile Basin forms the sister group to all rivers of the Mississippi River Basin. Among the Mississippi River tributaries, a clade inclusive of the Tennessee, Duck, Cumberland, and Green rivers forms the sister group with the Salt River in Kentucky. This clade is sister to a large Teays-Mississippi clade. Within the latter group, a sister-group relationship is obtained between tributaries of the upper Ohio River, formerly of the Teays River, and a clade inclusive of rivers across the glaciated Central Lowlands and into the Interior Highlands. These relationships may be predicted from pre-glacial drainage patterns, but not by present-day drainage connections. Concordance between the known preglacial drainage history and the drainage cladogram supports the existence of a diverse and widespread pre-Pleistocene Central Highlands ichthyofauna.
10.2307/2992199|Insects comprise approximately 79% of all described animals, probably form an even greater percentage of the animal component of terrestrial biotas and are excellent subjects for biogeographic studies. This paper applies vicariance biogeography methods to samples of insects from Canada, the United States and Mexico. Analysis of the reduced area cladograms of 22 genera representing 11 families and 6 orders shows that North America (Canada and continental United States) and Mexico have ten zones of disjunction which separate allopatric sister taxa. The predominant pattern among the cladograms is for the various pairs of sister areas to each have a different outgroup area. The general lack of compatibility among reduced area cladograms is apparently due to four factors. (1) Some groups of insects have probably dispersed across barriers. (2) Barriers within at least 6 of the zones of disjunction have been cyclic in occurrence, alternating between being present and then temporarily subsiding; these cycles have offered opportunities for cyclic dispersal and cyclic vicariance. (3) The geographical ranges of many insect groups have apparently changed greatly in the past, thereby obscuring any orderly vicariance patterns. (4) Extinctions probably have played a major role in producing incompatible reduced area cladograms. Selective pressures at times have probably favored the most vagile insect groups and thereby selected for those least likely to have compatible reduced area cladograms while selecting against more sedentary groups, those most likely to have compatible cladograms. The methods of vicariance biogeography may be unable to fully elucidate the historical biogeography of many major components of continental biotas due to factors such as those affecting insects. Such methods may be most appropriate for relatively sedentary organisms found in areas outside the ranges of drastic environmental changes such as Pleistocene ice sheets. The methods of vicariance biogeography need to be further tested with data from real organisms rather than from simplified or hypothetical taxa; such testing may lead to the devising of more robust procedures. For many groups of organisms the methods of vicariance biogeography will be an important subset of a more multidisciplinary approach.
10.2307/2992198|The biogeographic patterns exhibited by freshwater fishes in the Greater Antilles are examined. These twelve groups of fishes (gars of the genus Atractosteus, synbranchid eels of the genus Ophisternon, cichlids of the genus Cichlasoma, cyprindontiforms of the genera Cyprinodon, Cubanichthys, and Rivulus, and poeciliids of the tribe Girardiini, the subgenera Limia and Poecilia of the genus Poecilia, and the nicaraguensis, puncticulata, and punctata species groups of the genus Gambusia) all belong to Myer's (1938) secondary division, which he felt was uninformative for historical biogeography. Cladograms are presented for each group, largely taken from the literature. Many are poorly resolved, and several become only two-area statements when converted into area cladograms; however, a composite area cladogram, derived from the resolved areas of the individual area cladograms, proposes a hypothesis of area relationships in the Greater Antilles that all freshwater fish cladograms are consistent with, although this composite area cladogram, because of the lack of resolution in many of the individual area cladograms, is not robust to some statistical tests. This hypothesis predicts: 1. that neither Cuba nor Hispaniola are single areas of endemism, Cuba being divisible into western and eastern portions and Hispaniola into southwestern and central portions; 2. that western Cuba (including the Isla de la Juventud), the Cayman Islands, Jamaica, and southwestern Hispaniola form a monophyletic group; 3. that eastern Cuba is related to the Bahamas and central Hispaniola; and 4. that these two island groups together form a group, which is most closely related to Nuclear Central America (Yucatan, Guatemala, and Belize). Geological evidence (summarized by Rosen, 1985) also supports these predictions, but it is emphasized that better systematic input, in the form of more resolved, more highly corroborated area cladograms, will provide a more critical test of this hypothesis.
10.2307/2992271|The ontogeny character polarization criterion was empirically evaluated relative to the outgroup criterion using the salamander genus Ambystoma. The ontogeny criterion produced a single most-parsimonious tree which was equally or better-resolved than the four most-parsimonious trees produced by the outgroup criterion. Using the consensus tree to represent the outgroup results, the two criteria derive essentially the same topology. Thus, in comparing topological similarity, level of resolution, and degree of ambiguity, the ontogeny criterion performs as well as or better than does the outgroup criterion in resolving the relationships of this study group. The superior performance of the ontogeny criterion appears to be due to its robustness to the effects of paedomorphic characters as long as those characters do not predominate in the data set. This robustness suggests that the requirements for successful application of the ontogeny criterion may be widely met in nature and that the criterion, therefore, may be useful in resolving the relationships of taxa in which outgroup analysis is problematical.
10.2307/2992272|Discussions of the theory and practice of systematics and evolutionary biology have heretofore revolved around the views of philosophers of science. I reexamine these issues from the different perspective of the philosophy of history. Just as philosophers of history distinguish between chronicle (non-interpretive or non-explanatory writing) and narrative history (interpretive or explanatory writing), I distinguish between evolutionary chronicle (cladograms, broadly construed) and narrative evolutionary history. Systematics is the discipline which estimates the evolutionary chronicle. Explanations of the events described in the evolutionary chronicle are not of the covering-law type described by philosophers of science, but rather of the how-possibly, continuous series, and integrating types described by philosophers of history. Pre-evolutionary explanations of states (in contrast to chroniclar events) are still widespread in "evolutionary" biology, however, because evolutionary chronicles are in general poorly known. To the extent that chronicles are known, the narrative evolutionary histories based on them are structured like conventional historical narratives, in that they treat their central subjects as ontological individuals. This conventional treatment is incorrect. The central subjects of evolutionary narratives are clades, branched entities which have some of the properties of individuals and some of the properties of classes. Our unconscious treatment of the subjects of evolutionary narratives as individuals has been the cause of erroneous notions of progress in evolution, and of views that taxa "develop" ontogenetically in ways analogous to individual organisms. We must rewrite our narrative evolutionary histories so that they properly represent the branching nature of evolution, and we must reframe our evolutionary philosophies so that they properly reflect the historical nature of our subject.
10.2307/2992273|The conditions under which Nei's (1972) genetic identity measure (I) yields results which are discordant with changes recorded in the gene identities at single loci are defined. We noticed that upon reassessment of allele frequencies, the value of I can in some cases change in the opposite direction of changes recorded in single locus gene identities. This anomaly may affect phylogenetic reconstructions especially when closely related populations and/or rare alleles are involved. We illustrate this problem using two examples, one based on real electrophoretic data from two Macaca species, the other based on hypothetical allele frequencies. We propose to use instead of Nei's I, an alternative measure, which we call Nei's modified genetic identity (I). This measure is based on the arithmetic mean of single locus gene identities. Nei's modified distance (D) is derived analogically to Nei's D. We present the sampling variances of these modified estimates.
10.2307/2992275|A previously derived parasite cladogram for North American fresh water ancyrocephalids with articulating haptoral bars was compared with one obtained for their centrarchid hosts. Mapping of the parasite phylogeny on the host phylogeny gave a consistency index of only 0.38. Host-parasite coevolution was attributed solely to ecological association (co-accommodation). Absence of historical association (co-speciation) was correlated with lack of host specificity and host hybridization. Both broad and narrow co-accommodation were demonstrated and attributed to a combined effect of host hybridization and differential geographic distribution of hosts and parasites in response to Pleistocene glaciation events.
10.2307/2992274|Geographic races of pocket gophers, Thomomys bottae, have been defined classically by differences in cranial dimensions, augmented by pelage color variation. Here, we distinguish between size and non-size related components of cranial variation and show that overall size is predicted mainly by features reflecting the nutritional quality of the available vegetation among the habitats occupied by gophers. Body size thus has a strong non-genetic, or environmental, basis. Cranial shape, on the other hand, identifies geographically homogeneous units that are concordant with electromorphically determined segments of the species' range. Cranial shape is, therefore, considered to represent underlying genetic influences and to identify more closely historical (phyletic) evolutionary units. In our view, these evolutionary units should form the basis for the infraspecific taxonomy of pocket gophers, and other organisms as well. The number of formal subspecies of T. bottae for the region of study (the deserts of eastern California) would be reduced from 11 to three by application of this criterion.
10.2307/2992270|The Hawaiian "picture-winged" Drosophila are a well characterized group among which there are marked differences in the pattern of expression of several developmentally regulated enzymes. We have assessed the phylogenetic information content of these pattern differences by using them in the PAUP computer program (Swofford, 1984). The resulting phylogenies were examined for internal consistency and compared to phylogenies based on other character sets. The results suggest that these patterns have changed so extensively that relationships between distantly related species have been obscured. However, the amount of homoplasy within groups of closely related species is sufficiently small that regulatory patterns may be useful for inferring relationships at this level, especially between chromosomally homosequential species.
10.2307/2992374|Panbiogeographic and vicariance cladistic methods are compared and contrasted through applications to two aspects of New Zealand biogeography involving the inter-relationships of endemic rich and poor areas, and of the Chatham Islands biota. Biological area cladogram methods are utilized and for the first time the construction of a geological area cladogram based on cladistic analysis of geological characters is demonstrated. A new method of track analysis based on compatibility and clique approaches to graph analysis is outlined and applied to distributional data sets for taxa distributed in New Zealand and the Chatham Islands. This track analysis provides the basis for a novel parallel arcs model for the origin of the Chatham Islands biota. This model exemplifies reciprocal illumination between panbiogeography, phylogenetic systematics and geology.
10.2307/2992369|This paper discusses some methodological problems associated with reconstructing the evolutionary history of continental biotas through a biogeographic analysis of areas of endemism. Present evidence suggests continental biotas have had a long, complex history as judged by patterns of relationship among areas of endemism. Thus, an analysis of species-cladograms, in which component taxa share areas of endemism, reveals, first, that more than one general area-cladogram typically exists for the areas of a continental biota, and second, that there is often incongruence among these general area-cladograms. Under the vicariance hypothesis that general area-cladograms describe real historical patterns for components of the biota, such incongruence implies that the biota has been subjected to a number of processes that can produce highly complex histories among areas of endemism, including area-hybridization, vicariance events of different ages located in the same areas, extinctions, and loss of barriers, among others. Current methods of biogeographic pattern analysis-specifically component analysis and biogeographic parsimony analysis-are reductionist in the sense that they attempt to resolve multiple conflicting patterns across species-cladograms to a singular, less complex pattern, or general area-cladogram. As incongruence increases among general area-cladograms, component analysis will resolve fewer shared components. Biogeographic parsimony analysis, in contrast, will always be able to produce parsimonious solutions, but those solutions may not explain much of the original biogeographic data satisfactorily. This latter method is predicated on viewing areas as analogues of taxa and taxa as analogues of characters. The analogy may not always be appropriate, however, because, among other things, areas can have multiple histories, but taxa cannot. It is suggested that "nonreductionist" methods need to be developed within historical biogeography in order to generate hypotheses that can unify the historical patterns implied by incongruent general area-cladograms. These problems are illustrated by biogeographic patterns among the areas of endemism of the Amazon basin.
10.2307/2992370|The metaphor "Space, Time, Form: The Biological Synthesis" has proven to be valuable in the development of theory and method in biogeography. It has also helped polarize biogeographers. In an attempt to unify the polarized positions and promote cooperation and appreciation among scientists with different special interests, yet another view of Space, Time, and Form is offered. Ecological and historical biogeography can be seen as portions of a continuum that relates temporal and spatial scaling effects in the production of biomass and diversity. The utility of this non-reductionist view is illustrated using a study of Neotropical freshwater stingrays and their parasites.
10.2307/2992371|It is argued that inference procedures used in cladistic phylogenetics and in vicariance biogeography make different assumptions. In cladistic phylogenetics, vertical transmission of characters is assumed; in vicariance biogeography, the competing hypotheses disagree as to whether transmission is horizontal or vertical. The bearing of this difference on the idea that a single methodology underlies the two inference problems is considered.
10.2307/2992372|This paper describes methods for constructing and comparing area cladograms. Three different interpretations (Assumptions 0, 1 and 2) of widespread taxa and redundant distributions are outlined. Algorithms for Assumptions 1 and 2 are presented, and a measure of relative parsimony for area cladograms is discussed. By using quantitative measures of the similarity between two or more area cladograms it is possible to test statistically hypotheses of biogeographic congruence. The algorithms described in this paper have been implemented in a computer program available from the author. Rosen's (1978, 1979) and Cracraft's (1986) data are reanalyzed using this software.
10.2307/2992373|Two major methodological approaches to vicariance biogeography are reviewed. Component analysis is rejected as a general technique because (1) the assumptions that have been used with the method are not the most parsimonious assumptions available, and (2) those applications of the method that rely on consensus techniques produce unparsimonious hypotheses and are incapable of finding equally parsimonious alternative hypotheses. Brooks Parsimony Analysis (BPA) uses data from independent phylogenetic hypotheses in a parsimony analysis to reconstruct either biogeographic relationships of areas or coevolutionary relationships among species inhabiting the same community. Biogeographic analysis using BPA offers vicariance biogeographers both a strategy for problem solving and a method for analyzing area relationships that are free of the limitations inherent in both cladogram reduction methods and component analysis. Modifications to Brooks (1981) coding removes the objections of critics regarding the independence of variables. Each analysis requires the investigator to deal with the total distributional evidence available using the (methodologically) most parsimonious assumptions available. A Brooks Parsimony Analysis results in one or more hypotheses of area relationships. At present, full implementation of BPA is impeded by a lack of appropriate options in available computer programs. Using PAUP, a posteriori analyses can be performed to "normalize" the distributions of ancestors and descendants (area synapomorphies) on each area cladogram. Rules used to accomplish this task include specific reference to the original data inherent in the phylogenetic analysis of each group.
10.2307/2412239|A Fortran program for constructing identification keys is described. The strategy used by the program aims to minimize the probability of error or the amount of difficulty in using the key. The main considerations in assessing the merit of a character are the reliability or convenience of the character (as estimated by the maker of the key), the evenness of the division produced by the character, and the amount of intra-taxon variability for the character. The key maker has a high degree of control over the strategy, as the relative importance of these criteria may be specified, and the automatic choice of characters may be overridden.
10.2307/2412240|Art and science are inextricably mingled in taxonomy as in other disciplines. The process of improving science is not equivalent to a process of reducing or eliminating art. Semantics, theory, and practice should be distinguished in discussions of taxonomic problems. Distinctions should also be drawn carefully between the real universe, the models we construct, and the classifications or sets of formal names we use. Comparisons are made between the three principal strands in taxonomy, the phenetic, cladistic, and eclectic. Different values, for example nomenclatorial stability and fidelity of classification and model in taxonomy, cannot be simultaneously maximized; this makes compromise necessary. Two cladistic models and related classifications are compared.
10.2307/2412242|New information of value in phylogenetic and systematic considerations of the ciliate Protozoa is rapidly accumulating; to give this the attention it merits, a revised scheme of classification for the CILIOPHORA, now believed to represent a separate protistan phylum in its own right, needs to be developed. First, the history of past attempts at erecting phylogenetically-based classifications for the group is reviewed, with emphasis on changes which have evolved in response to technical advances in the field, growth in interest of biologists in these protozoa, and promulgation of new ideas and hypotheses by qualified leaders. Such a critical look at the past lends perspective to the overall problem and has provided a basis for the new revision proposed here. The First Period (1880-1930), the Age of Discovery, is noted for the simplicity of the classification scheme, credited principally to Otto Butschli. But there were only 500 species of ciliates known at the beginning of the period and they were separated into several groups primarily on the basis of easily visible differences in the location and composition of the external ciliature. The long life of the Butschlian system is credited to its adequacy, under the conditions which existed, and to the weight of the authority of the men backing it. The Second Period (1930-1950), the Age of Exploitation, was marked by the tremendous growth both in numbers of species and in interest in these protozoa by biologists who were not exclusively taxonomists or parasitologists. The diversity of the 3,000 species recognized by the early 1930's required considerable expansion in the number of higher-level taxa within the subphylum, as it was then called. The leadership fell to Alfred Kahl, an able and hard-working ciliatologist from Hamburg who described many new species and published monumental monographs, still indispensable in many ways today, on nearly all groups. But the classical scheme was essentially retained in the Kahlian classification. The Third Period (1950-1970), the Age of the Infraciliature, gave birth to what appeared to be a very conservative scheme of classification; but, in fact, it represented a revolutionary change over the preceding systems. Brilliantly conceived by E. Faure-Fremiet of Paris and supported almost entirely by the insightful works of other French protozoologists of the time (and of men like E. Chatton even earlier), the combination of a most appropriate and effective cytological technique (silver impregnation) and of phylogenetic and evolutionary hypotheses based on a full appreciation of the heretofore unknown infraciliature of ciliates made possible a fundamental revision of the Kahlian classification. Supposed evolutionary interrelationships were reflected in significant and often iconoclastic regroupings of major taxa within the subphylum. The number of species involved reached about 6,000 by 1960, and many new ecological niches (e.g., sands of intertidal zones) were beginning to be explored. The Fourth Period (1970-), the Age of Ultrastructure, can be identified primarily by its focus on the exciting data made available through electron microscopy. Fine structure studies of the parts of the infraciliature and of other organelles have supplied information bearing directly on the degrees of difference and similarity among ciliate species (now nearly 7,500 in number). A greater diversity than expected has demanded a splitting up of many of the groups established in the Faurean scheme, description of entirely new groups, and important evolutionary realignment of a number of groups. Even recognition of the ciliates as comprising an independent phylum is based on appreciation of the tremendous diversity within the overall assemblage. Leadership has become diffuse; E. Faure-Fremiet himself foresaw a number of the changes; critical ideas have emanated from various sources; but many of the ultrastructural facts so crucial to the revision have been produced by members of the de Puytorac school in Clermont-Ferrand. Most active in publishing new overall schemes for the ciliates has been Anatol Jankowski of Leningrad. The new classification of the CILIOPHORA proposed in the present paper incorporates some of Jankowski's ideas but reflects many other changes over the Faurean scheme as well, including a sizable multiplication in number of high-level taxa and postulation of quite different affinities among some of the key groups, the latter based in large measure on interpretation of pertinent morphogenetic data available from studies (including, but far from exclusively, ultrastructural research) on cortical, infraciliary, organellar, and macronuclear material in species representative of many ciliate taxa.
10.2307/2412237|Chromosomal data reveal the existence of two mainland species of Macrotus that are parapatric in distribution. Individuals can be identified to species by both chromosomal features and cranial morphology. A stepwise multiple discrimmant analysis and canonical variate analysis show that the two species are morphometrically divergent. The distribution of these two taxa is proof that parapatry occurs in species with high vagility If chromosomal data had not been available or if chromosomal divergence had not accompanied speciation in Macrotus, this unique pattern of distribution probably would not have been detected. Allopatric, stasipatric, and centrifugal speciation are considered in light of the presently available data for Macrotus.
10.2307/2412241|Several statements are suggested as necessary for the formulation of any theory of phylogeny reconstruction; these include statements about kinship relationships, the origination and diversification of taxonomic units, and clustering. From these basic statements an attempt is made to construct phylogenetic models corresponding to the theory and methods of the two principle schools of systematic thought. The models are compared, and it is concluded that the phylogenetic systematic model is a more powerful tool in reconstructing phylogeny than is the evolutionary systematic model. The ways in which the phylogenetic models influence the form and content of classifications are discussed. Only information about phylogenetic (cladistic) relationships can be stored in and retrieved from Linnaean hierarchical classifications, and thus classifications should be based on a phylogenetic systematic model because such a classification will reproduce precisely the information (phylogeny) used to construct it.
10.2307/2412238|Experiments were performed in the field on males of five species and females of ten species of damselflies (Odonata: Zygoptera: Coenagrionidae) to determine the relative importance of visual and mechanical reproductive isolating mechanisms. Males of all five species did not distinguish visually their own female from heterospecific females of the same genus, but they were slightly less responsive to females of other genera, probably because of size differences. When the males attempted to mate with females of other species, they were usually prevented from doing so because their abdominal appendages were unable to secure a firm grip on the appropriate thoracic structures in the females. In only one species pair was the male able to achieve the tandem position successfully most of the time, and the reciprocal was unable to do so. Mechanical isolation is clearly very important in this group of odonates, and it is hypothesized that it will be found to be important in all odonates in which male appendages differ substantially between species while female coloration does not.
10.2307/2412235|Skulls from 284 wild canids collected in Arkansas from July, 1968 through March, 1971 approximately one year old or older and of known sex and capture locality were analyzed taxonomically Each skull was compared to six target populations of skulls from known canids (coyotes, coyote x dog hybrids, dogs, red wolves, northeastern forest gray wolves, and plains gray wolves) for identification. The 165 male unknowns were identified as: coyote, 117, coyote x dog intermediate, 26; dog, 3; red wolf, 2; coyote x red wolf intermediate, 16; dog x red wolf intermediate, 1. The 119 female unknowns were identified as: coyote, 91, coyote x dog intermediate, 12; dog, 5; coyote x red wolf intermediate, 11. Coyotes occur in all counties of the state and are the predominant wild canid in most areas. Local pockets of coyote x dog intermediates are randomly distributed but fairly common. Wild dogs have become established in some areas, especially in east-central Arkansas. A strong red wolf influence still exists in the canid population on the Gulf Coastal Plain of southern Arkansas. Occasional pockets of red wolf influence are found in the Ouachita and Ozark Mountains and Delta.
10.2307/2412236|A broad survey of immunological affinities among squirrels (Sciuridae) was achieved by testing sera of 36 species in immunodiffusion using antisera to the sera of 11 species. The results (net spur values) were summarized using set theoretical notation in a computer program which ordered the compared species in order of their divergence from the homologous species. A dendrogram was constructed by the Unweighted Pair Group Method. Species within genera were usually discriminated by this method and taxa recognized on morphological evidence as related were more similar in their proteins than unrelated ones. Among members of the Sciuridae the first branching was of chipmunk-ground squirrel and tree squirrel-flying squirrel lineages. The immunological evidence for the divergence of chipmunks and ground squirrels early in the evolutionary history of the family is in accord with the fossil record. Systematic relationships among ground squirrels suggested by the comparison data correlate with accepted classification; prelimmary data also support the hypothesis that prairie dogs are most closely related to the genus Spermophilus. The data suggest divergence of three phyletic lines of tree squirrels and two of flying squirrels. The Asian tree squirrel lineage includes members of the tribe Callosciurini (Callosciurus, Sundasciurus, Tamiops, and Menetes) and the Indian Funambulus which were more similar to each other antigenically than to any other tree squirrels. The giant squirrel genus Ratufa represents a separate phyletic line and Sciurus and Tamiasciurus constitutes a third line. Except for the Asian Iomys, all flying squirrels examined (Glaucomys, Petinomys, Pteromys, and Petaurista) were more closely related to each other than to other squirrels, and as a group show a close affinity to the Sciurus phyletic line. This observation opposes the present classification which assigns flying squirrels to the subfamily Petauristinae and the tree squirrels and ground squirrels to the subfamily Sciurmae. The immunodiffusion technique permits comparisons over a wide taxonomic range, providing data useful at several taxonomic levels; Aplodontia rufa, the most primitive living rodent, was greatly divergent from all squirrels.
10.2307/2412471|Traditionally, species (like other taxa) have been treated as classes (universals). In fact they may be considered individuals (particular things). The logical term "individual" has been confused with a biological synonym for "organism." If species are individuals, then: 1) their names are proper, 2) there cannot be instances of them, 3) they do not have defining properties (intensions), 4) their constituent organisms are parts, not members. "Species" may be defined as the most extensive units in the natural economy such that reproductive competition occurs among their parts. Species are to evolutionary theory as firms are to economic theory: this analogy resolves many issues, such as the problems of "reality" and the ontological status of nomenclatorial types.
10.2307/2412470|Cerion displays an extraordinary range of phenetic diversity. This has led to the naming of several hundred species, though only a mere fraction of these are valid if, as we believe, morphological diversity does not reflect reproductive isolation in this genus. The taxonomic morass has precluded fruitful evolutionary study of these extremely plastic animals. We apply techniques of multivariate morphometrics and biochemical genetics to a local situation on the northeastern coast of Great Abaco, Bahamas. Here, a local population is semi-isolated along a strip of coastline near the settlement of Pongo Carpet; it is in contact with other populations only to the north. Its morphology is highly distinct and, on all previous criteria, it merits recognition as a separate species. We find, however, that its patterns of covariation (as revealed by factor analysis) cannot be distinguished from those of the only recognized taxon of northern Abaco, C. bendalli (while patterns in the southern Abaconian species, C. abacoense, are entirely different). Canonical analysis displays a cline towards standard morphology from the region of maximum isolation at Pongo Carpet to the northern area of potential contact with standard C. bendalli. Levels of morphological variation do not differ among samples; those of intermediate morphology show no increase in variability or other signs of hybridization. Starch-gel electrophoresis showed the pongo carpet samples to be genetically indistinguishable from standard bendalli at the 18 structural gene loci surveyed. No evidence for selfing or inbreeding was detected. The proportion of polymorphic loci in each population ranged between 16.6-22.2%; genic heterozygosity per individual was 5.25-6.79%. The only genetic "anomaly" within the area contrasts some standard and pongo carpet samples with C. bendalli from elsewhere on Abaco and Grand Bahama Island. We conclude that the pongo carpet population is a well-marked geographic variant within Cerion bendalli. The coordinated application of biochemical genetics and multivariate morphometrics can resolve many issues in the systematics of highly variable organisms.
10.2307/2412466|In a previous paper the author showed that the American planarian Dugesia dorotocephala possesses a haploid set of 8 chromosomes. New investigations have now demonstrated in two populations a haploid set of 4 chromosomes. The possible ways this karyotype has varied and its taxonomic value are discussed.
10.2307/2412465|Syngens 1, 2, 4, and 6 (at least) of Paramecium aurelia are morphologically distinct in their multivariate complexity. On the basis of 20 attributes, requiring only 7 measures and 3 counts on stained specimens, the synegic ascertainment of stocks of these four syntens is feasible using multivarate methods. Extension of these methods to all of the syngens of the aurelia group is necessary before definitive syngenic ascertainment in practical by morpholgy alone
10.2307/2412468|The ultrastructure of the chorion in three pairs of closely related Drosophila species endemic to Hawaii was determined using a scanning electron microscope. All species have a generally similar pattern of a network of hexagons, yet they differ in the detailed structure of the chorion. The size and shape of the hexagons, the thickness and shape of the hexagonal rims and the presence and size of the respiratory pores are strikingly different between the members of each pair. It is suggested that these differences are correlated with the substrates used for oviposition by each species. The chorionic structure of eggs of interspecific hybrids indicates polygenic control with both parental genomes being involved, yet with a strong maternal influence on the shape and size of the hexagonal rims.
10.2307/2412469|A new concept based on Dollo's Law, the uniquely evolved character concept, is defined; it can be applied only to characters involving evolution of a structural character or development of a new enzymatic pathway. From this, a new method of trying to establish cladistic relationships has been developed and studied with the same published data on taxa of orthopteroid insects as used in my earlier paper (Le Quesne, 1972).
10.2307/2412464|Two consistent observations from recent multi-locus electrophoretic studies are: (1) levels of genic similarity between conspecific populations appear very high (populations nearly identical in allelic content at 85 percent or more of their loci) and (2) genic similarities between different, even very closely related species, are generally much lower and more widely dispersed (congeneric species pairs often completely distinct at one-fifth to four-fifths of their loci). These observations have valuable implications regarding the practical utility of electrophoresis: (1) one or a few samples often yield adequate data for the description of an entire species for systematic purposes and (2) closely related species may be arranged according to percentages of shared alleles or genotypes. A survey of the literature indicates that when such arrangements are made, they usually correspond very closely to previously recognized relationships of various species groups based on classical systematic criteria. This observation, coupled with several theoretical advantages of the study of allozymes, makes it clear that electrophoretic techniques will provide an extremely valuable tool for systematists.
10.2307/2412467|The evolution of the protostome coelom is an adaptation to burrowing as is segmentation in the annelids. The burrowing ancestral polychaete resembled in body-form recent terrestrial oligochaetes. Recent polychaete families originated in an adaptive radiation following the migration of the ancestral annelids into the flocculent detrital layers in shallow marine muds and from there onto hard bottoms and other specialized environments.
10.2307/2412131|The geographical distribution of the six genera and 130 species of nematodes within the Family Camallanidae Railliet and Henry, 1915 is plotted and discussed. The family is divided into three subfamilies, the Procamallaninae, Camallaninae and Paracamallaninae, based upon buccal capsule structure. The fauna within each zoogeographical region is characterized as to host type and degree of specialization. Some general principles of parasite biogeography are discussed and applied to the data to hypothesize a center of origin and patterns of dispersal for the family. The use of female body volume as a fitness character in temperate climates for dispersing species is discussed. Estimates of the mean female body volume of the genera within various geographical regions are given. These estimates are correlated with the distribution pattern of the family.
10.2307/2412130|Coastal rivers are isolated habitats that can be studied as biogeographic islands. Forty-nine rivers of the North American Atlantic and Eastern Gulf of Mexico Coastal Plains and their freshwater mussel (Unionidae) faunas are analyzed as a discrete island biogeographic system. Cluster analyses group the rivers on the basis of faunal similarity into five intergrading zoogeographic provinces. Distributional patterns in these provinces are strongly influenced by the proximity of species source rivers. Independent variables measuring stepping-stone distances (number of intervening rivers) from species source rivers, area of river drainage basins, and water quality parameters were tested in multiple regression models for their ability to predict numbers of species. Area of drainage basins is the best predictor of numbers of species. The species-area effect is greatest for provinces containing important source rivers and is lower for provinces in which rivers were colonized primarily by stepping-stone dispersal. The influence of stepping-stones on dispersal was assessed by constructing a stochastic model that uses immigration and extinction probabilities on serially arranged islands. Simulations of the model demonstrate that numbers of species on the islands should decrease approximately geometrically with distance from the species source. Numbers of freshwater mussels in the coastal rivers display a similar geometrical decline. The species-area and stepping-stone dispersal effects are combined in a descriptive model that stresses an interaction between area and distance from source rivers in determining species numbers. When combined with measures of environmental quality (hydronium concentration, amount of dissolved solids, and nitrate concentration), this model explains up to 80 percent of the variance in unionid species numbers among the coastal rivers.
10.2307/2412139|The concept of center of origin in the Darwinian sense is often accepted and used as if it were a conceptual model necessary and fundamental to historical zoogeographical analysis. But in certain respects it is inconsistent with the principles of common ancestry and vicariance
10.2307/2412132|The distribution patterns of western and central Oklahoma fishes were analyzed, utilizing factor analytical techniques, to determine generalized patterns and their correlation with certain environmental variables. Twenty-seven drainage units of the major Arkansas and Red river tributaries were scored for the presence or absence of each of 53 species and values for 13 environmental variables. Six factor groups were obtained through oblique rotation of principal axes that were factored from the correlation matrix of the variables. These six associations were judged biologically meaningful and provide insight into the limiting factors affecting the Oklahoma fish fauna. The relative effects of historical and environmental components on current distribution groupings are discussed and some predictions are made concerning future faunal changes.
10.2307/2412129|The Bathynellacea are one of the oldest groups of the freshwater fauna. They most likely inhabited surface habitats during the Carboniferous prior to becoming established in the mesopsammal. Their dispersive capacity is severely limited. The occurrence of some species in oligohaline to polyhaline waters is secondary. The centre of evolution of the Bathynellacea is located in East Asia where the most primitive species of the two extant families are to be found. As for the Parabathynellidae two lines extending from there onwards can be distinguished. One leads to the west in the direction of Europe, Africa and South America. The "Cteniobathynella-group" of genera belongs to this line. The other is represented by the "Chilibathynella-group" of genera and leads to the south via Australia also to South America. Along both lines the genera become more and more apomorphic in their characters. In order to understand the distribution of the "Cteniobathynella-group" Mesozoic land connections between Africa, Madagascar and South America have to be envisaged. The distribution of the "Chilibathynella-group" cannot be explained unless there had been land connections between Australia/New Guinea and New Zealand and between Australia and South America via Antarctica in the Mesozoic. There are indications that the distribution of the family Bathynellidae may have paralleled that of the Parabathynellidae. But lack of a proper insight into the systematic relationships within this family prevents a detailed reconstruction at present.
10.2307/2412136|Information about the operation of various, major zoogeographic barriers in both marine and terrestrial environments is presented. The data appear to indicate that such barriers affect the distribution of animals in a consistent manner. Therefore, it is possible to propose a general theory of barrier function. If we assume that such barriers have been constant in their function over long periods of time, we are provided with a relatively simple explanation for certain, worldwide distributional (and phylogenetic) patterns that apparently have taken millions of years to become established. If it is recognized that, in general, the more advanced species will be found in the center of origin, the task of working out the relationships of an animal group, and hence the course of evolution, will be made easier. The data on barriers indicate that the cladistic biogeographic principle, which states that the most primitive species are found closest to the center of origin, is probably unsound.
10.2307/2412134|We have examined allozymic variation at 25 loci in nine species of Peromyscus inhabiting the southwestern United States, Sonora, Baja California, and islands in the Gulf of California. Four previously studied species of Peromyscus are also included in a dendrogram formed by cluster analysis of genic similarity coefficients. Mainland populations currently assigned to P. eremicus represent two distinctive genetic types, an eastern form in Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona, Texas, and Sonora, and a western form in southern California and Baja that may have been separated originally by the Gulf of California embayment in the Pleistocene. Peromyscus merriami is genically distinct from sympatric P. eremicus populations of the eastern type, although it falls within the range of genetic variation found between eastern and western P. eremicus forms. The insular endemics P. guardia, P. interparietalis, and P. dickeyi, and two insular subspecies of P. eremicus, are similar to the western P. eremicus type on Baja and probably share a recent common ancestor. Populations on shallow-water islands near Baja are more similar to mainland populations than are those on deep-water islands. Other insular species, P. caniceps and P. stephani, are genetically more distinct from P. eremicus and may have closer relationships with other mainland species. P. sejugis is closely related to P. polionotus (maniculatus species group) and probably evolved from maniculatus. There is considerable variation in level of genic heterozygosity among mainland populations, although the mean of six percent is consistent with "normal" heterozygosity estimates for other vertebrates. All insular populations have low variability, averaging less than one percent of loci in heterozygous state, presumably as a consequence of random drift in small populations.
10.2307/2412133|A population of Leiobunum longipes Weed from west central Indiana was compared with a population of the same species from southwestern Michigan. This comparison was based on two parameters: daily cycle of activity and secretion of serotonin. The daily activity patterns of the two populations were found to differ. The Indiana forms were active during the nighttime hours and quiescent during the day, with only one peak of activity per 24 hours. In contrast the Michigan forms had two peaks of activity, one during the night and another during the daylight hours. The pattern of the secretion of serotonin also differed in the two populations. In the Michigan form the peak of production came during the daylight hours while the Indiana individuals had their peak production during the night. It is proposed that such behavioral and physiological differences are useful as indicators of speciation before morphological differences can be noted.
10.2307/2412135|Operational biological classification at the species level is analyzed as a series of sequential steps employing phenetic, reproductive, and ecological parameters. The first step involves segregation of individuals or populations into phenetically similar groups. Numerical techniques for objectively assessing phenetic similarities are well established, and are the method of choice. The next major step involves reproductive grouping, whenever possible. Reproductive isolation may be a sufficient criterion for species status in the case of sympatric populations. In other cases species decisions are usually deferred until the following step, or ecological grouping, which is based on ecological similarities and differences, quantified and analyzed with numerical methods. Species limits may be visualized graphically by considering phenetic, ecological, and reproductive similarities as axes of a three dimensional space. Populations may be plotted within this space and may be tested for conspecific status by existing computer techniques.
10.2307/2412137|The highland avifauna of thirteen mountain tepuis of southern Venezuela has been examined through multiple regression analyses to determine which parameters of environmental diversity (area, elevation above sea level) and isolation correlate most strongly with the number of species. A linear model with elevation as the independent variable accounts for 81% of the variation in species number. All independent variables account for 84% of the variation in the multiple regression. This result is discussed in terms of extinction since the last glacial lowering of vegetation zones and it is suggested that elevation and topography may significantly affect the probability of extinction and recolonization. In a comparison of the Pantepui species with two other highland avifaunas, it is shown that the major portion of the variation from the regression of species number on elevation (Fig. 3) is due to the presence of more suboscines than expected, suggesting differential survival during interglacials at higher elevations.
10.2307/2412543|An apparent dimorphism in a sample of galls of the aphid Pemphigus populitransversus was substantiated by several univariate and multivariate methods. The initially observed dimorphism in gall shape could be substantiated by objective analyses and it was found that life history characteristics not originally noted were more dimorphic than measures of gall shape. Morphometric characters of stem mothers and alates also exhibited the dimorphism. Two measures of dip intensity, clustering, and ordination were employed to analyze six other samples. Three of these were found to be dimorphic in the sense established in the first locality, one turned out to be monomorphic, while the remaining two samples were nonallocable by the criteria established earlier. The importance of objective, logically consistent methods in analyzing apparent dimorphisms is stressed. The problems of establishing dimorphism in population samples are discussed in some detail, as are geographic variation of the dimorphism and of each morph. The possibility of a polythetically variable dimorphism over different localities or niches is discussed. Various biosystematic interpretations of the phenomena observed in this aphid are briefly enumerated.
10.2307/2412539|Study of the Middle Pennsylvanian, Mazon Creek, Essex fauna Crustacea (Johnson and Richardson, 1966; and Richardson and Johnson, 1971) of northeastern Illinois has prompted an examination of the entire Late Paleozoic radiation of caridoid malacostracans. Members of this radiation bear several gross anatomical similarities to Mesozoic-Cenozoic eucarid forms, yet are totally and completely distinct taxonomically from them. This convergent phenomenon affords a rare look at the evolution of a major taxonomic category extending over a period of some 300 million years. The comparison also bears on general theoretical considerations of diversity and convergence in evolutionary theory.
10.2307/2412541|Contacts between the ranges of four pairs of different chromosome forms of pocket gophers of the Thomomys talpoides complex were studied in an effort to gain insight into the relationship between karyotype differences and level of evolutionary divergence. All contacts are located in the mountainous region of western Colorado. Three different results were found. At one contact no evidence of hybridization between the two chromosome forms was detected by an examination of karyotypes. At two other contacts limited hybridization occurs between the chromosome forms. The fourth contact studied is a broad zone of intergradation (20 miles or more in width) in which more or less unrestricted interbreeding occurs. A discussion of each contact area is presented and I conclude that frequently, though not always, karyotype differences in pocket gophers are indicative of species-level differences.
10.2307/2412542|A multidimensional scalogram analysis, MSA-I, shows that 27 inbred mouse strains, classified by thirteen loci, can be represented as points in a two-dimensional space. Five of the loci provide a rectangular coordinate system for partitioning of the space, three a polar, while the remaining ones make little further systematic contribution. The systematic partitionings may suggest theories of the origin of the strains' similarities and differences.
10.2307/2412544|A phylogeny based upon genetic similarity coupled with information from cytogenetics, behavior, ecological distribution, and geography is developed for the roquet species group of Anolis lizards in the southeastern Caribbean region. We postulate that the primary events were stepwise colonization of the three island banks closest to the South American mainland (Grenada, St. Vincent, and St. Lucia). The secondary events were colonization from St. Lucia to the more westerly islands of Blanquilla, and from there to Bonaire; the acquisition of a second species on St. Vincent by in situ speciation or by secondary colonization; the colonization of Martinique, Barbados, and the Grenada Bank (the latter for the second time).
10.2307/2412545|Morphometric differentiation in 10 egg guide characters was examined in 13 chromosomal races and species within the Viatica group of morabine grasshoppers. Considerable divergence was found to have occurred among races within each provisional species and among the various provisional species. The extent of multivariate phenetic overlap among races within a species ranges from 28% between the 2n = 19 and 2n = 17 races of viatica to 13% among the three races of P24. The interracial relationships among the taxa as reflected by canonical variate analyses of the 13 taxa and of the 8 taxa (races pooled) generally gave close correspondence to the known genetic and geographic affinities among the taxa. Factor analysis of the pooled data followed by analysis of variance and a posteriori testing of the factor scores provided evidence of intertaxa differentiation in the shape of the egg guide. Again, a close correspondence between phenetic variation, genetic divergence and ecogeographic separation was noted. Finally, the extent of multivariate phenetic overlap was found to decrease as a function of phylogenetic distance with the phylogenetically most primitive races having the greatest overlap with the other taxa and the most derived forms being phenetically the most discrete.
10.2307/2412540|Nine different karyotypes are evident among samples of six subspecies of Peromyscus boylii (P. b. rowleyi, P. b. spicilegus, P. b. simulus, P. b. levipes, P. b. ambiguus, and P. b. beatae). All specimens have a diploid number of 48; the principal differences are in the numbers of large and medium-sized biarmed autosomes which range from 2-10. Three chromosome races are recognizable in P. boylii; they are distributed parapatrically with respect to one another, and present evidence suggests that limited gene exchange occurs among them. The karyotype for topotypes of P. b. simulus from Nayarit, Mexico, is markedly different from all other forms of P. boylii, suggesting that this taxon is a distinct species. Chromosomal polymorphism of a non-Robertsonian type is seen in certain populations of P. boylii and may be the result of intergradation between the different chromosome races. The polymorphism involves a variable number of large biarmed autosomes with certain individuals in a population possessing a heteromorphic pair of autosomes. The karyotypes of P. oaxacensis and P. evides, both members of the boylii species group, are also described for the first time.
10.2307/2412538|The morphological order of evolutionary trees has been the traditional argument for the operation of directional causes in macroevolution. We show, in this work, that a similar order can be generated within stochastic systems bounded by minimal biological constraints. Our system generates an evolutionary tree by making random decisions about each lineage in each time interval given preset probabilities for branching, extinction and persistence (Raup, Gould, Schopf, and Simberloff, 1973). Morphology is determined in an independent and equally stochastic manner. Using ten hypothetical characters, the beginning lineage is given an all zero morphology. At each branching point, each character may change by one unit (in a positive or negative direction) according to preset probabilities for positive change, negative change, and no change. Our simulations display most of the ordered features generally associated with uni-directional selection: morphological coherence of monophyletic groups and incomplete filling of "morphological space"; regular "unfolding" of morphology (as seen in strong correspondence between phenetic and cladistic taxonomies); marked evolutionary "trends"; strong correlation among characters; large variation in rates of evolution; and specialization of derived forms. We attribute much of this order to abstract topological properties of the tree itself and urge that the data for inferences about directional causes be sought elsewhere (in functional morphology, for example). We suggest, with caution, that undirected selection may be the rule rather than the exception in nature, if a temporal unit of sufficient duration be used as the yardstick of measurement.
10.2307/2412547|A workshop with 28 participants was convened at the Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, from 30 May to 1 June 1974 to consider the trends, priorities, and needs in systematic and evolutionary biology. The group represented a broad spectrum of interests, and presents this summary report in anticipation of stimulating responses from many colleagues. Major extrinsic factors affecting the field are 1) its vast and virtually unmanageable data base; and 2) the imminent destruction of whole ecosystems, especially the lowland tropics, with the consequent loss of information. The nature and control of genetic variation in natural populations and the control of structure in complex ecosystems were among the important intellectual problems identified. Five major needs were identified as follows: 1) additional substantial resources for studies in the tropics, especially those of the New World; 2) additional laboratories to attack the nature and control of genetic variation in natural populations at a biochemical level; 3) a taxon-based data bank for some portion of the biota of the United States by 1980 as a stage in the development of a worldwide data bank; 4) establish four kinds of chemosystematic centers with an initial capital outlay of about $1 million and an annual total budget of about $300,000; and 5) operating an apparatus for monitoring and responding to requirements for systematic studies in the solution of human problems in the health sciences, the production of food, and similar areas. The last point would include, but not be limited to, the establishment of an Institute for Applied Systematics with appropriate funding and staffing.
10.2307/2992207|Superimposition methods for comparing configurations of landmarks in two or more specimens are reviewed. These methods show differences in shape among specimens as residuals after rotation, translation, and scaling them so that they align as well as possible. A new method is presented that generalizes Siegel and Benson's (1982) resistant-fit theta-rho analysis so that more than two objects can be compared at the same time. Both least-squares and resistant-fit approaches are generalized to allow for affine transformations (uniform shape change). The methods are compared, using artificial data and data on 18 landmarks on the wings of 127 species of North American mosquitoes. Graphical techniques are also presented to help summarize the patterns of differences in shape among the objects being compared.
10.2307/2992206|The repeatability (precision) with which lizard scale counts can be made was assessed using two observers who repeatedly scored six scale characters on the same five adult and five hatchling specimens of Anolis sagrei. The precision with which characters could be scored varied by more than an order of magnitude, and there was congruence between observers as to which characters could be scored precisely and which could not. Variances derived from the repeated counts were always correlated with the character means, thus confounding the relationship between intrinsic character variation and the mean. For one observer, character variances were consistently higher for hatchlings than for adults, a finding that impugns the conclusions of some vertical cohort analyses that reduction in variance in samples of larger (=older) lizards is evidence of stabilizing selection. There was enormous inter-observer variability in the precision with which the characters were scored, and the observers differed in their conception of the characters themselves. Discriminant analyses "discovered" differences in the data that were easily of the magnitude used to justify taxonomic decisions, even though the differences were due solely to inter-observer variability. There was no evidence of skewness in the distribution of the repeated scale counts, and thus no indication that deviations from the mean were biased. Choice of characters and of the individuals who score the characters is critically important. Pilot studies are recommended in order to identify those characters that can be scored with acceptable precision, and those individuals capable of scoring characters precisely. Error variances based upon repeated counts on the same specimens provide a rationale for partitioning character variances into their intrinsic and artifactual components.
10.2307/2992204|We propose a method to compare rooted classifications when the fusion levels between OTUs are to be taken into account. This problem can be formulated as a statistical randomization test, that includes a double permutation procedure involving the generation of random dendrograms from ultrametric matrices. We test the null hypothesis stating that the two dendrograms under comparison are not more similar than dendrograms randomly generated in terms of three different aspects: topology, leaf positions, fusion level positions. The similarity beween nested trees is computed using a normalized form of the intermediate consensus index of Faith and Belbin (1986). A special case is discussed where limited permutations are required to test a conditional null hypothesis. This test is applied to kangaroo classifications to measure the congruence between dendrograms derived from different character sets.
10.2307/2992205|A unified methodology for parsimony analysis in studies of the co-speciation of clades that co-occur in ecological associations is presented. It incorporates two methodological prescriptions proposed by Wiley with a third, namely duplication of areas when members of single or multiple clades are differentially represented. This third component eliminates the need to ignore data on widespread taxa or to weight taxa differentially. Re-analysis of Neotropical bird data demonstrates that the proposed method is sensitive to a variety of general and unique evolutionary influences in studies of historical biogeography, and is hence non-reductionist. Parsimony analysis at the level of clades is analogous to parsimony analysis at the level of ecological associations because the process invoked for homology, i.e., common history, is the same, even though the processes invoked to explain homoplasy differ, in all cases.
10.2307/2992208|This analysis considers the validity of the assumptions of the Gaussian perturbation model as applied to landmark data collected for morphometric analyses. The primary conclusion is that the assumption of homoscedasticity is unrealistic when applied to biological data sets. We also point out some important difficulties associated with alternate models.
10.2307/2992354|We discuss the use of phylogenetic patterns in testing the predictions of coevolutionary scenarios or process models. For this purpose we develop a general method for reconstructing the coevolutionary history of an association from the phylogenies of the component groups and an association matrix describing the associations between the species. We focus on the evolution of the traits that determine which species are associated, and therefore set up a null model with no change in these traits. Furthermore, we distinguish among three different processes that change association patterns: (1) colonization, whereby new associations are created; (2) exclusion, whereby old associations disappear; and (3) successive specialization, through which ancestral associations split into two or more descendant associations. In contrast to earlier methods for coevolutionary analysis, the method we propose explicitly includes all these processes as possible explanations of observed deviations from the null model. The parsimony principle can be used to choose between alternative reconstructions of the history of an association if successive specialization, colonization, and exclusion events are given weights relative to the probability of each of these events occurring. However, it is often possible to take advantage of the distribution of traits in the phylogenies of the associated groups to choose between alternative reconstructions; then, the weights need not be specified. Although the method we propose is explicitly developed for coevolutionary analysis, it should also be applicable to biogeographical problems with suitable modifications. The method is compared to parsimony mapping (Brooks parsimony analysis) and found to be superior in several respects. To illustrate the potential of the method, we first discuss different coevolutionary process models for insect-host plant associations with emphasis on the patterns they predict and how reconstructions of the coevolutionary history of an association can be used to test these predictions. We then use the method to analyze the evolution of an association between gall midges (Semudobia spp.) and birches (Betula spp.).
2992353|Defining the names of taxa in terms of common ancestry, that is, using phylogenetic definitions of taxon names, departs from a tradition of character-based definitions by granting the concept of evolution a central role in taxonomy. Phylogenetic definitions bear on other taxonomic principles and practices, including the following: (1) Names cannot be applied to nonmonophyletic taxa as the result of mistaken ideas about relationships or characters. Such mistakes do not affect conclusions about the monophyly of taxa but about their content and/or diagnoses. Because nonmonophyletic taxa can only be named deliberately, they are easily avoided. (2) Definitions are clearly distinguished from descriptions and diagnoses. Definitions are ontological statements about the existence of entities that result from the relationships of common ancestry among their parts; descriptions and diagnoses are epistemological statements about how we recognize the parts of those entities. (3) By precisely specifying the clade (ancestor) with which a name is associated, phylogenetic definitions clarify the limits of taxa, and this in turn clarifies related phenomena such as time of origin and duration. (4) Unlike the case for character-based intensional definitions and enumerative extensional definitions, phylogenetic definitions provide an unambiguous criterion for synonymy of taxon names: names are synonymous if they refer to clades stemming from the same ancestor. (5) Because of their relevance to synonymy, phylogenetic definitions also are relevant to priority, of both names and authorship. In phylogenetic taxonomy, priority is based not on first use of a name at a particular rank or rank-group but on first use of a name in association with a particular ancestor.
10.2307/2992358|Genetic distances measured by DNA-DNA hybridization experiments are subject to inherent levels of measurement imprecision that may limit the resolution of estimated phylogenetic trees. This type of error is reflected by the variance of replicate pairwise comparisons of OTUs within cells of the distance matrix. We propose an application of the bootstrap method to gauge the effects of such imprecision in phylogenetic reconstruction. Pseudoreplicate distance matrices are generated by resampling the original data with replacement, and phylogeny estimates are made for each pseudoreplicate matrix using a least-squares pairwise algorithm; the process is repeated many times to produce a distribution of possible trees. The frequency of occurrence of specific clades in this distribution measures the resolving power of the original measured distances. This procedure does not assay the effects of inaccuracy (bias) in measured distances, but, in conjunction with a jackknife approach for resampling OTUs, provides a means for quantitative assessment of the robustness of trees estimated from DNA hybridization distances.
10.2307/2992357|Previous observations indicate that morphologic distinctness of suprageneric taxa (superfamilies, suborders, and orders) of trilobites increased during their Cambro-Ordovician diversification. Analysis of nearest-neighbor distances (NNDs) among trilobites in morphospace is used to test the robustness of this pattern while avoiding the overprint of higher-level taxonomy. The properties of the uniform distribution are used to determine the bounds of the morphospace, and computer simulation of random points is used to circumvent edge effects in the analysis of NNDs. Observed NNDs became significantly smaller relative to expected distances, supporting the hypothesis that morphospace became more discontinuously occupied from the Cambrian to the Ordovician. However, absolute NNDs (not considered relative to expected NNDs) actually increased. Therefore, the increase in clustering intensity reflects the expansion of morphospace that accompanied the diversification, because the expected NND is proportional to the morphologic range. The increases in clustering and in absolute NND hold even if Cambrian genera are treated as equivalent to Ordovician species.
10.2307/2992356|Little is known about individual variation in the muscles of birds. We dissected the hindlimb muscles bilaterally in a large series of two species of passerine birds to assess the kinds and frequencies of variation in their structure and to evaluate the effect of such variation on the reconstruction of phylogeny. Variation was rare. Three of 33 muscles varied in Cardinalis cardinalis, four of 32 muscles varied in Hylocichla mustelina, and no individual possessed more than three variants. We found no correlation of variation with sex and no significant tendency for multiple variants to occur in an individual. However, there was a significant tendency for variation to occur in specific muscles. Muscular variation was divided into several categories for which descriptive terms are introduced. Two of these categories, minor variants and incongruous variants, are unlikely to cause problems in phylogenetic studies. In contrast, mimicking variants and singular variants do pose a danger of introducing error into phylogenetic analysis. A special case of rare occurrence is explosive variation, in which multiple variants occur at high frequencies, and which may also cause problems in reconstructing phylogeny. We found the error rate in identifying species-typical conditions to average 2.0% and to range from 0.5 to 3.3% in passerine birds. We propose a research strategy that maximizes the probability of avoiding errors while minimizing the number of specimens dissected. We conclude that this strategy yields highly accurate assessments for phylogenetic analysis, and that individual variation is probably a minor source of error in phylogenetic reconstructions based on myological data for birds.
10.2307/2992355|Maximum likelihood inference is discussed, and some of its advantages and disadvantages are noted. The application of maximum likelihood inference to phylogenetics is examined, and a simple Poisson process model of DNA substitution is used as one example. Further examples follow from the clarification of implicit models underlying traditional "parsimony" and "compatibility" analyses. From the elucidation of these models and analyses, it is seen that Poisson process analysis gives a statistically consistent estimate of phylogeny, and that parsimony methods do indeed have a maximum likelihood foundation but give potentially incorrect estimates of phylogeny. The maximum likelihood formulation provides a common framework within which these analyses are discussed and compared.
10.2307/2992450|A new approach to assessing percent measurement error (%ME), using an old statistical technique (Model II Analyses of Variance and Covariance: ANOVA/ANCOVA), was developed using both weight and linear measurements made three times each on 87 freshwater snails (Cipangopaludina chinensis; Vivipariidae). Variability of each measurement, as well as covariability between pairs of measurements, was partitioned into among- and within-snail (i.e., measurement error) components. The %ME varied by two orders of magnitude across the ten measurement variables considered. Shell weight had the lowest %ME (0.059%), while body whorl height had the highest (3.88%). There was a low correlation between %ME and the among-snail coefficient of variation for each variable (r = -0.28; P > 0.20). Within-snail correlations between pairs of measurement variables were uniformly low (r
10.2307/2992449|Computer simulations of randomly evolving lineages were performed using the model of Raup and Gould (1974). The mean, variance, and distribution of quantitative traits were evaluated. These results were compared with the predictions of diffusion theory (Slatkin, 1981). It is a common feature of all simulations that the predictions fit better in rapidly expanding clades than in slowly expanding clades. Hence, high probabilities of extinction compared to the probability of speciation cause a high degree of stochasticity in character dispersion. We therefore recommend restricting the statistical analysis of interspecific variation to recent and rapidly evolving clades. The results also show that the within clade mean has exceedingly high interclade variance, which calls into question the significance of a direct comparison of within clade means. In contrast the distribution of variances and variance ratios of two traits is more predictable and these statistical parameters might be useful in comparative biology: variances increase linearly with time according to the diffusion approximation, variance ratios of two independent traits follow approximately an F-(variance-ratio) distribution, and the distribution of the variance ratio is independent of speciation rate and the age of the clade. On the basis of these results it is possible to design two kinds of statistical tests: 1) Comparing the variances of a set of homologous traits in two monophyletic clades allows one to test whether the traits show cladespecific evolutionary flexibilities. 2) The ratio of variances of two different traits within the same clade provides a measure of the relative evolutionary flexibility of two traits which is independent of the exact phylogeny and the age of the clade. To illustrate the application of these tests the interspecific variation of seven meristic characters from three clades of blennioid fishes is analysed.
10.2307/2992451|Gene flow estimates between groups of populations (Nm
10.2307/2992453|Coevolution of parasites and their hosts is presumed if the phylogeny of a group of parasites matches that of their hosts, producing a high value of a consistency index. Such comparisons are done using relatively host specific parasite species that are usually separated only by morphological characters. Parasitic, unionicolan mites in the subgenus Unionicolides are described, from sampling data, as highly host specific and are thought to have co-speciated with their freshwater mussel hosts. However, experimental observations of Unionicola Unionicolides poundsi and U. U. lasellai were inconsistent with these mites' supposed high host specificity. A transplant experiment, in which nymphs metamorphosed in the "wrong" host, demonstrated that the morphological characters used to differentiate these mite species are plastic and host-determined. Hence, when taxonomists use only morphological characters and host-induced morphological variation is present, morphological variants can be elevated to the status of species. Consequently, parasites can appear to be highly host specific. If morphs are then grouped, as species, into the same taxon, phylogenetic comparisons can produce high consistency indices independently of any coevolutionary processes. The conditions under which this bias can occur are commonly true of phylogenetic comparisons. Hence, host-induced morphology is a viable, alternative explanation for high consistency indices.
10.2307/2992452|Analyses of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and allozymes were used to estimate phylogenetic patterns in the avian genus Ammodramus. Levels of interspecific genetic differentiation were greater than most previous estimates for other congeneric avian taxa. Phenetic and phylogenetic patterns were highly concordant for these two genetically independent data sets, suggesting a robust estimate of the evolutionary history of these sparrows. However, the genetic pattern was not concordant with an estimate of variation in skeletal morphometrics produced by Robins and Schnell (1971); we suggest that ecological pressures effect convergence in skeletal morphology. Independent calibrations of mtDNA and allozyme distances suggest times of divergence that differ by a factor of two among the species assayed.
10.2307/2992181|Documentation of widespread cospeciation in a host-parasite assemblage requires statistical evidence that the congruence observed between the host and parasite phylogenies exceeds that expected by chance. Although the validity of this test rests on the assumption of independence of the host and parasite phylogenies, this critical assumption may be violated in many tests of cospeciation. Herein, we emphasize the need for rigorous tests of cospeciation in host-parasite assemblages, and we show how estimates of genetic distance can be used to investigate relative rates of evolution and timing of phylogenesis in the hosts and parasites once widespread cospeciation has been documented for the assemblage. The method involves a non-parametric test of association between genetic-distance matrices for the hosts and their parasites. If the association is statistically significant, the relationship is examined in greater detail using bivariate analysis. We use an example from our studies of pocket gophers and chewing lice to illustrate how genetic distances can be used to explore relative rates of genetic change in the two groups and to investigate relative timing of cospeciation events in the assemblage.
10.2307/2992186|Hierarchic classifications can differ with respect to tree balance-the degree to which branches divide the subtended taxa into subsets of equal size. Several indices, sensitive to different aspects of tree balance, are compared. Extensions of these indices to multifurcating trees and to trees with varying numbers of OTUs are proposed, and suggestions for employing these indices are furnished. Different tree-forming algorithms may result in trees with differing degrees of balance no matter which index is computed. Tree balance is an important consideration for phylogenetic systematics, because balance of the true phylogeny will affect the accuracy of its estimates.
10.2307/2992184|Multilocus data are an important source of information on genetic variation within and among natural populations. Hierarchical techniques are used widely for examining multilocus data. However, the limitations of hierarchical (phenetic or phylogenetic) algorithms to depict geographic genetic structure, particularly within species, have long been recognized. Multidimensional scaling of genetic distances is herein examined as a useful technique for exploratory analysis of geographic genetic structure. The advantages and limitations of multidimensional scaling are discussed and illustrated with reanalyses of two case studies: pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae) of the central California "genetic group" and a hybrid zone of two chromosomal forms of the tent-making bat (Uroderma bilobatum). Multidimensional scaling does recover hierarchical patterns when present and is especially useful to uncover nonhierarchical patterns of variation. The finding that reticular and clinal patterns of variation may be examined via multidimensional scaling even in the absence of fixed genetic differences between hybridizing taxa opens new possibilities for studying geographic genetic divergence and speciation.
10.2307/2992183|Tests of adaptive explanations are often critically confounded by phylogenetic heritage. In this paper we propose statistics and a null model for estimating phylogenetic effects in comparative data. We apply a model-independent measure of autocorrelation (Moran's I) for estimating whether cross-taxonomic trait variation is related to phylogeny. We develop a phylogenetic correlogram for assessing how autocorrelation varies with patristic distance and for judging the appropriateness and effectiveness of an autoregressive model. We then revise Chevcrud et al.'s (1985, Evolution, 39:1335-1351) autocorrelational model to incorporate greater flexibility in the relation between trait variation and phylogenetic distance. Finally, we analyze various comparative data sets (body weight in carnivores, clutch size in birds) and phylogenies (morphological, molecular) to illustrate some of the complications that may arise from using an autoregressive model and to explore the effects of different weighting matrices in adjusting for these complications. Although our approach has limitations, it is both effective in partitioning trait variation into adaptive and phylogenetic components and flexible in adjusting to peculiarities in taxonomic distribution.
10.2307/2992182|Cladistic analysis of congruence between different area cladograms, and between parasite and host cladograms, is typically limited to comparing branching sequences only. Adding information on timing of the cladogenetic events can increase the power of the analysis. Instances where two cladograms have the same branching pattern but the relevant events occurred at different times can be distinguished from genuine congruence (cladistic and temporal agreement). Temporal information can also help resolve instances of apparent incongruence. As an example, I reanalyze data from Hafner and Nadler's (1988, Nature, 332:258-259; 1990, Syst. Zool., 39:192-204) elegant study of cospeciation between pocket gophers and their chewing lice. By combining both cladistic and temporal information, estimates can be made of relative roles of cospeciation, dispersal, and extinction in structuring the pattern of host-parasite association between the gophers and their lice.
10.2307/2992185|A cladistic analysis of 42 two-state characters of the adults of five species in the monophyletic Trimmatom nanus species group resulted in a fully resolved cladogram of 48 steps with a consistency index of 88% (excluding autapomorphies of the group and of terminal taxa). The initial analysis was based on 52 osteological and external two-state characters (although in both cases some characters were analyzed as ordered transformation series). The monophyly of three of the species-T. sagma, T. offucius, and T. nanus-was especially well corroborated, with 19 synapomorphies. Within this subgroup, eight synapomorphies unite T. offucius and T. nanus as sister species. These two species mature at smaller sizes and do not reach the lengths attained by the other three species in the species group. Reexamination of the eight apomorphic character states in similar-sized specimens of their sister species, T. sagma, led to the interpretation of three of the eight character states as being consistent with progenesis. Because these character states are the result of progenetic processes, they are subsumed as a single apomorphy of truncated development. The potential to reassign the position of the progenetic (at this level of analysis) character states on the tree is explored. Some character states involving lack of ossification that cannot be positively identified as synapomorphies of T. offucius and T. nanus by comparison with juveniles of T. sagma and T. zapotes may be interpreted as the result of heterochronic shifts earlier in development. Cladograms therefore can be used on real data sets to identify progenetic characteristics and their level of universality.
10.2307/2413294|Explicit, ad hoc character weighting, widely dismissed by cladists as too subjective for practical application, can be useful in resolving difficult instances of homoplasy. Such weighting should be avoided to the extent possible, and should only be tried when critical reexamination of the evidence and the parsimony criterion have failed. So long as such uses of weighting are fully explicit and their results are viewed as tentative solutions, they support formulations of hypotheses where none might otherwise be possible.
10.2307/2413295|Previously presented arguments for and against character weighting in systematic analyses are briefly reviewed and the bases for different weighting methods summarized. A priori and a posteriori methods are defined. I conclude that a priori weighting is the only noncircular approach for weighting of characters in the construction or recognition of groups of taxa, but that no objective method of a priori weighting has been proposed to date. A hypothetico-deductive methodology for character analysis completely prior to and independent of cladistic analysis (or phylogeny reconstruction) is briefly summarized. Identifications and characters are shown to be hypotheses testable prior to the construction of a cladogram. In that context, rather than attempting to weight on intrinsic properties of characters as suggested up to now, weighting on the basis of the relative degree of corroboration of the character in the character analysis provides a rational basis for character weighting if character conflicts occur in the cladistic analysis.
10.2307/2413289|The intergeneric relationships of the lizard family Xantusiidae were reevaluated against a cladistic synthesis of morphological (squamation and osteology) and karyological data. The two data sets were analyzed independently and examined for congruent patterns with each other and against biogeographic-geologic data. Patterns indicated by morphological, karyological, and biogeographic-geologic data suggest two sister groups: (1) Klauberina-Xantusia; and (2) Cricosaura-Lepidophyma. Our phylogeny differs from the accepted view of xantusiid relationships in suggesting that Lepidophyma should be transferred from the subfamily Xantusiinae (currently consisting of Klauberina, Lepidophyma, and Xantusia) to the Cricosaurinae. We propose a vicariance model for the distribution of the Xantusia-Klauberina clade.
10.2307/2413296|A fundamental assumption of any phylogenetic analysis is that characters are evolutionarily independent. This suggests the genetic correlation as a potentially useful weighting tool for quantitative characters. The quantitative genetic framework used to measure genetic correlations and heritabilities is first briefly described. Several hypothetical examples are then discussed where purely phenotypic values of characters lead to incorrect phylogenetic conclusions. These may occur either because characters are presumed to be genetically independent when they are not, or by misinterpreting environmentally induced variation as under genetic control. Genetic correlations and heritability estimates for eight characters from a quantitative genetic study of a population of Mexican ambystomatid salamanders are presented. On the basis of these data, gill lengths have low heritabilities and are rejected as useful characters. Head width, head length, and interorbital distance have very high genetic correlations, and are best considered as a single character. In the final section, some of the difficulties in interpreting quantitative genetic data are discussed; these include extrapolating from laboratory to field situations, variability in genetic parameters during phylogeny, and using intermediate genetic correlations as character weights.
10.2307/2413290|Chromosome banding techniques have been used in a large-scale survey of karyotypic variation within and between the chromosomal races of the Gehyra variegata-punctata species group. A total of nine chromosome races are now known among these taxa. G-banding confirms that the principal mode of chromosome change is centric fusion and, in most cases, allowed the specific chromosomes involved to be identified. The location of C-band heterochromatin and the nucleolar organizing region varied within and between the races. In two of the chromosome forms, heteromorphic sex chromosomes were observed in the early stages of evolution. The cytogenetic characters were evaluated and then used to construct a phylogeny for these taxa. The types of chromosome change between the races and their geographic relationships were then considered to examine the role of chromosomal mechanisms of speciation in these gekkos. The previously suggested role of single centric fusions as initiators of speciation in Gehyra requires further evaluation. In one case, an unusual form of tandem fusion has been established and this race is clearly reproductively isolated from all others. The presence of monobrachial homology between the biarmed chromosomes of some taxa suggests that a distinct mode of chromosomal speciation may also be important in Gehyra.
10.2307/2413287|The phylogenetic relationships of 30 taxa of Holarctic hylid frogs were examined using starch gel electrophoresis. Allelic variation was scored at 33 presumed genetic loci and genetic distance data were used to construct trees representing the phylogenetic relationships. There are two major groups: (A) Hyla regilla, H. cadaverina, H. crucifer, Limnaoedus ocularis, and all presently recognized species of Pseudacris; and (B) the remaining species of Holarctic Hyla. The positions of Acris and H. meridionalis are unclear. In general, the relationships based on electrophoretic data agree well with immunological, hybridization, and chromosome studies, but conflict with some morphological studies. A phylogenetic classification requires that H. regilla, H. cadaverina, H. crucifer, and L. ocularis be transferred to the genus Pseudacris. This genus is characterized by terrestrial species that breed during cold weather and possess small digital pads and spherical (or ovoid) dark testes. Holarctic Hyla are arboreal species that breed during warm weather and possess large digital pads and elongate white (or yellowish) testes. The correlation between albumin immunological distance (AID) and Nei's electrophoretic distance (D) is significant, with 1 D = 70 AID. Calibration of the molecular clock for Holarctic hylid frogs suggests that Pseudacris diverged from a Hyla-like ancestor in the early Tertiary. The physiological traits associated with cold-weather breeding and the morphological trait (small digital pads) associated with terrestrial habits appear to have been key innovations that allowed Pseudacris to undergo an adaptive radiation in North America coinciding with the radiation of Holarctic Hyla.
10.2307/2413292|Phylogenies of the hominoid primates based on biomolecular or karyological data routinely feature an African ape-human clade that excludes orangutans, while phylogenies derived from continuous variables of the skull include the four great ape species in a single clade that excludes humans. This difference obtains whether cladistic or phenetic methods are used to estimate phylogenies. Phenetic trees based on anatomical features differ from those based on biomolecular data because of greater heterogeneity in evolutionary rates for the former among hominoid lineages. Cladistic trees from the two types of data differ primarily because similar features in gibbon and human skulls are treated as shared, derived characters in quantitative cladistic analysis, although they are size associated in gibbons and neotenic in humans. The most-parsimonious trees based on craniodental data from which such pseudoconvergences have been removed are those with an African ape-human clade. This result supports the hypothesis that man is more closely related to the chimpanzees and to the gorilla than to other living apes, as does the fossil evidence.
10.2307/2413288|Prior to Darwin, the evolutionary vision had always looked for the unity of life with nature's overall dynamics. Darwin had to truncate this connectivity to establish evolution as a science, as opposed to a philosophic perspective on change. An autonomy-of-biology mentality has grown from this separation that is now antithetical to the evolutionary project. As the science of macroscopic process, thermodynamics is essential to bringing life back to nature. The entropic drive to randomness underlies the phenomena of both variation and speciation; competition between thermodynamic flow patterns underlies the phenomenon of selection; the dissipative structure schema provides basic constraints on morphological transformation. Semantic problems regarding the meaning of entropy obstruct delivery on these promises. I discuss some of those problems in the first sections of this paper, then consider a possible way in which principles drawn from statistical thermodynamics can be extended into the biological realm to illuminate the phenomena of variation and speciation.
10.2307/2413291|The dispersal of a community in a territory can be reconstructed using various more or less specific methods of data analysis. When the data are in the form of presence/absence of species for the various units of territory, or in the form of frequencies of occurrence, they are analogous to the data used for reconstructing evolutionary trees. Furthermore, when one is looking for a treelike structure of dispersal, issued from a common trunk, the tree-reconstruction methods may represent an appropriate analytical tool. Four tree-reconstruction methods are found to be appropriate in their hypotheses. They lead to satisfactory trees when applied to a data set describing the geographic distribution of the stenohaline freshwater fishes of the Quebec peninsula, previously divided into 21 regions. For binary data, the method of Camin and Sokal and the polymorphism parsimony method were used with success, while the continuous character data maximum-likelihood method and the least-squares method of Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards were applied to frequency-of-occurrence data. When compared to a method of pairwise comparison of adjacent regions, it is shown that the tree-reconstruction methods provide the user with information that is not found otherwise. I also show that external information (i.e., geographic adjacencies, and the degree of asymmetry of the faunal vectors of regions connected by the tree), available in biogeographic data but not taken into account by the tree-reconstruction algorithms, must be considered to render the results meaningful.
10.2307/2413109|An earlier phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters (Livezey, 1986a) indicates that Tachyeres is a member of a specialized clade of Southern Hemisphere shelducks (Tadorninae). Within Tachyeres, the three flightless species appear to be monophyletic, with the two Atlantic species-T. leucocephalus and T. brachypterus-being closest relatives. This phylogenetic hypothesis mirrors the pattern of morphometric similarities among the four species. Speciation in the genus is explainable by the isolation caused by two major glaciations in southern South America and related fluctuations in sea level, and intervening dispersals. The biogeographic model is compared to a morphometric assessment of populations of T. patachonicus and electrophoretic analyses of the four species of Tachyeres.
10.2307/2413116|The D measure is presented as a quantification of historical constraints in phylogenetic data. It is derived from information-theoretic considerations, and offers increased resolution of the criteria used in parsimony analyses. Thus, it can be used as an optimality measure in phylogenetic studies. The D measure is more sensitive to the evolutionary nature (symplesiomorphy, synapomorphy, autapomorphy) of characters on trees than two commonly used phylogenetic optimality measures: the consistency index; and the F-ratio. The consistency index does not distinguish between shared and unique characters on a tree. The F-ratio is affected by factors relevant to undirected, rather than directed, trees. Neither the D measure nor the F-ratio are biased a priori towards choosing postulates of reversal or parallelism in equal-length trees. Neither the D measure nor the F-ratio always indicate the shortest tree when used alone. The D measure can be used to choose among equal-length shortest trees that have been produced by standard parsimony techniques.
2413113|Plethodontids, a monophyletic group, comprise about 60% of living salamanders. Many have a tongue that may be projected rapidly and for a distance up to half the body length. Previous studies have focused on the functional morphology of the projectile tongue and the comparative morphology of the feeding system in the family. Here we present a working hypothesis for the phylogeny of plethodontids and a scenario for the evolution of tongue feeding based on the phylogenetic hypothesis. Primitive and derived states are identified and transformation series proposed for 30 characters. Four alternative phylogenetic hypotheses are presented. Our choice of a preferred phylogenetic hypothesis is based on consideration of conflicting characters and tongue projection mechanics. The preferred hypothesis is not the most parsimonious, in a strict technical sense, because several homoplasious characters appear (on functional grounds) to be closely associated with attainment of tongue projectility, which itself has evolved several times. In our hypothesis the bolitoglossines and plethodontines are sister taxa. They in turn are the sister taxon of the hemidactylines, and this grouping is the sister taxon of the desmognathines. Within the bolitoglossines, Batrachoseps is the sister taxon of the Neotropical genera (supergenus Bolitoglossa). In our scenario for the evolution of tongue feeding, the ancestral plethodontid had an attached protrusible tongue. From this condition attached projectile tongues have arisen at least three times within the family: in the ancestors of the hemidactylines; in the ancestors of Ensatina; and in the ancestors of the bolitoglossines. In turn, the attached projectile condition has given rise to free projectile tongues at least once within the hemidactylines and twice within the bolitoglossines. This scenario tends to maximize the number of times attached projectile and free projectile tongues have evolved in the family.
10.2307/2413112|Relationships among lizards of the anole genera Chamaeleolis, Chamaelinorops, Phenacosaurus, and Anolis (sensu lato) are discussed based upon a cladistic analysis of osteological, karyological, and albumin immunological data. Osteological data support a sister-group relationship of carolinensis subsection and beta section anoles, while anoles of the bimaculatus-cristatellus-cybotes, cuvieri series, and latifrons series are sequentially more distantly related to this terminal cluster. Karyological data support five major groupings. One of these groups represents those forms with the primitive karyotype for lizards and includes: Chamaeleolis, Chamaelinorops, and Phenacosaurus; the cuvieri, cybotes, and latifrons series; and most of the carolinensis subsection. Two groups with advanced karyotypes characterize the cristatellus and bimaculatus series, respectively. The remaining two groups of karyotypes characterize the beta subsection. One population of beta anoles possesses the modal karyotype of both of these groups suggesting a saltatorial evolution of chromosomes within anoles and making difficult the determination of relations among the five groupings of karyotypes. Albumin immunological data support a close sister-group relationship among the beta section, and the cristatellus and bimaculatus series, while the carolinensis series and latifrons series are sequentially more distantly related. Within Anolis (sensu lato), five distinct monophyletic lineages are recognized as genera. The latifrons series (placed in the genus Dactyloa) is derived relative to the primitive anole genera in the presence of autotomic septa on the caudal vertebrae and reduced numbers of aseptate caudal vertebrae. The cuvieri series (placed in Semiurus) shares with other advanced anoles the derived conditions for the shape of the parietal, parietal cresting, total number of parasternal ribs, and number of attached parasternal ribs, but lacks the derived condition of occipital region of more advanced anoles. The bimaculatus-cristatellus-cybotes series (placed in Ctenonotus) represents a lineage possessing a derived condition of the occipital region and a derived total number of parasternal ribs but lacks the derived shape of the interclavicle. The most derived lineages-the carolinensis subsection and beta section-are linked by the derived shape of the interclavicle. The carolinensis subsection is diagnosed by derived numbers of lumbar vertebrae and constitutes the genus Anolis. The beta section is diagnosed by derived processes on the caudal vertebrae and is placed in the genus Norops. This systematic arrangement eliminates the paraphyletic nature of the alpha section and punctatus subsection. Although some aspects of current distribution patterns of anoles must be due to dispersal events, it appears that vicariant events provided the impetus for the separation of the anole genera into their current ranges. On the basis of a cladogram of areas and recent geological evidence of vicariant and accretional events in the Caribbean, it seems that a widespread ancestral distribution of anoles throughout Central and South America, connected by a proto-Greater Antilles bridge, was fragmented by geological events forcing part of the proto-Greater Antilles northeastward towards their present location. This fragmented the distribution of primitive anoles in South America (Phenacosaurus and Dactyloa), and on Hispaniola and Cuba (Chamaelinorops and Chamaeleolis, respectively) from the ancestors of the advanced forms on Central America and associated portions of the rest of the proto-Greater Antilles. More advanced anole genera were added to the Caribbean by additional geological activity which separated the remainder of the proto-Greater Antilles into a Hispaniolan-Puerto Rican block and a Cuban-Hispaniolan block. Separation and accretion of these blocks brought Semiurus, Ctenonotus, and Anolis to their present distributions, leaving Norops on Central America as well as on an attached block that later separated to become Jamaica. The closing of the Panamanian portal allowed extensive invasion of South America by Norops and less extensive invasion of Central America by Dactyloa.
10.2307/2413110|A simple way is needed to indicate the approximate uncertainty in phylogenetic diagrams. The reliability of reconstructed phylogenetic trees is considered with respect to sampling error. A measure of uncertainty is developed for a triad of integral Manhattan distances surrounding an inner node of a tree, using three statistical models based on the Poisson and binomial distributions. The three models give broadly similar results. The methods give very approximate estimates that indicate the order of magnitude of the standard error of the central node's position, as well as a rough estimate of the probability that another random sample of characters would lead to a local change in tree topology. The uncertainty can be shown graphically, and illustrations are given on trees from cytochrome and myoglobin sequences, Hennigian analysis of morphology, and DNA pairing data. The sampling errors for the first three are substantial; that for DNA data is in theory very small, but experimental error is shown to have a noticeable effect.
10.2307/2413117|Monte Carlo methods were used to examine the sampling distribution of eight consensus indices based on either of the following two models: all bifurcating trees are equally likely; or all trees (including both bifurcating and multifurcating trees) are equally likely. Ten different consensus-tree methods were applied before computing consensus indices. The strictness of a consensus-tree method and the recognition ratio of a consensus index are the two main factors determining the consensus-index distribution. The former factor influences the mean index values; the latter changes the shape of the distribution curves. We furnish significance test tables for consensus trees or indices based on randomly generated trees permitting multifurcations. These tables can be used to test whether a given consensus tree or consensus-index value obtained from data on real organisms differs significantly from what one would expect if one were computing such quantities from randomly sampled trees.
10.2307/2413111|The current hypothesis of relationship among the Loricarioidea (a diverse group of Neotropical catfishes) is used as the basis for a case study of historical transformation in the feeding mechanism in this monophyletic clade. The historical approach to functional morphology is discussed and is used in this analysis as a means of examining the evolutionary sequence of structure-function transformation. The distribution of structural novelties in the feeding mechanism and their functional correlates are mapped onto the current hypothesis of loricarioid phylogeny. Three major steps in the transformation of the feeding mechanism are identified. The first was the acquisition of highly mobile premaxillae in the lineage leading to the Callichthyidae, Astroblepidae, and Loricariidae. The second step occurred in the lineage leading to the Astroblepidae and Loricariidae: both families possess highly mobile premaxillae with new muscular insertions and movements that are independent of maxillary mobility. Another specialization at this level was the loss of the interoperculo-mandibular ligament and the acquisition of independent bilateral lower jaw mobility via loss of the tight connection between right and left sides of the lower jaws. The third major step occurred in the lineage leading to the Loricariidae. Further subdivision of the jaw adductor muscle resulted in an additional mesial subdivision with a direct muscle insertion onto the premaxillae. A neomorphic structure, the intermandibular cartilage plug (also shared by astroblepids) is specialized in loricariids with a direct attachment to the hyoid, resulting in an additional biomechanical linkage between the hyoid and mandible. A major trend in the evolution of the loricarioid feeding mechanism is the increase in the number of biomechanical linkages. This is hypothesized to be causally related to morphological and trophic diversity. Two explicit predictions are made testing the hypothesis that decoupling of primitively constrained biomechanical elements is related to increased morphological and functional diversity in descendant species.
10.2307/2413108|A computer model that simulates general aspects of ontogeny is presented as a heuristic device for studying the relationship between ontogenetic changes and the evolution of morphologies. The model consists of a set of developmental rules limited to known cellular properties and activities of gene products; it assumes development to be an algorithmic and hierarchical process. Morphological patterns are generated through the interactions of developmental rules. Thus, by its very nature the model establishes pleiotropies and complex characters. To represent mutations, changes were introduced in the developmental rules. Phylogenetic analysis of mutant forms showed that morphology retained significant information about ancestry. Genetic parallelisms, as a rule, did not result in morphological parallelisms, because the effect of a given "genetic rule" is context-dependent. Morphological parallelisms that did arise were a consequence of different mutations that affected certain populations of cells in related ways.
10.2307/2413115|The evolutionary school of biological classification, which considers both dissimilarity and evolutionary branching pattern when classifying species into higher taxa, has been criticized by: cladists for the vagueness with which it makes evolutionary considerations; pheneticists for trying to use something so poorly known as evolutionary branching pattern; and both for its lack of operational methods. In the past 20 years, both the volume of data and the quality of operational methods have increased, so that more credible estimates of evolutionary branching pattern are being constructed. Progress has also been made in understanding the properties, strengths, and weaknesses of both cladistic and phenetic classifications. This work describes and illustrates an operational criterion for using an estimate of evolutionary branching pattern to constrain phenetic clusters to reflect both dissimilarity and branching pattern. The resulting evolutionary classifications are operationally defined, reflect both evolution and similarity, are less cumbersome than cladistic classifications, and permit a more stable system of formal higher taxa while debate and revision of ideas concerning ancestors and evolutionary directionality continue.
10.2307/2413114|The logarithmic transformation can be utilized to equilibrate variances of traits of different size when these variances scale proportionally to the square of the trait means. Otherwise variances will not be equilibrated by log transformation. A simple model of ontogenetic growth is utilized to show that trait variances increase with the square of the mean during ontogeny when individual growth increments are perfectly correlated. Alternatively, if these individual growth increments are uncorrelated, trait variance accumulates only in direct proportion to the mean itself. For most actual ontogenies, the incremental growths would not be perfectly correlated, so log-transformed variances would be expected to decrease during ontogeny. The model was extended to address the comparison of variances between two traits differing in size. When two traits are highly correlated, the ratio of variances of the traits will be proportional to the square of the mean ratio. When two traits are uncorrelated, the ratio of variances scales directly to the ratio of means. Biological traits are usually characterized by varying degrees of intercorrelation (i.e., they exhibit multivariate structure). Since the appropriate transformation to accommodate scale depends upon the intercorrelation among a set of traits, it is unlikely that a single transformation would equilibrate variances (and covariances) among all traits. A similar caution applies to genetic variances and covariances in quantitative genetics. However, narrow-sense heritabilities and additive genetic correlations are both approximately invariant under a change of scale and can be compared across traits and/or populations with less concern about scale effect.
10.2307/2413427|The evolutionary relationships of the soricine shrews were examined cladistically and phenetically using allozyme electrophoresis. Nine species representing three tribes of the Soricinae (sensu Repenning, 1967), plus three crocidurine species, were examined. UPGMA cluster analysis generated a phenogram from the Rogers' similarity matrix; the soricine species clustered separately from the crocidurine species. Using the crocidurines as an outgroup, distance-Wagner and qualitative locus-by-locus cladistic analyses were performed. Results support Repenning's (1967) classification rather than those proposed by Stirton (1930), Gureev (1971), and Reumer (1984). The Blarinini and Soricini shared a common ancestor after the Neomyini diverged. Comparing the results of the electrophoretic analyses to the fossil record provided estimated divergence times within the Soricinae of early Miocene for the initial dichotomy and middle Miocene for the Blarinini-Soricini dichotomy.
10.2307/2413433|The higher-level systematics of the mammalian infraclass Eutheria is investigated with protein sequences of seven polypeptide types combined in an extended tandem alignment. Evolutionary trees constructed from the sequence data by the maximum-parsimony algorithm depict five major lineages of living eutherian orders which are treated as superorders in a phylogenetic classification. Glires (orders Lagomorpha, Primates, and Rodentia) and Therictoidea (Carnivora, Chiroptera, Insectivora, Pholidota, and Scandentia) constitute extant sister groups which are allied to the superorders Ungulata (Artiodactyla, Cetacea, and Perissodactyla), Paenungulata (Hyracoidea, Proboscidea, Sirenia, and Tubulidentata), and Edentata in that order. As sequence data for extant mammalian taxa continue to accumulate, we anticipate that many remaining questions about eutherian phylogeny will be resolved.
10.2307/2413428|For the past approximately 6,000 years, chromosomal fusions have been occurring in populations of Mus domesticus in the mountainous regions of central and northern Italy and southern Switzerland. From these areas, 13 different karyotypically transformed races of communal house mice have been described with chromosome numbers reduced to 22, 24, 26, and 28 from the original 40 still possessed by all the known surrounding populations of house mice. It is likely that, once fused, chromosomes do not separate again in subsequent generations. The establishment of a race with a newly fused chromosome pair requires several complicated steps, so that nearby races with a common fusion very likely share that common fusion event in their evolutionary history. Each fusion, identified by G-banding patterns, has been used as a cladistic character in compatibility analysis to construct plausible hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships among these races of Robertsonian mice. Those fusion events that seem most likely to be incompatible with history are identified and discussed; both parallel evolution and hybridization are suggested as possible explanations.
10.2307/2413431|Variation in land-snail shell form has been extensively documented, but its causes are poorly understood. For no character are there general rules relating shell form to environmental characteristics, although certain correlations are common. Size variation generally has a large genetic component. Larger snails are often associated with moister conditions; the effect may be inductive (direct) or selective, but the mechanism is not documented. Snails may attain smaller adult sizes at higher population densities, apparently through the effects of pheromones on growth rate. Relative aperture area tends to be smaller under drier conditions, probably because of selection for smaller whorl cross-sectional area to reduce water loss. Larger snails tend to have higher whorl expansion rates. This pattern is variously interpreted as relating to the maintenance of constant attachment area/weight, whether of foot surface area when the snail is active or when attached to a substrate or of aperture perimeter when attached. Apertural denticles are generally thought to represent adaptations to reduce predation. Relative shell height of snail species relates to the angle of the substrate on which activity occurs; this could be related to the mechanics of shell balance. For unknown reasons, helicid species in the Mediterranean area frequently have forms with keeled and with rounded shell peripheries. Snails living on calcareous substrates sometimes have thicker shells; the effect is not necessarily direct. Surprisingly, only a weak relationship exists between shell thickness and moisture conditions. Shell coiling sometimes occurs in the opposite direction between sympatric species, probably as a result of selection for reproductive isolation. A recurring problem in the explanation of shell form is the interpretation of covarying shell characters. Identification of nonadaptive variation which results from developmental dependence on another character is dependent on the study of the selective and direct-environmental causes of variation in land snail shell form.
10.2307/2413430|Systematists often attempt to avoid the problem of correlated characters by establishing an arbitrary number of variables that must be significant before groups are considered distinct. The appropriateness of this approach has not been evaluated empirically in the biological literature. We analyzed morphometric data for 27 species of bats from the Brazilian Northeast. Twenty-two mensural characters (12 cranial, 10 external) were analyzed for interlocality and secondary sexual variation in each species using ANOVA and MANOVA. The univariate and multivariate analyses showed little correspondence; no predictable relationship between the number of characters exhibiting significance for a particular treatment effect in the univariate analyses and the significance level for that treatment in the multivariate analysis was discernible. Small sample sizes or disparate sample sizes do not contribute to this phenomenon. Results ranged from: 11 of 12 characters significant using ANOVA and nonsignificance in the MANOVA; to no character significant using the ANOVA with significance in the multivariate analysis. Because MANOVA utilizes rather than ignores correlations among characters, it is the correct statistical test for evaluating overall group differences. We show that even conservative interpretations of the univariate results can lead to erroneous systematic conclusions.
10.2307/2413432|A well-known approach to inferring phylogenies involves finding a phylogeny with the largest number of characters that are perfectly compatible with it. Variations of this problem depend on whether characters are: cladistic (rooted) or qualitative (unrooted); binary (two states) or unconstrained (more than one state). The computational cost of known algorithms that guarantee solutions to these problems increases at least exponentially with problem size; practical computational considerations restrict the use of such algorithms to analyzing problems of small size. We establish that the four basic variants of the compatibility problem are all NP-complete and, thus, are so difficult computationally that for them efficient optimal algorithms are not likely to exist.
10.2307/2413429|The worldwide occurrence of antitropical organisms is correlated with a reorganization of world climate culminating in the middle Miocene. It is suggested that rising tropical temperatures in the Miocene led to a global exclusion of stenothermic taxa from low latitudes. The phylogeny and distribution of the New World silversides are congruent with this interpretation of antitropical origins. Evidence bearing on the relationships of the American anchovies is consistent with this paleoclimatic hypothesis as well. Alternative hypotheses promoting long-distance dispersal, tropical submergence, competition and predation contribute to a fuller understanding of the mosaic nature of the global antitropical pattern.
10.2307/2413384|Chromosomal, genic, and morphologic variation was examined among populations of Dipodomys agilis from southern California and Baja California, including populations previously recognized as D. antiquarius, D. paralius, and D. peninsularis. Populations with a diploid chromosomal number of 62 and a fundamental number of 110 were found north of San Gorgonio Pass, and those possessing a diploid number of 60 and a fundamental number of 116 were found to the south. Genic data also indicated a similar separation of northern and southern populations. Analyses of morphologic data revealed that populations in the north were significantly larger than those in the south for several characters. Considering the three data sets, there is considerable differentiation of populations north of San Gorgonio Pass from those to the south. Apparently, the terrain at San Gorgonio Pass, and possibly human habitation, has prevented genetic exchange between these populations for a sufficient period for differences between them to accumulate.
10.2307/2413390|Unpaired male least sandpipers (Calidris minutilla) emitted three main kinds of calls to attract mates and in sexual or agonistic interactions. The call types varied slightly across the nesting range (samples from British Columbia, Yukon Territory, Manitoba, and Nova Scotia). One call type, analyzed in most detail, was given in long rhythmic series during aerial displays. Tape recordings of 2,250 calls from 80 males were analyzed using four measurements on temporal characteristics and eight on frequency. Most of the variance (59-82% for the 12 characters) was attributable to variation among males, less to cells (13-41%), and least to locality (0-9%); only one variable differed significantly among geographic samples. Temporal characteristics varied more than frequency characteristics, with coefficients of variation (Vs) averaging 4 to 9% for the former and 2 to 3% for the latter. Vs were significantly heterogeneous across characters for each locality but variability profiles were very similar among localities. No Vs differed significantly among geographic samples. The extreme geographic uniformity in call structure, univariate and multivariate variation, variance components, and correlational relationships among call variables was unexpected. Comparative studies using similar quantitative techniques are needed to assess the generality of the findings.
10.2307/2413385|An undirected phylogenetic tree is an unrooted tree with labeled leaves in which no interior vertex has just two incident edges; the labels associated with the tree's leaves identify organisms or evolutionary units in a study collection. Any subset of four leaf labels is called a quartet. Each quartet inherits from the phylogenetic tree a subtree providing basic information about branching relationships among the quartet's organisms within the phylogenetic tree. Consequently, quartets can be used to measure resolution of, and to construct measures of structure and dissimilarity between, such trees. I report empirical and theoretical investigations of six quartet dissimilarity measures. The empirical study provides information about frequency distributions of quartet dissimilarities when trees are randomly sampled from the set of all phylogenetic trees of given size. The theoretical study analyzes expectations of quartet dissimilarity measures when trees are randomly sampled; for this model, expectations of quartet dissimilarity measures are determined by the expectation of a measure of tree resolution.
10.2307/2413381|C-banded karotypes of five species of frogs endemic to western North America were analyzed to investigate the use of such chromosomal data in determining their systematic interrelationships. Morphologically, three of the species (Rana aurora, R. cascadae and R. pretiosa) may be considered generalized "brown frogs," while the other two species (R. boylii and R. muscosa) are morphologically divergent and may be termed "stream frogs." The peculiar karyotype of R. muscosa, with its three pairs of telocentric chromosomes, can be derived from that of R. boylii by postulating a series of chromosomal inversions. Based on karyotypic character analysis, R. boylii and R. muscosa constitute a pair of sister taxa that appears to have arisen from within the western Rana. The chromosomal evidence, while concordant with morphological considerations, conflicts with various systematic hypotheses that have been proposed concerning these frogs based on immunological distance studies and reanalyses.
10.2307/2413382|Eight species of frogs of the genus Rana, comprising five species endemic to western North America and three related species, were examined electrophoretically in order to investigate their systematic interrelationships. Two morphotypic "stream frogs," R. boylii and R. muscosa, were found to be sister taxa derived from within an assemblage of "brown frogs" that included R. aurora, R. cascadae and R. pretiosa. Rana cascadae was closely allied to R. aurora. The two subspecies of R. aurora were discernable, but closely related, and exhibited variation conforming to a north-south pattern of allozyme divergence. Allozyme differences indicated considerable divergence in R. pretiosa, both between samples and from other species. The five western species were found to be a monophyletic group exclusive of the Eurasian species R. temporaria and R. dybowskii and the North American R. sylvatica. The 24-chromosome species R. dybowskii was very distant genetically from all other species examined. The electrophoretic evidence agrees with a number of conclusions drawn from karyological investigations, such as the common derivation of R. boylii and R. muscosa, but disputes previous conflicting systematic hypotheses concerning these frogs based on immunological distance studies and reanalyses of existing data. The widespread "brown frog" morphotype may be considered a conserved primitive state in Rana. In certain respects, karyotypic, morphotypic and genotypic evolution in these frogs may have proceeded independently.
10.2307/2413389|While many advances have been made in the statistical treatment of morphometrics, there has been little improvement in the design of measurements subjected to statistical analysis. Commonly measured linear dimensions result in a loss of geometrical integrity and an inability to translate multivariate statistical results into material three-dimensional morphology. Problems with the definition of size and shape, spurious correlation, and anatomical localization of form change or difference arise with linear dimensions. Finite-element scaling methods overcome these problems and produce measures that can be subjected to standard multivariate statistical analyses. The finite-element scaling method is described, as are measures of local and general size and shape change. We use finite-element scaling as a basis for an analysis of sexual dimorphism in rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) facial growth. Males grow approximately twice as fast as females, although facial growth stops at nearly the same age in the two sexes. The adult female face is morphologically quite similar in all aspects of size and shape to that of a juvenile male (4.5 years old). Thus, considered heterochronically, and taking the female morphology as primitive, sexual dimorphism in the size and shape of the rhesus face arose through rate hypermorphosis. Growth of the face was strongly allometric, with the maxillary alveolus growing much faster than other facial regions. Finite-element scaling is a very useful measurement tool for the comparison of forms, especially in studies of growth and phylogenetic transformation.
10.2307/2413383|An iterative procedure for deriving minimum-length phylogenetic trees from allele frequencies using Rogers' genetic distance as the measure of branch length is extended to include eight additional distances: a modified Rogers' distance; Nei's standard, maximum and minimum distances; Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord and arc distances; and modified forms of the chord and arc distances. The derivation of such trees is defended as a parsimony procedure, and I conclude that any distance used in this procedure must be metric. The nine genetic distances are compared on the criteria of: metricity; ability to produce ancestral allele frequencies with heterozygosity approximating that of the terminal taxa; convergence to a stable solution; and computer time. The modified Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord distance is equal or superior to the other distances on the first three criteria, but requires more computer time than most. Rogers' distance has the properties of metricity and convergence, and ranks below the modified chord distance on ancestral heterozygosity, but generally requires about one-half as much computer time as the modified chord distance.
10.2307/2413388|Panbiogeography, from Croizat to its latest developments in New Zealand, is treated at length. Craw and Weston's attempt to squeeze their approach into Lakatos' philosophy of science is shown to be futile. Due to a heavy burden of a priori assumptions, panbiogeography is to be viewed, especially in Craw and Weston's version, as an adjunct to historical geology, rather than as a biogeographic theory. The role of panbiogeography as an impetus to the development of vicariance or cladistic biogeography is acknowledged.
10.2307/2413387|A method is presented that constrains principal components analysis (PCA) to extract a first component that, by definition, summarizes isometric size alone. The remaining information is partitioned according to variation in shape. Size-constrained and conventional procedures are compared with analyses of data on sexual dimorphism in the painted turtle (Chrysemys picta marginata) and a crayfish (Cambarus bartoni). Contrary to results from standard analyses using covariance or correlation matrices, the size-constrained technique shows that turtles are dimorphic in isometric size but not in shape. Conventional methods do not completely isolate variation in isometric size from variation in shape. Analysis of the crayfish data confirms that PCA with the correlation matrix separates size from shape more effectively than analysis with the covariance matrix. Secondary shape components (i.e., the third and subsequent components) differ markedly, suggesting that incomplete partitions of isometric size and shape by the traditional methods dramatically affect the results.
10.2307/2413386|The iguanid lizard Sceloporus grammicus is one of the most chromosomally variable of all nonmammalian vertebrates, and is an often-cited example of stasipatric or cascading chromosomal speciation in progress. We report on a sampling effort focused on populations in central Mexico of this complex that was designed to describe the (1) extent of karyotypic variability, (2) interpopulation divergence as defined by chromosomal markers, and (3) levels of within-sample chromosomal polymorphism. A total of 597 lizards karyotyped from 42 localities revealed extensive inter- and intrapopulational variation, with a minimum of 42 distinct karyotypes being scored by conventional staining techniques. These ranged in diploid number from 2N = 31 to 2N = 46, and are most parsimoniously explained as being derived primarily by the fixation of a sequence of fission rearrangements in the macrochromosomes. Summary statistics of genetic similarity and distance coefficients were used to group populations by overall chromosomal similarity, and this resulted in an objective designation of seven distinct cytotypes. Distributional evidence indicates that the ranges of the most derived cytotypes are internal to ranges of the more ancestral races. Of 14 chromosomally polymorphic populations analyzed, all conformed to Hardy-Weinberg expectations. Implications of these findings for models of chromosomally-mediated speciation are discussed.
10.2307/2411679|Contemporary population and developmental genetics sees no problem in finding mechanisms adequate to effect a change from one level of adaptive organization to another. Natural populations contain sufficient genetic variability to respond to directed selection for a change in the mean of almost any character. Such responses usually come by the accumulation of small increments and can be attributed to shifts in the frequencies of different alleles in polygenic systems. The extent of the response to persistent selection depends on whether the remainder of the genome adjusts to include the new mean in an integrated whole. The greater the change and the more fundamental the reorganization, the lower the probability of occurrence. Hence the prediction of such events with any degree of precision presents difficulties close to insuperable.
10.2307/2411682|Evolution is neither an autonomous sequence of spontaneous organic changes nor a predictable chain of unalterable reactions of organisms to their environment and its changes; hence ecological factors are neither just the background for evolution nor do they determine it directly and unequivocally. The contribution of ecological factors to the timing and the direction of evolution depends upon the role they assume, or are allotted, in the life history of the species in question. The adaptation of species to momentary relationships with their particular environments may preadapt them to the establishment of new ecological relationships. Preadaptation is achieved when new or even existing components of the organism's environment acquire additional or totally novel roles in the ecological niches of these organisms, i.e., when the organism interacts with parts of its environment in new and different ways. The exploitation of the evolutionary opportunities emerging from the interaction between organic and environmental diversity involves both chance and choice. The central role of behavior permits the element of choice; the importance of choice in evolution increases with increasing complexity of animals and their behavior. The role of ecological factors in evolution must be investigated by clarifying the multiple feedback relationships between structure, habit, and habitat.
10.2307/2411680|The relationship of morphogenesis to evolution of higher levels of organization is discussed, with three embryological examples: the origin of the cerebral inductor complex, the probable origin of paired fins and of variation in the skull bones of fishes, and the reduction of the fibula and digits in tetrapods. Minor changes in morphogenesis may lead to major alterations in adult structure, usually affect the entire organism, and must be balanced with respect to the morphology and function of the organism.
10.2307/2411684|The transition from one higher level of organization to another always involves some form of biological improvement for the same or a new way of life. Except in rare cases when a single lineage attains a new level, the transition is expressed in terms of similar adaptations (broad adaptations) that evolve more or less in parallel in lineages of common ancestry. Within the limitations imposed by ancestry, canalization and directional selection, experimentation with various combinations of primitive, intermediate, and advanced characters will lead to both niche adaptation and to broad adaptation. Broad adaptations may evolve at different rates and times in related lineages, but they are, in effect, responsible for the recognition of a higher level. The partly opportunistic nature of this process implies that these lineages will approach or enter a new level with varying degrees of success. A particular higher level of organization may therefore have a multiple origin even though it has a monophyletic origin at a particular lower level.
10.2307/2411681|One of the most controversial questions in the study of major evolutionary changes is whether or not all macroevolutionary steps are fully adaptive and completely understandable in terms of the known principles of microevolutionary change. The answer appears to lie not in the search for new evolutionary mechanisms, but in the correct description and analysis of the events involved in the origin of new higher levels of organization, as has been stressed by several workers who are dissatisfied with the synthetic theory of evolution. Evolutionary adaptation is the relationship of a species to a specific set of environmental conditions; it connotes both the process and the state of being. An adaptation is a form-function complex (= faculty) that has two components: it has a definite biological role that interacts with a selection force; and it has a relative degree of efficiency. The degree of adaptation, as a state of being, is defined as the ability of the feature to execute successfully its biological role with the minimal expenditure of energy. As a process, adaptation is defined as any evolutionary change that reduces this amount of energy. Preadaptation occurs when a feature, by virtue of its present form and functions, acquires a new biological role and thus gains a new adaptation. Key innovations are those adaptations focal to the exploitation of a new habitat. The model suggested for the sequence of events in the origin of new groups is an evolutionary change that: (a) involves a series of many steps, each representing an intermediate stage between the ancestral and descendent groups; (b) occurs in an intermediate adaptive zone; and (c) involves a number of phyletic lines. Each step involves preadaptations, key innovations and a postadaptational period with an adaptive radiation of forms. This radiation, in turn, may result in a new preadaptation leading to another step, and so on. If the evolving group in the transitional zone reaches a new major adaptive zone, a larger adaptive radiation may occur, marking the primary flowering of the new group. However, no single point can be cited as the origin of the group. The series of modifications involved in the evolution of a new higher level of organization is exactly the same as the continuous evolutionary change within the old adaptive zone, except for the steady change in niche relationships in the transitional zone. The adaptive mechanisms involved are identical for both series of changes; a search for new mechanisms is not needed.
10.2307/2411683|The process of natural selection operates at the population and species levels, but its effects are seen at all levels of organization. Directional selection is the primary mechanism for changes that result in the evolution of higher levels. The effectiveness of natural selection can be measured by three types of evolutionary rates: taxonomic, morphological, and biological (species origin). The most useful rate is that of species origin, which can be compared with rates obtained from experimental or mathematical models. The rates computed from the fossil record of many Pleistocene mammals are higher than those derived from models. The history of several well-known vertebrate lineages clearly demonstrates that higher levels of organization evolve by means of microevolutionary processes rather than by special genetic and selective mechanisms. Phenotypic variation observed in phyletic lines does not give a direct index of the genetic variability underlying the phenotype.
10.2307/2411737|This paper relates to aspects of taxonomy and systematic zoology contained in volumes of the Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, published by the Geological Society of America and Kansas University Press.
10.2307/2411733|The generic name Ichthyosporidium Caullery and Mesnil, 1905, was created for two original species. One of them was probably a fungus and the other a protozoan, but neither was ever designated as type-species. In subsequent studies this name has been applied by some authors to organisms known to be fungi and by other authors to quite different organisms which are generally conceded to be protozoans. In this study the protozoan originally included in the genus, I. phymogenes, later corrected to I. giganteum (Thelohan, 1895) Swarczewsky, 1914, is selected as type-species and the generic name is thereby reserved for the protozoans. The other original species, I. gasterophilum C. and M., 1905, is transferred to genus Ichthyophonus Plehn and Mulsow, 1911.
10.2307/2411546|The 17 modern Canadian arctic tundra mammals share only six broad patterns of taxonomic variation and geographic distribution. These are believed to result from differing distributions during the Wisconsin glacial stage, and the past distributions to have been in large part determined by the ecological relations of the species during the preceding interglacial stage. Those that were tundra species were able to maintain populations in the northern refugia, both in Beringia and Pearyland if the species was widespread (e.g., varying lemming) and only in the former if confined to western North America (e.g., brown lemming). Tree-line species (e.g., caribou) gave rise to both woodland and tundra forms, the former from populations isolated south of the ice, and the latter from populations trapped in the cooling northern refugia. Other species maintained themselves only in Beringia (e.g., man), and others only south of the ice-sheets (e.g., wolverine). Two species, polar bear and arctic fox, find sea-ice no barrier to distribution, and their present ranges are of as little zoogeographical relevance as those of anadromous fish.
10.2307/2412997|Chromosomal homologies between Neotomodon alstoni, Baiomys taylori and species of Peromyscus for which G-band chromosomal data are available in the literature were identified using G- and C-banding techniques. The primitive karyotype for the peromyscine genera is hypothesized to have a 2n = 48 composed of two or three pairs of biarmed and 20 to 21 pairs of acrocentric autosomes, with heterochromatin restricted to the centromeric regions. Patterns of chromosomal change are presented in the form of a cladogram. The G-banded karyotype of Baiomys taylori is composed of all acrocentric autosomes and is most like that of Peromyscus crinitus, differing only by pericentric inversions in pairs 1, 22, and 23. Neotomodon alstoni shares synapomorphic inversions with several species of Peromyscus. Based on these data, we believe Neotomodon is best considered a congener of Peromyscus.
10.2307/2412998|A probabilistic model of evolution in a character is presented. It involves two character states, 0 and 1. The population may have a third state, 01, in which there is polymorphism for both character states. There are three evolutionary events in the model: origination of state 1, reversion from state 1, and loss of polymorphism, plus an event corresponding to total misinterpretation of the character by the taxonomist. The maximum likelihood method of estimating the phylogeny is described. When the probabilities of the four events are taken to be extreme, then depending on their relative sizes under different circumstances four different phylogenetic inference methods emerge as maximum likelihood methods. Three are known: the Camin-Sokal parsimony method, Farris's Dollo parsimony method, and the Estabrook-Johnson-McMorris compatibility method. A new method, the polymorphism parsimony method, also emerges. It explains parallelism and convergence by persistence of character-state polymorphism after a unique origin of the derived character state, and attempts to find that evolutionary tree which requires the least extent of polymorphism. Details of implementation of the polymorphism parsimony method are given. Some variants of the evolutionary model are discussed, involving unrooted character state trees. The use of the model to resolve a paradox which arises when we attempt to apply the Dollo parsimony method to multiple-state characters is briefly considered.
10.2307/2412995|Cladistic analysis is the analysis of hierarchically branching diagrams (cladograms), which estimate, with more or less informativeness and efficiency, one or more cladistic parameters. Branch points (components) comprise part of the information of a cladogram (the component information); and branch tips (terminal taxa) comprise the other part (the term information). In an analysis of five cladograms published on allodapine bees, components were segregated into four categories: (1) replicates; (2) components non-combinable with replicates; (3) components combinable with replicates and with each other; (4) components individually combinable with replicates but not with each other. Components replicated in cladograms based on independent data sets have low, but specifiable, probabilities of occurrence. For the five cladograms of bees, the replicates were found to be non-random (P = 10
10.2307/2412996|Six species of periodical cicadas have been recognized even though there are only three morphologically distinct types. Each of the three types exhibits 13-year life cycles in certain areas of its range (primarily southern) and 17-year life cycles in other areas (primarily northern). It has been suggested that the two life cycle forms of each morphological type originated from a single splitting event and that the three 13-year-17-year pairs should be considered sibling species pairs. An alternate interpretation is that shifts between 13- and 17-year life cycles have occurred more than once in each morphological type making untenable the classification of life cycle forms within a type as sibling species. The fact that each life cycle form of each morphological type is divided into broods, the adults of which emerge synchronously in different years, complicates matters further but multiplies the opportunities for studying the evolution of the various forms. Numerical phylogenetic analysis of allozymic information supports the second interpretation. Allozymic variation was generally low. Genetic distances between 13- and 17-year forms based on 20 loci proved to be no greater than those found between local populations of most other organisms. Phylogenetic analysis of two 17-year and three 13-year broods indicated that, in this case, brood formation in the 17-year cicadas preceded the formation of the 13-year life cycle. The present geographic distributions of broods coincide logically with the proposed branching sequence. Testable predictions are made as to the relationships of unstudied broods which are based on geographic distributions and Pleistocene paleobotany. Morphological studies, in progress, will serve as an independent test of the proposed cladogram.
10.2307/2412999|A positive correlation between intrapopulation variation and among population diversity has been demonstrated for morphometric characters (the Kluge-Kerfoot phenomemon). This study extends the relationship to allozyme variation. Four sets of statistics are utilized to partition genetic variation into within and among population components of diversity and the strength of association between these components is assessed by means of rank order correlation. All but one of the seven species tested demonstrate significant, positive correlation coefficients for all four of the diversity measures. Although both selective and stochastic mechanisms may generate such a relationship, it appears that stochastic forces do not totally account for the correlations seen in the data sets analyzed here.
10.2307/2412560|The purpose of a general formal classification of animals is to foster effective communication within and between zoological subdisciplines. Cladistics is a method of classification based only on phylogeny, but knowledge of phylogeny requires a relatively dense and continuous fossil record not available for many groups. Cladistics presumes phylogeny, and it cannot be used to reconstruct phylogeny. Furthermore, phylogenetic relationships are not the only attributes of organisms, and classifications based solely on phylogeny ignore important attributes related to adaption, biogeography, and age. Effective communication requires that a classification be as simple as possible, balanced, and relatively stable. In practice, organisms are grouped into species, and species are grouped into successively higher taxa primarily on the basis of (1) overall similarity (including morphology, geography, and age), with the boundaries between taxa being drawn in such a way that (2) each group is monophyletic in the general sense of this term, with (3) traditional groupings being maintained to the maximum extent consistent with (1) and (2). Classification is basically phenetic, with phylogeny (where known) providing an important constraint on acceptable phenetic arrangements. Traditional and cladistic classifications of North American Eocene primates of the family Adapidae are compared, with a slightly modified traditional classification being favored because of its simplicity, balance, and stability. Phylogeny itself is better expressed in a diagram than in a formal classification.
10.2307/2412566|Although Henning presented cladistic methods by referring to a model of the evolutionary process, neither the value nor the success of the methods is limited by the value or success of that evolutionary model. Dichotomous cladograms can be preferred simply on the basis of their maximal information content, without reference to speciation mechanisms. Because only the interrelationships of diagnosable taxa (those with unique sets of apomorphic characters) can be investigated, questions about whether speciation can occur without branching, or whether species become extinct at branching points, are irrelevant to cladistic practice. The distinction between plesiomorphic and apomorphic character states depends not on the reconstruction of actual evolutionary history, but on the discrimination of more general from less general characters; groups based on plesiomorphy are defined by the absence of characters and are therefore artificial. Hence cladistic methods are not the methods of phylogenetics per se, but the methods of natural classification in general; phylogenetic conclusions are an extrapolation from hypotheses about natural order.
10.2307/2412558|The goal of cladistic systematics is to discern sister-group relations (cladistic relations) by the methods of cladistic analysis and to represent them explicitly and unambiguously in cladograms and cladistic classifications. Cladists have selected cladistic relations to represent for two reasons: cladistic relations can be discerned with reasonable certainty by the methods of cladistic analysis and they can be represented with relative ease in cladograms and classifications. Cladists argue that features of phylogeny other than cladistic relations cannot be discerned with sufficient certainty to warrant attempting to represent them in either cladograms or classifications and could not be represented if they could. I argue that a better alternative is to work toward improving methods of cladistic analysis (or else to supplement them with other methods) so that such features of phylogeny can be discerned and to devise methods of representation capable of representing them in both cladograms and classifications. However, cladograms and classifications cannot represent everything about phylogeny. It is better to represent one or two aspects of phylogeny explicitly and unambiguously than nothing at all.
10.2307/2412570|When recent literature on the falsifiability of natural selection is examined critics and defenders seem to communicate with each other very poorly. An examination of the structure of tautology and that of causal explanation provides criteria by which to examine the claims of both critics and defenders. Natural selection is free of tautology in any formulation that recognizes the causal interaction between the organism and its environment, but most recent critics have already understood this and are actually arguing that the theory is not falsifiable in its operational form. Under examination, the operational forms of the concepts of adaptation and fitness turn out to be too indeterminate to be seriously tested, for they are protected by ad hoc additions drawn from an indeterminate realm. Future knowledge may reduce the organism to a determinate system, but until such time too little is known to investigate organism-environment relations. Researchers should consider whether natural selection is necessary to empiric investigation in their area, and whether it can serve the purpose for which it is applied.
10.2307/2412565|Systematists of all minds, be they pheneticists, evolutionists, or cladists, are urged to reconsider the kinds of criteria that ought be used in judging the scientific worth of a method of classification. It is suggested that the current enthusiasm for Popperian falsificationism may be mistaken, and that systematists might more profitably consider a criterion of merit based on what William Whewell termed the "consilience of inductions."
10.2307/2412567|The development of hypotheses in phylogenetic systematics involves two activities: (1) the construction of phylogenetic hypotheses, and (2) subjecting these hypotheses to critical tests. Both may be analyzed within the framework of Bayes' theorem. Both are, in my view, inherently probabilistic and, as such, do not fit well into Popper's rigidly deductive models of scientific methodology. Regarding item (1), phylogenetic hypotheses are constructed, wholly or in part, by applying an ordering principle of shared derived character states to M taxa out of a group of N taxa. In order to establish a rational basis for when to apply the ordering principle (when to believe it), the principle is analyzed in terms of a relative frequency model. Application of Bayes' theorem to this model, first for M = 2, and then for M >2, establishes a necessary condition for applying the ordering principle. As it turns out, the conditions under which one might rationally apply the principle vary markedly from one value of N (and M) to the next; this conclusion provides a good incentive for following a probabilistic approach when applying the ordering principle. The testing of phylogenetic hypotheses (item 2 above) is also viewed in terms of Bayes' theorem. These probabilistic approaches contrast markedly with the strictly deductive view of scientific methodology developed by Popper.
10.2307/2412569|An electrophoretic comparison of proteins is used to evaluate the genetic relationships of the salamanders of the genus Plethodon. The genetic relationships are generally in agreement with the morphological data upon which recent classifications are based but several discrepancies are discussed. In particular, the discovery that the eastern small plethodons are paraphyletic suggests that the ancestral plethodon resembled the small species in size and that the large size of the other eastern species is a derived state. Plethodon neomexicanus, whose relationship to the other plethodons has long been ambiguous, is most closely related to P. larselli; these two species share, in addition to protein similarities, a derived osteological character state not found elsewhere in the genus Plethodon. Electrophoretic genetic distance (D) is highly correlated with albumin immunological distance determined for the same set of populations (r = .86) and both measures estimate similar divergence times for Plethodon lineages even when values of D are very large. Average net rate of speciation in Plethodon equals that previously determined for salamanders in general (0.12 speciation events/lineage/million years) but the rates vary considerably. Estimates of genetic distance are used in an analysis of the results of DNA annealing studies. Evolutionary divergence of total single copy and total middle repetitive DNA fractions is highly correlated with genetic distance indicating that both DNA fractions include sequences that diverge in a time dependent manner. Sequence divergence of single copy DNA, which is directly proportional to  Tm, is calculated to be 0.17-0.18%/million years as a minimum estimate for Plethodon. The middle repetitive fraction as a whole appears to evolve rapidly in Plethodon as measured by changes in percentages of reassociation and by  Tm in interspecific comparisons, but a small subset of the middle repetitive sequences is highly conserved. It is concluded that the eastern and western species of Plethodon diverged slightly over 40 million years ago (in the late Eocene). Compared to other North American salamanders, morphological divergence among plethodons has been slow.
10.2307/2412561|The nature and historical origins of the phenetic approach to classification are described. A common misconception equates phenetics with numerical taxonomy, but in fact most phenetic taxonomy (at least of plants) is not numerically based. Phenetics is not characterized by any particular methodology but by its primary, perhaps single, purpose, which is to provide a convenient general-purpose framework for accommodating the diversity of plants and animals. It is recognized that it is the process of evolution that permits such a general-purpose classification of organisms, but otherwise phenetics makes no attempt to reflect evolution in classification. Instead, phenetic classification seeks to reflect the overall characteristics of the organisms being studied and to describe the distributions among organisms of as many of their character-states as possible. Phenetic studies usually start by "arranging" organisms by overall similarity. In numerical phenetics this arrangement has generally involved the calculation of a set of pairwise dissimilarities and the subsequent transformation of these to a set of ultrametric distances which define a dendrogram. Attention is drawn to the distinction between a dendrogram which is usually distance-defined and a classification which is necessarily rank-defined. The point is also made that, except in very small groups, constructing a practical classification involves a process of simplification of the number of ranks and branching-points suggested by any dendrogram. Criteria for judging phenetic classifications require, therefore, a component which assesses the simplification process as well as one measuring the extent to which an ultrametric transformation reflects the original data. Methods of phenetic classification are reviewed and the role of a posteriori weighting of characters is discussed. Iterative character-weighting to reinforce incipient groupings, and analogous methods such as those based on ordinations are considered often to provide a better reflection of the maximally predictive properties of phenetic groupings than do unmodified transformations of overall similarity matrices. The cladistic and eclectic ("evolutionary") approaches to classification are assessed. Although phenetic relationships cannot be expressed in reduced dimensionality without loss of information, a two-dimensional diagram can (at least in theory) always perfectly express cladistic pathways. Consequently, it is suggested that it is redundant to seek to make a classification reflect cladistic pathways. Both a phenetic classification and a cladistic reconstruction can usefully be presented in the same study. Attempts to reflect cladistic pathways in a classification leads to a complexity that cannot be expressed in the normal taxonomic framework and consequently result in an explosion of ranks. The problems associated with these attempts and the axiomatic treatment by cladists of certain classic biological uncertainties are noted. Eclectic classification is ill-defined. Often it seems indistinguishable from the neural assessment of relationship by non-numerical pheneticists, and in general it differs from phenctic classification only by its claim to express evolutionary relationships in a different way from that implicit in the former.
10.2307/2412568|The possibility of deciphering patterns of evolutionary diversification using the semiaquatic bugs (Hemiptera: Gerromorpha) as an example group is examined. Two different approaches are contrasted: the evolutionary systematic and the phylogenetic (cladistic) approach. The methods of phylogenetic inference are thereafter applied to data on the structural, behavioral, and ecological divesity of semiaquatic bugs. Semiaquatic bugs comprise an unusual life form as they are the most successful group of insects inhabiting the water surface in almost any kind of habitat, including the open ocean. Semiaquatic bugs are currently classified in eight families: Mesoveliidae, Hebridae, Paraphrynoveliidae, Macroveliidae, Hydrometridae, Hermatobatidae, Veliidae, and Gerridae. A cladogram of relationships among these families is constructed. It provides a hypothesis about the sequence of branching in evolution corroborated by synapomorphic characters. An estimate of the amount of evolutionary change within single lineages (derivation load) is introduced. The habitat preferences of semiaquatic bugs are superimposed upon the cladistic relationships among taxa. Phylogenetic inferences suggest that the ancestral type of habitat of most families was humid terrestrial and/or marginal aquatic. Species belonging to most families have remained in the ancestral habitats and a few species of the Veliddae and Gerridae have secondarily invaded similar habitats. Derived habitats include the plant-covered water surface, the free surface of stagnant fresh water, flowing fresh water, intertidal marine waters, and the surface of the open ocean. Each of these categories of habitats has been independently invaded several times from more ancestral habitats. Several adaptive features of semiaquatic bugs are discussed and their ancestral and derived states separated. There are definite associations between the physical nature of the environment and the structural, mechanical, and behavioural elements of locomotion. The evolutionary transition from the walking rhythm of leg movements towards the rowing rhythm and locomotion by jump-and-slide movements has probably taken place several times. Two different kinds of predator strategies in semiaquatic bugs can be distinguished: that of a searching predator, which is the most ancestral, and that of a waiting predator utilizing surface ripples in prey-location, which is the derived strategy. Wing polymorphism, sexual behaviour of surface-inhabiting bugs, and diversification of the egg system are also discussed. The evolutionary diversification of semiaquatic bugs is visualized as a repeated series of transitions between a hygropetric and a pleustonic adaptive zone and adaptive radiation towards various subzones of the latter. This model has some weaknesses from an ecological point of view. Ecological diversification is not just a problem of the relations between structure and environment. The limited supply of resources, conflicting demands of various factors, and interspecific competition and/or predation may be important as well. In conclusion, the neo-Darwinian views on the origin and differentiation of higher taxa are examined and criticized.
10.2307/2412564|Philosophy, especially metaphysics, is not easily distinguished from science at the borderline since both are realistic pursuits of truth, with their theories held open to criticism. It is not useful to apply the distinguishing criterion of falsifiability strictly at the margin, and anyway falsifiability needs supplementing with an attitude of openness to criticism (refutation). This is Popper's view. Applied to taxonomy, it challenges pheneticism severely (as superficial) and classical evolutionary classification and cladism just a little. The scientific character of the search for natural taxa should not be obscured by the conventional character of an internationally agreed classification.
10.2307/2412559|The goal of evolutionary systematics, to provide classifications of maximum utility through maximum use of evolutionary theory, has failed of accomplishment to the extent that practitioners of evolutionary systematics have relied upon descriptive rather than theoretical definitions of terms. Monophyly and related terms are discussed, a new definition of higher taxon is provided, and a new methodology for producing classifications of maximum utility, employing cladistic and anagenetic analysis, is partly outlined. Cladists, by ignoring a significant part of evolutionary theory, produce classifications that are less useful to systematist and nonsystematist alike.
10.2307/2412562|Both pheneticists and evolutionary taxonomists claim that their classifications contain more information on characters and degrees of similarity than does the phylogenetic system, but until recently no attempt had been made to measure the information content of phylogenetic classification. Extending previous results, I show that both distance and character information is better retained by phylogenetic than by phenetic classifications. The phylogenetic procedure of grouping according to synapomorphy corresponds to expressing distance information as a path-length distance, while phenetic clustering expresses distance information through clustering levels. It is impossible for a clustering-levels distance to fit distance data better than the best-fitting path-length distance. Classifications are most natural in Gilmour's sense, and have greatest information content per taxon, when they allow description of data in the fewest symbols. Most parsimonious trees have highest information content, are most natural, allow data to be completely summarized by the most succinct diagnoses, minimize exceptions to such complete diagnoses, and permit the greatest number of predictions between adjacent taxa. Values of Brothers' (1975) index of distinctness are perfectly described by a phylogenetic classification, but not by any other. There is no justification for either a phenetic or an evolutionary approach, since the phylogenetic system contains greater information than either on characters and similarities, while at the same time better reflecting phylogenetic kinship.
10.2307/2412521|Principal components analysis and linear discriminant function analysis were applied to two data sets comprised of a sample of laboratory-reared hybrid fish, and wild-caught parental samples. For each method, the assumptions required for making statistical inferences and the biological assumptions employed in hybrid studies are reviewed. The degree to which we can expect biological data sets to conform to both types of assumptions is assessed by examination of the two data sets discussed here. The usefulness of each method for hybrid identification, quantification of hybrid variability, and general determination of morphological distance from the suspected parents is evaluated by considering the results of the methods when applied to known hybrids. Evidence is presented for decreased developmental integration in the hybrids. Principal components analysis makes apparent the difference in the branchial baskets of the very similar Notropis spilopterus and N. whipplei, suggesting an ecological separation related to this morphology. The hybrids of both the Notropis and Lepomis cyanellus x L. macrochirus crosses had generally intermediate scores in both analyses, but were not uniformly intermediate, instead graded into the parental phenotypes. In the results of principal components analysis, F1 variability precludes the confident identification of all hybrid individuals as well as any specific identification of F2 and backeross individuals; the majority of hybrids should be identifiable as being of mixed genetic origin. Principal components analysis is demonstrated to be of use in the examination of variation in hybrid fishes. Linear discriminant function analysis as it is presently employed does not appear useful for hybrid analysis, for both practical and theoretical reasons. Discriminant function analysis of samples of known hybrid origin may permit subsequent analysis of suspected hybrids.
10.2307/2412520|Electromorphic variation of -glycerophosphate dehydrogenase in 71 species of Drosophila has been studied using sequential polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, sequential starch gel electrophoresis, and isoelectric focusing. Although this locus was previously reported as nearly invariant among many species of the genus, this study shows a substantial increase in variation between species which is concordant with the known taxonomy of the genus. However, these methods revealed no additional variation within the species themselves. Each of the three methods found variation not detectable by the other two; thus, all are necessary for maximizing the observed variation between species. In comparison to previous electrophoretic studies of this enzyme in Drosophila, these new data show a much increased concordance with reported immunological and kinetic differences between this enzyme in different species. The implications of these results for electrophoretic studies of speciation and taxonomy are discussed.
10.2307/2412519|The gene phylogeny for a set of contemporary species is defined as the ancestral order of branching of evolutionarily related gene lineages leading to the expressed genes in the contemporary species. The species phylogeny for this set of species is defined as the evolutionary branching of species lineages leading to the contemporary species. Since a given gene may duplicate within its species lineage, and distinct sister genes may be expressed by different species, the topologies of the gene and species lineages may not be the same for the same set of contemporary species. The present paper develops a parsimony strategy for scoring the gene duplications and gene expression events needed to fit gene lineages into their corresponding species lineages. In the usual parsimony reconstruction, an effort is made to minimize the number of nucleotide replacements throughout the tree. In the present study, the sum of nucleotide replacements, gene duplications, and gene expression events is the value to be minimized. Gene expression events are further subclassified as gene loss events, activating regulator mutations, and inactivating regulator mutations. Analysis of amino acid sequence data from the alpha and beta hemoglobins and myoglobins suggests that the gene lineages deviate relatively little from established species relationships, and that most contemporary gene pairs in this phylogenetic system may be regarded as orthologous (split at the time of speciation) rather than paralogous (split prior to speciation). It also appears that as the statistical sample of orthologous sequence sites becomes greatly enlarged by tandem alignment of enough different types of protein chains, the parsimony reconstruction based strictly on minimal nucleotide replacement length will itself reveal the correct cladogram for the set of contemporary species.
10.2307/2412518|The major source of funds in the U.S. Government to which most American university and museum biologists can turn to support their studies of plant and animal systematics is the Systematic Biology Program (SYST) of the National Science Foundation (NSF). Commonly requested information on award patterns (zoological and botanical) of SYST is summarized for a recent five year interval. Funding for botanical versus zoological projects was comparable, with a slightly greater amount having gone to the latter. Regular research grants comprised by far the most significant activity of SYST. Paleobiological projects received at least 10 percent of the total yearly programmatic budgets. About two-thirds of the funds for botanical work supported projects on phanerogams; of this, most was for flowering plants. Morphology, the major category of botanical research activity, received a decreasing percentage of funds as other areas, especially in the experimental realm, grew. Support for floras and revisions showed general, though not precipitous, reduction. Research on insects, molluses, and crustaceans dominated awards for invertebrates; work on many groups of invertebrates was poorly represented. In contrast, the classes of vertebrates were represented fairly evenly in research support. Research on terrestrial and freshwater animals generally received more than 75 percent of the dollars allotted for zoological projects. A 15-year comparison was made with funding levels of four other NSF programs (Developmental, Metabolic, Regulatory, and Genetic Biology) selected because of their close conceptual relationships with evolutionary biology and because their funded research frequently leads to laboratory procedures used by systematists. Although total funding within NSF for research in systematic biology held its own in comparison with these related areas, most systematists have had much more limited alternative agencies for Federal support of their research. A result is that SYST has consistently provided significantly more awards per year than the average of the other four selected NSF programs, but with a comparatively much smaller dollar value per award.
10.2307/2412587|The possibility to use the fine structure of ooplasmic inclusions in the classification of fresh-water triclads has led to an examination of numerous planarian species. It was found that in the genera Dugesia and Cura autosynthetic yolk is present while in Polycelis, Planaria, Plagnolia, and Dendrocoelum only cortical granules are present, which are localized in the peripheral cytoplasm of mature oocytes. These findings are consistent with the recently proposed phylogenetic theory of Ball, in which the primary division of the fresh-water triclads is into the Dugesiidae and the Planariidae plus Dendrocoelidae.
10.2307/2412582|Experiments and field observations document vocal imitation in six cardueline species representing four genera. Flight call learning was found in all birds studied; learning of many other call types was observed in two genera. Additional evidence extends call learning to other carduelines bringing to eight the total number of genera in which call learning has been observed. Call learning is perhaps characteristic of subfamily Carduelinae, and the taxonomist should consider the possibility that learning may affect the patterns of all adult cardueline vocalizations. The taxonomic value of cardueline calls in particular and passerine calls in general is re-examined in light of this extensive call learning. It is suggested that the ontogenetic, learned modification in call pattern can be eliminated from the taxonomic analysis, and that calls may then be taxonomically valuable behavioral characters. The problem of homologizing behavior is discussed, with criteria for homology applied to two call types, both associated with call learning. Cardueline flight calls are autapomorphic characters useful as species specific characters, while social/alarm calls are synapomorphic at the subfamilial level and can be used as taxonomic characters at the family level.
10.2307/2412585|Some general characteristics of classifications are discussed. The usual components of phylogenetic classifications are species and supraspecific groupings. The concept of natural taxa is discussed in relation to concepts of monophyly espoused by Hennig, Simpson, and Ashlock. It is concluded that only Hennig's concept is internally and externally consistent. Genealogy is discussed in relation to natural taxa. Unique genealogical descent is defended as the only necessary and sufficient criterion for justifying a taxon as natural. The use of non-genealogical characters for justifying natural taxa rests upon two bridge principles which tie character modification to genealogical descent. The only non-genealogical characters which conform to the bridge principles are synapomorphies employed at their correct level of universality. Therefore, it is concluded that natural taxa are monophyletic sensu Hennig. Two rules of phylogenetic classification are stated and three systems which conform to these rules are contrasted. It is concluded that the Linnaean system, suitably amended, can fulfill the role for general biological classifications. Definitions of Linnaean categories are suggested. Nine conventions for classifying phylogenetic trees are presented. These conventions purport to classify phylogenetic trees of any complexity, including ancestral species and taxa of both hybrid and symbiotic origin, in such a way that their phylogenetic relationships are expressed exactly to the level that the hypothesis permits.
10.2307/2412588|A general method for making initial hypotheses and projections for secondarily analyzed characters in comparative biology is presented. Initial hypotheses are preferred (1) which are implied by compatibility of the cladogram of the group with that of a relevant character and (2) which have the greatest precision and empirical content and the highest degree of falsifiability. In cases for which compatibility analysis is not possible, a minimal character state set hypothesis meets the latter criteria. Deduction of testable implications of the various hypotheses is made possible by fully stating them in a narrative summary. Finally, character state hypotheses for ancestral species may provide a basis for projecting unobserved character states of modern taxa.
10.2307/2412584|Coevolution is defined as a combination of two processes: co-accommodation between host and parasite with no implication of host or parasite speciation and co-speciation, indicating concomitant host and parasite speciation. Parasite speciation in general is viewed as primarily the result of allopatric speciation processes regardless of host speciation or changes in host type. The observation that co-speciation of hosts and parasites forms a predominant pattern relates to a more general principle of biotic allopatric speciation explicit in the vicariance biogeography model, more than to an assumption that host speciation somehow causes parasite speciation. The close ecological relationship between hosts and parasites, which may be depicted using a variation of the MacArthur-Wilson island biogeography model, explains their spatial proximity at any time during which an isolating event occurs and thus may be necessary in some cases, but is not sufficient to explain parasite speciation, coevolution, or parasite phylogeny.
10.2307/2412581|Immunological, electrophoretic, and other macromolecular comparisons strongly suggest that Theropithecus gelada (Primates: Cercopithecidae) is cladistically closer to the genus Papio than the latter is to any other Old World monkey, despite customary views to the contrary. Review of the distinctive features of gelada anatomy, behavior, and ecology show them to be almost wholly autapomorphic and therefore not indicative of cladistic relationships. The fossil record suggests the Theropithecus lineage has existed for somewhat more than four million years. The time of separation of the Papio and Theropithecus lineages estimated from the results of three techniques of macromolecular comparison is compatible with this evidence.
10.2307/2412583|Thirty-one island populations of Podarcis sicula and P. melisellensis from Yugoslavia were examined to determine phenetic similarities based on means of 15 characters. Both cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling (MDS) revealed the following patterns of variation: 1) the two species formed distinct groups; 2) within each species, OTUs from northern and southern islands grouped separately; 3) within P. melisellensis, OTUs from small islands tended to resemble other small island OTUs from geographically close islands. These patterns appear to contradict similarities implied by previous subspecific designations based largely on color and pattern differences. Genetic drift, gene flow, and selection are evaluated as explanations for observed phenetic patterns. Drift appears to be highly unlikely as a major force determining regional, large island, and small island similarities among OTUs. Channel depths and estimates of the rate of net increase in sea level suggest that the northern islands are younger than the southern islands, supporting the idea that gene flow has been restricted among the southern islands and between the two regions for a longer time than among the northern islands. Combined with differences in selection regimes, the recency of gene flow appears to have been important in determining north-south phenetic similarities. Populations on small islands are exposed to qualitatively different selection regimes than those on large islands. The closer similarity of northern, small island OTUs to large island OTUs suggests that the northern OTUs have not responded to small island selection regimes to the same extent that southern island OTUs have.
10.2307/2412586|Multivariate statistical techniques (such as canonical variate and principal component analyses) are often used to ordinate or summarize morphometric data to facilitate biological interpretation of the morphological relationships under study. While the major axes of statistical variation which are derived in such analyses may have direct biological significance, there is no a priori reason that the biological and statistical determinants of morphological variation necessarily be concordant. Multiple regression provides a simple means of identifying and describing the maximum degree of relationship between (1) a variable, such as size or latitude, which is thought to have some biological relevance to the problem at hand, and (2) the set of uncorrelated variables, such as canonical or principal component variates, which represent the major axes of statistical variation and which may be thought of as a convenient, analytically efficient system of reference axes describing the multivariate data space. Of particular significance is the ability to examine the full multidimensional space and detect biological information having an angular relationship to the major axes of statistical variation.
10.2307/2413413|The leopard frog Rana berlandieri is presently considered to be comprised of three subspecies: R. b. berlandieri; R. b. forreri; and R. b. brownorum. In two of the purported races, genetic similarity was investigated by assessing interpopulation genetic compatibility and spermatocyte bivalent formation in interpopulation hybrids. Primary structural components of racial mating trills were analyzed and compared. The data do not support the recognition of R. b. berlandieri and R. b. forreri as conspecifics.
10.2307/2413412|A cladistic analysis of the skeletons of loons (Gaviidae), grebes (Podicipedidae), and the Cretaceous diving birds, Hesperornis and Baptornis, supports the hypothesis that they form a monophyletic group (here called the Gaviomorphae) within the class Aves. Two lineages within the gaviomorphs can be delineated: (1) loons + grebes, and (2) Hesperornis + Baptornis. The Early Cretaceous Enaliornis and the Late Cretaceous Neogaeornis are related to the second lineage; the Late Cretaceous Lonchodytes, often placed near loons, is apparently not a gaviomorph but perhaps a charadriiform. Skeletal evidence also suggests that penguins (Spheniscidae) are the sister-group of the Gaviomorphae. Arguments that similarities of gaviomorph taxa represent convergence are not well founded. First, morphological differences among taxa do not constitute valid evidence against their monophyly, as many previous workers have argued. Second, in no case has anyone supporting convergence presented a corroborated alternative phylogenetic hypothesis. A close relationship among gaviomorphs, penguins, and apparently also the Procellariiformes and Pelecaniformes implies that a lineage of aquatic birds was established very early in avian history, presumably in the Early Cretaceous or Late Jurassic.
10.2307/2413410|Evolution may be described as a nonequilibrium process involving the conversion of information from one form to another and the maintenance of old or forging of new reproductive networks. Species participate in nonequilibrium processes because they have properties of closure and because evolution is a historically irreversible phenomenon. Speciation is a process which consolidates available potential information into two or more stored information systems. Character change and the history of a clade are highly correlated because potential information is constrained by its own evolutionary history. Thus new and potential information may be converted into stored information only to the extent that this new and potential information is compatible with the ancestral information system or can find expression in an alternate ontogenetic pathway. All modes of speciation as well as anagenesis follow the second law of thermodynamics and may be described by a summary equation which charts the changes of entropy states of information and cohesion over time. We suggest that some empirical evidence corroborates our theory and that the research programs involved in further studying nonequilibrium evolution are largely in place now.
10.2307/2413411|Disillusions concerning evolutionary theorizing have forced a split among cladists. The disillusioned group of "pattern" cladists seeks an evolutionarily neutral brand of cladistics. But pattern cladistics is not, after all, evolutionarily neutral. Rather, it is at odds with evolutionary theorizing.
10.2307/2413414|Trees with branch length assignments may be constrained so that the sum of branches connecting any two labelled tips of the tree is at least as large as a previously observed distance value. When the sum of all branch lengths is minimized under this constraint, one has a minimal length tree. Two conditions regarding minimal length trees, one proved necessary and the other conjectured to be sufficient, are presented. They provide simple tests of minimality and raise problems in the interpretation of the individual branch values.
10.2307/2413368|Some geometric and probabilistic aspects are examined for three commonly used statistical distance functions. It is argued that the distance between centroids can be viewed as a probabilistic function reflecting both the geometric position of each taxon and/or the variance and correlation between the variables. A Monte Carlo simulation study is carried out to assess the effects of sample size, different variances and intercorrelations on the variability or "precision" of the distance estimates using the Euclidean distance, Pearson's Coefficient of Racial Likeness, and the Mahalanobis distance. All three distance estimators are shown to be biased and consistently overestimate the theoretical distance. The effects of these results on studies in systematic biology are discussed.
10.2307/2413369|The interpretation of two state features on a cladogram presents no problem in that Farris optimization (Farris, 1970) produces the simplest (most parsimonious) explanation of a set of changes. The only methods which produce parsimonious explanations for multistate characters either require theories of character evolution or assume that any transformation between different states is always possible. A method-Transformation Series Analysis (TSA)-for obtaining the cladogram which best explains all the data including multistate characters is developed. TSA derives parsimonious interpretations of character change (cladistic characters) from a cladogram, and the cladogram iteratively until a stable point is reached. It is demonstrated that the cladograms resulting from TSA do not depend on the initial classification. Further, the solution (stable) cladogram results in a set of characters of greater consistency that the original Wagner tree for the 20 multistate data sets examined. Sometimes this stable cladogram is the same as the original "best" (parsimonious) cladogram. When Transformation Series Analysis (TSA) gives results different from the original Wagner trees, the cladograms from the former show greater taxonomic congruence between data sets. Therefore, TSA is an improvement on existing phylogenetic methods. Because the cladistic characters are different from the original characters, "theories" for character evolution are not so well verified as has been presumed. Cladogram characters resulting from TSA are powerful systematic tools to be used in the study of character evolution.
10.2307/2413362|Traditionally, taxonomic rates of evolution have served primarily as estimators of "transformational" rates-i.e., rates of anatomical and underlying genetic change. This approach comes from the Modern Synthesis, which sees all evolutionary patterns reducible (at least in principle) to simple generation-by-generation change in gene content and frequency. If, however, species are individuals (sensu Ghiselin, 1974) rates of speciation (and species extinction) are important intrinsically, and cannot be construed as a mere function of rates of transformational change. In general, it can be argued that for every kind of biological individual posited, there is implied a quasi-discrete phenomenological level of the evolutionary process. Different sorts of biological individuals are nested hierarchically (for example, individual organisms within species), conveying an ontological (rather than purely epistemological, cf. Stebbins and Ayala, 1981) basis to the claim that evolution involves more than one phenomenological level. Each level has its characteristic patterns of change produced by its own array of deterministic and stochastic processes. Such processes cause a shuffling of component smaller individuals with-in the next higher individual. Rates of change within the levels are to a significant extent independent of one another. Five levels of the evolutionary process are briefly characterized and discussed.
10.2307/2413366|Biostratigraphically based rates of morphologic change often provide the basis for interpreting rates of evolution and speciation. A rate of morphologic change must specify the amount of and duration for that change. So, evaluating the temporal component in biostratigraphic rates of morphologic change requires the ability to tell time precisely in stratigraphic sections. A few stratigraphic levels can be calibrated by radiometric ages, but biostratigraphers have had difficulty determining how precisely they can tell time between these levels of known age. In other words, we have yet to define and estimate completeness practically in our stratigraphic records. Here, completeness is defined as a ratio contrasting the time represented by sediment vs. the total time-span of a section. This method estimates the average or expected completeness of sections at specific levels of temporal precision. Since a biostratigraphic record cannot be resolved more finely than the lithostratigraphic record containing it, these estimates usually represent the maximum amount of temporal precision attributable to a given biostratigraphic pattern. Biostratigraphic patterns should not be interpreted below the level of precision at which a section is estimated to be complete, unless that section is far above the average completeness for sections of comparable duration that represent similar environments. Accordingly, we might begin to distinguish between stratigraphic patterns resulting from geologic processes and ones resulting from biologic processes of longer duration than the level of precision at which a section is complete. For example, our previous inability to estimate completeness has often resulted in one biostratigraphic pattern being interpreted to represent both punctuated and gradual rates of morphologic change. To use the new approach, we must precisely define rate-related concepts like punctuation and gradualism in terms of their temporal duration and amount of morphologic change. Illustrations based on the biostratigraphic record of an Eocene primate from the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming and Plio-Plcistoccne molluses from the Turkana Basin of Africa caution against applying short-term neontological concepts to most biostratigraphic patterns.
10.2307/2413363|Macroevolutionary analysis focuses on the explanation of general patterns of diversity among monophyletic groups. Three general patterns can be recognized: radiation diversity in which species richness increases through time, reduction diversity in which richness decreases, and steady-state diversity in which it remains relatively constant. Most clades show some combination of these three patterns. Clades also exhibit a pattern of phenotypic change that can be superimposed on the pattern of diversification. With speciation, descendant species can become either markedly apomorphic or remain plesiomorphic relative to the ancestral condition. There is no necessary correlation between a particular phenotypic pattern and a specific pattern of diversity. Explanations of macroevolutionary patterns have been of two principal types: adaptationist and species selectionist. The adaptationist approach has explained patterns of diversity in terms of the occupation of "adaptive zones," driven by natural selection. "Adaptive zones" are tautological constructs and lack ontological status. The other macroevolutionary explanation, species selection, is a pattern of species survival through time and as such is neither a process nor a theory of macroevolutionary change. A deterministic theory of macroevolution lies in explaining inter-cladal diversity patterns by variation in the rate-controls of speciation and extinction. Speciation rate is controlled by factors intrinsic to species such as morphogenetic complexity (Wiley and Brooks, 1982) and by external factors. It is hypothesized here that the primary external rate control of speciation is lithospheric complexity, which relates directly to the number of geological and climatic barriers promoting geographic isolation. It is also proposed that plate tectonic activity controls extinction rates through mechanical influences on habitats and its effects on environmental climatic change. Extinction rates are postulated to be lower in environments of higher favorableness, which is defined in terms of relatively high mean annual temperature, low range of mean annual temperature, and high annual rainfall dispersed evenly throughout the year. The interaction of relative environmental complexity and favorableness can be used to make predictions about diversity patterns among clades and to investigate the relative importance of internal morphogenetic complexity.
10.2307/2413367|Advocates of syncretistic classification have generally held that the descriptive and explanatory roles of the biological reference system should be kept separate, and that description and explanation impose conflicting goals on classification. I show that view leads to contradictions, and I summarize earlier demonstrations that the phylogenetic system satisfies both goals at once. Pheneticists have advocated ordinations as an alternative to hierarchic classification, claiming for them superior descriptive power. I show that ordinations are more general than had been thought, as hierarchies can be subsumed under such structures. This viewpoint allows a great many classificatory criteria to be analyzed under a factor or regression model. Present phenetic criteria for clustering amount to evaluating a multiple correlation as the sum of simple correlations. This fallacy can be avoided by regressing data multiply on classificatory factors (groups), but then perfect fit to data can always be achieved, so that the classificatory problem becomes one of choosing among alternative sufficient bases. This problem is approached by analogy with simple structure criteria of factor analysis, and it is found that classificatory simple structure leads to the phylogenetic parsimony criterion. From this new viewpoint the phylogenetic system thus emerges again as a unified descriptive and explanatory structure. Objections to the descriptive power of the phylogenetic system are discussed with emphasis on recent claims by Rohlf and Sokal. It is shown that attempts to defend phenetic classification have comprised nothing other than abandoning or rendering untestable every claimed advantage of phenetic methods. There is thus no possible substantive basis for preference for phenetic grouping.
10.2307/2413365|Cladistic analysis by the maximum parsimony method was carried out on amino acid sequence data from 579 polypeptide chains of 250 species, and also on nucleotide sequence data of 41 globin genes and pseudogenes of eight species. The genealogical trees constructed in this analysis provided evidence on the phylogenetic relationships of eutherian mammals and other vertebrates, which in turn served as a framework for evaluating long term trends-rates and mechanisms-in molecular evolution above the species level. Individual proteins proved to be very poor evolutionary clocks because they evolved at markedly non-uniform rates. We hypothesize that positive selection for differentiation of the chains produced by duplicated globin genes was responsible for greatly accelerated globin evolutionary rates, especially at sites acquiring cooperative functions, during the basal radiation of Gnathostomata and Tetrapoda. Furthermore, we suggest that stabilizing selection to preserve functional improvements explains the markedly decelerated rates of globin evolution in the amniote lineages to birds and mammals. On the eutherian and early primate stem to the Anthropoidea, globin evolution again speeded up as adaptive substitutions occurred, e.g., in the -chain of primate fetal hemoglobin; globin evolution then drastically slowed in hominoids. Similar acceleration-deceleration patterns of evolutionary rates observed in the other protein genealogies, such as that of cytochrome c, further emphasize the central role of natural selection in protein evolution.
10.2307/2413364|Studies of taxonomic rates of evolution depend largely on a literal reading of the fossil record for extinction and origination events. This approach can yield estimates that grossly misrepresent phylogenetic patterns derived independently from character analysis. Such distortion can arise even in cases (e.g., Primates) where the fossil record is thought to be comparatively well-documented. Results of studies of rates at broader taxonomic levels (e.g., mammals versus bivalves) vary markedly according to, often unwarranted, assumptions regarding origination times. The significance of much of the published study on taxonomic rates is moot until fossil data for these rates are broadly compared with cladistic hypotheses.
10.2307/2413033|Electrophoretic analysis of Rhagoletis (Diptera: Tephritidae) has been performed to gain insight into phylogenetic relationships in the genus, and to determine whether Rhagoletis species have cospeciated with their host plants. The electrophoretic phylogeny differs from both the conventional classification and the assumed phylogeny of the host plants. Most of the changes suggested in the conventional classification are compatible with morphological data. The differences in the phylogenies of Rhagoletis and its host plants are not, however, likely to be resolved by further systematic analysis of the host plants. In addition to these topics, we also discuss the electrophoretic phylogeny with respect to the biogeography of the genus.
10.2307/2413034|The rigor of different parsimony methodologies and the significance of alternative branching networks with slightly differing nucleotide replacement (NR) scores are a focus of debate in studies of primate systematics. Branching topologies generated by our use of the maximum parsimony algorithm are criticized as equivalent or inferior to alternative networks generated by other methods of ancestral reconstruction. Critics also argue that it is not possible to determine which of several alternative topologies, differing by a small number of NR's, most closely reflects cladogeny since the statistical significance of the NR score differences is unknown. A careful investigation of the method of these critics reveals that their method is nonrigorous, nonreplicable and produces erroneous results. The need for rigorous, automated systems of data analysis in studies of molecular evolution is made apparent, particularly in light of the voluminous nature of the data. We here describe a series of parsimony tests conducted with globin amino acid sequence data, focusing on the position of Tarsius within Primates, in order to illustrate the importance of interpreting NR score differences within a context which includes the number of lineages represented in a data set, the density of the lineages in particular regions of a dendrogram and the exact nature of the changes attributed to specific NR savings. Analyzed within the context of these changing parameters, small NR score differences between alternative topologies can be meaningful and do produce results with significant confidence. The phylogenetic relationship of Tarsius to Anthropoidea, as well as other important issues in primate systematics, are expected to be greatly clarified with the gathering and rigorous analysis of nucleotide sequence data which can resolve the difficulties presented by convergent evolution and paralogous gene lines.
10.2307/2413035|Of the eight currently recognized species of Ceratophrys (aurita, calcarata, cornuta, cranwelli, ornata, pierottii, stolzmanni, and testudo) six are considered to be species. Ceratophrys testudo is considered a synonym of C. cornuta. The subfamily Ceratophryinae is argued to be monophyletic and is defined on the basis of two synapomorphies. The genus Ceratophrys (excluding C. pierottii) is monophyletic and is defined on the basis of three synapomorphies. Two subgenera are recognized within Ceratophrys. The subgenus Ceratophrys (one synapomorphy) includes C. aurita, C. cranwelli, and C. ornata where C. aurita and C. ornata are more closely interrelated. The subgenus Stombus (three synapomorphies) includes C. calcarata, C. cornuta, and C. stolzmanni where C. calcarata and C. cornuta are nearest relatives. Ceratophrys pierottii is hypothesized to be an intergeneric hybrid between Ceratophrys cranwelli and Lepidobatrachus llanensis. The least refuted hypothesis of relationships is inconsistent with the hypothesis that speciation amongst forest-dwelling species was mediated by Pleistocene contractions of forest into refugia. The northern species of Ceratophrys form a group fragmented in part by the Andes and the southern (and eastern) species form a second group fragmented ecologically but not physically. The widespread Amazonian species, C. cornuta, shows little evidence of having had its distribution fragmented by forest contractions. Ceratophrys cornuta is the most widely distributed species, is centrally distributed, and is by far the most apomorphous (measured in terms of autapomorphies). Such a combination is contrary to the expectations under the macroevolutionary hypothesis termed punctuated equilibria.
10.2307/2413032|In principle, any measured distances between landmarks of a form may serve as characters for morphometric analyses. Systematic studies typically are based on a highly biased and repetitious sample of these. But collections of landmarks and the distances among them must be homologous from form to form for comparisons to be meaningful, and an adequate character set should at least permit the full reconstruction of the original configuration of landmarks. We describe a geometric protocol for character selection, the truss network, which enforces systematic coverage of the form and which exhaustively and redundantly archives the land-mark configuration. Reconstruction of the form from truss measures provides Cartesian coordinates for landmarks and allows estimation of, and compensation for, measurement error. Samples of forms may be averaged and standardized to one or more common reference sizes by regression of measured distances on a composite measure of body size, followed by reconstruction of the form using distance values predicted by the regression functions at some standard body size. Principal component loadings of distance measures may be indicated directly on the truss network to display patterns of within-group allometry or between-group shape differences. Because the truss enforces use of cross measurements, discrimination among groups may be enhanced. Composite mapped forms are useful in biorthogonal analyses of differences in shape because they allow the comparison of averaged forms among samples. Certain patterns of principal component loadings are concordant with, and provide an initial sampling of, the biorthogonal grids for these deformations.
10.2307/2413231|Differentially stained chromosomes, when analyzed in a cladistic framework, provide a systematic hypothesis for ten glossophagine genera. Two separate groups are recognized on the basis of chromosomal data; a chromosomally conservative or plesiomorphic group consisting of Glossophaga, Monophyllus, Leptonycteris, and the brachyphyllines, and a relatively rapidly evolving derived group consisting of Anoura, Lonchophylla, Lionycteris, Choeroniscus, Choeronycteris, Hylonycteris, and Musonycteris. Among the six genera characterized as slowly evolving, only a single rearrangement has been identified, whereas, among the seven genera characterized as rapidly evolving over 100 chromosomal rearrangements are required to explain the observed variation. Such a contrast in rate and type of chromosomal evolution is difficult to explain in terms of most currently accepted theories of chromosomal evolution and the pattern of change is most like "karyotypic megaevolution." Within the derived group, cladistic relationships are resolved to the generic level. Variation in the magnitude of evolution at the morphological and chromosomal levels is such that chromosomal data are useful for the resolution of relationships among genera, whereas, morphological data are more informative at the subfamilial level. A combination of the two data sets is compatible with the hypothesis that the Glossophaginae is monophyletic and provides a better understanding of the nature of evolution within this subfamily.
10.2307/2413230|A cladistic analysis of the neotropical bat families Noctilionidae, Mormoopidae, and Phyllostomatidae is presented utilizing structures of the female reproductive tract. Several shared-derived (synapomorphous) features of the uterus, oviduct, and ovaries were identified within these taxa. These included features of external and internal uterine anatomy, the uterotubal junction, form of oviductal mucosal folds, anatomical relationships between oviduct and uterus, and the position of the ovarian ligament. A cladogram based on these female reproductive histomorphological synapomorphies was constructed and is proposed as a phylogenetic hypothesis. This hypothesis was tested for congruence with independent data sets involving comparative morphological, karyological, and biochemical characteristics. Noctilionids, mormoopids, and phyllostomatids possess synapomorphies that indicate they shared a common ancestor and thereby form a monophyletic group, the Phyllostomatoidea. However, based on features of the female reproductive tract, the neotropical family Thyropteridae (which has been previously assigned to the superfamily Vespertilionoidea) should be included in considering phylogenetic relationships of the Phyllostomatoidea. Familial relationships are somewhat conflicting; some studies (including the present analysis) specify a sister-group relationship between mormoopids and phyllostomatids, whereas others suggest a noctilionid-mormoopid relationship. Relationships within the Phyllostomatidae are resolved at subfamilial levels with female reproductive and independent data sets. The high level of congruence found between the phylogenetic relationships predicted by these data sets is proposed as strong evidence for the phylogenetic resolving power of female reproductive histomorphology.
10.2307/2413232|Univariate comparisons of twenty morphometric characters of sixty adult Bufo marinus recorded before preservation and six and 14 months after preservation reveal a statistically significant heterogeneity among group means of fourteen characters. After six months in preservative, the means of six of these 14 characters are significantly larger, and eight are significantly smaller, than for the same individuals prior to preservation. After eight additional months in preservative, the means of five of these 14 characters differ significantly in the opposite direction of that initially detected. Linear regressions and analyses of covariance suggest that over the range of sizes considered here, preservation effects the elevations but not the slopes of the regressions between pairs of morphometric characters. Sexual size dimorphism in six characters is documented for the fresh material; certain of these intersexual differences are reduced or are undetectable in the preserved material, and in one instance a new, marginally significant, difference is apparent after 14 months in preservative. Not all characters are measurable with equal precision, and there is a highly significant rank correlation between precision and inter-individual character variance. Principal component analyses confirm and extend the univariate findings, and discriminant function analysis reveals differences between fresh and preserved specimens of roughly the same magnitude as those commonly used to justify taxonomic decisions. The assumption that preservation induces tolerably little morphological distortion in frogs appears to be substantially violated, but an unknown proportion of among-group character variation may be attributable to measurer bias.
10.2307/2412027|Various methods of summarizing phenetic relationships are briefly reviewed (including a comparison of principal components analysis and non-metric scaling). Sequential agglomerative hierarchical clustering schemes are considered in particular detail, and several new methods are proposed. The new algorithms are characterized by their ability to "adapt" to the possible trends of variation found within clusters as they are being formed. A nonlinear version allows the isolation and description of clusters which are parabolic, ring-shaped, etc., by the introduction of appropriate dummy variables. Procedures for computing the best fitting trend line through the cluster are also presented, and problems in measuring the amount of information lost by clustering are discussed.
10.2307/2412026|Multivariate statistical techniques are used to describe phenetic relationships of the 93 species in the suborder Lari (Charadriiformes: Aves). A total of 51 skeletal and 72 external characters from adult specimens was analyzed. Classifications based on skeletal characters, external characters, and both combined are compared and contrasted. Product moment correlation coefficients and average distance coefficients were used as measures of similarity. OTUs were clustered using the unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic averages (UPGMA) and linear adaptive hierarchical clustering schemes (linear AHCS). In addition, three-dimensional models were constructed of OTUs plotted with respect to the first few principal components extracted from a matrix of correlations among characters. Part I describes the materials, methods, and the results of the principal components analyses. Part II will include the phenograms resulting from various analyses, as well as discussion and conclusions sections.
10.2307/2412028|The article derives some properties of Wagner Trees and Networks and describes computational procedures for Prim Networks, the Wagner Method, Rootless Wagner Method and optimization of hypothetical intermediates (HTUs).
10.2307/2412024|Hennig's (1966) Phylogenetic Systematics is primarily concerned with cladism. The central thesis is that all taxa must be monophyletic in a special, rigid sense, and that their rank must be determined solely by time of origin. Secondary concepts are that species split in a very simple way; that one of two daughter species derived from a common ancestor will deviate more than the other; that species divide only dichotomously and that phylogenies must be dichotomous; that rates of evolution and divergence are constant and the same in different groups, unless known to be different; that relative primitiveness established at time of species-splitting remains characteristic of groups throughout their history; and that primitive groups remain at or near their places of origin. These concepts are all oversimplified, in part illogical, not consistent with real situations that are common in nature, and of no practical use in systematics or biogeography. Brundin (1966) accepts and further oversimplifies Hennig's concepts and applies them uncritically in classification of southern chironomid midges and antarctic biogeography. His supposed history of antarctic land connections, beginning in the Jurassic, is based on application of Hennig's erroneous secondary concepts, on an imaginary parallelism between chironomids and birds, and on an arbitrary decision that chironomids cannot cross water gaps although they occur in aereal plankton. His conclusions are probably wrong as to dating, as to directions of dispersal, and as to existence of continuous land connections. Existing chironomids may really have dispersed during or not long before the Tertiary, along the edges of Antarctica, and across water gaps between the southern tips of the continents and Antarctica.
10.2307/2412025|Our modern, Northern Hemisphere boreal faunas apparently had a dual origin. In Paleocene-Eocene times, one cold-temperate evolutionary center probably became established in the Arctic Basin. Then, as the climate grew colder, another center south of the Bering Land Bridge began its development. During the Oligocene, boreal species were able to move out of the Arctic Basin into the North Atlantic and, in the Pacific, southward from the Bering Sea. By the late Miocene, when a seaway first became established through the Bering Strait, the movement of species was predominantly northward into the Arctic Ocean and thence to the North Atlantic. The second opening of the seaway in the late Pliocene had an even more striking result, transforming the character of the North Atlantic fauna yet scarcely affecting that of the North Pacific. In the contemporary North Atlantic, such characteristic features as a depauperate shore fauna; species with broad latitudinal ranges; the complete lack of an endemic, boreal pelagic group; and the very low rate of endemism at the oceanic islands; present a decided contrast to conditions in the North Pacific. These facts together with good evidence of Pleistocene faunal replacements, latitudinal shifts, and extinctions reveal that the North Atlantic has provided for its marine fauna a more rigorous environment than the North Pacific. It seems clear that alteration in temperature, the one evident variable, was the primary cause. It is concluded that the geographic setting of the North Atlantic with its open exposure to the Arctic Ocean and its relatively small size are the main factors responsible for its history of varied surface temperature. The most severe drops in temperature probably took place during the ice ages of the Pleistocene and these appear to have averaged about 3
10.2307/2412276|Examination of a simple evolutionary model shows that the deficiencies of a phenogram, as an estimate of an historical cladogram, are not as great as sometimes imagined. In reality, there are grounds for a fair degree of confidence, particularly in relationships between taxa of higher rank. It can be shown, for instance, that uniformity in rates of evolution is not critical. What is required is, roughly, that later stocks should not evolve for substantial periods at rates much greater than in earlier stocks and/or that sister-species should diverge appreciably before undergoing further splitting. Likewise, the convergent elements of resemblance need not be small, or even uniform: simply, and roughly, later lines should not converge upon each other less than upon earlier lines. The latter holds also for "phylogenetic" reconstructions, based on what are believed to be resemblances in derived attributes only. There seem to be reasonable grounds for believing that such conditions are often met in Nature, and that a phenogram therefore supplies a reasonable phylogenetic hypothesis, for testing against further characters and taxa (but not methods) as they become available. This analysis does not conflict with the pragmatic aspects of classification, and can supply some criteria for choice of a numerical method: for instance, there are grounds for favouring "average linkage" as a clustering strategy.
10.2307/2412277|This paper studies some of the algebraic properties of Throckmorton's (1968) indices of predictivity and efficiency Certain interpretations of predictivity comparisons are considered, and the relevance for evolutionary taxonomy of measures of correlation between similarity indices is discussed.
10.2307/2412275|Patterns of morphological variation of three taxa of orioles, Icterus galbula (Baltimore oriole), I. bullockii (Bullock oriole) and I. abeillei (black-backed oriole) (Icteridae; Aves) are discussed. Baltimore orioles breed in eastern North America, Bullock orioles in the western half of that Continent, and black-backed orioles on the Mexican Plateau. Distributional overlap is minimal. In most parts of their ranges individuals of either sex can be easily identified as to type by any of an array of features of size, color pattern, or vocalization. However, where the distributions of the morphs appear to abut, considerable phenetic variation is manifest. Special attention is here given to one such region of apparent abutment, the central Great Plains, where there is an abrupt east-to-west transition of Baltimore-morph to Bullock-morph and where some populations consist of orioles that are obviously phenetically intermediate. It has been suggested that the two forms are incipient bio-species, hybridizing in a geographically narrow region where secondary contacts have recently occurred. It is pointed out that step-clines of the sort manifest among Plains populations of orioles can arise by means other than secondary contact, and in the present context it seems unnecessarily speculative to postulate such rejunctions. On the basis of logical, distributional, and historical evidence, there is no reason to believe that the human activities of the past 150 years have had any fundamental effect on the distribution of the orioles in the Plains, and neither the meidence of phenetically intermediate individuals nor the width of the zone that essentially describes their distribution seems to be increasing. Rather, all evidence suggests that there is considerable stability among these populations, such that the patterns of distribution of the various morphs are coincident with some of those of the climatic environment. Doubtless many agencies of selection are acting in concert to dynamically maintain the "steps" in the oriole morph-clines in the Plams. Among these, the demonstrable difference between Baltimore and Bullock orioles high temperature tolerance must be of considerable significance. Also, the differences between the Baltimore- and Bullockmorphs are so great that birds that disperse across the "hybrid zone" are probably selected against as being "unrecognizable" or as "odd birds." It is impossible, within the described limits of non-phenetic concepts of the species, to designate as separate species or not these groups of orioles without relying upon a priori assumptions that are untenable or teleological, or without inviting a posteriori circularity. I have preferred nomenclatural separation for the groups for the sake of convenience, but such a decision is arbitrary
10.2307/2412279|Algorithms are presented for automatic contour mapping of characters and displaying of the composite differential of several characters by computer. An example is given using morphological and chemical characters from Juniperus pinchotii Sudw. (Cupressaceae). Several attributes of contour mapping of geographic variation are discussed. Differential systematics is shown to be of considerable interest in delimiting areas of speciation and/or ecotypic differentiation.
10.2307/2412448|This work provides a means by which it is possible to determine whether two groups of related proteins have a common ancestor or are of independent origin. A set of 16 random amino acid sequences were shown to be unrelated by this method. A set of 16 real but presumably unrelated proteins gave a similar result. A set of 24 model proteins which was composed of two independently evolving groups, converging toward the same chemical goal, was correctly shown to be convergently related, with the probability that the result was due to chance being <10
10.2307/2412449|Hybrid index analysis of two natural hybrids between the parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus sonorae and the bisexual C. tigris demonstrates that the hybrids more strongly resemble the maternal parent. Karyotypic analysis reveals that the hybrids are tetraploids having received three genomes from the maternal (triploid) species and one genome from the paternal (diploid) species. Examination of testicular material shows the formation of chromosomal bivalents and polyvalents, including quadrivalents. Karyotypic variation involving centric fission occurs in the maternal parent C. sonorae. The origin of various levels of polyploidy in the genus Cnemidophorus appears to be rather different from that occurring most frequently in plants.
10.2307/2412450|On the basis of chromosome data, the large and complex genus Cnemidophorus of the New World lizard family Teiidae is divided into five species groups (the deppei, lemniscatus, sexlineatus, tigris, and tesselatus groups). These species groups are, in the main, congruent with those customarily recognized on the basis of external morphology. The hyperythrus species group, however, is placed in the deppei group: (1) all species examined from these two groups have identical karyotypes which differ from those of all other species examined in the genus, and (2) the two groups were formerly distinguished primarily on the basis of a single variable morphological character. The tesselatus group contains two species (tesselatus and neomexicanus), each parthenogenetic and derived through intergroup hybridization. Both of these parthenospecies originated through hybridization between the same two species groups, but different parental species combinations were involved in the production of each of them. The karyotype of the deppei species group appears to be the most primitive among the extant species groups of the genus Cnemidophorus, and the karyotypes of the other species groups are readily derived from it primarily by means of Robertsonian centric fusions and unequal pericentric inversions. The phylogeny of the genus based on the observed pattern of karyotypic evolution is consistant with the overall ecologic and biogeographic distributions of the species.
2412452|Principles abstracted from Hennig (1966) are used as axioms to form a quantitative analog of phylogenetic systematics. A close connection is demonstrated between phylogenetics and most parsimonious trees. The compatibility of some existing clustering methods with the principles is discussed. and a new clustering technique, the Weighted Invariant Step Strategy (WISS) is described. Generalization of the axioms to the case where direction of evolution is not assumed is examined, and it is shown that the Wagner Method for estimating evolutionary trees is consistent with the generalized phylogenetic axioms.
10.2307/2412451|There is a possible common ground between conventional and numerical taxonomy involving computer analysis of many characters. It would utilize evolutionary concepts whenever possible to modify an otherwise phenetic classification. New algorithms are described for character analysis and for cluster analysis. Many combinations of computer analysis were tested on four sets of taxonomic data. Results were judged by the effectiveness in showing greater similarity between individuals of the same group as defined by reliable evidence not included in the data sets. Statistically significant improvements were obtained by inclusion of computer procedures for adjusting correlated characters and for weighting characters. A variety of numerical procedures are discussed.
10.2307/2412206|The aims and justification of taxonomy are discussed, followed by an examination of the foundations of ordination and classification. The Adansonian or phenetic philosophy is critically examined and it is concluded that its claims of objectivity and precision are ill-founded, since subjective or arbitrary choices and definitions are necessary concerning acceptable or relevant attributes, homologies and correspondences, measures and commensurabilities of attributes, and measures of similarity. Phylogeny, represented topologically as a temporal branching sequence, is held to be the nearest approach to a firm basis of reference in nature for biological classification. The charge that phylogenetic reconstruction involves viciously circular reasoning is discussed and rejected, though some positive feedback is admitted. The theory and application of numerical taxonomy are discussed in general and the potential value of numerical phyletics is stressed. The possibility of using DNA base matching as a solid foundation is briefly examined. It is shown that, while phenetic classifications are infinitely variable, topological phyletic reconstructions do not themselves supply the kind of taxonomy that is usually demanded, since they do not adequately express significant evolutionary changes in patterns of organisation. No optimal classification can be defined, but improvement is possible up to a point of inherent instability. While the underlying facts and processes can be scientifically studied as part of systematics, classification itself remains largely a disclipined art, which is not convertible to an exact science by any form of arbitrary quantification. The necessity for compromise and continued synthesis is stressed. The suggested replacement of the Linnaean hierarchy by "numericlature" is mentioned but held to be premature and to have serious disadvantages. Mathematical concepts are discussed wherever relevant to the foundations of the subject.
10.2307/2412211|Phenetic affinities of the 93 species of skuas, gulls, terns, and skimmers in the suborder Lari (Charadriiformes: Aves) are described in detail. Methods and materials, as well as the results of principal components analyses, were given in Part I (Schnell, 1970). In this paper the 18 phenograms resulting from the use of different character suites (51 skeletal, 72 external, and both combined), transformations, and clustering methods are presented and analyzed. A classification of these resulting classifications (clustering basic similarity matrices or cophenetic values on the basis of correlations between classifications) is used to indicate which methods and character suites give similar results. The phenograms have also been compared with the classifications of Peters (1934) and Moynihan (1959) for the Lari. For analyses that included suites of highly correlated characters, correlation matrices were found to be relatively more robust than distances, being affected less by transformations or the use of different character suites. Also, when particularly divergent classifications occurred, this was partly due to divergent basic similarity matrices, but the clustering procedures added additional differences. The placing (or forcing) of OTUs into a hierarchical system of clusters (rather than just analyzing basic similarity matrices) resulted in an indication of relationships between OTUs more in accord with the opinions of previous workers, who also represented relationships in a hierarchy. The determination of the "best" overall phenetic classification, for use when one is in need of a single measure of similarity, is discussed and a set of guides is suggested to aid in the selection of such a classification. Some cladistic speculations are given and the relative positioning and stability of clusters is discussed. When analyzing data with high correlations between characters, the use of adaptive hierarchical clustering schemes that take into account possible trends in variation found within clusters is strongly recommended, and the value of multiple classifications to represent affinities is stressed. Principal component models, where no assumption is made that OTUs must fall into clusters, were particularly useful in representing relationships. The analysis of external characters resulted in phenograms that showed some similarity to those based on skeletal measurements. However, there were significant differences, indicating support for only a weak version of the nonspecificity hypothesis. A morphological description, using numerous characters, should be particularly valuable to current and future workers conducting various types of comparative studies (e.g., behavioral, ecological) within this taxon. It seems obvious that accurate and detailed morphometric description at the interspecific level is as important in the sound development of evolutionary theory as quantitative studies of intraspecific (e.g., geographic) variation.
10.2307/2412210|A new numerical method is given which is of value to taxonomists. It enables further species to be added to a previous principal coordinates analysis in order to find their phenetic relationships with the original set of species.
10.2307/2412207|Biological classifications are judged by assessing their predictive value against the co-variance of character-states in organisms not previously studied or against the classification of some character-states not previously studied in the organisms classified. As a corollary, taxonomists, judging by their published work, aim to produce that classification which maximises the concordance of the classifications of single characters or, put another equivalent way, which maximises the character correlations of the organisms being classified. Such classifications are then assumed to be inductive and, therefore, predictive and this predictive content is tested. It is argued that the sole operational aim of taxonomy is the production of maximally concordant, and so predictive, classifications which can be explained by the fact of evolution. The reversal of this explanatory role wherein it is claimed that phylogenies can be studied by erecting such classifications has obscured rather than clarified discussion of classification. It is further argued that because all the characters in a given organism are not correlated some weighting of characters is inevitable in producing general classifications and that the taximetric approach has obscured the discussion of classification by erecting a series of axioms which make the testing of any classification depend upon the method by which it was constructed rather than upon the form of the classification itself.
10.2307/2412209|An open nomenclature is proposed for intermediate forms, especially those situated between two successive species, which indicates both between what species said intermediate forms are found and their sequence in the evolutionary line. This makes unnecessary the creation of waagenons or successional subspecies in continuous phyletic lineages.
10.2307/2412864|The allodapine bees constitute a part of the tribe Ceratinini. The immature stages have evolved a variety of adaptations to life in a common burrow instead of each isolated in its separate cell. This is a unique environment for bee larvae. These adaptations, which result in greater morphological diversity among allodapine larvae than among all other bee larvae together, involve often nonhomologous structures and behavior which serve for supporting the young in the nest burrow and for manipulating larval food masses, as well as various structures which appear to be sensory in nature, and are presumably related to the frequent interactions among individuals. In contrast, most adult allodapines are monotonously similar; most of the exceptions are social parasites which live in the nests of related nonparasitic species. Larvae of the parasites closely resemble those of their nonparasitic relatives; in this case it is the adults which have diverged sharply, the various species or groups of parasites having independently entered an environment that is unusual for adult bees. They rarely or never visit flowers and in effect replace the egg laying female (queen) of the host with which they live. A cladogram was developed; then four mutually exclusive sets of variables (larval, pupal, external adult, and male genitalic) were superimposed on the cladogram. These sets included all of the known and readily codified variables, a total of 269, not merely the few useful in preparing the cladogram. Presumably because of the very different and independent environmental factors impinging upon these sets of variables, phenetic classifications based on them would be exceedingly different. Other sets of variables (biochemical, internal structure, etc.) may well convey equally different information about resemblances. A phenetic classification, based of necessity only on known sets of variables, is always likely to be altered when new sets become accessible. A cladistic hypothesis should be more stable. To base a classification on a cladogram alone, however, seems undesirable. In the allodapines it would result either in lumping very dissimilar forms or in placement of very similar forms in different taxa; these procedures are contrary to usefulness and convenience as well as to our biological knowledge other than the sequence of cladistic branching points.
10.2307/2412863|The Passeriformes and related avian orders (here termed "perching birds") have presented almost insurmountable problems in resolving phylogenetic relationships. New evidence from the morphology of the avian stapes (columella) permits a reassessment of the phylogenetic relationships of the advanced perching birds. Though the stapes represents but a single character, the primitive condition for the element can be established beyond reasonable doubt as that condition found in the reptilian ancestors of birds and present in the vast majority of living birds. Therefore, where unique, derived morphologies of the stapes occur, they may be of great importance in establishing evolutionary relationships within these groups, as no other characters are presently available for which primitive-derived sequences can be established beyond doubt. A cladistic approach to stapedial morphology permits a number of probable evolutionary statements concerning the "perching birds" as follows: 1) New and Old World suboscines are a monophyletic assemblage, and this group, now termed the Tyranniformes, includes the previously classified subocines of Madagascar, but not those of Australia (the lyrebirds and allies, and the New Zealand Wrens), which are shown to be oscines; 2) the wood-hoopoes and hoopoes are monophyletic and possess a unique "anvil" stapes; 3) the bee-eaters, motmots, kingfishers, and todies possess a common derived stapedial morphology and almost certainly represent a monophyletic assemblage; 4) trogons possess a stapedial morphology identical to that of the above assemblage (in 3) and are probably derived from that particular group, all of which are now termed the Alcediniformes; 5) the oscines and suboscines could not have shared a common ancestor because suboscines show a myriad of primitive characters with respect to the oscines, are relictually distributed, and yet possess a derived stapedial morphology, while the otherwise structurally advanced oscines possess the primitive condition of the stapes; for that reason the order Passeriformes is restricted to include only the oscines; 6) the Tyranniformes (suboscines) and Alcediniformes may have shared a common ancestor; both groups possess derived morphologies of the stapes that share many common features, but establishing beyond all doubt that the morphologies are strictly homologous is difficult. New evidence from the fossil record (particularly from the Western Hemisphere) provides a new basis for a paleobiogeographic analysis of "perching birds." This new evidence indicates that: 1) The Eocene of North America was a period during which structurally primitive piciform birds were the predominant, if not the only, perching birds. Eight species are now known from the Lower and Middle Eocene of North America, including one previously thought to represent a passerine. 2) The piciforms are probably New World in origin, and could have dispersed into the Old World via Beringia or across the North Atlantic. 3) The alcediniform birds are almost certainly Old World in origin; trogons, motmots, and perhaps todies crossed over into the New World using the Beringia route; alcediniforms were probably predominant during the Oligocene. 4) Suboscines are probably a Southern Continent group, and probably did not arrive into North America until relatively late, perhaps late Pliocene or early Pleistocene, when a Central American land bridge became established. 5) The Bering route probably served as a corridor for the arrival of oscines in the New World that gave rise to the New World nine-primaried oscine radiations. Apparently North America did not reciprocate to any significant degree. Oscines probably did not become established firmly in North America until the Miocene and are late arrivals into Central and South America; they probably entered these regions as late as late Pliocene or early Pleistocene when the Central American land bridge became established.
10.2307/2412866|Protein evolution is primarily a divergent process, proceeding independently of organismal or morphological evolution (Wilson et al., 1974). This makes proteins ideal tools for detecting cases of convergent anatomical evolution. A probable instance of convergent evolution, involving the monotypic genus Anotheca, was detected by comparative studies of serum albumin. On the one hand, Anotheca albumin is shown to be as similar to the albumins of several North American Hyla as the albumins of the North American Hyla are to one another. On the other hand, Anotheca albumin is very different from the albumins of the marsupial tree frogs, as different as are those of Hyla. Phylogenetic analysis of the albumin data indicates that Anotheca is phyletically a member of the subfamily Hylinae. Thus, its placement in the Amphignathodontinae was due to convergent morphological evolution in Anotheca to resemble the other genera of marsupial tree frogs.
10.2307/2412865|Chromosomal divergence within the family Anniellidae is extensive. Diploid chromosome numbers in somatic tissue range from 36 in Anniella geronimensis to 22 in northern and 20 in southern A. pulchra. One to four testicular supernumerary microchromosomes occur in A. p. pulchra populations in northern Baja California. There is a lack of congruency between the chromosomal and morphological races of A. pulchra. Within the infraorder Anguimorpha, anniellids have chromosomal similarities to both the diploglossans (Anguidae) and the platynotans (Varanidae). The genetic distances between the four populations of Anniella analysed electrophoretically correspond well with their currently recognized hierarchical relationships: D
10.2307/2412867|Methods suggested by LeQuesne for eladistic analysis under Dollo's Law in the sense of Crowson are shown to be inappropriate, as they may lead to clustering by symplesiomorphy. The use of most parsimonious trees in phylogenetic analysis under the Dollo model is justified as a statistical inference method.
10.2307/2412861|Three concepts of ancestry are distinguished, the individual organism as ancestor, the population or species as ancestor, and the supraspecific taxon as ancestor. Of these, only the first two can be objectively applied, the third is a taxonomic artifact. Of the first two, only the population or species as ancestor is used extensively in phylogeny reconstruction. We adopt the view that empirical or objective statements must be potentially falsifiable. The introduction of initial assumptions concerning the historical interpretation of empirical relationships can make phylogeny objective in this sense. We suggest that our outlook precludes identification of ancestors as self-evident. But, does it preclude hypotheses of ancestry? The strongest case for incorporating hypotheses of populational or species ancestors into phylogenetic reconstructions rests on the conclusion that the incorporation of such hypotheses seems to add to the information content of a purely "cladistic" statement. On morphological grounds, a statement of ancestor-descendant relationships would seem falsifiable if the hypothesis can be refuted by finding autapomorphies and can be corroborated by finding plesiomorphies in the supposed ancestor. We explore the nature of phylogenetic testing to assess this conjecture. In testing the relationships of a limited group of organisms, conflicts between alternate phylogenetic hypotheses may be resolved without introducing bias if those sets of characters which provide valid tests (the apomorphies) can be sorted out from those sets of characters which do not (the non-homologies and plesiomorphies). The weighting of characters as apomorphous, plesiomorphous, or non-homologous is an appeal to parsimony which represents an effort to sort out which set of characters provide tests of relationship within the problem at hand, given a higher level phylogeny. The resultant estimate will be the most parsimonious of the alternatives within the context of the higher level phylogeny. This estimate may or may not prove most parsimonious in an unweighted character analysis of the problem at hand carried out in isolation from the higher level phylogeny. It is the adoption of the higher level phylogeny which allows the investigator to objectively assess a problem of realistic proportions without ignoring relevant information. Plesiomorphies can not be used to test phylogenetic hypotheses because they are ad hoc statements required by the acceptance of the most parsimonious solution. Therefore, they can not provide corroboration for ancestor-descendant relationships. Autapomorphies are identified because they supposedly differ from the hypothetical ancestor. But, the ancestral morphotype is not a scientific statement, rather, it is a simple summary of characters derived from a cladistic hypothesis. An autapomorphy can only be identified by rejecting the alternate character as synapomorphous. We conclude that autapomorphies can not refute ancestor-descendant relationships. Therefore, given our initial assumptions, ancestor-descendant relationships based on morphology are not objective statements when applied to fossil populations or species. With the additional assumption that a particular cladistic relationship is true, ancestor-descendant relationships might be testable, but, this would render the cladistic relationships untestable. Another argument states that when fossil samples are close in time and space, it is more parsimonious to postulate that the ancestor is represented in the lower stratigraphic sample than to postulate it is missing. The apparent success of this argument rests on the requirement that the investigator answer a question that can not be answered objectively because its structure limits the alternate answers to non-objective statements.
10.2307/2412862|It is argued that the practice of expressing all phylogenetic relationships as cladistic relationships (i.e. splittings, those expressed only in the form of dichotomous sister group relationships) gives an incomplete and therefore potentially misleading view of evolutionary history. Consequently such schemes tend to supply hypotheses that fail to mirror evolutionary descent. Application of shared derived characters to set up phylogenetic hypotheses is a mere consequence of establishing morphocline polarities. Therefore, the test of a phylogenetic hypothesis lies in the soundness of biological (developmental, functional, etc.) investigations of character clines. The challenging issue then is the testability of morphocline polarity hypotheses, rather than competing phylogenetic schemes. Age of any phenon is one of its attributes, its fourth dimension. In addition to those same considerations as are employed in dealing with sister group hypotheses (shared-derived characters), ancestor-descendant hypotheses may also be tested by the temporal position of the taxon. According to the Popperian view of scientific criteria, postulated ancestor-descendant relationships may be falsified by biostratigraphic evidence, and therefore such hypotheses are as "scientific" as those of a sister-group nature. Phylogenetic trees are preferred over cladograms because the former always contain more information since they can express both ancestor-descendant relationships (anagenesis) as well as sister group relationships (cladogenesis). A brief synopsis is offered for the procedure to establish historical relationships of taxa.
10.2307/2412796|A cladistic analysis of the marsupial order Marsupicarnivora is made in an attempt to clarify borhyaenid-thylacinid affinity. This analysis is made in consideration of importance of weights for homologous character states as recognized by Hecht (1976), and Hecht and Edwards (1976). Apomorphies in borhyaenids which separate them from thylacinids include presence of a nasal-laerimal contact, a solid palate, and reduction or loss of the transverse canal. Apomorphies in thylacinids which separate them from borhyaenids include reduction in size of dP4 and presence of an epitympanic squamosal sinus. The "dog-like" marsupials of Australia (thylacinids) and South America (borhyaenids) appear to represent a classic example of parallelism in evolution; thylacinids having evolved from a common ancestor shared with Australian dasyuroids, and borhyaenoids having evolved from a common ancestor shared with didelphoids. Reduction or loss of the metaconid and stylar shelf, loss of ossified epipubic bones, and reduction of incisors to 4/3 apparently occurred independently and in parallel in borhyaenids and thylacinids.
10.2307/2412797|Samples of 13 nominal species of the more than 50 recorded from New Guinea were collected at eight localities. Comparative data from nine proteins studied in all species indicate wide biochemical divergence among species, in concordance with morphological evidence, and suggest the presence of two distinct lineages. Biochemical evidence supports the recognition of two previously described pairs of sibling species and suggests that a third cryptic species may exist in one of these pairs. Litoria infrafrenata, a series for which no morphological variation of consequence in New Guinea has been recorded, shows population differentiation in proteins. Parameters of genetic variation in the species were estimated as: A = 1.62, P = 0.50, H = 0.073. In contrast, L. iris, a species with marked color pattern polymorphism, shows little variation in proteins.
10.2307/2412795|Techniques of numerical taxonomy were applied in combination to morphometric data based on 111 characters from 61 OTUs, representing 61 species of the feather mite family Eustathiidae. Smaller subsets of taxa were analyzed to clarify the relationships and status of certain species. A statisfactory classification was obtained, complementing a monographic revision of the family in press. Supraspecific taxa were indicated by the placement of species on minimum spanning trees superimposed upon ordination diagrams. The latter were obtained by nonmetric multidimensional scaling applied to taxonomic distances. An initial configuration for multidimensional scaling was taken from a principal component analysis of character correlations. In every case except one the placement of species into genera by numerical methods matched our impressions of generic entities obtained by traditional approaches, although between- and within-generic relationships were clarified. The combination of Q- and R-mode analysis, including the use of nonmetric multidimensional scaling, provided an effective approach to the analysis of taxonomic structure. Multidimensional scaling is strongly recommended for similar studies as a technique to improve the accurate visual representation of taxonomic relationships. Only moderately strong host-parasite relationships occur within the Eustathiidae, although the group as a whole is restricted to the Apodi. No member of the Eustathiidae occurs on the other suborder of the Apodiformes, the Trochili. This emphasizes the distinction between Apodi and Trochili, and points again toward the question of whether or not these taxa of birds should be placed together. Host-parasite relationships within the Eustathiidae may be associated with resource tracking, but further data on feeding habits and life histories of the mites are needed to answer this question. Finally, this study represents a collaborative approach to the solution of a taxonomic problem. We feel that the collaborative approach has considerable potential in the resolution of difficult relationships within the Acari and other groups of organisms.
10.2307/2412794|The concept that historical interrelationships can be demonstrated only by the presence of shared innovations is fundamental to the fields of textual and linguistic, as well as phylogenetic, reconstruction. All three fields utilize analogous procedures in which data are organized into transformation series of homologous character states, the polarity of these transformation series is determined by out-group comparison, and shared innovations are used to construct internested series of three-taxon statements that operate at a level of generality above that of specific ancestor-descendant hypotheses. The acceptance of these methods as the standard operational tools in separate fields suggests that cladistic analysis is a general comparative method applicable to all studies of historical interrelationships based on ancestor-descendant sequences, and that biologists concerned with such questions can ill afford to ignore cladistic theory and methods.
10.2307/2412793|Paleozoogeographic patterns of Late Paleozoic through Triassic marine and freshwater malacostracans, interpreted in light of Croizat's vicariance model of biogeography, lend significant insights into the distribution of living malacostracans, as well as events in the Late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic radiation of these crustaceans. The Hoplocarida and Eumalacostraca had a tropical Laurentian range which became well established by Late Carboniferous time. With the suturing of the supercontinent Pangaea in the Permian, the former Laurentian marine crustaceans appear to have spread into the nearshore and freshwater habitats of Gondwana and Angara. By the late Permian and Early Triassic a decapod eumalacostracan fauna became established in tropical and subtropical regions of Pangaean marine habitats, while the Late Paleozoic hoplocaridan and eumalacostracan fauna became extinct or was restricted to geographic and ecologic refugia (which in contemporary terms is largely expressed as a Gondwana and deep-sea distribution).
10.2307/2412839|Although osteological features are utilized frequently in comprehensive systematic reviews of anuran taxa, no serious attempt has been made to quantify the data and assess its variation other than in a descriptive context. Such assessments first must be made at the population level; thus, 119 osteological measurements were made on a series of adult males and females of the Neotropical frog Hyla lanciformis (Anura: Hylidae). The results of this study show that nearly 50% of these characters demonstrate relatively low levels of variation in both sexes within the population. This suggests that osteological features can be quantified, and selected characters can be utilized to generate an osteological profile of a taxon to be used in concert with other numerical data for subsequent analyses.
10.2307/2412837|Brachyuran crabs are important predators of molluscs, influencing both the distribution and characteristics of their prey. Crab master-claw strength, as inferred from morphological measurements, decreases in a general way from a peak in the tropical Indo-West-Pacific to progressively lower values in the Eastern Pacific, Western Atlantic, and Eastern Atlantic, with temperate crabs having the smallest claws. Many genera of large-clawed crabs found in the tropical Pacific and Indian Oceans are poorly represented or missing in the tropical Atlantic, especially West Africa. Metabolic limitations and competition are likely to be important determinants of claw size in crabs.
10.2307/2412840|Karl Popper maintains that the laws of science are not, in principle, verifiable but only falsifiable because they are formulated in strictly universal statements which refer to an unlimited number of instances. Several taxonomists have apparently concluded that the knowledge of systematic zoology is expressed in these strictly universal statements. It is argued in this paper that the knowledge claims of systematic zoology are formulated in what Popper has called numerically universal statements which are equivalent to conjunctions of a finite number of singular statements and that they are, therefore, in principle, both verifiable and falsifiable.
10.2307/2412841|Previously proposed definitions of the terms monophyletic, paraphyletic, and polyphyletic are examined. The definitions provided by Hennig and Ashlock are internally flawed because they do not prevent a single group from being simultaneously paraphyletic and polyphyletic. The definitions provided by Nelson are internally consistent but have undesirable consequences by either precluding the existence of monotypic genera or allowing coordinate taxa to both correspond and not correspond to monophyletic groups. The definitions provided by Farris are internally consistent and lack the drawbacks of Nelson's views; it is suggested that they are successful because they identify necessary relationships between the concepts of polyphyly and parallelism and the concepts of paraphyly and character reversal.
10.2307/2412838|Genetic similarities among twenty-two populations of Polycelis coronata and one population of Dugesia tigrina (Planaria) were determined from electrophoretically obtained protein data. Similarity values between populations of Polycelis were lower than expected, being significantly below values reported for many vertebrate and invertebrate species. This difference is partially explained by various ecological and behavioral isolating mechanisms. Lack of morphological variation between populations which does not correspond with the biochemical divergence may imply different rates of evolution at these two levels. Evolutionary divergence times based on the protein data are used as possible indices of the migratory pattern of Polycelis in the Pacific Northwest and correlate with the theory of land bridges between North America and Asia.
10.2307/2412842|This paper focuses on the estimation of parameters in the bivariate linear model, especially in the context of bivariate size-shape relationships or allometry. Existing estimation procedures (regression, major axis, reduced major axis) all depend on a priori assumptions on the ratio of the residuals, usually called "errors," in both variables. These assumptions are reviewed and evaluated. The Bartlett method is not independent of assumptions on the residuals as has been often claimed. A method which does not require assumptions on the ratio of residuals, providing data from a third variable are available, is given. All of the methods discussed are illustrated with data measured on planktonic Foraminifera.
10.2307/2412678|A total of 11-15 genetic loci encoding enzymes and other proteins has been assayed in populations belonging to 20 taxa of the North American sunfish in the family Centrarchidae. Four stages of evolutionary divergence are recognized among these taxa by systematists. We have determined mean levels of genetic differentiation, D, between populations at each of these stages: geographic populations, D = 0.024  0.003; subspecies, D = 0.171  0.004; species, D = 0.626  0.028; genera, D = 1.340  0.064. D estimates the number of electrophoretically detectable codon substitutions per locus accumulated since populations separated from a common ancestor. Mean genetic distance among centrarchids increases dramatically through the various stages of evolutionary divergence. Different subspecies of Lepomis macrochirus exhibit about an 8-fold increase in genetic distance over geographic populations belonging to a subspecies. Species of the genus Lepomis are completely distinct in allelic composition at nearly 50 percent of loci, on the average, despite their ability to produce viable and sometimes fertile hybrids. Species belonging to different centrarchid genera have accumulated more than one allelic substitution per locus, on the average. Among the centrarchids prezygotic reproductive isolating barriers may have preceded the development of significant postzygotic isolating mechanisms. Nonetheless, mean levels of genetic divergence between centrarchid taxa are similar to those other animal taxa of corresponding rank characterized by different modes of reproductive isolation. Amounts and patterns of genetic divergence are employed to infer probable evolutionary relationships among the Centrarchidae. A great deal of evolutionary information is contained within even a relatively small number of genes.
10.2307/2412677|Comparisons of the karyotypes of the species of Vampyressa suggest two modes of chromosomal rearrangements in the derivation of the Vampyressa karyotypes: pericentric inversions in V. brocki, V. nymphaea, and V. bidens; and translocations (fusions) in V. melissa and the variants of V. pusilla. This Vampyressa phylogenetic model was used to evaluate the possible derivations of the chromosomal patterns of the 97 species of phyllostomid bats whose karyotypes are known. Sufficient variation to indicate probable evolutionary patterns, in addition to that outlined for Vampyressa, was found at the species level for Micronycteris and Tonatia, and at the generic level for the Glossophaginae, Carolliinae, and Stenoderminae. The analysis supports the points of view presented herein that (1) the common (often considered the ancestral) 2n = 32, FN = 60 configuration was independently acquired by three or more evolutionary lineages and, therefore, must be considered to be derived; (2) the primitive phyllostomid karyotype had a high diploid number (near 40, but possibly as high as 46) and a low fundamental number (near minimum); (3) there was a general trend toward reduction in diploid numbers concomitant with maximization of fundamental numbers; and (4) totally biarmed autosomal configurations, which characterize the majority of the Phyllostomidae, are comparatively more stable than those karyotypes in which half or more of the autosomes are uniarmed. Fourteen karyotypes are reported here for the first time, including that of Vampyressa melissa, which has the lowest diploid number known in the Chiroptera (2n = 14).
10.2307/2412675|Cladistic interrelationships of plagiorchioid genera found in anuran intestines and of species of the genus Glypthelmins are analyzed to determine patterns of dispersal and vicariance. The first analysis reveals three generic lineages, each characterized by one genus whose species are distributed on four or more continents or subcontinents in addition to related genera restricted in number of species and found on a single continent or two adjacent continents. Examination of the distribution of the three characteristic genera, Mesocoelium, Opisthioglyphe, and Glypthelmins, suggests similar but not congruent dispersal-tracks and shows different centers of form-making for each. In the second analysis, cladistic (genealogical) relationships of species of Glypthelmins in the Old World and of species in Central and North America can be accounted for on the basis of vicariance from widely-distributed ancestral taxa. Vicariance of the South American species corresponds with the phylogeny of their hosts as proposed by Lynch (1973). This, the first study using cladistical methodology for deducing the evolutionary history of a group of parasitic helminths, demonstrates the feasibility and applicability of that methodology.
10.2307/2412673|Three modes of allopatric speciation can be distinguished, depending on whether the isolating geographic barrier is within a single land mass ("continental speciation"), between islands of the same archipelago, or between different archipelagoes ("insular speciation"). The contributions of these three modes to speciation in Pacific land birds are analyzed. Continental speciation in birds has occurred in no Pacific land mass smaller than Australia, New Guinea, and possibly New Zealand; intra-archipelagal speciation has occurred only on six of the most remote archipelagoes; and inter-archipelagal speciation has produced most of the sympatric bird species pairs from the Bismarcks to Samoa. The frequency of each mode depends on area and isolation of the island, and on mobility and perhaps population density of the taxa involved. What is an "island" to some taxa may be a "continent" to others. For example, New Caledonia behaves as a continent to higher plants, insects, and lizards, but not to birds or ferns.
10.2307/2412676|Problems of ascertaining affinities of fossil taxa are explored utilizing the European Miocene primate Pliopithecus vindobonensis as an example. Traditionally, Pliopithecus has been regarded as an ancestral gibbon, yet aspects of its postcranial anatomy contradict this. Current studies provide strong evidence that the forelimb complex of the extant Hominoidea represents a synapomorphic character complex. The shoulder joint of Pliopithecus was therefore compared with 17 species of anthropoid primates using 10 measurements emphasizing the glenohumeral articulation. Multivariate analysis indicates that Pliopithecus conforms in every way with the symplesiomorphic morphopattern shown by extant cercopithecoids and platyrrhine primates but contrasts markedly with extant hominoids, especially the gibbon. It is therefore unlikely that Pliopithecus and Hylobates are directly related. The great similarity of Pliopithecus to the African Miocene primate, Dendropithecus, also sheds doubt on its current hylobatine classification.
10.2307/2412679|Fourier analysis in closed form provides a highly efficient method for measuring overall morphological similarity and identifying specific types of morphological variation. In shape analysis of ostracode outlines, continuous variation representing phylogenetically induced changes as well as shape families reflecting taxonomic categories can be recognized. Two-dimensional shape is described by a series of terms in a Fourier expansion of periphery radius as a function of polar angle for members of the ostracode genus Rabilimis and for six genera of Hemicytheridae. Raw data, consisting of Cartesian coordinates of the two-dimensional outline are converted to polar coordinates using the center of gravity of the form as a reference point. Coefficients of each term in the expansion represent the contribution of a fundamental harmonic form to the total shape description. When morphological variability is partitioned across the harmonic amplitude spectrum so that individual coefficients represent separate sources of morphological variation, removal of specific harmonics allows comparison of variation resulting from genetic vs. nongenetic factors.
10.2307/2412674|A natural concept of agreement among characters is defined in a phylogenetic context. A method for estimating phylogenetic relationships using this concept is described. This method is used to choose among the characters given by Blackith and Blackith those that agree. These characters are then used to construct an estimate of phylogenetic relationships among the Orthopteroid taxa discussed by these authors. This estimate is compared with the conventional one, and with one determined by the method of Camin & Sokal.
10.2307/2413134|Methods that use outgroups in the reconstruction of phylogeny are described and evaluated by the criterion of parsimony. By considering the character states and relationships of outgroups, one can estimate the states ancestral for a study group or ingroup, even when several character states are found among the outgroups. Algorithms and rules are presented that find the most parsimonious estimates of ancestral states for binary and multistate characters when outgroup relationships are well resolved. Other rules indicate the extent to which uncertainty about outgroup relationships leads to uncertainty about the ancestral states. The algorithms and rules are based on "simple parsimony" in that convergences and reversals are counted equally. After parsimony is measured locally among the outgroups to estimate ancestral states, parsimony is measured locally within the ingroup, given the ancestral states, to find the ingroup cladogram. This two-step procedure is shown to find the ingroup cladograms that are most parsimonious globally; that is, most parsimonious when parsimony is measured simultaneously over the ingroup and outgroups. However, the two-step procedure is guaranteed to achieve global parsimony only when: (a) outgroup relationships are sufficiently resolved beforehand; (b) outgroup analysis is taken to indicate the state not in the most recent common ancestor of the ingroup, but in a more distant ancestor; and (c) ancestral states are considered while the ingroup is being resolved, not merely added afterward to root an unrooted network. The criterion of global parsimony is then applied to evaluate procedures used when outgroup relationships are poorly resolved. The procedure that chooses as ancestral the state occurring most commonly among the outgroups can sometimes yield cladograms that are not globally parsimonious. By the criterion of global parsimony, the best procedure is one that simultaneously resolves the outgroups and ingroup with the data at hand. Finally, simple parsimony can choose among competing hypotheses, but it often fails to indicate how much confidence can be placed in that choice.
10.2307/2413131|Methods, such as the distance Wagner procedure, that construct phylogenetic trees by fitting branch lengths to genetic distance matrices result in ancestral taxa that cannot exist in allele frequency space and in loss of information on the distribution of particular alleles among terminal and ancestral taxa. A new minimum evolution procedure is described which constrains ancestors to exist in allele frequency space, estimates the frequency of each allele in each ancestor, and optimizes the branch lengths of the tree by positioning the ancestors so that total tree length is minimized. The optimal positions for the ancestors are determined by a technique, the hyperboloid approximation procedure (HAP), borrowed from industrial engineering. Three different methods of deriving tree topologies-the distance Wagner algorithm, UPCMA clustering, and a new procedure described here-are compared.
10.2307/2413129|Multiple discriminant analysis and bivariate correlations of logarithms of progression indices are applied to volumetric data on 11 major brain regions of 139 species of Insectivora, Chiroptera, and Primates. The pattern of projections of the coordinate axes of original variates on the first two discriminant functions appears to correspond to MacLean's (1970) division of the brain into the neomammalian, paleomammalian and protoreptilian regions. However, the peculiar position of the neocortex may be somewhat exaggerated by collinearity. The brain components which undergo the greatest relative volumetric increase from basal Insectivora to higher Primates are, by order of decreasing importance, the neocortex, cerebellum, striatum, and diencephalon. The bulbus olfactorius and paleocortex are strongly correlated in Insectivora and prosimians, but this correlation drops abruptly in Chiroptera and in simians, where olfaction has regressed markedly while the paleocortex remained relatively stable, presumably by developing its non-olfactory functions. The neocortex, bulbus olfactorius, septum, schizocortex, and hippocampus are positively correlated in Chiroptera, apparently because they are large relative to body weight in Megachiroptera and frugivorous Microchiroptera but small in insectivorous Microchiroptera. The neocortex may be more useful in frugivorous and nectarivorous bats-for environment recognition based on visual and olfactory stimuli-and relatively less useful in insectivorous bats, which often must react rapidly to echolocative signals. The negative correlations of the medulla oblongata with the bulbus olfactorius and paleocortex, in progressive Insectivora, appear to reflect the evolutionary regression of olfaction and the compensatory progression of the tactile trigeminal system (vibrissae) in aquatic Insectivora.
10.2307/2413132|If a taxon G is associated with a set g of characteristic attributes, knowledge that O belongs in G allows us to predict, with varying success, that O exhibits the attributes in g. An index of predictivity (C
10.2307/2413128|The methodology of scientific research programs developed by 1. Lakatos is discussed and applied to the current debate concerning method and theory in historical biogeography. Of the three recognized approaches-centers-of-origin/dispersalist, vicariance biogeography, and Croizat's panbiogeography-only the latter two are progressive scientific research programs sensu Lakatos. Croizat's panbiogeography is considered to be a progressive research program because it has predicted numerous novel facts about geology. Croizat's novel predictions concerning the geology of the circum-Pacific continents and island groups are reviewed and discussed in relation to the latest geological findings which corroborate his work.
10.2307/2413130|The concept of the predictive value of biological classifications is reviewed and two indices are introduced which can be used to evaluate and compare the goodness of classifications (with regard to their predictive value) constructed using different classification methods. These indices incorporate the unique relationship between hierarchical classifications and the expectations of prediction success for character states. The predictive value of a classification is the degree to which states of characters are constant within and restricted to taxa in the classification. Previous studies used phenetic correlations, taxonomic congruence, parsimony, and partitions of the taxa to measure predictive value. These approaches are reviewed and found deficient. To have high predictive value for new characters or new taxa, a classification must be constructed to have maximal predictive value "fit" for the characters initially used to construct it. It is concluded that predictions made with regard to the observation of new characters versus new taxa are the same, in contradiction to previous discussions.
10.2307/2413133|Evolutionary theory predicts that population divergence should be correlated with both geographic distance and environmental difference. This prediction was tested using 25 populations of Goniobasis proxima (Say), a snail restricted to small creeks in the piedmont and mountains of the southern Appalachians. Geographic distance was measured both over land and through water. Genetic difference was measured in three ways: an analysis of allozyme frequencies at seven polymorphic enzyme loci using gel electrophoresis, and two measures based on different variance components from 23 specially-screened morphological variables. Three measures of environmental difference were also calculated: one based on 11 water chemical variables; a second based on standardized water chemical variables plus four physical and biological variables; and a third based on diatom floral similarity. The correlations between all pairs of the resulting eight symmetric matrices were examined by calculating K
10.2307/2413090|Consensus methods for dendrograms representing numerically stratified hierarchic nested classifications are discussed. An algorithm for computing the consensus n-trees which result from Neumann's (1983) generalized intersection methods is given. This algorithm involves operations on the matrices of cophenetic values representing the original n-trees. An approach for extending known intersection consensus methods for n-trees (e.g., Adams, cardinality intersection, strict) to consensus methods for dendrograms is proposed.
10.2307/2413089|To evaluate the potential of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) analysis for avian systematics, we have assayed mtDNA differences among 13 species of waterfowl in the genera Anas and Aythya (Anseriformes: Anatidae). Purified mtDNA was digested with each of 15 different type II restriction endonucleases which cleave at five- or six-base recognition sequences. Side-by-side comparisons of digestion profiles permitted the estimation of levels of fragment homology and nucleotide sequence divergence (p). Among nine Anas species, mean sequence divergence (p) was 0.062 (range 0.004-0.088); among four Aythya species, 0.034 (0.025-0.043); between selected species belonging to separate genera, 0.109. Phylogenetic trees and dendrograms were constructed from qualitative and quantitative data bases by a variety of procedures including undirected parsimony (Penny and Wagner algorithms), undirected compatibility (Estabrook algorithms), and phenetic clustering. These trees were highly concordant with one another, and with traditional phylogenies derived from independent sources of information. Previously published evidence from mammals has suggested a "saturation effect" on level of mtDNA differentiation: for p less than 0.15-0.20, mtDNA distances are reportedly linearly related to time since common ancestry, but for larger p values the relationship becomes curvilinear as differentiation approaches an observed plateau at a p of approximately 0.30. Our estimates of mtDNA sequence divergence among congeneric waterfowl fall in a broad range well within the expected linear portion of the curve. This observation, coupled with the general concordance of mtDNA-generated trees with those derived from independent information, demonstrates that the restriction fragment approach to mtDNA analysis should provide an important new molecular technique for studying evolutionary relationships among lower taxonomic levels in Aves.
10.2307/2413092|Morphometric variation in samples of common mynas from 11 localities in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Hawaii was analyzed with principal component analysis. We attempt to avoid two shortcomings in many previous applications of principal component analysis in morphometrics by analyzing separately variation within and among populations, and by applying the jackknife procedure to reduce subjectivity in interpretation of the principal components. Within populations, only principal component I appears to have a stable orientation and this orientation is common to all localities. Component II may be a simple vector, differing across localities, but similarity in the second and third eigenvalues warns that the associated components could be largely arbitrary. The variance along component I does differ across localities. Among populations, again only the first component displays convincing stability, although component II may be a stable but extremely simple vector. Both within and among populations, component I appears to be a general factor representing size and size-related shape variation. The apparently simple patterns of covariation displayed by the introduced populations may be attributable to bottlenecks in small founding populations and the short time since the introductions were made. Future studies should incorporate some form of testing to confirm putative patterns of character covariation, and doing so probably will require sample sizes much larger than has been the custom.
10.2307/2413088|Claws of the front legs of Culicidae (Aedes, five species; Culex, one species; Anopheles, one species), altogether 118 claws, were characterized by 10 variables selected from land-marks on a Cartesian coordinate system. The 118 x 10 data matrix was analyzed by the SIMCA (Simple Modelling of Class Analogy) pattern recognition method (Wold et al., 1983). Regularities in multivariate data were found by construction of a "training set" from a known origin according to the SIMCA method. As a training set, Aedes excrucians Walker "narrow" was used. This material was subsequently compared with unidentified specimens and classes were constructed progressively. The analysis included eight classes, one species being present in two forms (excrucians "narrow" and "wide"). For these two forms, very subtle differences in shape were discriminated by the SIMCA method. The results for different class separations showed that the addition of three more variables might be sufficient for complete characterization of shape in these culicid claws. The applicability of the SIMCA method to other zoological data dealing with shape characterization or description is discussed.
10.2307/2413091|Tests of OTU stability were carried out by random selection of subsets of OTUs from the Recent Caminalcules. From these samples we computed UPGMA phenograms and estimated cladograms based on Wagner parsimony and compatibility analysis. These were compared with pruned versions of the trees based on 29 OTUs representing: (1) their standards; and (2) the true cladogram known for this artificial data set. A similar analysis was carried out for a complete sampling of sets of OTUs from a data set based on the Leptopodomorpha (Hemiptera). Only the first type of comparison could be carried out for this data set. In the Caminalcules, when classifications based on samples of OTUs are compared with their own standards (classifications based on all OTUs)-which would be the typical situation in real organisms where true cladogenies are not known-stability seems to be a function of OTU sample size. For low OTU numbers, stability is higher in classifications based on estimated cladograms, but for high OTU numbers it is greater in classifications based on phenograms. While there is a trend towards increasing stability in the phenograms as OTU sample size increases, no such trend is evident in estimated cladograms of the standards or of the true cladogram. By contrast, estimated cladograms have a higher consensus with the true cladogram than do UPGMA phenograms regardless of number of OTUs employed. In the Leptopodomorpha, classifications based on UPGMA and Wagner parsimony methods are about equally stable with a suggestion of slightly better performance for Wagner parsimony at low OTU numbers and a reversal of this trend for higher OTU numbers. There is no evidence of marked superiority of Wagner parsimony as had been claimed in an earlier study of this group. The outcome of studies of both character and OTU stability is shown to be approximately related to the ratio n/(2t - 3), where n is the number of characters and t is the number of OTUs. When this ratio is low, phenograms are more stable than estimated cladograms; when it is high the reverse relation holds. Also, when the ratio is low, phenograms are better estimates of the true cladogeny than are estimated cladograms. The reverse relation holds for high values of the ratio. To confirm these conclusions, we carried out combined studies of character and of OTU stability applied to both data sets. As character number decreased, or OTU number increased, classifications based on phenograms became more stable than those based on estimated cladograms, and became better for reconstructing the true cladogeny than estimated cladograms in the Caminalcules. Character stability and OTU stability may in fact be two separate aspects of the same phenomenon-taxonomic stability. The merits of various designs suitable for testing OTU stability in numerical taxonomy are discussed. All are based on the results of sampling subsets of OTUs for the entire taxon.
10.2307/2413021|Protein variation was analyzed at 38 presumptive genetic loci in 214 specimens of 12 species of Empidonax and 3 species of the related genus Contopus. These tyrannid flycatchers are noted for their great morphologic uniformity, species-specific songs, and distinctive nesting ecology. Intraspecific genetic variability was substantial and comparable to that shown in other recent avian studies. The average Nei's genetic distance among species of Empidonax, exclusive of euleri, was 0.070, a value somewhat higher than the average of 0.044 shown by other birds. Because euleri differs from all other species of Empidonax at large genetic distances, 0.348 to 0.465, we conclude that it should be removed from the genus; euleri is probably best placed in Cnemotriccus. Eight of the 12 species of Empidonax possessed unique alleles, ranging from 1 autapomorphy in atriceps to 10 in euleri. Within Contopus, only sordidulus had unique alleles and these were uncommon. A locus by locus comparison of alleles revealed many subsets of species which share particular alleles, but no clear groupings of taxa are evident. Distance Wagner trees and Fitch-Margoliash trees, as well as UPGMA and WPGMA phenograms, were constructed from the matrix of Rogers' genetic distances, showing that: (1) euleri is very distinct from all other species of Empidonax and Contopus; (2) the three species of Contopus are closely related; and (3) E. traillii-E. alnorum and C. sordidulus-C. virens are species pairs. Two of the three branching diagrams also suggest the close affinity of E. difficilis and E. flavescens, and of E. hammondii and E. atriceps. The latter relationship was unexpected because, on morphologic and vocal evidence, E. hammondii had been considered to be a close relative of E. minimus. The latter species and E. virescens seem to be rather strongly differentiated within the genus. Except for the component allospecies of superspecies (E. traillii-E. alnorum, E. difficilis-E. flavescens, and C. sordidulus-C. virens), which are relatively recently derived, the protein evidence suggests that the radiation of species of Empidonax occurred over a rather narrow span of time, perhaps in the late Pliocene or early Pleistocene. The phylogenetic picture is not one of a prolonged evolution of species via a dichotomous sequence of cladogenetic events. Therefore, the great similarity of sibling species in Empidonax and in Contopus is not evidence for their recent origin. Rather, it is a consequence of a very conservative evolution of plumage and morphology that has not kept pace with evolutionary rates for allozymes, vocalizations, and features of nesting biology.
10.2307/2413018|A new species of bat from the genus Rhogeessa is described, which would not have been recognized as distinct if the karyotypes had not been available. The discovery of this species clearly documents that it is possible for two sympatric species of mammals to be so similar in external and cranial morphology that without chromosomal, genic, or some other data, a researcher would never realize a local sample contained more than a single biological species.
10.2307/2413015|Phenetic and cladistic approaches were used to assess relationships among 22 species representing 17 genera of batagurine turtles, and 2 species representing 2 genera of emydine turtles. Phenograms and cladograms were constructed from a total of 90 variable enzyme products (electromorphs) of 14 gene loci. Phenograms were generated by UPGMA clustering using genetic similarity, identity, and distance matrices, and a Wagner tree was constructed from a binary-coded character matrix. A qualitative locus-by-locus cladistic approach was also attempted, and in this as well as in our application of the Wagner algorithm, a species of the sister group family Testudinidae was used as the outgroup taxon. Results of the three approaches are evaluated relative to each other, and relative to relationships that have previously been proposed with other lines of evidence. Some of the clades generated by one or more of the approaches used in this study are particularly strongly corroborated by chromosomal and osteological data sets. High genetic distances between some taxa, and high levels of inferred homoplasy suggest that divergence among many species approaches the limits of electrophoretic resolution and, as a result, several cladistic hypotheses are presented for some taxa. Where results are inconclusive, however, they are useful to the extent that they draw attention to contradictory data sets and alternative hypotheses of intergeneric relationships.
10.2307/2413017|A method is proposed for identifying the phylogenetically reliable information in homoplastic characters and using it to derive phylogenetic trees by character compatibility analysis. The sister groups identified on the primary tree are used as outgroups for possible recoding of rejected characters. The recoded characters are then used in secondary analyses to resolve relationships on smaller and smaller branches of the tree. The method combines the suggestions of Watrous and Wheeler (1981) with compatibility analysis and bases lower-level resolution on polarity decisions made at higher levels. Farris's (1982) criticisms of the method of Watrous and Wheeler are found to be irrelevant in studies that use estimates of character polarity and ancestral states for deriving phylogenetic trees. An application of the method using real data is provided.
10.2307/2413020|Morphometric and allozymic data were collected for eight populations of a palaemonid prawn, Macrobrachium rosenbergii (de Man), throughout Asia, north Australia, and parts of the western Pacific. For each data set, Fitch-Margoliash networks were constructed to estimate the patristric and cladistic relationships among these populations. Two measures of taxonomic congruence were calculated for the networks with varying results which are traced to inherent differences in the methods. Both measures indicated that the networks agreed in the divergence of the species into eastern and western subspecific groups along Wallace's Line, a zoogeographic discontinuity in Asia. These networks were correlated with paleogeologic and paleoclimatic theory to infer the species' expansion and evolution. The same paleotectonic factors resulting in the formation of Wallace's Line are thought to have caused the species' subspecific divergence. Climatic differences may promote selective forces which at different levels maintain Wallace's Line and the prawn's subspecific divergence.
10.2307/2413022| The islands of Aruba, Bonaire and Curaao are Cerion's geographic outlier, inhabited by the single species C. uva. I studied geographic variation in C. uva as recorded in 135 samples of 20 snails each, based on 19 measures selected to show covariance in patterns of ontogenetic allometry. The four regions of eastern Curaao, western Curaao, Bonaire and Aruba are clearly distinguished by consistent differences displayed in covariance sets. Snails from western Curaao reach a constrained final size with few large whorls, those from Aruba with more and smaller whorls. Each mode of growth entails, through its covariance set, a host of subsidiary consequences for the shell's basic form. Snails from Bonaire grow their apertures with more intense allometry. Nonadaptation must be an important theme in this variation; for even if the basic regional differences have an adaptive trigger (which is, in itself, far from demonstrated), the large set of allometric consequences, forming most of the noted and measured differences, must follow as automatic sequelae, not as selected traits. Covariance sets therefore offer a way of studying nonadaptation with positive evidence. Although each region can be distinguished by covariance sets, all regions display large and probably ecophenotypic differences in shell size as a response to moisture and vegetation of immediate habitats. This large variation in size within each region conceals the subtler but consistent differences among regions and has prevented their proper identification in past studies. An allometric and multivariate approach must be used to identify regional variation. 
10.2307/2413019|Three new karyotypic races of common shrew have been found in Britain: the "Aberdeen" race (northeastern Scotland); the "Oxford" race (central and northern Britain); and the "Hermitage" race (southeastern England). The karyotypes of all these races include metacentrics hi, jl and gm. Their karyotypes differ in metacentrics composed of chromosome arms k, n, o, p, q, r (Aberdeen: ko, np, qr; Oxford: kq, no, pr; Hermitage: ko only). The relationship of all 12 known karyotypic races of the common shrew has been examined by cladistic analysis. The results, supported by the geographic distribution of the races, suggest that there are three phylogenetic groups of common shrew (the "West European," "East European" and "Siberian" phylogenetic groups) to which 10 of the 12 karyotypic races can be ascribed (the British races belong to the West European phylogenetic group). Of the remaining two races, the Kuusijoki race in northern Scandinavia has characteristics of both the West European and East European phylogenetic groups and may have originated through hybridization, while the Valais race in Switzerland shows no close relationship to the other races. I propose that the European range of the common shrew was restricted to southern parts during the last glacial maximum and that the West European phylogenetic group spread over an area extending from southeastern to northwestern Europe at the end of the ice age.
10.2307/2413016|We have examined the behavior of the "treeness" test for evolutionary independence (Cavalli-Sforza and Piazza, 1975) using "evolutionary histories" from simulated and real data. For each set of characters, we have evaluated the treeness statistic (T) for the 945 topologies possible with six populations, or a random sample of them, and have analyzed the resulting distributions. All the distributions studied show common features: (1) Generally, a small fraction (less than 6%) of all topologies gave T values compatible with the phylogenetic hypothesis. (2) This fraction became smaller as the number of characters increased. (3) The T values obtained for the simulated and reconstructed trees are always found at the far left tail of the distribution.
10.2307/2413075|The history of chelonian systematics reflects the underlying theme of biologic systematics: the search for natural groups characterized by an inter-nesting pattern of features. Eighteenth century turtle systematics was dominated by the discovery of new species followed by the subdivision of Linnaeus' single genus, Testudo, into many genera. Higher category classifications were first based on habitat-related features; but as more morphologic information became available and was seen to be inconsistent with these classifications, new higher taxa (e.g., cryptodires and pleurodires) were recognized and tested successfully. The advent of process hypotheses in the form of evolutionism had a deleterious effect on turtle systematics due to the erection of supposedly ancestral and adaptational taxa. Phylogenetic systematics may be considered as the most recent phase in chelonian systematics but instead of being a new methodology, it is a more precise and objective technique of discovering and testing natural groups of the sort systematists have been seeking for centuries. A new classification and cladogram of turtles utilize these principles.
10.2307/2413073|Parallel evolution, as exemplified by data on opisthobranch mollusks (a group in which snails have repeatedly evolved into slugs), often exceeds divergent evolution. A similar level of parallelism has been described in an array of other organisms. This fact presents a serious challenge to those systematists who claim that a cladogram with a minimal number of steps represents a most parsimonious and most likely scenario of genealogical relationship. When rampant parallelism is present, pattern cladism or other congruence networks which rely solely on ingroup comparison of characters are unsuccessful in resolving the problem. We suggest that emphasis on unique innovation and divergent apomorphy presents a fruitful and scientifically consistent alternative to this dilemma. We contend that cladists have drastically altered the meaning of several terms-including "parallel evolution," "parsimony," and "a priori"-to suit their own methodological and philosophical paradigm. These modifications reduce the testability of their hypotheses and, therefore, the scientific credibility of their methods. The construction of a genealogy based on shared-derived features, which is independent of a theoretical basis, represents a resurfacing of typological thinking which has little value in explaining or even depicting the patterns of diversity of life.
10.2307/2413074|One reason radiolarian species are difficult to define is because the reproductive biology and ecology of living radiolarians are not well understood. Asexual reproduction has been documented, but sexual reproduction is only suggested by the presence of flagellated swarmer cells. The evidence for dimorphism and hybridization found in the fossil record has not been correlated with that from living radiolarians. The depth at which the organisms are found has been suggested as important with respect to skeletal shape, but this idea in part has recently been disproved. Characters used to define radiolarian species many not accurately reflect reproductive modes or living environments. Ideally, the determination of a radiolarian species, as with all other types of species, should incorporate data on their reproductive biology, ecology, and paleontology. Radiolarians, like other protozoans, probably do not develop in any one evolutionary mode (owing to different reproductive strategies). New evidence for alternation of generations and hybridization is given. One should not assume that the methods used to determine species for larger-sized organisms are applicable to radiolarian species.
10.2307/2413076|Outlines of wings from 127 species of North American mosquitoes were digitized. Comparisons were made among several different methods of reducing the information in the resulting coordinates to a series of descriptors that could be used in multivariate analysis. Methods included Fourier analysis of both radii and tangent angle change functions. In addition, the relatively new method of elliptic Fourier analysis was tried. Cluster and ordination analyses based on the various sets of descriptors summarized well the pattern of similarities and differences in wing shapes, but clusters of similar wings do not agree well with traditional taxonomic groupings. The use of elliptic Fourier descriptors appears to be especially promising for future work.
10.2307/2412693|To explore the relationship between organismal and protein evolution, a comparative study was made of the serum albumins of tree frogs (Hylidae). Attention was centered on those Holarctic hylines whose anatomy and way of life have been intensively studied, namely species of Acris, Hyla, and Pseudacris. An albumin phylogeny was constructed from immunological distance data obtained with rabbit antisera to the purified albumins of 12 hyline species by means of the micro-complement fixation test. An analogous study with antisera to purified hemoglobin from 4 of these species was in approximate agreement with the albumin phylogeny. The albumin phylogeny revealed an apparent case of convergent morphological evolution involving H. wrightorum and H. regilla. These two species are similar enough in external morphology to have been classified in the same species by some recent authors. Yet their albumins differ as much from each other immunologically as from Acris albumin. This case is discussed more fully elsewhere (Maxson & Wilson, 1974). Discrepancies between organismal resemblance and albumin resemblance can also arise because of unequal rates of organismal divergence. Acris provides an example of this. The albumin phylogeny, supported by hemoglobin evidence, shows that the Acris lineage falls cladistically within the North American assemblage of Hyla lineages. Acris is more similar at the protein level to some Hyla species than the latter are to other Hyla species. Yet Acris is very different from Hyla in anatomy and way of life. The Acris lineage evidently underwent unusually rapid organismal evolution. However, there is no indication of accelerated albumin evolution in this lineage. Limnaoedus and Pseudacris provide additional examples of this sort. We infer that organismal and protein evolution can proceed at independent rates. This provides taxonomists with a dilemma: Should classifications be revised on the basis of protein data? The albumin results are consistent with recent ideas about the historical biogeography of hyline tree frogs. By assuming that albumin behaves as an evolutionary clock, which evolves at the rate of 1.7 immunological distance units per million years, it is calculated that a) Australian hylines diverged from New World hylines about 75 million years ago, b) North American hylines diverged from South American hylines 65 million years ago, and c) Eurasian hylines diverged from North American hylines about 40 million years ago. These estimated times are in approximate agreement with non-molecular evidence concerning the times when land connections existed between these continents. The assumed rate of albumin evolution is similar to that estimated elsewhere for such diverse organisms as mammals, iguanid lizards, crocodilians and ranoid frogs. The inference that albumin behaves approximately as an evolutionary clock is thus extended to include tree frogs.
10.2307/2412701|Mitotic chromosomes were analyzed from 74 specimens representing three subspecies of Peromyscus maniculatus from Oklahoma and Texas. Two distinct chromosomal forms were found. One form, occurring predominantly north of the Red River in Oklahoma and representing P. m. ozarkiarum, had 11 pairs of subtelocentric, six pairs of metacentric or submetacentric and six pairs of acrocentric autosomes. A second form, occurring south of the Red River in Texas and representing P. m. pallescens, had ten pairs of subtelocentric, eight pairs of metacentric or submetacentric, and five pairs of acrocentric autosomes. Both karyological types were found in the same habitat at two localities in north-central Texas, but no chromosomal hybrids were found in this area. Meiotic analysis of hybrids from laboratory crosses between the two types indicated partial sterility. A morphological analysis revealed that gene flow is restricted in eastern Oklahoma, west-central Texas, and eastern Texas. The most plausible explanation for the observed variation is the existence of circular overlap.
10.2307/2412696|The Oldman Formation (Campanian) of Alberta includes in its dinosaurian fauna 3 genera and 12 species of closely related lambeosaurine hadrosaurs. A biometric study of 36 skulls that ranged in size by a factor of three was undertaken; the data were fitted to the allometric equation. Bivariate plots reveal the validity of two genera, Corythosaurus and Lambeosaurus, with one species of the former, C. casuarius, and two of the latter, L. lambei and L. magnicristatus (quite rare), being accepted. Sexual dimorphism is recognized in each. Procheneosaurus includes juvenile individuals of each genus. Although 48 cranial characters were measured, only 5 or 6, confined to the crest, had any discriminatory value. The analogy between cassowaries and hadrosaurs in growth of the crest is observed. The sex ratio and maximum size of each sex is about equal for both common species.
10.2307/2412699|The concept of two biotic assemblages in mediterranean seas is developed. The two assemblages correspond to the two extreme glacial situations which recur periodically. Present changes in these seas, natural or manmade, either enhance or inhibit these two elements. The Lessepsian migrants represent the glacial assemblage of the Red Sea, and in the Mediterranean, they play the opposite role of the interglacial assemblage. They will expand or withdraw in their new environment according to the future improvement or deterioration of the world climate.
10.2307/2412700|Interspecific and subspecific variation in cranial morphology of the big-eared ground squirrels (Spermophilus) was described and found to be related to patterns of chromosomal variation. The first discriminant function (DF) and first principal component (PC) were found to correspond roughly to the latitudinal location of the species. In this study, looking at the scatter plots of individuals on PC's would not have helped one to find groups. Differences considered to be biologically meaningful were found between pairs: Spermophilus r. richardsonii and Spermophilus richardsonii aureus; Spermophilus columbianus columbianus and Spermophilus undulatus; and Spermophilus parryii kennicottii and Spermophilus parryii leucostictus. The S. richardsonii subspecies group was reorganized so the S. richardsonii is now a species distinct from the three subspecies S. elegans elegans, S. elegans aureus and S. elegans nevadensis. S. p. leucostictus and S. p. kennicottii, if only cranial morphology were considered, could be regarded as different species.
10.2307/2412702|A critical evaluation of the characters on which the Protostomia-Deuterostomia theory is based shows that this theory rests on shaky ground. In an attempt to test this superphyletic classification, I investigated the phylogenetic relationship between Echinodermata, Mollusca and Vertebrata on the basis of various biochemical, physiological, and histological characters. The outcome is that Mollusca and Vertebrata have many more characters in common than have the Vertebrata and Echinodermata. Therefore, unless the use of non-morphological characters is excluded a priori, it follows that Mollusca and Vertebrata have ancestors in common that were not ancestors to Echinodermata, and that the Protostomia-Deuterostomia classification is falsified.
10.2307/2412698|Multiple-diseriminant analysis with aid of the Mahalanobis D
10.2307/2412694|Analysis of mating calls of two cognate species of Pseudacris reveals divergence in two components, pulse rate and pulse number, which in at least one species seems best interpreted as reproductive character displacement. Pulse rate is apparently the critical parameter upon which female discrimination of mating call is based, but pulse number appears to be involved too.
10.2307/2412695|Potential reproductive isolating mechanisms between sympatric Calopteryx maculata (Beauvois) and C. aequabilis Say are examined and evidence is presented for the reinforcement of species discrimination during pair formation and for a selective basis for changes in female wing pigmentation in the context of reproductive isolation between these species. The species are sympatric across the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada. In the area of sympatry C. aequabilis shows nearly complete ecological and temporal overlap with C. maculata. Mechanical barriers to interspecific copulations are apparently absent and no hybrids are known despite several observed interspecific copulations. Visual discrimination based on female wing pigmentation is identified as a major component in the reproductive isolation between C. maculata and C. aequabilis. C. maculata males discriminate between their females and C. aequabilis females by responding to the females with the darker of two alternative wing colors. Differences in wing pigmentation between sexes and among Calopteryx species are accentuated and displayed during pair formation and courtship. There is experimental evidence for the reinforcement of C. maculata male species discrimination ability in the area of sympatry with C. aequabilis. Experiments also indicate a selective disadvantage against dark winged sympatric C. aequabilis females. Coupled with the fact that sympatric C. aequabilis females have more lightly pigmented wings than allopatric ones, this finding provides a potential example of character displacement in the context of reproductive isolation between these species.
10.2307/2412697|Graphing on probability paper of radius and tibia lengths (N = 17, 16) of Moropus from the Agate Spring Quarries, Nebraska, shows a bimodal population with approximately equal numbers in each size group. These results, along with the generally uniform morphology, suggest that a single sexually dimorphic species, Moropus elatus, is represented. Accounts of size bimodality in other chalicotheriids are consistent with widespread sexual dimorphism in species of this family, despite the fact that numbers of collected individuals in the two size groups are not equal in every case.
10.2307/2412905|Caribbean biogeography is reviewed to illustrate within a particular geographic framework how evidence of plant and animal distribution may be interpreted without commitment to special assumptions other than allopatric speciation (vicariance). The distributional data are examined with respect to whether or not they form recognizable patterns within the Caribbean region. Four main patterns and one lesser pattern are identified. The patterns or generalized distributional tracks are regions or geographical features (e.g., islands, coastlines, oceanic and continental regions) in which the distributions of monophyletic groups of diverse organisms are coincident. The generalized tracks are compared with geophysical theories of Caribbean history. The one geophysical theory which is strongly consistent with the distributional evidence (generalized tracks) specifies that Antillean land was originally or had its origin as part of an early lower Central American archipelago that was later replaced by the tectonically and topographically similar, presentday, lower Central American land. The postulated events associated with this replacement involve continental drift, the main effect of which would have been to intrude a portion of the eastern Pacific sea floor into the tropical western Atlantic, carrying the early lower Central American archipelago with it. The hypothesized intruded sea floor, now forming the Caribbean Sea, is bounded on the north and east by a transposed, original archipelago, the Antilles, and on the west by a new archipelago, now represented by the continuous land of present-day lower Central America. The separate parts of each generalized track are interpreted as the remnants of an ancestral biota that underwent geographical fragmentation followed by allopatric speciation (vicariance). This vicariance model of Caribbean biogeography specifies where dispersal, rather than vicariance, is the most parsimonious interpretation of a particular individual distribution, and contrasts strongly with other biogeographic interpretations in which dispersal is assumed aprioristically to be the sole, or single most important, feature of Caribbean biotic history. The vicariance model is also shown to predict, and therefore to be tested by, phylogenies (cladograms) of geographically included taxa.
10.2307/2412904|All biogeographical studies seem to pass through three main phases: an empirical or descriptive phase, a narrative phase, and an analytical phase, the last two being the true subject matter of explanatory historical biogeography. Narrative explanations are more or less inductively based and differ from the usual covering law models of explanation in that it is the particular circumstances in the form of an historical narrative that bear the explanatory load. Much biogeographical thinking is of this nature and the hypotheses so formulated stiffer from their lack of predictive power and their basic untestability--usually they cannot be falsified and a preference between competing narrative hypotheses cannot be established on logical grounds. Examples of such hypotheses are given. The best biogeographical hypotheses are those that follow the hypothetico-deductive model and an example of how this may be done is provided. A phylogenetic systematic background is essential. Rigorously formulated hypotheses must have explanatory power, internal consistency, predictive power, and potential for falsification. Our aim should be to make our biogeographical hypotheses fit these requirements for only then will we begin to understand the history underlying modern distribution patterns.
10.2307/2412906|Minute genera, whose shell measures less than 100 mm, form 60.0% of the Pacific land snail fauna. In contrast to this, the minute class only represents 27.1% of the continental fauna. The mean generic size in the Pacific fauna is correspondingly lower: 11.9 mm vs. 20.6. The difference between the 2 groups is statistically highly significant. Similarly to the Pacific, the eastern Pacific and eastern Atlantic insular land snail faunas and the wide-spread fauna also are dominated by the minute genera. From these observations it is concluded that minute body size is advantageous for long distance dispersal, both overseas and overland, in the land snails. This in turn indicates that the mechanism involved must be aerial, since only in this type of dispersal are small size and light weight advantageous. The minute species also are, as a rule, more abundant than the large ones, which constitutes a further advantage. Support to the hypothesis is provided by the facts that land snarls have been recovered from the plumage of birds; that recently formed volcanic islands have been colonized predominantly by minute land snails, and that mineral particles considerably larger and heavier than the minute land snails have been collected at high altitudes by airplanes. Alternative hypotheses are considered and rejected on the grounds that their tenets are unproven, unnecessary or erroneous; however, it is emphasized that the relationship between body size and area size needs further analysis. The characteristics of insular land snail faunas are summarized as follows: predominance of minute genera; high frequency of primitive, orthurethran genera and families; resemblance to the fauna of the nearest continent; low degree of enclemism on the family level, increasingly higher, on the genus and species level, relatively recent origin, through aerial immigration.
10.2307/2412752|A total of 191 specimens of Peters' tent-making bat, Uroderma bilobatum, were collected from the zone where two chromosomal races, representing two subspecies, meet. Eighty-eight specimens had 2n = 38, four had 2n = 39, one had 2n = 40, one had 2n = 41, one had 2n = 42, 14 had 2n = 43, and 82 had 2n = 44. This chromosomal variation is best explained as resulting from hybridization between two cytotypes with the 2n = 38 and the 2n = 44 being the parental (pure) types, the 2n = 41 individual being of the F
10.2307/2412753|The genetic structure of 52 natural populations of four species (P. attwateri, P. boylii, P. pectoralis, and P. polius) of the Peromyscus boylii species group was analyzed through application of chromosomal and electrophoretic techniques. Only slight or no chromosomal variation was observed in three species (attwateri, pectoralis, and polius), but considerable chromosomal variation occurred among populations of P. boylii. Chromosomal evidence indicated that gene flow occurred between two of the chromosomal forms of P. boylii (spicilegus and rowleyi). Analysis of electrophoretic variation in proteins encoded by 17 structural loci of populations of P. boylii, consisting of eight chromosomal forms, indicated that these forms of P. boylii form a conspecific unit. Populations of P. attwateri were genetically distinct from other members of this group, thus supporting the specific status of this form. Examination of specific loci for allelic homology indicated that P. attwateri probably arose from P. boylii. A sample of P. polius suggested that the affinities of this species are with the boylii group. Populations of P. pectoralis demonstrated very low levels of genetic similarity with other members of this species group suggesting that the affinities of P. pectoralis may lie with other forms of Peromyscus.
10.2307/2412756|A multivariate component analysis with an oblique factor solution was performed on 18 (15 osteometric and 3 external metric) traits in male and female randombred house mice of 3 different ages (1-month, 3-months, and 5-months). Approximately 77% of the total variance was explained by 4 factors in the 1-month mice, and by 5 factors in the 3-month and 5-month individuals. Skull, limb, pelvic girdle, and width factors (listed in order of importance) were identified for the 1-month age group, the external measures mostly associating with the skull factor. In the 3-month and 5-month age groups, girdle, skull length, limb, skull width, and tail factors were evident. There were considerable differences between the sexes throughout the age groups in the delineation of specific variables (especially the external ones) into factors. Factor patterns were explained largely in terms of differential growth and general anatomical and functional considerations. The direct contributions of the factors to the specific variables most affected were taken to represent the effects of a combination of additive genetic and residual environmental influences. The totals of the residual direct contributions and the indirect contributions of the factors for each of the variables were found to be highly correlated with previous estimates of non-genetic maternal effects.
10.2307/2412754|Cytogenetic comparisons were made of northern red-backed voles of two subspecies, Clethrionomys rutilus dawsoni Merriam and C. r. albiventer Hall and Gilmore, as well as of intergrades of dawsoni x albiventer to the F
10.2307/2412757|A phenogram of relationships between members of the termitophilous subtribe Termitusina was derived by methods of numerical taxonomy. Discrepancies exist between the inferred phylogeny of the genera and the phenetic relations of the species. A method of association analysis was applied to the Termitusina, and the resulting phenogram is compared to that derived by numeric analysis using Slobodehikoff and Johnson's (1973) Index of Comparative Positional Analysis. While the congruence between phenograms is not perfect, there is a striking similarity. The advantage of association analysis is that the characters which produce the branchings of the phenogram are identified and can be evaluated for their evolutionary significance and used for constructing taxonomic keys.
10.2307/2412759|Dates for the primate phylogeny based on fossil evidence contradict those obtained from albumin as a "molecular clock." Consequently the theoretical basis for a "molecular clock" is reviewed to determine if the albumin "molecular clock" has been calibrated in accordance with that theory. The neutral mutation model and data relating amino acid differences to time of divergence of species based on fossil evidence suggest a reasonably linear relationship when the number of differences is corrected for multiple mutations at the same locus. This disagrees with the assumption of a linear relationship between time and number of differences that has been used for calibrating the albumin "clock." When corrected, the albumin "clock" yields dates that are contradicted by fossil evidence. It is then argued that the second assumption used for calibrating the "clock," of an exponential relationship between ID values and amino acid differences, inadequately fits experimental data. Two plausible equations for relating ID values and amino acid differences that fit the data better are given. Depending on the equation used and the time assigned to the hominoid-cercopithecoid divergence, time estimates for the pongid-hominid split ranging from 5 x 10
10.2307/2412758|A coordinate digitizer was used to record morphometric data from a set of operationally-homologous points defined on various regions of a set of illustrations. Similarities obtained from the data were compared with sets of similarities obtained by an intuitive approach, by conventional numerical taxonomy with definition of characters and manual recording of data, and by pseudo-optical scanning. All sets were highly correlated with each other, suggesting that data capture by the technique described could serve to expedite the handling of material for biological classification.
10.2307/2412755|Many species of voles and lemmings (Microtinae) possess specialized sebaceous glands on the skin arranged in pads which are known as skin glands. Microtus pennsylvanicus and M. longicaudus do not have these distinct skin glands, but their development can be induced by exogenous pharmacological dosages of testosterone. Since the positions of the microtine skin glands are generally considered to be of taxonomic significance, induction of glands on spccies not known to possess them seems to be an easy taxonomic tool. The results are discussed in terms of the phylogenetic relationships of the two species and the differential response of skin glands on animals in different populations of the same species.
10.2307/2412717|The roof rat (Rattus rattus Linnaeus) was initially introduced into the Galapagos Archipelago before Darwin's visit in 1835. The species is now known from seven of the 16 major islands and exhibits a wide range in both human and non-human associated habitat usages. Morphological distinctiveness of island populations was first noted by Heller in 1904, consisting of overall size and shape as well as pelage color differences. Analyses involving allozyme frequencies at 37 genetic loci, epigenetic cranial characters, and multivariate treatments of mensural characters confirm and extend these observations. The level of concordance between each analysis is extremely high; each delineates the same three groupings of islands based on overall similarity: (1) Isla Santiago-Bartolome; (2) Isla Floreana-Isabela-Pinzon-San Cristobal; and (3) Isla Santa Cruz-Baltra. An hypothesis of multiple origins best accounts for the similarity relationships between islands as each of the groupings fits a known separate period of human use activity. The initial introduction was most likely at Santiago in the late 1600's; the most recent on Baltra-Santa Cruz during World War II. Gene flow between the different island groups, past and present, is considered slight, but continual introduction of immigrants from outside source populations, particularly to Baltra, Santa Cruz, and San Cristobal, is highly probable. Genic variability as demonstrated by allozyme analysis is quite low (mean heterozygosity = 2.85 per cent) when compared to other rodent species. The pattern of variability, however, suggests that this low level does not result from a severe founder effect, but that it is a general characteristic of the species as a whole.
10.2307/2412718|The study of evolutionary phenomena such as reticulate evolution, gene transfer, convergence and mosaic evolution, and their differentiation from mistaken evolutionary homology (i.e., orthology), requires methods for detecting cladistic incompatibilities. Protein sequences are potentially valuable for such investigations, and for these two main strategies are proposed. Strategy (a) is to look for unexpected similarities between segments of the sequences using cross-association or similar methods. Strategy (b) (which assumes satisfactory prior alignment of the sequences) is to compare the sites in the sequence and test whether the observed co-occurrences would readily fit a single cladogram; for this Le Quesne's method of testing for cladistic incompatibilities has been adapted to protein sequences. Studies have been made on a number of cytochromes. Strategy (a) reveals unexpected high similarity among the N-terminal portions of some eukaryote and prokaryote cytochromes, and there appear to be several short segments that differ in their patterns of similarity. It is not yet clear whether functional requirements or gene transfer is the explanation. Strategy (b) has been tested on sequences where the evolutionary history appears straightforward and also on simulated disturbances of cladogeny and homologization. It seems to be a sensitive technique for such studies. Strategy (b) has also the advantage that it should permit the partitioning of characters into sets that may reflect different evolutionary behavior even when such sets cannot be distinguished by inspection. Preliminary trials suggest that such sets could be recovered by cluster analysis of character compatibility matrices.
10.2307/2412716|Allelic variation at fourteen loci coding for ten enzymes was studied in seventeen populations of Hyla regilla and in H. eximia, H. wrightorum, H. cadaverina, and H. euphorbiacea. Heterozygote deficiencies were found at several loci in several populations of H. regilla and possible reasons are suggested. The proportion of polymorphic loci and average individual heterozygosity were typical of other vertebrates with some exceptions: (1) the Lee's Camp, Oregon population; (2) the Santa Cruz Island population; (3) the three San Diego Co. populations; (4) the Sierra San Pedro Martyr population; and (5) the three populations in southern Baja California. Measures of genetic similarity (S) and genetic distance (D), as well as patterns of variation in allele frequencies at PGI and IDH-2, suggested three groups within Hyla regilla. These were: (1) the four Oregon populations; (2) the three central California populations; and (3) the ten southern California and Baja populations. The proportion of major alleles shared indicated Hyla eximia and H. wrightorum are very closely related and that H. wrightorum is not a subspecies of H. regilla; H. eximia and H. wrightorum are also closely related to H. euphorbiacea. Hyla regilla and H. cadaverina are more closely allied to each other than they are to the other three forms. A strong correlation (r = 0.93) between genetic relatedness as measured by immunological comparisons of albumin and that measured by electrophoretic studies of many proteins was found, although immunological techniques cannot be used to study taxa which are very closely related (D = 0.25 or less).
10.2307/2412719|Some of the problems associated with the taxonomic study of proboscis hook characteristics in the phylum Acanthocephala are discussed. The "Meristogram" method of graphical analysis is introduced and applied to the genera Echinorhynchus and Pomphorhynchus. This new method eliminates many of the problems associated with the study of morphological variability in the serially repeating proboscis hooks of these acanthocephalans. Suggestions are made concerning the application of the method to other groups possessing serially repeating structures such as Annelida, Arthropoda, Graptoloidea and Osteichthyes.
10.2307/2412720|A geometric model of the Conus shell has been developed in order to increase objectivity, quantification, and reproducibility in the use of attributes of gastropod shells as taxonomic characters. The model also permits determination of the position of Conus in the spectrum of geometrically possible gastropod shell forms. The parameters of the model comprise the smallest number of characters sufficient to describe the shell adequately. They include 1) shape of generating curve, 2) rate of whorl expansion, 3) rate of translation, 4) rate of spire translation, 5) relative whorl height, 6) convexity, 7) position of maximum diameter, and 8) relative diameter. Parameters 1-3 are adopted from Raup's generalized model of the coiled shell; 4-8 are necessitated by aspects of geometry specific to Conus. In addition, two sculptural parameters, number of tubercles and number of spiral striae on the last whorl, are utilized. Comparative analyses of the morphometric and sculptural parameters in five samples of shells belonging to three species indicate that nine of the ten are independent, i.e., not significantly correlated with others. Comparisons of samples from 3 geographically separated populations of C. miliaris from the southeastern Pacific indicate that specimens from Easter Island differ significantly from those from Managareva and Tahiti with respect to seven of nine independent characters. Objective analysis of shell color by reflectance spectrophotometry also distinguishes Easter Island specimens of C. miliaris from those from more central Indo-West Pacific localities. Specimens from Tahiti assigned to C. coronatus and C. aristophanes on the basis of one sculptural character were distinguished by only two of the remaining eight independent characters. Conus occupies a region of the hyperspace of geometrically possible shell forms bounded by the following approximate values of major parameters: shape of generating curve, 5.5-19; rate of whorl expansion, 1-2; rate of translation, 2.5-8; distance between generating curve and axis of coiling, 0.
10.2307/2412227|Push-up displays vary among several populations of the lizard genus Uta and allow new interpretations of the systematics and evolutionary history of the genus. Variation in the displays can be divided into seven geographic zones of push-up similarity; taxonomic recognition of the display variation may require revision of the infraspecific taxonomy of Uta stansburiana. The push-up display characteristic of Uta palmeri is probably primitive to that of other populations; probable evolutionary trends in the modification of the display are discussed. Some of these modifications probably have evolved within the last 12,000 years, and some may have resulted from hybridization or introgression between Uta populations. The push-up display is probably a communicative signal and is performed during intraspecific aggression and mating. Selective or other factors possibly regulating intrapopulation stereotypy and interpopulation divergence of the display are discussed.
10.2307/2412223|Most definitions of the term monophyly are ambiguous because they do not limit the common ancestor sufficiently. Simpson's (1961) definition does not define monophyly; rather, it attempts to define a nameable taxon. Hennig's (1966a) definition, which requires a group to contain all the descendants of the common ancestor, is precise and useful, but it is narrower than the classic concept of monophyly and is here renamed holophyly. One way to limit the common ancestor is to require that it be a member of the group of which it is the stem, but this would seem to require a macroevolutionary appearance of groups. A precise definition of monophyly may be formulated if the common ancestor need be only cladistically a member. If a group can be shown to have one or more unique evolutionary innovations, it may be inferred that the most recent common ancestor also had these innovations; and it is, then, cladistically a member of the group. The ancestor need not have reached the grade of, or phenetically be, a member of the group. Holophyly, with Hennig's contrasting term paraphyly, then become two aspects of monophyly, while polyphyly describes a group whose common ancestor is not cladistically a member of the group.
10.2307/2412222|The theory is developed that the antigenic distance between two lineages of organisms (i.e., average number of non-matching antigenic sites between proteins produced by homologous genes in the separate evolving lines) becomes larger the longer the two have been without a common ancestor. A set theoretical analysis of protein antigen comparisons between contemporary species in trefoil Ouchterlony plates shows that from networks of these immunodiffusion comparisons, developed by antisera to an homologous species and comparing homologous to heterologous and heterologous to heterologous species, the antigenic distances of the homologous to the various heterologous species in the comparison series can be calculated. Computer procedures are described for first estimating these taxonomic distance tables for a species collection with a number of homologuos species in it (i.e., species against which antisera were produced and used to gather Ouchterlony data) and for then generating from the antigenic distance measurements a cladogenetic tree of the species in the collection. On applying this set theory, computer approach to a large mass of Ouchterlony data gathered with monkey, rabbit, and chicken antisera to proteins of various catarrhine species, it is shown that the catarrhine primates are a monophyletic group which subdivide in accordance with the established taxonomic scheme into Cercopithecoidea and Hominoidea. Also the cercopithecoids further subdivide as traditionally represented into Colobinae and Cercopithecinae. However within the Hominoidea the classical Pongidae is found to be polyphyletic. A cladistic classification, based on immunodiffusion systematics, reduces Pongidae to the subfamily Ponginae, containing Pongo as its only living genus; Ponginae is placed in the Hominidae alongside of Homininae, the latter containing Pan, Homo, and Gorilla. The subfamily Hylobatinae containing Symphalangus and Hylobates belongs to Hylobatidae as the only other family of extant Hominoidea.
10.2307/2412221|The lizards Anolis trinitatis and Anolis aeneus probably were introduced onto Trinidad. They tend to be found in pure species enclaves, but populations do overlap. Where they overlap they hybridize. Hybrid males are normal in size, but hybrid females are "giants," exceeding the parental females in length and weight. Hybrids have greatly reduced reproductive fitness, and are presumed to be largely sterile. Intersex hybrids have been found. Spermatogenesis occurs in hybrid males but few sperm are produced because of impaired meiosis; spermatogenic failure is not due to hormonal deficiencies. Androgen production appears normal in hybrid males. Few eggs are produced among the hybrid females. Electrophoresis of blood proteins serves to describe the structure of the hybridizing population. Species specific albumins, hemoglobins, and transferrins were useful for recognition of hybrids. The distribution of protein variants throughout the population showed that backcrosses were rare if they occurred at all. There are no distinct behavioral or ecological isolating mechanisms between the two species and little character displacement has occurred. It is not obvious if either species has a competitive advantage. However, large adult aeneus males are slightly more robust than male trinitatis. This may confer an advantage on the aeneus in territorial interactions. Casual observations suggest that aeneus is replacing trinitatis. The pure enclaves may result from the "advantage of numbers": the less abundant species will fail to find conspecific mates, will produce sterile hybrids, and therefore will not become established.
10.2307/2412119|Multivariate statistical distance and computer mapping techniques are used to determine and display changes in the intensity of morphologic variation between populations of Ascaphus truei, the ribbed frog, in the northwestern United States. The resulting maps can be interpreted on the basis of ancient distribution patterns, avenues of gene flow, and environmental adaptations. Factor analysis is used to depict interrelationships among the measured morphologic characters.
10.2307/2412120|An analysis of information within characters and shared between characters is undertaken using data collected on a group of marine snakes (Hydrophiidae). Of the approaches considered, an information theory measure of variation is the most direct method of evaluating intra-character variation. Chi-square is useful for the evaluation of the association between characters. Arguments are presented that indicate character correlation is the true basis of most character weighting. An exploration of the relationships of the chi-square results with measures of variation based on information theory estimates and runs document the logical relationships between variation weighting and correlation weighting.
10.2307/2412115|Electrophoretically demonstrable genetic variation in 11 enzymes and six non-enzymatic proteins encoded by 18 loci was analyzed in 1208 specimens of 11 species of kangaroo rats (Dipodomys) from the western United States and in a related heteromyid, the pocket-mouse Perognathus hispidus. Most of the 17 proteins studied exhibit both polymorphic and interspecific variation, but protein-1 is invariable; and protein-2, protein-3, and hemoglobin are interspecifically variable although not polymorphic in any species. Except for Hb-1 (hemoglobin) and Trf-1 (transferrin), there is at each locus one allele which tends to predominate in all species of Dipodomys. The maximum number of alleles detected at a single locus in a population was three. Species of Dipodomys are, on the average, less variable genetically than other organisms for which estimates of levels of polymorphism and heterozygosity are available. An average of 7.9% of loci are polymorphic per population, and mean heterozygosity is 2.1%. Only four species are genetically as variable as rodents of the genera Mus and Peromyscus. Genic variability is uniform within species and is not correlated among species with extent of geographic range or degree of morphological "specialization." Possible relationships between degree of genetic variability and ecological amplitude or niche width are discussed. Significant regional heterogeneity in allele frequencies was demonstrated at most polymorphic loci in species that were relatively well sampled. Because geographic variation is limited, useful estimates of frequencies of the major alleles at loci in a species can be obtained from a small number of samples taken anywhere within the range. Coefficients of genetic similarity between conspecific populations invariably exceed 0.90. For interspecific comparisons, coefficients range from 0.31 to 0.89, with a mean of 0.61. On the average, species of Dipodomys are genetically more similar than are non-sibling species of Drosophila or Anolis. The pattern of relationships among species of Dipodomys indicated by genetic analysis differs significantly from those derived by Setzer, Lidicker, and others on morphological grounds but is similar to that provided by Stock's recent analysis of karyotypic variation in the genus.
10.2307/2412117|Two hundred and sixteen proteins were classified by comparing the frequency with which different amino acid doublets (nearest neighbour pairs) occurred in their amino acid sequences. The proteins classified into the usually recognised groups (e.g., the fibrinopeptides A & B, the insulins, the haemoglobins, etc.) The relationships within these groups mostly coincided with the assumed relationships of the organisms from which the proteins were obtained. The classification also suggested relationships between some proteins not normally thought to be related.
10.2307/2412118|The ever increasing demands on the time of the research taxonomist necessitate regularly a scrutiny of taxonomic and curatorial practices in order to permit elimination of obsolete rituals. Much time can be saved by eliminating unproductive practices and by establishing a clear sequence of priorities. What this should be depends on the group of which the taxonomist is a specialist.
10.2307/2412121|Both normal and lognormal statistics describe the distribution of vertebral numbers in local samples of lower vertebrates. When samples from populations possessing different means are compared, however, standard deviations of vertebral counts are correlated with mean counts, a relationship predicted by the lognormal, but not the normal distribution. Fit to the lognormal requires recognition in significance testing, necessitates log transformation of variables in studies of evolutionary rates, and predicts exponential rates of character divergence under constant selective pressure.
10.2307/2412116|A method is presented that is asserted to provide all hypothetical ancestral character states that are consistent with describing the descent of the present-day character states in a minimum number of changes of state using a predetermined phylogenetic relationship among the taxa represented. The character states used as examples are the four messenger RNA nucleotides encoding the amino acid sequences of proteins, but the method is general.
10.2307/2412055|Densitometric, micro-Ouchterlony immunodiffusion tests and turbidimetric precipitin tests were used to study relationships among species of bats in the family Phyllostomatidae. The immunodiffusion data were analyzed using two multivariate statistical programs in a GE 625 computer. The turbidimetric data were analyzed empirically. A distance dendrogram and a computer-drawn three-dimensional stereogram were derived. Immunologically the sturnirinines and the stenodermines are closely related as are the carollines and glossophagines. The immunologic distinctness of Choeronycteris from Glossophaga and the affinity of the former to species of the Phyllostomatinae suggest that the Glossophaginae are of polyphyletic origin. Desmodus (Desmodontidae) may possibly be a subfamily in the Phyllostomatidae. The Chilonycterinae may rank as a separate family
10.2307/2412052|Diversity and average generic age distributions for hermatypic corals show that while the Atlantic and Indo-Pacific faunas have evolved at different rates and in some respects have long been isolated systems, many responses to environment are the same. In each ocean, the diversity is highest north of the equator and in the western portion of the ocean. Positive anomalies in mean annual sea surface temperature are closely associated with maximum diversity and with minimum average generic age and a general relationship between both parameters and the area suitable for hermatypic coral growth is also evident. The data suggest that evolution of new genera is proceeding most rapidly in the regions of warmest water, but it is not possible to separate from the temperature relationship the affect of area of favorable bottom which cannot yet be quantified.
10.2307/2412053|Species density matrices and contour maps are presented for the amphibians and reptiles of the United States and Canada. Both classes show a regular southward increase in average density, and these patterns together with those of birds and mammals are analyzed to show the effects of topographic variability on species density. Some problems and theories about latitudinal gradients in diversity are discussed. A longitudinal complementarity between mammals and reptiles is demonstrated and some possible causes are discussed.
10.2307/2412058|Phenetic and phylogenetic classifications of 42 Tertiary and Recent species of the Family Lucinidae (Mollusca, Bivalvia) correspond reasonably well only at the lower taxonomic levels. On the basis of their evolutionary relationships, these species can be assigned to 28 subgenera and 7 genera. In the phenetic study, 45 multistate, mostly qualitative characters were used to calculate correlation and distance coefficients; both similarity measures were clustered by the weighted pair-group method. Small clusters which formed at high similarity levels in the two phenograms were usually composed of species of one subgenus or two or three closely related subgenera. Major clusters in each of the phenograms, however, differed considerably both from those of the other phenogram and from the principal phylogenetic lineages (genera). "Cophylogenetic coefficients," analogous to the cophenetic coefficients used in comparing phenograms, indicated that both phenograms poorly reflected inferred phylogeny and that they did not differ significantly with regard to their correspondence to the phylogenetic classification. Simple cluster analysis probably is adequate for finding phylogenetic groups at the subgeneric level but not for recognition of higher taxa. At the generic and higher levels, phenetic classifications are not more stable than phylogenetic ones. Phylogenetic classifications, being hypotheses about genealogy rather than static descriptions of morphological similarity, are more likely than phenetic ones to be productive of future investigations.
10.2307/2412057|Character correlations among 37 skin and skeletal characters within a statistically homogeneous sample of Brewer's black-birds (Euphagus cyanocephalus) were analyzed by component analysis and average linkage cluster analysis in order to isolate structural and/or functional character sets. Associations were assessed using productmoment correlation coefficients, partial correlations that corrected for a general size factor, and a subset of special partial correlations that corrected for a group factor defining high intercorrelations among limb bone length measurements. With ordinary correlations separate associations were identified for limb bone length, flight feather length, bill length, sternum size, bill width, and limb bone thickness. Some characters were predominantly independent. Partial correlations that corrected for covariation due to the group limb bone length factor indicated special associations among wing bones. An overall size factor is defined as that component which accounts for most of the covariation among all characters. Partial correlations correcting for this factor were analyzed and several size-independent associations emerged. The limb bone length assemblage is in part size-dependent. Size-independent associations include wing bone length, flight feather length, bill length, bill width, and limb bone thickness assemblages, and possibly a partial leg bone length set. Association of three sternal characters appears size-dependent, however a special size-independent association between sternum length and keel height was found. In addition, low-level, size-independent associations are found for pelvis width and bill height characters, as well as between the scapula and coracoid in the pectoral girdle. Results suggest the existence of selective factors that affect the development of functional complex as a whole. Comments are given concerning redundant characters in systematic studies and a temporary solution is offered concerning the problem of adequate sample size in studies of character correlations.
10.2307/2412059|The generic classification of the Luciliini was re-examined using the methodology of numerical taxonomy. Fifty-seven characteristics of the group were used to calculate a correlation coefficient matrix. The matrix was clustered by five techniques: unweighted and weighted pair group method using arithmetic averages, weighted pair group using Spearman's sum of variables, complete linkage, and single linkage. Examination of the five dendrograms reveals that, except for the cosmopolitan and island species, the Luciliini segregate well according to geographic groupings. The Hawaiian genus Dyscritomyia was arranged the same in all dendrograms. Seven species endemic to the Galapagos Islands, Cocos Islands, Micronesia, or the Philippine Islands were variously placed by the different clustering techniques. The ability of the various techniques to equally treat a presumedly monophyletic group, the genus Dyscritomyia, and the inconsistent treatment of other species groups, indicates that the methods of numerical taxonomy will not provide a better procedure for this tribe. These methods can be employed as part of the information for a taxonomic system, but not as the sole basis for classification.
10.2307/2412054|One hundred years has passed since one of the biggest biogeographical experiments started with the opening of the Suez Canal. The successful migration along the Canal of a great many Red Sea species into the Mediterranean is seen as a process to which most of these species were preadapted in the littoral environment of the Red Sea. The repeated transgressions of this sea into the basin of the Bitter Lakes and the existence-presently and in the past-of several slightly hypersaline lagoons along its shores, resulted in the creation of a special stock of species able to perform this migration. Progress through the Canal is either a step-by-step one, or a result of active swimming (or transport). Neither the role of planktonic spread by means of larvae and/or currents, nor the obstacles put by the salinity, should be overemphasized. The main factors in helping or hindering migration are considered to be the presence of suitable substrates and water transparencies in the Canal. The Levant Basin of the Mediterranean was also "preadapted" to receive the immigrants because of its high salinity and temperature and the resulting biological undersaturation with temperate fauna. Most probably this explains the one-way stream of the migrants into the Mediterranean. The distribution limits of the immigrants in the Mediterranean are most probably set by the increasing competitive capacities of the aboriginal species. The westward advance of the immigrants in the Mediterranean will probably become more pronounced after the damming of the Nile waters behind the newly erected Asswan dam.
10.2307/2412056|Albumin was purified from blood plasma and the H
10.2307/2412344|Two groups of workers from two universities assigned phenetic similarities, intuitively and numerically, to two sets of test objects (Caminalcules). The results of these studies were analyzed for correspondence and relative variability, and contrasted in various ways.
10.2307/2412343|The term `dendrogram topology' is defined as the branching pattern relationship among individuals in a dendrogram. An example developed in the text indicates that it is a useful concept in comparing classifications.
10.2307/2412340|Traditionally, all organisms have been assigned to the Plant and Animal Kingdoms. Higher members of these assemblages differ so clearly in so many ways that no confusion arises even in those cases in which members of one kingdom show some characteristic of the other, for example, insectivorous plants, or cellulose producing tunicates. Among primitive organisms, especially among flagellates and fungi, however, application of the ordinary criteria for differentiation of plants and animals leads only to confusion. Most biologists have ignored this problem, but for over a century a few have tried to resolve it by erecting additional kingdoms for these primitive organisms. While such systems have expressed a widespread professional malaise, they have not achieved general acceptance because of logical difficulties of these systems and the relative unfamiliarity of the key groups to most biologists. Recently, however, it has been shown that the bacteria and blue-green algae (procaryotes) contrast with all higher organisms (eucaryotes) so sharply in an extensive array of nuclear and cytoplasmic characteristics that the procaryotes must be regarded as a separate kingdom of life, the Kingdom Mychota. The major cytoplasmic organelles of eucaryotes, i.e., chloroplasts, flagella and other 9 + 2 organelles, and mitochondria, are all missing from procaryotes. A long series of observations, culminating in exact biochemical comparisons, indicates that these organelles originated as intracellular symbionts. Thus, the eucaryotes arose from a large, amoeboid, anaerobic procaryote given to ingestion of smaller procaryotes, some of which became established as intracellular symbionts. Aerobic symbionts were integrated into the host as mitochondria, while flagellate procaryotes with the 9 + 2 structure became flagella and a whole series of other 9 + 2 organelles. Mitosis and meiosis then evolved, and the eucaryote cell was complete. There is a nexus of relationships among the eucaryotes which makes it infeasible to separate the problematical groups of primitive eucaryotes into a kingdom apart. Thus, the present paper supports a basic taxonomy of three kingdoms Mychota, Animalia, and Plantae. The intergrades between the latter two are treated not as defects of the classification but rather as the inevitable result of common ancestry and separation by a process of evolution.
10.2307/2412345|Past studies of the evolution of the Brachyura (crabs, Crustacea: Decapoda) have, in general, provided conflicting and unsatisfactory results. This unfortunate situation stems in part from the objective reason that their evolution has been very complex, but, it is also due to the basic inadequacy of the methodological approaches used. Brachyuran evolution has been considered predominantly from only one point of view at a time (i.e., morphological, ontogenetic, etc.) without reference to a synthetic theory of evolution. The present paper attempts to initiate a synthetic approach to the study of crab evolution. The identity of the ancestors of the Brachyura remains uncertain. Nevertheless, it seems obvious that the Brachyura have reached the highest organizational level found among the decapod Crustacea. The genesis of the new organization-brachyurization-involves changes in shape and structure accompanied by maximal diversification or organs and of their functions. This new level of organization has led to great biological improvement as manifested by taxonomic diversity, wide distribution and the ability to leave the primary (littoral) environment. The brachyuran organization is very plastic and has undergone many secondary modifications in connection with further changes of habits and habitats.
10.2307/2412346|This paper combines criticism of some theoretical (especially numerical) taxonomy with detailed description of an actual example of good modern practical taxonomy. Proximate purposes of taxonomic work are diverse, but the ultimate purpose is to produce classifications that will be most useful for storing and retrieving information for all branches of modern organismic-evolutionary biology. Tests and judgments of taxonomic work are diverse, but the final test is use in practice. Biological species present difficulties which are handled in different ways by numerical and by modern practical taxonomists; some numerical taxonomists seem to be "slipping off into a kind of scientism which brings an appearance of precision by the abandonment of reality." New methods should be judged by their usefulness and cost, in time as well as money. Three usually unwritten rules of good practical taxonomy are to do only useful work, to do specific tasks with the available material in the available time, and to use appropriate and only appropriate procedures. The example of modern taxonomy chosen for discussion is Lindroth's "The ground-beetles (Carabidae) of Canada and Alaska." Details are given as to how the work was done (during a time span of twenty years), how it differs from earlier work (taking successive treatments of Bembidion as an example), and how it can be and is being used. A threshold exists in taxonomy below which taxonomists deal somewhat unrealistically with dead specimens and above which they deal with living populations in nature. Some resources, prerequisites, and procedures of modern practical taxonomy are listed and discussed. Type specimens continue to be essential in taxonomy; they or "voucher specimens" should be used by all organismic-evolutionary biologists, to assure that organisms being worked with can be known with certainty Practical taxonomy provides a "floor plan" for more detailed taxonomic, ecologic, zoogeographic, and evolutionary studies. Lindroth's taxonomy includes description of the wing dimorphism of many Carabidae; the dimorphically winged species have special uses in studies of evolution and zoogeography, including studies of Pleistocene history. The place of museums in modern taxonomy is discussed, taking Lindroth's use of the Museum of Comparative Zoology as an example; in this case (as in many others) the museum has made an essential contribution to the kind of taxonomy that is a prerequisite for modern ecology, zoogeography, and study of evolution in nature. The primary characteristic of good modern practical taxonomy is a return to reality, effected by continual comparisons with situations in nature.
10.2307/2412342|Two subspecies of Spermophilus richardsonii, occurring in the Madison River valley of southwestern Montana differ in chromosome number, S. r. aureus being 2n = 34, and S. r. richardsonii, 2n = 36. The zone of contact between them is 20-25 miles long; only one of 21 colonies investigated contained chromosomal hybrids (2n = 35). Cytological and morphological differences suggest that aureus and richardsonii passed through a period of divergence while isolated from one another, and that the present contact is secondary.
10.2307/2412339|The present shallow marme biogeographic pattern is geologically transitory and reflects in large part the present state of the geography of continents and of lithospheric plate margins. Provincial boundaries are formed by thermal barriers and by land and deep-sea barriers, all of which are related to or controlled by tectonic patterns. Continental patterns, which greatly affect climate, reflect the patterns of plate tectonic processes. Deep-sea barriers are formed by ocean ridges and transform fault zones, while major oceanic dispersal routes are formed by island arcs associated with subduction zones. Patterns of species diversity can be related to tectonic as well as climatic patterns, presumably because the stability of shallow marine environments varies with the influence of continentality, and this is under tectonic control. In particular it is the stability patterns of light and of nutrients (which directly affect the stability of trophic resource supplies) that correlate best with diversity patterns, and it is suggested that trophic resource stability is the fundamental regulator of species diversity within communities. Past changes in continental relations and sizes, in oceanic sizes, and in the patterns and extent of island-are chains have resulted from plate tectonic processes, and as these relations affect the trophic resource regime there have been corresponding alterations in patterns of both provinciality and diversity
10.2307/2412341|Sixteen of the nominal species in the genus Catostomus, predominantly in western North America, form a progressive morphological sequence in which adjacent forms are similar and perhaps not reproductively isolated. Several cladistic estimates indicate divergence in two primary lines or directions. The oldest cladistic furcation is phenetically trivial. Significant phenetic trends indicate evolution at several levels. The dominant trend involves osteological, oral, and hemoglobin characteristics leading to the mountain suckers. Secondary phenetic trends in body shape and in size of fins and scales have led to adaptations for life in large rivers in three separate lines. Two phenetic trends, involving meristic and serum protein characters, are involved in the adaptation of populations to local climatic conditions.
10.2307/2992299|A dynamic multi-level model of Darwinian evolutionary theory is presented. Darwinian evolutionary theory consists of interconnected sub-theories and theories at different levels of abstraction. The theory of natural selection is the generic core of the whole structure. Few or no predictions can be directly derived from the generic core. The theory of natural selection generates specific theories and theoretical models which can be empirically tested. Theorizing procceds through deductive and inductive inferences. The dynamic multi-level model assumes that Darwinian evolutionary theory consists of several competing research programmes and the importance of a pluralistic interpretation of Darwinism is emphasised.
10.2307/2992302|Geographic variation of variability profiles is studied based on stem mother, alate and gall characters of the aphid Pemphigus populicaulis. Significant differences among the coefficients of variation of the suite of characters in every locality were found by two methods-Bartlett's test for homogeneity of variances (using log-transformed data) and Friedman's nonparametric test for randomized blocks. Nine characters are highly variable and six are consistently low in variability. Coefficients of variation show significant heterogeneity among localities for every character by Bartlett's test, and for all but two characters using a modified Friedman's test. The variability profiles of the 66 localities were clustered into three groups based on both size and shape by the k-means algorithm. A mixture of two types of profiles occurs throughout the middle latitudes of the study area, while the third type is found in its northern and southern regions. This geographic pattern may in part be due to the year of collection. Attempts to relate the magnitude of the coefficients of variation to several ecological indices were unsuccessful.
10.2307/2992300|Hylobatid cranial similarities are examined using Cartesian coordinates describing morphological landmarks. While Symphalangus appears distinct from analysis of raw coordinates, it is less so when analytical procedures are included for controlling the influence of general size. This weakens arguments for maintaining siamangs as a distinct genus from Hylobates.
10.2307/2992298|Island integration is proposed as a possible mechanism in the formation of endemic biotas. Reconstructions of the Hawaiian-Emperor chain for -20, -40, -60 and -70 my are used to demonstrate the biogeographical importance of horizontal island movements, particularly the possible effects of the integration of islands/seamounts (formed SE of the Island of Hawaii) into the Hawaiian-Emperor chain. Necker Island and Wentworth Seamount, which appear to have originated south of the equator, probably close to the East Pacific Rise, are given as examples. The event of island integration could have resulted in the mixing of two different biotas: Hawaiian and non-Hawaiian. As a possible alternative to Founder Principle, island integration is offered as a mechanism in the formation of Hawaiian Island endemism.
10.2307/2992297|An operational rule for analyzing character polarity with out-group comparison is presented and a series of observations, including potential problems in applying the rule, are discussed. The "commonality principle" (="frequency of occurrence," "common equals primitive") for determining character polarity is reviewed and dismissed as a reliable alternative to out-group comparison. Based on the rule and observations, a general method for character analysis is synthesized.
10.2307/2992301|Phenetic and cladistic methods have been employed to estimate evolutionary relationships in Algansea, a small genus of Mexican cyprinid fishes. Cluster analyses and ordinations were prepared from various association, correlation, and distance matrices. Cladistic analyses were prepared in the form of a Wagner analysis (after Farris), compatibility analysis (after Estabrook), and a non-numerical phylogeny (after Hennig). All analyses utilized the same set of morphological and ecological characters to allow direct comparisons of estimatcs of relationships. Cluster analyses produced different views of the relationships between taxa. Ordinations produced generally similar arrays of OTU's in total character space which, of the phenetic methods, were closest to the identical solutions given by Wagner and compatibility analyses. A minimum spanning tree derived from taxonomic distances resulted in a network that also reflected the same relationships indicated by the cladistic methods. A reinvestigation of the relationships among the barbelled species of Algansea based in part on the distribution of shared apomorphies not included in the larger analysis confirmed the existence of a polyphyletic species. Possible solutions to this problem are discussed.
10.2307/2413054|Recent proposals to measure the degree to which given taxometric methods meet goals defined by the three current schools of classification have led to quantitative comparisons of the methods. To aid in understanding such comparisons, a flow chart of taxonomic procedures is presented. Optimality tests are reviewed for each type of procedure. Possibly desirable properties of classifications include: the fit of a summary representation to a similarity matrix, stability, general utility, fit to a known cladistic relationship, and optimality criteria of numerical phylogenetic methods. We examine how they relate to the professed goals of the taxonomic schools and whether they can be used for comparative evaluations between these schools. Previous attempts at comparing numerical classifications are reexamined. Such comparisons have largely been made improperly. Published comparative tests of taxonomic congruence are based on inappropriate comparisons or were improperly executed and cannot furnish evidence on relative stability of phenetic, evolutionary, and phylogenetic classifications. Reports which claim to show that numerical phylogenetic classifications result in better fits to original similarity matrices than phenetic methods and therefore retain distance information better than phenetic classifications are shown to be misleading. In the first such study, the comparison was not relevant to the question asked. In all of these studies the results were biased in favor of phylogenetic methods by retaining redundant information during the computation of matrix correlations for the phylogenetic methods. In two later studies based on ten taxonomic data sets, the comparisons for the phylogenetic methods were in terms of unrooted trees rather than hierarchic classifications. By limiting the reference OTU to OTU 1 in each data set, results were obtained in these studies, that tended to favor the phylogenetic methods considerably more than if some other reference OTUs had been employed. Only in a few cases is there a significant increase in fit with the phylogenetic methods. Interpreted as classifications, UPGMA clustering of the original dissimilarity matrix gives the best fit in the majority of cases when compared with rooted trees (minimum length and least squares fitted). For these data, there is no evidence that classifications by any "phylogenetic" technique yield better summaries of phenetic information than UPGMA. A recent study of predictivity, while correctly designed, yielded complex results with no clear preference for any one school of taxonomy. Thus there is no current acceptable evidence that numerical phylogenetic methods yield classifications which contain more information than either phenetic or evolutionary ones.
10.2307/2413053|The diagnostic and other features of the grasshoppers of the subfamily Morabinae are described, with special reference to the characteristically parapatric distributions of congeneric species and races. The concepts of allopatry, sympatry, parapatry, and geographical intergradation, and of species, race, subspecies, superspecies, and semispecies, are critically examined. Two categories of parapatry, ecological and hybridization parapatry, are distinguished and defined; the occurrence of hybridization parapatry in morabine and other grasshoppers, and in other groups of animal is indicated. Models of speciation are discussed, with special reference to those in which hybridization parapatry is implicated; it is suggested that the most generally applicable model may be the "alloparapatric" one of Endler; events in the parapatric "tension zone" are described. The meanings of "reproductive isolation" and "isolating mechanism" are discussed and their bearing on the taxonomist's problem of finding a satisfactory criterion for distinguishing between the categories "species" and "race." A definition of reproductive isolation is proposed. It is suggested that this be tested on various groups of animals to ascertain the effect it would have upon the ranking of taxa currently treated as species and as races, and hence upon the stability of zoological nomenclature.
10.2307/2413051|Jaera albifrons is a complex of five intertidal species of Crustacea that are abundant on the cold and temperate coasts of the North Atlantic. Two or three species of Jaera albifrons occur frequently on the same strand, partially isolated (approximately 50%) by ecological preferences. In zones of species overlap, hybrids remain scarce (0.6% average); sexual isolation is due to homogamic tendencies of male sexual choice, to specific male displays and especially to female reactivity. Most of the F<sub>2</sub> recombinations are inviable; hybrid fitness, estimated from demographic data, is about 0.15. Other isolating mechanisms (e.g. temporal, mechanical and gametic isolation) are missing. The study of variability of isolating mechanisms between pairs of species and populations and of incipient isolation within species allows formulating a plausible hypothesis on their origins. A geographical mode of speciation with establishment of sexual isolation and hybrid breakdown during geographic isolation is likely.
10.2307/2413052|One of us (Vermeij) recently proposed that relative strength of the master claw of shell-breaking crabs, indirectly measured by the ratio of chela height or thickness to carapace breadth, (1) within the tropics decreases in the order Indo-West Pacific > Eastern Pacific > Western Atlantic > Eastern Atlantic; (2) is greater in the tropics than in the temperate regions; and (3) increases as the number of co-occurring congeners or total number of brachyurans increases. These patterns were hypothesized to result from diffuse and intrageneric competition in the tropics and from metabolic limitations in the temperate zones. Here we reconsider the data and show that, because the ratio varies with body size, any comparisons depend more upon the size of the animals being compared than on their geographical origin. Crabs with similar ratios may differ significantly in claw dentition, musculature, and leverage properties; the ratios are therefore not good measures of claw strength. We also suggest that the crabs in the analysis do not represent a random sample of crabs from the regions being compared. Using the same data as Vermeij (1977), we are unable to reject the null hypotheses that there are no relationships between relative claw size and (1) geographical region, (2) number of co-occurring congeners, and (3) total number of brachyuran species. Tests of the hypotheses require actual measurements of crab claw strength.
10.2307/2992415|Reciprocal immunological distances were measured using antisera to the serum albumins of Rana sylvatica and representatives of five groups of Holarctic Rana (R. pipiens, R. catesbeiana, R. temporaria, R. lessonae, and R. muscosa or R. aurora or both). Scaled reciprocal values for three data sets (with R. muscosa, with R. aurora, or with both) were used to generate three sets of Fitch and Margoliash phenograms. The nine lowest percent standard deviations ranged from 6.18 to 8.44, 5.20 to 6.95, and 7.51 to 9.12, respectively. The interspecific distances in both the input and network matrices suggest that R. sylvatica is immunologically most like the eastern North American Rana. Probable cladograms place R. sylvatica either with the eastern North American Rana or in an independent lineage between the brown frogs and the water frogs. One-way comparisons with antigens representing 12 additional species were made using the first four antisera listed. The R. sylvatica antiserum distinguished two subgroups of eastern North American Rana while the R. temporaria antiserum did not, and the R. temporaria antiserum distinguished two subgroups of both Nearctic (Rana boylii group) and Palearctic brown frogs while the R. sylvatica antiserum did not. Our data support the monophyly of the Rana boylii group, the affinity of the Palearctic brown frogs to the R. boylii group, and a distant association between R. sylvatica and the eastern North American Rana.
10.2307/2992414|An evolutionary process, involving splitting of populations at random times and Brownian motion for independent characters at a constant rate, was simulated for the purpose of comparing methods of tree reconstruction and of evaluating errors. The number of errors (counted as the number of changes necessary to obtain the true tree structure starting from the reconstructed one) has a Poisson distribution; it and the dependent frequency of correctly inferred tree structures were used to measure the accuracy of tree reconstruction. The best methods, of those compared, were found to be average linkage, maximum likelihood and least squares. To choose among them, one must resort to other considerations. Maximum likelihood is the most demanding in terms of computer time, but is the only one estimating errors of evolutionary segment lengths. Least squares is easier and can supply estimates of segment lengths even if the evolutionary rate is not constant, but it does not supply a root of the tree. Average linkage is the simplest to use, but can give accurate estimates of segment lengths only in cases of constant evolutionary rate. None of the methods compared tests constancy of evolutionary rate or the overall goodness of fit of a tree; other techniques must be employed. In analyses of real data, a reasonable strategy is to start with average linkage and use other methods as appropriate and necessary for the rest of the analysis. The number of errors in reconstruction of tree form decreases as the square root of number of independent characters and increases almost linearly with the number of populations. Relatively conservative estimates indicate that a number of characters five times the number of populations tends to give less than one error every ten populations. There are, however, some factors-considered in the discussion-which make the number of actual characters difficult to compare with the number of independent characters in the simulation.
10.2307/2992412|Electrophoretic analysis of the protein products of 84 presumed gene loci for over 180 specimens reveals that two distinct species of bonefishes occur in Hawaiian waters. Both species are characterized by low levels of within-species variation (H = 0.005 and 0.022). However, the two species are well differentiated from each other; they possess fixed allelic differences at about 70% of the loci screened and have a calculated genetic distance of 1.16. There is no evidence that the two species hybridize although they co-occur on both a macro and a microgeographic scale. The magnitude of genetic differentiation between the two species suggests that they have been separate genetic units for approximately the last 20-30 million years. Although the two species of bonefishes in Hawaii are superficially very similar morphologically, there are a number of significant differences. The distributions of vertebral counts for the two species are completely non-overlapping, and the mean values for several meristic variables (including numbers of lateral-line scales, branchiostegal rays, and gill rakers) are significantly different in the two species. The single best field character for diagnosis is the shape of the lower jaw which is broadly rounded in one species and more angular and pointed in the other species. A number of traits associated with the head and feeding (lower jaw shape, number of gill rakers, shapes of tooth patches, and number of teeth) differ in the two species. Stepwise discriminant function analysis using 31 morphological characters demonstrates that the two species have distinctively different overall morphologies and that they can be distinguished with over 99% accuracy.
10.2307/2992413|Antillean land vertebrates came from North and South America sometime in the past, but the question of when and by what means continues to segregate zoogeographers. The recently advocated vicariance hypothesis of Caribbean biogeography assumes a "proto-Antillean" archipelago that contained the antecedents of the modern West Indian biota. This hypothesis, however, is contradicted by current knowledge of Caribbean tectonics, the composition of the fauna itself, and the fossil record of North and South America. The evidence is more accurately interpreted as indicating that the Antilles are oceanic in origin, and modern terrestrial vertebrates probably began arriving by over-water dispersal during the Oligocene and continued to do so through the Quaternary.
10.2307/2413250|Four species groups of the neotropical frog genus Leptodactylus are currently recognized on the bases of morphological and life history characteristics. The fuscus and pentadactylus groups are related as a monophyletic cluster, whereas the phylo-genetic relationships of the melanonotus and ocellatus groups remain unknown. Five species representing all four species groups occur in Costa Rica. This study examined protein variability among four Costa Rican species as ascertained by electrophoretic and histochemical techniques. The presumptive genetic data were analyzed cladistically with the Wagner method. This procedure constructed a cladogram for the Costa Rican species which was congruent with the phylogenetic relationships proposed for their species groups from morphological and life history characteristics. This congruence among phylogenetic inferences based on different character sets argues for the continued recognition of species group relationships as currently viewed within the genus.
10.2307/2413249|The geometry of canonical variate analysis is described as a two-stage orthogonal rotation. The first stage involves a principal component analysis of the original variables. The second stage involves a principal component analysis of the group means for the orthonormal variables from the first-stage eigenanalysis. The geometry of principal component analysis is also outlined. Algebraic aspects of canonical variate analysis are discussed and these are related to the geometrical description. Some practical implications of the geometrical approach for stability of the canonical vectors and variable selection are presented.
10.2307/2413247|A quantitative solution for Hennig's parasitological method is presented. Cladograms summarizing natural relationships among parasite taxa are converted into host-group characters by means of additive binary coding. Unrooted Wagner analysis followed by most parsimonious rooting produces a maximum information-content, representation of natural host-parasite relationships. Because host-parasite relationships result either from random colonization or from co-speciation, host relationships well corroborated by a multi-parasite analysis correspond to.host phylogeny. Poorly corroborated, host relationships indicate an ambiguous parasite message alerting a worker to possible host transfers. Thus, such analyses point out co-speciation and random colonization components of host-parasite systems. Single or multiple parasite taxa may be used. A host phylogeny based on non-parasite characters is neither necessary nor sufficient for studying phylogenetic aspects of coevolution, although such may be helpful in testing ambiguous aspects. Once a host-group cladogram based on .parasites has been established, phylogenetic interpretations for each observed host-parasite relationship may be made according to a listed set of necessary and sufficient criteria. Finally, evaluation of two models of coevolution, a "vicariance" model and the "resource-tracking" model, indicates that the latter cannot be extrapolated successfully to explain congruent phylogenetic differentiation of hosts and parasites and that the former model represents the general pattern of natural relationships among hosts and parasites.
10.2307/2413251|The diverse methods for analyzing size-free shape differences tend to be guided by computational expediency rather than geometric principles. We question the use of ratios and ad hoc combinations of spatially unrelated measures. Neither are linear discriminant functions or series of independent regressions helpful to the visualization of shape differences. A bridge is needed between traditional quantitative methods and the geometrical analysis of shape. In principle any measured transects between landmarks of a form can serve as characters in a morphometric analysis. Systematic studies use a highly non-random sample of these, particularly biased regarding geometrical information. We suggest defining size and shape in terms of factors--estimates of information common to a universe of measured distances. The model presented here calculates a linear combination of variables that quantifies shape differences among populations, independent of size. In analyses in which the first two principal components confound size and shape, size is removed from one axis with shear coefficients derived from regression of general size on principal components centered by group. The general size factor is estimated by the principal axis of the within-group covariance matrix of the log-transformed data. Residuals from the regression of general size on the transformed axes approximate a shape-discriminating factor that is uncorrelated with size within group and displays the interpopulation shape differences borne by the first two principal components. The results bear a direct and interpretable correspondence to biorthogonal analysis of shape difference.
10.2307/2413248|The influence of kinds of variables, data errors, standardizations similarity coefficients, and ordination techniques are judged in reference to a model involving hybridization and introgression in three species of sand verbenas, Abronia (Juss.). Various criteria indicate that principal component analysis performs best, but inaccurately, with variable standardization and the correlation matrix, and that nonlinear mapping consistently performs poorly. Excellent results were obtained from principal coordinate analysis with Gower's general similarity coefficient based upon quantitative and multistate variables; a 'diagnostic' character measured with known error; and detailed color evaluation. This and other principal coordinate analysis results were further improved by nonmetric multidimensional scaling. Performance of methods is consistent with the nonlinearity of Abronia data. It is assumed that nonlinearity is common in taxonomic data.
10.2307/2412263|The genus Blarina (Mammalia: Soricidae) is represented in Nebraska by two well-differentiated, geographically exclusive phena that generally have been regarded as subspecies. Field studies conducted along their zone of contact resulted in the collection of representatives of both phena at each of five localities. Cluster analysis of distance matrix readily separated reference samples of the phena as well as test samples from near the zone of contact. A three-dimensional projection of the specimens onto their first three principal components, together with a discriminant function analysis, served further to elucidate the degree of differentiation among the phena and to confirm that their characteristic differences are maintained even where they occur sympatrically. The latter technique also indicated that one specimen not singled out by other analyses might be a natural hybrid, but none of the analyses provided even the slightest evidence for panmictic intergradation. The possibility that the phena represent the ends of a circularly inter-grading species is considered, as is the possibility that the phena are distinct, biological species. Two means of speciation, one "classical" and the other involving formation of "stasipatric species," are discussed.
10.2307/2412259|Because of the nature of the speciation process we have to admit (1) that nature has created a system of its own that is in principle hierarchic, and (2) that the biological species and strictly monophyletic species groups have been the real units of evolution. Hence only a system expressing nature's hierarchy of sister groups can function adequately as a general biological reference system. Causal biogeography, whose main method is the investigation of geographical replacement within properly reconstructed sister-group systems, is indissolubly connected with the reconstruction of nature's hierarchy. In his criticism of Hennig-Brundin, Darlington (1970) has not considered these principles. He has also overlooked that dispersal, seen in the time perspective, is a multiple process including progression in space, evolutionary change (development of comparative apomorphy), and speciation. Hence his criticism is neither relevant nor progressive.
10.2307/2412257|Sixty characters were measured and used in multivariate statistical programs to study the systematics of 54 species of Caribbean and Hawaiian reef corals. Correlation and distance phenograms and a computer-generated, three-dimensional model were used to develop phenetic rankings of species groups at levels corresponding to the taxonomic categories of genus, family and suborders. The data generally supports the classification of Vaughan and Wells (1943) as opposed to the "classical" systematics (e.g., Hyman, 1940; Bourradaile, et al., 1963) of the order.
10.2307/2412261|The paper deals with a method of determination of the similarity of shapes of objects based on direct comparison of shape curves. Given that certain limiting conditions are fulfilled, shape curves may be interpreted numerically by this method and their mutual similarities determined. The method is more precise than the intuitive procedures commonly used to describe and compare shapes. Its use is illustrated with an example from the cave bears.
10.2307/2412258|Jardine's (1969) logical model of biotaxonomy suffers from the defect of being ostensibly applicable only to "basic taxa," groups of individuals already clustered by some different process that remains unanalysed. This defect can be removed by regarding individuals as "single-linkage" clusters of "appearances" in time (Colless, 1970). By this means, all classificatory procedures can be brought under Jardine's model. The necessity for any "basic taxa" then disappears, as do any grounds for argument about the "basic unit of classification."
10.2307/2412255|In 1898 H. C. Bumpus compared morphological measurements of House Sparrows which survived a severe storm and those which did not. He observed that the group of birds which survived had fewer extreme measurements than did those which died, and suggested that selection had eliminated extreme individuals. The data, given in full by Bumpus, have been analyzed statistically in the present study The results support the suggestion made by Bumpus. It is found that among females the survivors varied significantly less than did those which died, in four measurements; weight, length of humerus, length of tibiotarsus and length of sternum. There are no significant differences in variation in any measurement among the males. Females suffered proportionately heavier mortality than the males. It is not possible to identify the target of selection because the four dimensions involved are strongly correlated with each other. It is suggested that females suffered particularly heavy mortality because they were at least partly denied access to food by the socially dominant males. It is also suggested that the extreme individuals were selected against in the storm because the largest birds were unable to mobilize energy reserves rapidly enough, and because the smallest birds exhausted their energy reserves and were unable to replace them.
10.2307/2412254|A study of the phenetic relationships among 47 endemic species of Ptycta from the Hawaiian Islands was based on 79 adult morphological characters. Correlation and distance phenograms obtained were compared by the average absolute cophenetic value method and the cophenetic correlation coefficient. The effect of excluding a set of six genital characters and adding 15 extra-Hawaiian species into the analysis were investigated. Species groups were established on the basis of similarities existing between the correlation and distance phenograms.
10.2307/2412260|Forty-one characters from six OTU's representing the generic and species group levels of divergence were used to estimate the phylogenetic relationships within the Sternoptychidae. Numerical techniques included the weighting by an intra-OTU variability criterion, use of the Rootless Wagner Method, a criterion for measuring convergence, and methods for "testing" the stability of the proposed phylogeny. The results support the classical subdivision of the family into three divergent genera. The genus Polyipnus has diverged least from the presumed ancestral condition. Polyipnus and Argyropelecus have diverged less from each other than either has from the highly divergent genus Sternoptyx. It is likely that Argyropelecus and Sternoptyx share a common line of descent. Argyropelecus consists of three species groups of which the A. affinis group is most distinct and contains the highest number of primitive character states. The P. spinosus group exhibits the greatest divergence within that genus.
10.2307/2412262|The relation between climate and scale size was studied in the two northern groups of Sceloporus graciosus. In the western section, an area of intense summer drought, 84 percent of the geographic variation in the number of mid-dorsal scales was explained in a multiple regression model by August rainfall and annual pan evaporation. Desiccation is probably the relevant selective factor. In the eastern section where the summer drought is variably ameliorated by the summer Sonoran monsoon rains, especially in the south, winter maximum temperatures and August rainfall, in that order of importance, account for 83 percent of the geographic variation. It is hypothesized that scale size, by partially determining cutaneous surface area, is an important component of both thermoregulatory and water balance systems in this animal.
10.2307/2412253|Three anophelines (maculatus, stephensi and tessellatus) were crossed using induced copulation. The stephensi [female] x maculatus [male] cross was the only one to produce offspring, although 6 of 54 females produced embryonated eggs. Of 371 eggs 128 were embryonated and 48 hatched. 36 adult females (no males) emerged. None was fertile and all had reduced ovaries with no developing eggs. The stephensi [female] x tessellatus [male] cross produced about 45% embryonated eggs, of which only one hatched; this died in third instar. The tessellatus x maculatus cross produced no embryonated eggs in either direction. The crossing results indicate considerable genetic affinity between stephensi and maculatus but complete genetic isolation. Tessellatus appears to be closer genetically to stephensi than to maculatus. The hybridization results support the current classification within the subgenus Cellia.
10.2307/2412256|A numerical taxonomic analysis of the species of the chiropteran genus Myotis revealed the existence of three major phenetic groupings. These may correspond to three feeding-foraging modalities. Phenetic evidence suggests the Oriental Region as a center of origin for Myotis, and a Myotis goudoti-like bat as a likely myotine prototype.
10.2307/2412431|Data for the average generic age of assemblages of benthonic foraminifera at 104 stations have been examined for temperature correlation which was found to be pronounced. Using this set of data and various curve and surface fitting techniques, it was found possible because of the temperature correlation to locate the equator and the north pole with good precision. This kind of data is seemingly less distorted by poor sampling than is comparable diversity data and appears promising as a means of setting constraints which must be satisfied by continental drift models.
10.2307/2412432|A new problem in the science of classification is presented, along with its solution. The problem is to combine the information in several taxonomic trees into a single tree. The solution is a computational method for computing a tree which represents only that information shared by all the rival trees. Such a method, called the consensus method, can be used to "compare" several rival tree representations or to compute a more stable tree from slightly perturbed variants of the original data. A method is defined and demonstrated for each of two different types of trees: rooted, fully labelled trees, and rooted trees with unlabelled internal nodes.
10.2307/2412428|Five species of lizards in the undulatus species group of the genus Sceloporus have generally similar karyotypes with a diploid number of 22 chromosomes. Nevertheless, extensive variation occurs in centromere position on chromosome pair number 7 Comparisons of chromosomes in population samples from numerous localities across North America reveal considerably more variability and local differentiation than is expected on the basis of current taxonomy Intraspecific and intrasubspecific differences within the species S. undulatus often are greater than interspecific differences. Within most local populations, however, chromosome 7 occurs in a fixed (homozygous) state, as a metacentric, submetacentric, subtelocentric, or telocentric pair. Thus, individually recognizable chromosomes occurring in lizards in adjacent populations can serve as genetic markers to document interbreeding between distinctive "chromosome races" and improve our understanding of the evolution, systematics, and population genetics of these terrestrial vertebrates.
10.2307/2412430|The process of allometry often distorts numerical results, causing size-related effects in shape coefficients. The study of allometry has traditionally emphasized only aspects of detection and description, rather than correction, of allometric trends. A method of allometry correction is offered for the specific purpose of adjusting metrical data prior to quantitative taxonomic analysis.
10.2307/2412434|There is more chromosomal variation in the tent-making bat than has been reported for any other species of bat. This is true in the number of chromosomal races (three), the minimum number of chromosomal rearrangements required to produce the respective races from a common ancestor, and the number of individuals surviving with atypical karyotypes. Some of the atypical karyotypes may be the result of interbreeding of cytotypes. Univariate analysis of variance indicated different patterns of secondary sexual dimorphism among the races. U. b. molaris was dimorphic in eight measurements whereas the others were dimorphic in only two. Multivariate statistical analysis were used to examine phenetic differentiation among races. Based on morphometrics, U. b. davisi was least divergent from the geographically adjacent U. b. convexum. Chromosomally, U b. davisi was more similar to the geographically distant U. b. bilobatum and U. b. trinitatum. The Bayesian probability classification procedures indicated that at least 90% of all specimens were correctly classified (excepting U. b. bilobatum). The misclassified individuals appeared to represent a random geographic collection rather than clusters at potential zones of interbreeding.
10.2307/2412433|Differences between Wagner Networks and Wagner Trees, and, the general problems encountered in estimating ancestral character states are briefly reviewed. The relation between Wagner Network structure and probable ancestral state combinations is illustrated with a hypothetical case and a real case of seven species of bullhead catfishes (genus Ictalurus, subgenus Amiurus) The relation between Wagner Networks and paraphyletic classifications is also noted.
10.2307/2412429|Mayrian relationships are concepts that embody overall genetic and phenotypic similarity rather than kinship. Simpsonian relationships embody kinship partitioned into horizontal and vertical aspects, defined in relation to ancestors presumed to be empirically unknown (hypothetical) and empirically known (non-hypothetical), respectively Hennigian relationships correspond only to the horizontal relationships of Simpson, but are generally applicable-to fossil as well as recent species. Hennigian relationships are consistent with, and acceptable to, ichthyological usage. Phylogenetic classification in Hennig's sense is consistent with, and is a modern expression of, the Darwiman tradition. Recent work in systematic ichthyology indicates progress toward a phylogenetic classification in the Darwin-Hennig sense.
10.2307/2412286|The present paper is the first classification of the phylum Gnathostomulida, of which 18 genera and more than 80 species are known. Two orders are created, according to the absence (Filospermoidea) or presence (Bursovaginoidea) of a female bursa-vagina-system and paired sensory organs. The latter order is divided into two suborders: Scleroperalia (with a cuticularized bursa) and Conophoralia (with a soft bursa and giant sperm). Presently Filospermoidea comprise 2 families; and the Bursovaginoidea, 6 families. Gnathostomulid evolution, as suggested in this paper, can be characterized by the following trends: shortening of the body and rostrum proportions, differentiation of skin as well as epidermal inclusions and of paired sensory organs, concentration of pharynx musculature, lamellarization of jaws and row-like arrangement of teeth, differentiation of the basal plate, and a more permanent vagina. In the derived phylogeny, Haplognathia is the most primitive, and Austrognatharia the most advanced type. A hypothetical ancestral form is outlined and possible relationships briefly discussed. A complete and categorized bibliography is given.
10.2307/2412292|This paper presents a measure for characterizing a phenogram and measuring its usefulness.
10.2307/2412290|The literature of the Mesozoa is confused because of errors in taxonomy, both in names and dates. Faulty notions concerning the relations between hosts and parasites led to the erection of imaginary genera. Differences of opinion on the limits of generic concepts have resulted in suppression and restoration of generic names. The status of suprageneric categories is similarly confused. Families have been erected, e.g., Heterocyemidae van Beneden, 1882; Orthonectidae Hartmann, 1925; and Heteronectidae Hartmann, 1925, with names that are invalid since they are not based on type genera. The designations and dates given by Grasse in the Traite de Zoologie (1961) are sometimes in error or are otherwise indefinite. The family names Rhopaluridae and Pelmatosphaeridae proposed by Caullery (1961) had been established by Stunkard (1937), where other emendations were made. The Mesozoa, originally regarded as a subphylum intermediate between Protozoa and Metazoa, are secondarily simplified marine organisms derived from free-living progenitors, degraded as a result of parasitism. Their morphology and life cycles, still only partially elucidated, indicate platyhelminth affinities. The rhombozoans and digenetic trematodes are initially parasites of mollusks and the dicyemids arose and evolved with the cephalopods.
10.2307/2412285|This paper presents an attempt to compare the passerme and near-passerine bird faunas of the six faunal regions on a trophic basis. Indices of similarity are calculated using: a) the importance (percentage of total species) of families in the areas, and b) the importance of different trophic roles in the areas. The importance values for trophic roles were calculated by multiplying the importance values of the families by indices for the importance of applicable trophic roles for each family and summing the values for each trophic role in each region. The faunal regions showed much higher similarity indices when compared on a trophic rather than a taxonomic basis. Also, the geographic patterns of taxonomic similarity are different from that for trophic similarity High trophic similarity is related to the major ecological division "temperate" versus "tropical" rather than to the geographical proximity An examination of the individual trophic roles reveals several facts. While some, such as gleaning invertebrates from foliage, have little variation in importance from region to region, others such as nectivory show high degrees of difference. Other roles with intermediate variability show individual discrepancies, such as the paucity of ground-feeding insectivores in the Australian region. Possible reasons for some of these phenomena are suggested. The families of birds that are specialists in or major contributors to the different trophic roles are surveyed to provide a number of examples of "ecological equivalence" between taxonomically remote groups. This ecological equivalence is often reflected in convergent morphology and behavior patterns.
10.2307/2412288|An index (the weighted separation index) is described which uses qualitative variables to provide a measure of likeness to two known groups of individuals (D tryoni and D neohumeralis). An "identification rule" is presented by which this index may be employed to discriminate between the members of two populations. Where separation of two species is associated with a low probability of misidentification, the weighted separation index is also suited to the separation of a third or hybrid group whose members are intermediate with respect to the two known groups.
10.2307/2412289|The validity of phylogenetic speculations based on chromosome number and morphology alone is examined. Karyotypic attributes are examined by numerical phenetic methods in two groups of organisms where lineage relationships have been extensively studied by experimental methods. The results illustrate the inaccuracies of karyotypic data alone in inferring lineage relationships when intergenomic homologies are not available and the mechanisms of chromosomal change and direction of aneuploidy unknown.
10.2307/2412291|Biological nomenclature cannot be divorced from the taxonomy that it serves, although contradictions between the two have been increasingly recognised. The problem is here discussed in phylogenetic rather than phenetic terms. Taxonomy above and below the species level is governed by different rules, as also is its nomenclature. The species (the highest taxonomic category with a direct biological basis) forms the essential biological link between the two levels and is the focus of taxonomic contradictions. The species binomen, a frankly evolutionary statement, epitomises this link in nomenclatural terms: it still fulfills a useful role in taxonomic and systematic communication and is to be preferred to other linguistic or numerical `labeIs' The contradiction between nomenclature and taxonomy, like that between high and low-level taxonomy, is an inevitable dialogue whose resolution at one stage secures progress to new and higher modes of understanding.
10.2307/2412287|The mathematical relationships between generalized distances, Sokal's distances, distances based upon principal components, and Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord distances are discussed, and the biological consequences of these relationships in the case of nontrivial correlation matrices are pointed out. While none of the techniques discussed are wholly satisfactory, a practical solution to the problems encountered in their deployment is suggested which combines two of the techniques (generalized distances and principal components)
10.2307/2412170|Reported is an evaluation (using discriminant and principal component analyses) of the incidence of interbreeding occurring (1) between populations of eastern and western meadowlarks, Sturnella magna and S. neglecta, respectively, from the central and southern Great Plams, and (2) between neglecta and an isolated southwestern population of magna (S. m. lilianae) from the desert grassland of west Texas and eastern New Mexico. Individuals in reference samples taken out of sympatry could be segregated sufficiently to leave a distinct phenetic gap between groups. Evaluation of specimens taken in sympatry also revealed phenetic gaps separating both pairs of meadowlarks, indicating that their genetic integrity is being maintained in both areas of sympatry. Nonetheless, certain specimens from both areas of contact fell in phenetic positions highly intermediate to the reference specimens and were presumed to be of mixed ancestry There was an apparently higher incidence of intermediate females than males, and it is suggested that females of mixed ancestry have a greater probability of survival than males in the polygynous meadowlarks. The geographic distribution of 16 of the most intermediate specimens from the plains sympatry was such that incidence of intermediates from the Platte River drainage was two to three times higher than that for other drainage systems. Coincidentally, the flood plains of the Platte River system were the only ones examined along which magna was not more or less continuously distributed up to its westernmost point of occurrence. Along the Platte, magna was found only in several small and isolated colonies in which appropriate mate selection may have been rendered difficult by the low numbers of conspecifics and the presumed year to year instability of these colonies. Song was thought to play an important role in selection of conspecific mates. In both zones of sympatry the meadowlarks maintain interspecific territories, and song is important in territory establishment and maintenance. Yet, there has been no convergence toward a common song type in either of the zones of sympatry, despite a considerable information loss when songs are used in interspecific communication. Presumably strong selection opposing interspecific matings has maintained the remarkable differences in songs of these siblings in both areas of sympatry.
10.2307/2412166|A number of methods of selection of characters based on the uniquely derived character concept (LeQuesne, 1969) have been applied to published data on taxa of Orthopteroid insects and also to random data obtained by dealing cards. The latter has been used to verify the essential soundness of the statistical methods. The data on Orthopteroid insects show some uncertainty in the most likely phylogeny among the group, although verifying the existence of some already well-accepted groupings. It is shown that at least 54 out of 80 characters tested are not uniquely derived.
10.2307/2412169|Data for diversity and average ages of first occurrence of Recent and Miocene bivalve genera along the east coast of the United States show that tropical areas of high diversity are characterized by a fauna that is geologically younger than that of high latitude areas of low diversity. For Recent bivalves, average ages expressed as a modified survivorship curve indicate higher rates of evolution in the tropics than elsewhere. Diversity and average age of Miocene bivalve genera show a weaker gradient against latitude than modern ones and may reflect the fact that Miocene-Recent evolution in the tropics has not yet been distributed to higher latitudes.
10.2307/2412163|Information from distribution, ecology, behavior, and morphology indicates that Zeledon's Chlorospingus (Chlorospingus zeledoni Ridgway) is a grayish-green morph of the Sooty-capped Bush Tanager (Chlorospingus pileatus Salvin); the latter in typical form represents the yellow-green phase. Combined reflectance spectrophotometry and pigment biochemistry demonstrate that the two morphs differ in but one feature, the concentration of lutein pigment in the feathers of the breast band, flanks, and dorsum. A direct positive relationship exists between the concentration of pigment and degree of colorimetric purity Extraction of lutein from the breast plumage of an example of the yellow-green phase resulted in a bird visually identical with examples of the gray-green phase. Comments are offered on the relationship between the three attributes of color (dominant wave length, brightness, and purity) and the physical basis for colors in feathers (pigment type, pigment concentration and placement, and feather structure) as exemplified by certain tanagers. The local confinement of the gray-green morph to two high mountains in central Costa Rica, Volcanes Irazu and Turrialba, a region of historically active volcanism where the background of ash, vegetation, and fog provides an environment of pervasive grayness, suggests that the polymorphism is maintained there by the advantages of matching coloration, particularly after volcanic eruptions. Theories of heterozygote advantage and of apostatic selection do not seem appropriate in this instance to account for the polymorphism.
10.2307/2412165|This study reports on comparisons of Kruskal's nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis, principal components analysis, and Gower's principal coordinates analysis. Nine different sets of data were used. It was found that nonmetric scaling gave better results (as measured by the correlation between the distances in the k-dimensional configuration and the original distances). It was also found that principal coordinates analysis gave a better fit than principal components analysis when missing values were present.
10.2307/2412164|Allelic variation at 27 structural gene loci was studied electrophoretically in five populations of Thomomys bottae and one of T. umbrinus in Arizona. The status of eight individuals identified karyotypically as F
10.2307/2412168|Two computer-aided techniques, the clustering analysis of the Graph Theory Model and the CHARANAL program which finds a succession of characters best classifying the objects under study, were used to indicate phenotypic similarities existing within certain members of the genus Salmo. Eight characters from 104 objects consisting of 849 specimens from 44 collections representing 5 described species and unnamed forms of western North American trouts were analyzed. Results of the Graph Theory Model and CHARANAL program were almost identical, and the former clustered the same form of trout at high similarity levels. Considering only the computer-aided analyses, the Apache (unnamed), red-banded (unnamed) and Kern River (S. aguabonita gilberti) trouts seem to be a closely-linked group slightly distinct from the Gila trout (S. gilae). The California golden trout (S. a. aguabonita) joins the cutthroat trout (S. clarki) before any other group; the trouts of the "golden trout complex" are phenotypically more similar to cutthroat trout than to rainbow trout. The rainbow trout (S. gairdneri) is connected only to trout from the Rio Truchas, also a rainbow-like trout, before the lowest level of similarity. The Mexican golden trout (S. chrysogaster) is unique in that it joins the above trouts at the lowest level of similarity. Other taxonomic informations support these contentions. The taximetric analysis shows that the trout from the upper Little Kern River basin, named S. whitei, correctly should be considered a synonym of S. a. gilberti. This paper demonstrates the efficiency of the two computer programs as a method to facilitate data analysis for systematic investigation. It is, however, also an attempt to consider all the known divergent forms of endemic western trouts in a comparative study and is a step toward a sounder understanding of the phylogenies involved.
10.2307/2413305|Electromorphic and chromosomal variation is analyzed in 26 populations of Thomomys umbrinus sampled from throughout the range of the species. Interpopulation levels of genic differentiation are extreme, generally exceeding values measured between conspecific populations of most animals or plants. Two principal groups of T. umbrinus are recognized based on chromosomal evidence, one with 2n = 76 chromosomes and the other with 2n = 78. Further, the 2n = 78 group (but not the 2n = 76 group) is bisected into geographic subgroups with respect to chromosome morphology and heterochromatin position. The kind and degree of chromosomal differentiation observed suggests that the three groups may be reproductively incompatible. Allozymic evidence corroborates the above groupings, and an analysis of patterns of allele sharing suggests the absence of gene flow among the groups. A cladistic analysis of electromorphic data indicates that the two 2n = 78 groups may be independently derived from the 2n = 76 lineage. The combined evidence supports the hypothesis that T. umbrinus is actually a composite of at least three biological species and confirms the observation that speciation in the genus Thomomys is unrelated to the level of genic differentiation between populations.
10.2307/2413304|A quantitative approach to Croizat's panbiogeography is developed using graph theory. Croizat's main analytical tool, the "track" (a line on a map representing the distribution of one or more taxa), is equated with the graph-theoretic concept of the minimal-spanning tree. Tracks can be represented by two different matrices that enable incongruent tracks to be detected and shared elements (biogeographic homologies) to be identified. Tracks can be orientated using both phylogenetic and biogeographic criteria. "Nodes," which are regions where there are large numbers of tracks, are related to the concept of the connectivity of a point. The statistical significance of track concordance can be evaluated using permutation tests of association between matrices. Previous discussions of panbiogeography have often considered panbiogeography to be a phenetic technique similar to cluster analysis using matrices of biotic similarity, or a crude precursor of vicariance biogeography. This is rejected, and the relationship between vicariance biogeography and panbiogeography is discussed. Vicariance biogeography is shown to be a clique method based on the less amenable concept of the minimal Steiner tree.
10.2307/2413306|The biometrical consequences of measurement error, environmental effects caused by habitat quality, and effects of allometry transformation were studied in 22 morphometric traits of the skull of the muskrat, Ondatra zibethicus. Analyses were conducted at a regional level using four Finnish muskrat populations living 85-750 km apart, and at a local level using five subpopulations living 2-9 km apart in one Finnish lake. Only spring samples of animals born in the previous summer were used (n = 508), but sexes were pooled because they were not found to differ in variability. Reduced variability was found in traits connected with feeding. In larger variables the coefficient of variation (CV) was moderately negatively correlated with the mean, but in the smallest measurements the variability increased sharply. The dependence of the CV on the mean of the trait, thus, is hyperbolic. Corrected variabilities for each trait were calculated as the residuals from this function. Measurement error was estimated by repeated measurings of the same skulls, using two methods differing in accuracy. The proportion of measurement error in the CV varied from 3 to 23%, if measuring accuracy was 0.1 mm, and from 13 to 45%, if accuracy was only 0.5 mm (mean of the variables ranged from 4 to 63 mm). The proportion of measurement error in the CV increased with a decreasing mean value of the trait, but this cannot alone explain the great variability in the small traits. Environmental effects on variability were studied by grouping animals on the basis of their condition, classified by a growth index that measured body-weight gain per unit of molar wear. Improvement in animal condition decreased general morphological variability. We concluded that habitat quality, especially poor diet, was the main stress factor increasing variation, and specimens with the poorest condition were particularly exposed to this effect. In order to examine and compare allometric relationships on both a local and regional scale, each variable was divided by condylobasal length of the skull (CL; calculated by subtraction in log scale). If the corrected variability of a trait was lower or equal to that of CL, the transformation often induced a negative correlation with general size. In comparisons between local subpopulations, the effect of this bias was not serious: the allometric transformation reduced size differences that depend on habitat quality. If the correlation structure of the data was more heterogeneous, as in regional data, the transformation produced partly confusing results in univariate and principal component analyses, but discriminant function analysis was not seriously affected.
10.2307/2413307|Chronological clustering of morphotypes, based on five characters, detected morphological discontinuities in a stratigraphic sequence of the fossil stickleback Gasterosteus doryssus. Discontinuities that were not detected analyzing individual characters became apparent, and different discontinuities depend on changes in the frequencies of different sets of morphotypes. However, recognition of discontinuities between a group and neighboring groups of samples depended strongly on existing group structure. The results of this analysis generally were consistent with conclusions of a previous study using single characters, which indicated that patterns of chronological variation within the lineage are diverse. Care must be taken in interpreting the results of this chronological-clustering technique because the results depend strongly on criteria for formation of morphotypes, but the technique is useful to detect discontinuities of multicharacter change within biostratigraphic sequences.
10.2307/2413399|Protein products of 51 genetic loci were analyzed by gel electrophoresis using extracts of blood and tissue culture specimens from 12 of the 14 extant canid genera. Genetic distances were calculated and used to derive phenetic trees. The results suggest that the Canidae can be divided into several distinct groups. The wolf-like canids are a group that includes species in the genus Canis and Lycaon pictus (African wild dog). Speothos venaticus (Brazilian bush dog) is weakly associated with this group. Based on the calibration of a consensus tree with a fossil date, Canis mesomelas (black-backed jackal) and Speothos venaticus separated first, approximately 6 million years before present (MYBP). Lycaon pictus and C. latrans (coyote) separated from the line leading to C. lupus (grey wolf) and C. familiuris (domestic dog) approximately 3 MYBP. These results suggest that the blade-like trenchant heel on the carnassial tooth has evolved independently at least twice within the Canidae. Several distinct genetic stocks appear to have led to the extant South American canids. Chrysocyon brachyurus (maned wolf) is estimated to have diverged from Dusicyon vetulus (hoary fox) and Cerdocyon thous (crab-eating fox) approximately 6 MYBP. The divergence time of the last two genera is fairly recent (2-3 MYBP) and is coincident with the opening of the Panamanian land bridge. The remaining South American canid included in this survey, Speothos venaticus, is clustered with the wolf-like canids. The Vulpes-like canids are a distinct phenetic group that includes species in the genera Vulpes, Alopex and Fennecus. Their estimated time of divergence from all the other canids, approximately 9 MYBP, is among the oldest within the Canidae. Among the Vulpes-like canids we surveyed, Alopex lagopus (arctic fox) and Vulpes macrotis (kit fox) appear genetically most closely related. Finally, the biochemical data support the generic status of three canid genera: Urocyon, Nyctereutes, and Otocyon. These taxa are not closely related to any of the surveyed canid species.
10.2307/2413400|The "shear" method of Humphries et al. (1981) is based on a path model intended to explain differences in form by multiple factors: one for size and one or more for shape differences. Its adaptation for "removing" the effects of a within-population size-factor from between-group morphometric analyses is presented in compact matrix form, simplified, and compared to the method of orthogonal projection proposed by Burnaby (1966). While the size-correction methods give similar results for most real data sets, Burnaby's procedure with k = 1 (i.e., using a single composite size variable) is recommended for this purpose owing to its geometrical and computational simplicity. An example based on artificial data demonstrates that sheared principal components are not necessarily uncorrelated with size. Path modeling of size and shape together is a different purpose than size-correction, and is better served by a different procedure.
10.2307/2413402|The total numbers of published synonymous species and genus names were counted for all species of bdelloid rotifers (which are exclusively parthenogenic) and monogonont rotifers (which occasionally reproduce sexually). Synonymous genus names are about equally frequent in both groups, but synonymous species names are less frequent in bdelloids than in monogononts. The difference is not a secondary effect of differences in time since first publication of species, effort or competence of systematists, size of genera, or taxonomic complexity of species. These results suggest that bdelloid species are more consistently recognized than monogonont species, contrary to predictions derived from aspects of the biological species concept and the punctuated equilibrium model of evolution.
10.2307/2413401|This study describes a procedure for constructing and evaluating developmental models by using confirmatory factor analysis which predicts covariation among morphological measures. The principal advantage of confirmatory factor analysis lies in its ability to reject poorly fitting hypotheses in favor of those better able to reconstruct observed variance-covariance structure. Conflicting causal hypotheses of increasing complexity are applied to osteometric measures taken on a sample of one-day-old laboratory rats, then evaluated for their relative ability to reconstruct observed covariance. Models derived from competing hypotheses could not be distinguished. When models are constructed after measurements are chosen, then discrimination between alternatives may require indirect comparisons. In contrast, when hypotheses of integration vary in their predictions and the models differ significantly in fit, then confirmatory factor analysis can be used to decide between conflicting hypotheses.
10.2307/2413403|Megistolotis is a monotypic Australian genus included in the leptodactyloid subfamily Limnodynastinae. In some aspects of its morphology, Megistolotis resembles burrowing frogs of the genus Heleioporus, whereas in others it resembles terrestrial and aquatic frogs assigned to the genus Limnodynastes. Accordingly workers have differed regarding which of the two genera includes the closest relatives of Megistolotis. Studies of albumin evolution using the quantitative immunological technique of micro-complement fixation have shown that Megistolotis shares most recent common ancestry with Limnodynastes convexiusculus, a member of the L. tasmaniensis species group. This finding has implications regarding the parallel evolution of morphological features within limnodynastine frogs. In addition, the albumin data imply that Limnodynastes is a paraphyletic taxon, and illustrate the problem confronting systematists faced with differing tempos of morphological and molecular evolution.
10.2307/2413264|Numerical phylogenetic analyses of G-banded karyotypes were carried out for 22 species of arvicolids belonging to eight genera with diploid numbers among the species ranging from 18 to 64. Interspecific karyotypic comparisons indicate that 38 homologous autosomes or autosomal arms are shared by two or more species. The additional presence of 33 unique elements and 141 euchromatic rearrangements account for the extensive interspecific karyotypic variability. Ten different types of rearrangements were documented with centric fusion (27.0%), tandem fusion (14.2%) and pericentric inversion (12.8%) being the most abundant. Chromosomes and chromosomal rearrangements were quantitatively coded as present, absent, or missing in the karyotype of each species and the resulting data matrix (22 species by 214 karyotypic characters) subjected to cladistic analyses (with Peromyscus as an outgroup). Six analyses were executed where chromosomal rearrangements were weighted equal to or less than the weights assigned to entire chromosomes. Families of equally parsimonious trees were obtained and subsequently distilled into Adams-2 consensus estimates. Consistency indices ranged from 0.75 to 0.84 with reversals accounting for 2-30% of all homoplastic events. Systematically, Clethrionomys, Lemmus, Synaptomys, Lagurus, Neofiber, and six species of Microtus share generally primitive autosomal complements; however, four derived characters suggest a relationship between M. ochrogaster and M. pinetorum. Six other species of Microtus (townsendii, pennsylvanicus, breweri, montanus, canicaudus and the more distant oregoni) share a number of derived characters. Dicrostonyx, Phenacomys, M. longicaudus, and M. oeconomus each possess a series of uniquely derived characters that tend to isolate these lineages. Chromosomal collocations support those derived from paleontology, comparative morphology, and protein electrophoresis in certain respects but not in others. Comparisons of zoogeographic distributions among four pairs of chromosomal sister taxa are interpreted to support an allopatric rather than a stasipatric (chromosomal) means of speciation in all cases except one.
10.2307/2413267|The attempt to calculate a null probability for a given degree of matching among a set of phylogenetic area cladograms (or between a cladogram representing a geographic hypothesis and a set of phylogenetic area cladograms) is a key advance in historical biogeography. It leads to strong inferences about the means by which different groups achieved their current ranges. However, the appropriate procedure for calculating the probability has yet to be determined. For sets of small cladograms the underlying considerations of probability seem straight-forward if two cladograms are scored as either matching completely or failing to match. If two large cladograms are not identical but seem similar, it would seem perverse to score them as "not matching." A possible null hypothesis would be that the degree of matching is no greater than would be expected for independently derived cladograms. For large cladograms, it is not at all obvious from visual inspection whether two cladograms share an improbably high number of features. Large systematic cladograms are likely to have errors and/or to be incomplete. Even though it is currently impossible to assign probabilities to particular construction errors, probabilities of cladogram matching can still be calculated if one posits some conventions.
10.2307/2413265|We conducted cladistic analyses of isozyme tissue expression patterns in representatives of 13 avian genera from two orders (Charadriiformes and Passeriformes) to assess utility of those characters for reconstructing phylogenies. Presence or absence of expression in each of 12 different tissues was determined by means of starch-gel electrophoresis for 30 presumptive gene loci and heteropolymers. Most parsimonious trees were examined for "correct" segregation of the two orders and unification of members of two disparate families (Recurvirostridae and Emberizidae). We found high levels of homoplasy in isozyme expression patterns in the study taxa, with most containing little phylogenetic information. However, some isozyme expression patterns of malic enzyme, aspartate aminotransferase, and aconitate hydratase yielded cladograms approximating the three taxonomic distinctions mentioned above. Reanalysis of isozyme expression characters under the assumption of homologous gains being impossible (Dollo parsimony) resulted in longer (less parsimonious) and less "accurate" trees. S-Acon-A and S-Aat-A showed significantly greater restriction of tissue expression in relatively primitive taxa, whereas Ldh-A, and, to a lesser degree, S-Me-A showed increased restriction of tissue expression in advanced taxa. These opposite polarities in isozyme expression restriction suggest independent evolutionary histories for various loci. The evolutionary trend of decreasing numbers of expressed LDH isozymes accompanying phyletic advance, as observed in fishes (Markert et al., 1975; Toledo and Ribiero, 1978), was not observed in avian systems. The findings of widespread homoplasy, opposite polarities and limited predictive capability for the isozyme tissue expression patterns suggest that most may be more useful in studies of gene regulation than in higher level taxonomy.
10.2307/2413263|Of all the many Definitions for para- and polyphyly, those proposed within the Farris 1974 Model have been adopted as fully acceptable by various phylogeneticists. Close examination of this model shows that it is not always consistent, identical groupings turn out to be paraphyletic in one case and polyphyletic in another. New definitions which circumvent these inconsistencies are proposed, from within a phylogenetic framework and by making reference to the notion of sister groups.
10.2307/2413266|Many descriptive models of chromosomal evolution have been formulated over the past two decades. We review the assumptions and predictions of these models and consider some pertinent evidence. One model of adaptive divergence, the canalization model, is difficult to test, and where predictions are explicitly stated, empirical data generally do not support the model. However, few adequate data sets are available to test this hypothesis, and it deserves further study. Several process-oriented models of chromosomal speciation are reviewed with respect to genetic isolating mechanisms, the fitness components of individual rearrangements, and the permissible population structures. From the last we attempt to estimate qualitatively the expected genetic correlates of each model to maximize its testability. Theoretical and empirical inadequacies are discussed and suggestions are made for improvement. Both phyletic and speciation models of chromosomal evolution have often been based on broad comparative studies of large taxonomic groups, but more precise testing will require multidisciplinary population-level studies of organisms hypothesized to be undergoing some form of chromosomally-mediated speciation or adaptive radiation.
10.2307/2413066|This paper examines four methods of representing multistate transformation series with a numerical code. The three that have the broadest applications are Additive Binary Coding, Redundant Linear Coding, and Nonredundant Linear Coding. The fourth method, internal rooting, has specialized applications for coding basally dichotomous series. The first three methods are capable of unambiguously representing multistate trees with or without specified nodal values. The Nonredundant Linear Coding method is recommended because it produces the most efficient code. The Redundant Linear Coding method can produce unjustified weighting of areas of a multistate tree. We examine coding procedures for working with multistate transformation series of intrinsic organic characters, and with parasite phylogenies as multistate characters of their hosts. Use of the inclusive ORing technique to code for the occurrence of more than one parasite taxon per host taxon can result in the distortion of phylogenetic information and the drawing of incorrect inferences of relationships.
10.2307/2413068|Most workers attempting to infer evolutionary trees from polymorphic data using established parsimony procedures either have ignored frequency information entirely or have tolerated "optimal" solutions that hypothesize ancestors that cannot possibly exist in the space of the original frequencies. We describe a new method for inferring evolutionary trees from gene frequency data that avoids these limitations by enforcing biologically reasonable constraints without discarding the frequency information. The necessity of working directly with frequencies rather than reducing the data by "presence/absence" coding is argued. Our approach appears to be free of logical difficulties affecting a variety of other parsimony methods that have been applied to frequency data.
10.2307/2413067|Patterns of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation were evaluated within and between six species in the five genera of the endemic African mole rats in the family Bathyergidae. A total of 493 distinct restriction fragments was produced by digestion of bathyergid mtDNAs with 15 restriction enzymes. Of these fragments, 126 provided phylogenetic information. The magnitude of mtDNA sequence divergence among the five genera of bathyergids indicates an ancient origin and agrees with levels of nuclear sequence divergence estimated from allozymes. Two sister groups, Georychus/Heliophobius and Cryptomys/Heterocephalus, are apparent based on phylogenetic analyses of the mtDNA data. Although the two species of Bathyergus are closely aligned, this genus is very divergent from the other four genera and is associated with either the Georychus/Heliophobius group or represents a more basal lineage. Two isolated populations of Georychus capensis are as divergent from one another as the genus Heliophobius is from Georychus. mtDNA, allozyme, and chromosomal variation among the three subspecies of Cryptomys hotten totus suggests that C. h. damarensis should be raised to specific rank. The phylogenetic relationships suggested by the mtDNA variation are used to evaluate two aspects of bathyergid evolution. First, the current distribution of bathyergids may be the result of range expansions and vicariant events related to increasing aridity along a corridor between east and southern Africa during past geological time. Second, the sister group relationship of Heterocephalus and Cryptomys suggests that the common ancestor of the eusocial species, Heterocephalus glaber was possibly colonial rather than solitary.
10.2307/2413065|The applicability of expert systems (a branch of artificial intelligence) to identification and classification in systematics is examined. Existing devices used for taxonomic identification (dichotomous, tabular, and computerized keys) are reviewed and compared to expert systems. Expert systems technology is briefly reviewed, and a prototype expert system (SYSTEX) for species identification in one species group of the genus Signiphora Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Signiphoridae) is presented. SYSTEX is a rule-based, backward chaining system with 114 rules. It was developed using a commercially available expert system shell. In building the identification system and in its use, we find the expert system approach to be in most ways superior to the dichotomous key and other identification devices in terms of efficiency and ease of use, tolerance of missing data, explanatory capability, and the ability to provide meaningful output when an unambiguous identification is not possible. The potential for incorporation of phylogenetic hypotheses into an identification device is discussed.
10.2307/2413063|Minimum length tree topology changed in an apparently anomalous, non-local way in response to a change in the data set in the example reported by Rohlf (1984). I define the conditions that such changes in the data must fulfil to cause the kind of change in tree topology observed (which gives an indication of the frequency with which such behavior may occur). The reasons for the sensitivity of minimum length trees to such changes, and the insensitivity of most phenetic clustering techniques, such as UPGMA, to the same changes, may then be characterized. By examining the character states at the intervening nodes in the tree, one can establish an equivalence between this sensitivity of Wagner tree topology and the out-group analysis procedure within traditional, non-numerical cladistics. The sensitivity of Wagner or minimum length tree topology to such changes in the data is demonstrated not to be a problem or "instability" but instead to be the sensitivity of the method to changes in the polarity of a character, and thus an appropriate sensitivity for a method for estimating phylogenies.
10.2307/2413064|Antitropical distributions of continental shelf, Indo-West Pacific species are probably not due to transgression of the tropics during the glacial periods, isothermic submergence, island integration, rising Neogene temperatures, or the Mesozoic dispersal of fragments from a Pacific continental mass. Characteristics of common antitropical patterns, plus information from systematic works on a variety of animal and plant groups, indicate that the long discarded "relict theory" of Theel (1885) appears to best fit the evidence, for it provides a mechanism whereby antitropical distributions may be brought about. The relict theory is compatible with the concept that the East Indies part of the Indo-West Pacific has been functioning as a center of evolutionary origin. It suggests that antitropical and associated disjunct patterns are produced as an older species, that has spread out to occupy a broad range, loses ground and gradually becomes supplanted by a younger species that had subsequently evolved in the East Indies. As this process goes on, the older species becomes restricted to a few isolated localities on the fringe of its original range. These isolates are often found to the north and south of the equatorial region but may include relict populations at the western edge of the Indian Ocean.
10.2307/2992433|Hollow curve distributions (HCDs) of taxonomic diversity are common in nature and are a result of assemblages being dominated by one or a few very diverse taxa. Models of random extinction and speciation can produce HCDs; however, the similarity between real and simulated HCDs has been examined previously only qualitatively. We compare quantitatively dominance observed in 85 real taxonomic assemblages to dominance predicted by five null models (1. Poisson; 2. Raup et al.'s [1973] simulation model; 3. Anderson and Anderson's [1975] simulation model; 4. simultaneous broken-stick; and 5. canonical lognormal distributions). Real assemblages were dominated to a significantly greater extent by one unit than predicted by all null models. This dominance is compounded as one proceeds down the taxonomic hierarchy. We demonstrate that overdominance is common whether phylogenetic or traditional classification schemes are used to assemble taxa. We propose that overdominance reflects real differences in the evolutionary success of units within an assemblage.
10.2307/2992434|Microcomplement fixation of albumin was used to probe evolutionary relationships among the macropodid marsupials. The data, analyzed by the Fitch-Margoliash method followed by jackknifing, support the recognition of at least three clades; one consists of the macropodine genera Macropus, Wallabia, Setonix, Onychogalea, Dorcopsis, Dorcopsulus, Lagorchestes, Dendrolagus, Petrogale, Peradorcas and Thylogale; a second of the potoroine genera Bettongia, Potorous and Aepyprymnus; and a third of the sthenurine Lagostrophus. Hypsiprymnodon either represents a fourth clade, or is allied with the Bettongia-Potorous-Aepyprymnus clade. Bettongia is a monophyletic genus but the phylogenetic relationships of Bettongia, Potorous and Aepyprymnus are not resolved. There is a strong association of Petrogale, Peradorcus and Thylogale along with, unexpectedly, Dendrolagus. Lagorchestes has no immediate relatives whereas Dorcopsulus and Dorcopsis form a clade. Macropus, Wallabia, Setonix and Onychogalea form a clade, within which Macropus may be paraphyletic. Albumin evolves in a clock-like fashion within the macropodines and within the potoroines but not between macropodines, sthenurines and potoroines. However, it is not possible to calibrate the clock for these groups.
10.2307/2992432|Character congruence, the principle of using all the relevant data, and character independence are important concepts in phylogenetic inference, because they relate directly to the evidence on which hypotheses are based. Taxonomic congruence, which is agreement among patterns of taxonomic relationships, is less important, because its connection to the underlying character evidence is indirect and often imperfect. Also, taxonomic congruence is difficult to justify, because of the arbitrariness involved in choosing a consensus method and index with which to estimate agreement. High levels of character congruence were observed among 89 biochemical and morphological synapomorphies scored on 10 species of Epicrates. Such agreement is consistent with the phylogenetic interpretation attached to the resulting hypothesis, which is a consensus of two equally parsimonious cladograms: (cenchria (angulifer (striatus ((chrysogaster, exsul) (inornatus, subflavus) (gracilis (fordii, monensis)))))). Relatively little (11.4%) of the character incongruence was due to the disparity between the biochemical and morphological data sets. Each of the clades in the consensus cladogram was confirmed by two or more unique and unreversed novelties, and six of the eight clades were corroborated by biochemical and morphological evidence. Such combinations of characters add confidence to the phylogenetic hypothesis, assuming the qualitatively different kinds of data are more likely to count as independent than are observations drawn from the same character system. Most of the incongruence occurred in the skeletal subset of characters, and much of that independent evolution seemed to be the result of paedomorphosis.
10.2307/2992431|The degree of underestimation of branch lengths by the maximum parsimony principle is studied. The expected number of nucleotide changes per site under the maximum parsimony principle is computed, and it is compared with the expected number of nucleotide substitutions. A tree topology with no hierarchical structure is considered for mathematical simplicity. It is shown that as long as the evolutionary distance is less than 0.2, the maximum parsimony principle gives good estimates of nucleotide substitutions. When the evolutionary distance is greater than 0.2, however, the method gives gross underestimates of nucleotide substitutions.
10.2307/2992400|The systematic relationships of genera in the artiodactyl tribe Bovini were evaluated using two sets of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences available for Bison, Bos, and Bubalus. One of these sets included 2,726 aligned positions from the two relatively conserved ribosomal RNA genes and three flanking transfer RNA genes; the other consisted of 247 base pairs from the rapidly evolving D-loop region. Most-parsimonious cladograms derived from the two data sets indicated that Bison and Bos are more closely related to each other than either is to Bubalus, as suggested from morphological, paleontological, and reproductive data. However, the traditional arrangement of the genus Bos is seriously challenged, as Bos grunniens groups first with Bison bison rather than with its congener Bos taurus. These results, when coupled with reproductive and other molecular data, strongly suggest that Bison should be treated as a congener of Bos rather than as a distinct genus in the tribe Bovini.
10.2307/2992401|There is an essential difference between convergence and parallelism, the former being due to analogous similarity, while the latter is based on a homologous relationship between characters. Careful application of the recognition criteria of homology and analogy may enable us to distinguish between convergence and true parallelism. Under the assumptions that one works in a genealogical domain wherein parallelism is rampant, and that parallel characters are homologues, derived parallelisms may successfully be used as indicators of propinquity of descent. Therefore, the principle of parsimony is considered a poor selection criterion in situations where parallel evolution is rampant. Character distributions concerning repeatedly evolved homologous structures have been described with a varying terminology: apomorphic tendencies, unique inside parallelism, underlying synapomorphy, nonuniversal derived character states. The paper illustrates the practical use and potential significance of such character state distributions for phylogenetic analysis by detailing several examples from marine triclads. These examples are grouped into cases with outside parallelism and with inside parallelism. In a case of outside parallelism the character state is also present in a more distantly related outgroup, while in cases of inside parallelism the parallelisms are restricted to the ingroup. A theoretical evaluation is given of the use of underlying synapomorphies in phylogenetic reconstruction, and in particular attention is paid to alternative explanations of the character state patterns, viz. convergence, secondary change, and retention of the primitive character state. The use of underlying synapomorphies is "Hennigian" in the most literal sense because Hennig himself used repeated derivations as indicators of genealogical relationship. Some of the practical rules for the application of underlying synapomorphy in phylogenetic inference are still fuzzy. Worthy of future theoretical discussions are questions on the frequency of the character states, cases of outside parallelism, and on falsification of presumed underlying synapomorphies. Repeated evolutionary derivation of structures may result from polyallelism, or from the retention of structural gene complexes and subsequent re-expression due to a change in regulatory mechanisms. For practical purposes, a fruitful synthesis may be achieved by combining a computerized parsimony analysis with the qualitative phylogenetic technique.
10.2307/2992399|Geographic variation trends are often quite complex and consist of variation at different spatial scales. In such cases an analysis of spatial structure by spatial autocorrelation analysis is confounded by this intermixing of different scales. Trend surface analysis (TSA) or canonical trend surface analysis (CTSA) offer ways of overcoming this problem. We subjected residuals from two types of data to spatial autocorrelation analysis: TSA residuals of simulated population-genetic data (isolation by distance with or without migration), and CTSA residuals of morphometric data. This approach was able, in the first case, to separate the effects of isolation by distance from migration, and to give an estimate of the scale at which each process occurred; in the second case, it furnished an estimate of the mean size of the local variation pattern as distinct from its long range pattern. In populations where different variables show structure at different spatial scales, these methods can separate out such effects even if the point-values for the different variables are not located at the same coordinates.
10.2307/2992396|A direct method for calculating expected data from an evolutionary model for two state characters is described. The method uses four vectors p, q, r and s. p and q are the probabilities of a character change on the 2n - 3 edges of a tree T (n is the number of taxa). r and s are properties of the data, are independent of any tree and have 2<sup>n-1</sup> entries. For a given tree T, and with specified probabilities (p or q), we determine r, then s, the expected probabilities of each of the 2<sup>n-1</sup> possible partitions of taxa. For any tree T the relationship can be inverted. This allows the probabilities of change on the tree, p and q, to be estimated directly from observed data (r or s). These relationships have been used to analyse the behaviour of tree building algorithms under conditions when there are sufficient data. (This is when the tree does not change as more data are collected, i.e., convergence to a single tree.) With equal rates of evolution (i.e., with a molecular clock), we show that for n = 4 taxa, parsimony will always converge to the correct tree, but we give examples with n = 5 where parsimony will converge on an incorrect tree, even for equal rates of evolution. A further example with n = 6 shows convergence to an incorrect tree with equal but arbitrarily small rates of change. We interpret a basic difficulty with parsimony as 'long edges attract.' If there are additional taxa that intersect long edges on the tree, then this effect can be reduced. Some distance methods may also converge to an incorrect tree.
10.2307/2992402|Recent critics of distance data have argued that a molecular clock is a necessary assumption for the use of distance data in phylogenetic reconstruction. In fact, several pairwise tree-construction algorithms have been developed that make no such assumptions. When distances are additive, these algorithms efficiently recover the correct tree in spite of any rate-disparity. Furthermore, the correct tree will be unique in exhibiting a perfect-fit to a matrix of additive distances. Finally, net amounts of shared derived change can then be identified if the tree includes an unambiguous outgroup.
10.2307/2992403|The areas where the rates of change of biological variables across space are particularly high may correspond to either steep ecological gradients or regions of limited admixture among demes. A method for detecting such biological boundaries was proposed by Womble (1951), who suggested averaging the absolute values of the derivatives of the functions describing biological variation in space at various locations. We present here algorithms that quantify both the mean magnitude and the mean direction of change in surfaces representing distributions of biological measures (such as gene frequencies, measures of quantitative traits, etc.). Inferences on the microevolutionary processes affecting the populations can be made by comparing the boundaries detected with the distribution of environmental characteristics, or with the location of factors that may have prevented population admixture. Examples of the application of this method to both simulated data and gene frequencies of two natural populations are given.
10.2307/2992398|Geophysical maps depicting continental movement have consistently shown India, as it moved northward, to be located far out in the Tethys Sea. India split off from the African east coast about 148 m.y.a. From that time onward, according to almost all geophysical accounts, India was isolated from all other continents until the early Miocene when it made contact with Eurasia. But the biological data, both fossil and Recent, indicate that this concept cannot be correct. If India had really existed as an isolated, oceanic continent for about 100 m.y., it should have developed a peculiar biota with many endemic genera and families in its terrestrial and shallow marine habitats. But there are virtually no remains of organisms indicating that India was isolated for any substantial time (millions of years). Instead, we find that almost all Indian taxa were possessed in common with other continents. As time went on, the northern relationships became stronger and the southern ones weaker. Most of the recent geophysical accounts show India not making contact with Eurasia until the early Miocene, but fossil materials show that this event must have taken place by the early Eocene. It has been postulated that, as India moved northward, it created a biogeographic barrier that separated marine fish populations and resulted in the east-west provinces that are now apparent in the Indian Ocean. At the same time, the barrier effect was supposed to have resulted in the formation of sister species that are now located far apart. Information currently available indicates that most living, tropical marine species are probably not over 3 m.y. old. Consequently, the northward movement of India, which took place primarily between 148 and 50 m.y.a., could have no bearing on the relationships of modern species.
10.2307/2992397|Cavender (1978) introduced a model of an evolutionary branching process on a sequence of characters, where the characters take either of two states with symmetric probabilities of change between them. From this model, with a given evolutionary tree T and a character change probability p<sub>e</sub> for each edge e of T, we show how to derive some properties of the resulting sequences and distance measures between pairs of taxa. These can be used to test the effectiveness of current algorithms for recovering T, such as parsimony or distance methods. The relationships are described in terms of two matrices of exponential order. Although the matrices involved are large, they have simple inverses, so the initial conditions of the model can be recovered from these predicted properties. Assuming that some observed data are good approximations to the theoretical data derived from Cavender's model on a tree T, we can use a least squares fit estimate to find T, together with the probabilities p<sub>e</sub>. We will refer to the inferred tree with the probabilities p<sub>i</sub>, as the "closest tree" for that data. This provides us with a new criterion for inferring evolutionary trees from sequence data, which has a simple algorithm for its computation and overcomes some of the drawbacks of some earlier criteria. These relationships are illustrated by examples of hypothetical and real data, showing how the calculations are performed in the case of n = 4 taxa.
10.2307/2992379|Under a simple model of DNA sequence dissociation, DNA-DNA hybridization dissimilarity measures are expected to behave like the complement of Gower's coefficient of similarity, calculated for each pair of taxonomic units (j, k) across i homologues (nucleotide positions) with four possible states, multiplied by a constant relating base-pair mismatch to the temperature of DNA dissociation. DNA dissimilarity measures that include information only from homologues, therefore, are expected to conform to the axioms of a metric. Empirically, we have found that measures of dissimilarity between single-copy nuclear genomes regularly conform to 3 of the 4 metric axioms: identity, distinctness, and the triangle inequality. However, reciprocal values frequently fail to conform to the fourth axiom, symmetry. For some measures dependent upon the percent of reassociation (e.g., delta T
10.2307/2992384|Phylogenetic relationships of Pseudophryne and Metacrinia (P. nichollsi) were studied by micro-complement fixation analyses of serum albumin. Metacrinia is not congeneric with Pseudophryne, but Metacrinia and Myobatrachus are sister groups, and the lineage formed by these two genera is the sister group of Pseudophryne. By probing relationships within Pseudophryne we found (1) the western species P. occidentalis and P. guentheri resulted from an early Pleistocene divergence, thus supporting the suppression of Kankanophryne, and (2) P. douglasi evolved earlier from the same western lineage. In the east, P. bibroni, P. australis and P. coriacea are closely related and diverged in the Pliocene; the other four eastern species appear to have evolved in the late Miocene. The eastern Australian radiation is thus coincident with the origin of the western Australian lineages. We see no need to invoke multiple Pleistocene invasions of Tasmania to account for species diversity in southeastern Australia as advocated by Littlejohn and colleagues for 20 years. We argue that the species of Pseudophryne probably evolved through allopatric speciation events.
10.2307/2992380|Horizontal starch gel electrophoresis was used to examine isozymes of L-lactate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.27) found in testicular extracts of 14 avian species. The distribution of the products of the testis-specific lactate dehydrogenase locus (Ldh-X) were systematically informative. This product was found in the Rock Dove (Columba livia) and, for the first time, is reported from doves of the genera Streptopelia and Zenaida. However, products of the Ldh-X gene could not be detected from testicular extracts of the remaining 10 species. Based on the results of this study and a literature review, it is suggested that the columbid Ldh-X, mammalian Ldh-C and piscine Ldh-C may not be orthologous. The use of this character as a synapomorphy uniting Aves and Mammalia is unwarranted. It is hypothesized that the presence of Ldh-X may serve as a synapomorphy uniting members of the family Columbidae and possibly the order Columbiformes.
10.2307/2992381|Although many biologists acknowledge a fundamental relationship between species concepts and the processes thought to give rise to species, there is less agreement on the extent and desirability of this relationship. While some advocate species concepts explicitly linked to particular mechanisms of speciation, others believe that concepts will function best when they are independent of particular notions of process. The existence of a diversity of interpretations of "process" has hampered a clear view of the concept-process link. Although there are general reciprocal constraints between concepts and processes, we suggest that it is profitable to maintain species concepts logically distinct from particular mechanisms of speciation. We analyze an example (from the work of Hugh Paterson) in which such a logical distinction between concept and process has not been maintained. Paterson makes the validity of the biological species concept contingent upon a particular process of speciation (reinforcement). However, such a link occurs only if biologists impose the requirement that a species criterion be a functional trait. We argue that what qualifies the members or parts of evolving populations as different species is not a function of the particular mechanism that drives the divergence.
10.2307/2992383|The bootstrap method developed by Efron allows the estimation of measures of statistical accuracy, such as the standard errors and confidence limits, in cases where the underlying distribution is unknown or where sample sizes are small. This is frequently the case for statistics and data sets of systematic interest, especially in paleontology. The utility of the bootstrap is demonstrated for the reduced major axis (RMA) method for fitting the allometric equation. The results are in good agreement with statistical properties determined by available analytical methods and are superior to many of these methods in capturing the detailed distribution of the parameters. The bootstrap also allows the simultaneous comparison of slope and intercept estimates between taxa. Bootstrap methods should be a valuable tool in morphometrics.
10.2307/2992382|Comparison of allozymes and restriction endonuclease cleavage maps of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was used to infer phylogenetic relationships among four species of minnows in the cyprinid genus Notropis. Statistical analysis of the allozyme data supported the monophyly of N. chrysocephalus and N. cornutus (subgenus Luxilus) relative to N. photogenis and N. rubellus (subgenera Notropis and Hydrophlox, respectively). In contrast, statistical analysis of the mtDNA cleavage site data provided no resolution for these relationships. Given the rapid rate of vertebrate mtDNA evolution, mtDNA data were expected to provide greater taxonomic resolution than allozyme data. Four possible reasons for this discrepancy were considered; two of these, rate heterogeneity between genes and lineages and introgressive hybridization, were analyzed in detail. Comparison of sequence divergence estimates among genetically different regions of the same mtDNA and among mtDNAs of different species revealed significant variation in the relative rates of change. This variation can lead to intramolecular and interspecific differences in levels of convergence, and, thus, to a loss of phylogenetic resolution. Because of the propensity for these species to hybridize and the possibility of mtDNA introgression, the potential impact of hybridization and introgression was also considered. Given the internal factors affecting the evolution of mtDNA and the population genetic processes affecting its transmission, assumptions of rate homogeneity and of strict vertical inheritance should be closely scrutinized when constructing phylogenies with mtDNA data.
10.2307/2992282|Although comparisons of variation patterns with theoretical expectations and across species are playing an increasingly important role in systematics, there has been a lack of appropriate procedures for statistically testing the proposed hypotheses. We present a series of statistical tests for hypotheses of morphological integration and for interspecific comparison, along with examples of their application. These tests are based on various randomization and resampling procedures, such as Mantel's test with its recent extensions and bootstrapping. They have the advantage of avoiding the specific and strict distributional assumptions invoked by analytically-based statistics. The statistical procedures described include one for testing the fit of observed correlation matrices to hypotheses of morphological integration and a related test for significant differences in the fit of two alternative hypotheses of morphological integration to the observed correlation structure. Tests for significant similarity in the patterns and magnitudes of variance and correlation among species are also provided.
10.2307/2992286|Comparative systematic studies may use different sets of data or different sets of taxa to evaluate the quality of phylogenetic data and phylogenetic hypotheses based on levels of homoplasy as implied by the length of minimum length trees. For comparisons involving diverse arrays of characters and taxa, an appropriate index is required to permit comparisons. Examination of the number of steps per character (NSC) on minimum length trees for 28 data sets revealed a highly significant positive correlation between NSC and the number of taxa and, concomitantly, a highly significant negative correlation between the consistency index (CI) of Kluge and Farris (1969) and the number of taxa. Theoretical expectations from a study of the number of steps on random and minimum length trees (Archie and Felsenstein, 1989) agree with this finding. Computer simulations using randomly selected subsets of taxa and characters from the Drosophila data set of Throckmorton (1968) revealed a similar finding. The latter two studies also revealed a negative relationship between the CI and the number of characters in a study. These findings imply that the CI is not an appropriate index of homoplasy for comparative taxonomic studies. A new index, the homoplasy excess ratio (HER), is introduced that takes into account the expected increase in overall homoplasy levels with increasing numbers of taxa in systematic studies. The properties of HER are examined for the 28 data sets taken from the literature and, in conjunction with the simulations using the Drosophila data set, HER is shown to be more appropriate than CI in comparative taxonomic studies that wish to measure the average level of homoplasy in data sets involving different groups of taxa or different characters. Because HER is a computationally intensive statistic to calculate, two estimates are derived and examined. These estimates, the random expected homoplasy excess ratio (REHER) and the homoplasy excess ratio minimum (HERM), can be easily calculated from the formulas of Archie and Felsenstein (1989) and from intrinsic properties of the data matrix, respectively. HERM is shown to be a better estimator of HER and a linear regression equation is derived to estimate HER from HERM.
10.2307/2992284|A new classification of the higher taxonomic levels within the New World bat family Phyllostomidae is presented which designates evolutionary relationships, provides a phylogenetic framework upon which modifications can be made as new comparative data are produced, and resolves certain obvious unnatural taxa that exist in the traditional classification. This new classification is a synthesis of classical morphological, chromosomal, and biochemical data. Within the family three subfamilies, the Desmodontinae, Phyllostominae, and Vampyrinae are recognized. The Desmodontinae includes the three genera of vampires, the Vampyrinae includes Vampyrum, Trachops, and Chrotopterus, and the Phyllostominae contains three tribes, the Phyllostomini (including Phyllostomus, Tonatia, Mimon, Lonchorhina, and Macrophyllum), the Glossophagini (including genera of the previously recognized Glossophaginae and Brachyphyllinae), and Stenodermatini (including genera of the previously recognized Stenodermatinae and Carolliinae). Two genera (Macrotus and Micronycteris), do not share synapomorphies with any of these subfamilies, but have retained a large number of plesiomorphic features and are placed as incertae sedis.
2992285|A randomization procedure is proposed to determine if sets of data used for phylogenetic analysis contain phylogenetically nonrandom information. The method compares the observed number of steps on a minimum length tree with the mean number of steps on minimum length trees derived from the same data set after character state assignments have been randomly permuted within each character. Such randomized data sets will exhibit exactly the same character state distributions as the original data but no phylogenetic information. In tests of 28 separate data sets using this procedure, the minimum lengths of each data set differed significantly from that expected for phylogenetically non-informative data in spite of the fact that observed consistency indices from the original data were as low as 0.230. The high correlation between number of steps per character on minimum length trees and number of taxa among the 28 original data sets is consistent with that expected if a more or less constant frequency of homoplasy occurs per character per taxon. This correlation implies that the consistency index may be an inappropriate, comparative measure of homoplasy among data sets. The observed pattern of increasing homoplasy with increasing numbers of taxa for the original data sets is curvilinear (when forced to pass through a fixed point for all data sets). This is qualitatively different from that expected for random data. Possible uses of the randomization techniques are suggested in cladistic studies using either compatibility analysis or parsimony.
10.2307/2992283|Although phylogenetic analysis based on synapomorphies is said to comply better with the hypothetico-deductive methodology advocated by Popper and other philosophers of science than other approaches to phylogenetic reconstruction, the role of parsimony in cladistic analysis is not consistent with that of the hypothetico-deductive method. Parsimony evaluates the form of a hypothesis but cannot decide on the relative support for hypotheses. Cladistic analysis is not a hypothetico-deductive procedure for testing hypotheses; it is an inductive procedure that summarizes the information from character analysis (the synapomorphies) and not a separate level in the hierarchy of deductively testable hypotheses of phylogenetic analysis. Synapomorphies are not hypothetico-deductive tests of cladistic hypotheses. In contrast, the testing of hypotheses of synapomorphy during character analysis appears to conform to hypothetico-deductive principles. Thus, hypotheses of relationship can be tested deductively only during character analysis. The use of parsimony to inductively generate cladograms is justified but it is unclear which of various procedures based on parsimony is the most appropriate. Because incongruence among synapomorphies can be resolved only by character analysis, emphasis should be placed on the most testable characters as in Neff's (1986) a priori method of character weighting that is based on testing and corroboration.
10.2307/2413219|Eleutherodactylus bransfordii (Cope, 1886) is a highly polymorphic species of frog with a complex and interesting taxonomic history. This taxon was originally divided into multiple species which were later synonymized because the morphological data did not support any unique and defining characters. The present study evaluates the current taxonomic status of E. bransfordii based on an electrophoretic comparison of six Costa Rican localities. The allozyme data were analyzed cladistically and geographically for patterns of relationship and genetic differentiation. These samples could be clustered into three distinct geographic components representing separate evolutionary lineages. The geographic and electrophoretic data suggest that at least two of these components constitute separate species reflecting different biogeographic regions. One form sampled in the Golfo Dulcean region is therefore resurrected as Eleutherodactylus stejnegerianus (Cope, 1893), and the taxon E. bransfordii is restricted to populations represented by Cahuita, Cascajal, La Selva, and Monteverde. Formal taxonomic recognition of a second sympatric form found in the Golfo Dulcean region awaits further study.
10.2307/2413215|The genetic interaction between clinally varying populations of pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae) along the eastern flank of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains in Colorado and New Mexico is examined by comparative karyology, electromorphic analysis of proteins, and colorimetric and morphometric analyses of morphology. Diploid number varies clinally along the transected populations from 76 in the south to 88 in the north. The karyotypic change is unaccompanied by electromorphic divergence as all populations studied share greater than 95% similarity, although similar clines in pelage brightness and mean morphometric coefficient of variation are evident. Individuals with intermediate diploid numbers suffer no apparent fitness deficit. The patterns of genetic interaction at the Sangre de Cristo contact are compared with four other T. bottae "contact zones" previously investigated. These five situations include differentiated parental forms which span the range of known genetic (karyological and electromorphic) divergence in the T. bottae species group, and involve both instances of reproductive isolation and extensive introgressive hybridization. Cline widths for T. bottae zones vary from approximately 1 km to 200 km, with the nature of the environmental setting at a contact being more predictive of cline width than gross measures of genetic differentiation (e.g., electromorphic distance values and chromosome numbers).
10.2307/2413218|Reasons for the lack of consistency in recognition of taxa at the ordinal and higher levels are of two types: disagreement on limits (and ranking) and on the actual names to be used. Agreement on delimitation and ranking is unlikely since these are subjectively determined, but agreement on the correct names for particular taxa is possible. A set of principles to be followed in applying names to animal taxa at the levels above superfamily is formulated, involving the concept of taxonomic group levels, the inappropriateness of typification, the necessity for recognition of priority, rejection of homonymy, recommendations on the form and meanings of names, changes of rank, publication and the establishment of starting points. In order to avoid excessive changes in names, these principles can only be applied prospectively.
10.2307/2413216|Systematists and geneticists often wish to compare two pair-wise distance or similarity matrices based on different characters. Conventional correlation tests are not appropriate in such situations because of dependencies among the entries in each matrix. A broad class of permutation tests for association between distance matrices is described. Specific members of the class are discussed and compared using real and simulated data. Statistics resembling Kendall's tau and Spearman's rho are found to have desirable power and invariance properties.
10.2307/2413217|To maintain that the names of biological species are purely denotative proper names which cannot be defined is to maintain, in effect, that a biological species is confined to the actual world which is to maintain, in turn, that every property of a species is essential to it. The consequence of such a view is to render impossible the explanation of the origin and coherence of named chunks of the genealogical nexus.
10.2307/2413220|Morphological and allozymic variation in the stichaeid fish Anoplarchus purpurescens was compared among samples collected from open-coast localities from Alaska to California and from inner-coastal localities in Washington. We evaluated the possibility that fish from southern California (Monterey Bay southward) are genetically distinct from fish from more northern areas, which has bearing on the relevance of allozymic data from southern California fish in interpreting patterns of allozymic variation in A. purpurescens elsewhere in its geographical range. Examination of three morphological characters and 12 enzyme loci indicated the lack of genetic distinctiveness of southern California populations from more northern ones, which is consistent with the suggestion that current-mediated transport of the planktonic larvae promotes genetic dispersal and/or mixing among populations. The lack of genetic distinctiveness argues against the validity of a separate southern California subspecies (A. p. archolepis; Hubbs, 1927), but more importantly allows us to use the geographical pattern of muscle lactate dehydrogenase (LDH-A) variation in California to refute the hypothesis that the A' allele is directly favored by elevated environmental temperature. Allelic frequencies in Alaska populations provide a second test of, and similarly refute, the hypothesis that elevated temperature per se selectively favors individuals with the A' allele. Although several alternative hypotheses on the evolutionary significance of LDH-A variation in A. purpurescens can be envisioned, presently a plausible one is that heterozygosity at the LDH-A locus is selectively favored by increased environmental thermal variation. This hypothesis is consistent not only with the geographical pattern of variation within Washington innercoastal waters (Johnson, 1971), but also with observed changes in allelic frequencies along the outer coast both to the south (California) and to the north (Alaska). We found no significant correlation between the amount of allozymic variation (at the LDH-A and PGM loci) and morphological variation present within localities, and heterozygous fish were no more variable for meristic traits than were homozygous fish. There was no clear and consistent pattern of association between particular genotypes and morphological characters. The lack of a significant relationship between enzyme and morphological traits probably is due to appreciable environmental (non-genetic) influences on the morphological characters examined, which may obscure whatever enzyme-morphological covariation exists.
10.2307/2413166|Specimen locality data, an essential resource of systematic collections, is often recorded in inaccurate, poorly reproducible, and nonuniform ways that sharply limit the value of specimens, such as citing the nearest town, giving distance and direction from a landmark, or describing a locality in terms of geographic features. In contrast, coordinate grid systems can provide accurate, reproducible, and uniform locality data, and also greatly simplify distribution mapping. Three grid systems are available on large-scale government quadrangle maps in North America. The U.S. land survey grids, while useful locally, do not apply to most areas and are too irregular to use for mapping. The Universal Transverse Mercator Grid, with separate plane grids for adjacent narrow zones, has ample coverage, accuracy, and reproducibility, but relocating and mapping coordinates can be very complex. The decimal geographic grid proposed here, using latitude/longitude with decimal parts of degrees instead of minutes and seconds, seems best for use in North America. Decimal geographic coordinates of any desired accuracy are easy to determine, use, and map. Accuracy of 0.001
10.2307/2413164|We detected hybrids between the bull trout (Salvelinus confluentus) and the brook trout (S. fontinalis) in three samples from the Upper Columbia River drainage in Montana using 10 isozyme loci that differentiate these species. The occurrence of only first generation, male hybrids indicates that these hybrids are almost certainly sterile. We counted 10 meristic characters from all of the bull trout, brook trout, and their hybrids in the sample from the South Fork of Lolo Creek. Univariate and multivariate analyses of the meristic data conclusively indicated that the hybrids are not meristically intermediate to the parental species. The hybrids had counts higher than either of the parental species or counts similar to the parental species with the higher count. The consistent tendency for the hybrids to have high meristic counts is suggested to be due to reduced developmental rate caused by genetic incompatibility between the parental genomes.
10.2307/2413167|G- and C-banded chromosomes of Holochilus brasiliensis, Nectomys squamipes, Neacomys guianae, Sigmodon hispidus, and 11 species of Oryzomys are compared and cladistically analyzed to document direction, type, and magnitude of chromosomal evolution in these species. Direction of chromosomal evolution was determined from the proposed primitive G-band sequences for cricetid rodents. Numbers and types of chromosomal rearrangements identified in the largest 12 chromosomes of Oryzomys were 13 Robertsonian translocations (9 of which are polymorphic), 21 other translocations, 8 pericentric inversions, 1 paracentric inversion, and 12 rearrangements whose nature could not be identified from banding sequences. In 11 species of Oryzomys there are about 2.5 times as many euchromatic rearrangements as found in 18 species of Peromyscus. It is concluded that: (1) The early radiation of the peromyscine-neotomine-oryzomyine lineages was accompanied by little chromosomal evolution. (2) Chromosomal evolution in cricetine rodents does not appear to fit the predictions of the canalization model. (3) None of the currently accepted broadly-based models of chromosomal evolution appears adequate to explain the pattern of variation observed in the cricetines (especially the variation within and between Oryzomys and Peromyscus). (4) Nondifferentially stained chromosomes generally will not be a useful predictor of phylogenetic relationships. (5) For some clades, G-banded sequences provide synapomorphies for the development of systematic hypotheses; however, several branching events cannot be resolved with the quality of G-bands available to us. Some of the phylogenetic hypotheses are: (1) that of the five genera of South American cricetids examined, Oryzomys and Holochilus appear to be the most closely related (based on morphology, Holochilus was thought to be more closely related to Sigmodon); (2) that Neacomys, Holochilus, and species of Oryzomys examined shared a common ancestry after diverging from the Nectomys lineage; and (3) chromosomal characters identified by us failed to document that Sigmodon is more closely related to the other South American genera (Oryzomys, Holochilus, Neacomys, and Nectomys) than it is to the North American cricetids (for example, Neotoma and Peromyscus). One example of lack of congruence documents convergence in chromosomal rearrangements.
10.2307/2413168|The complex arrays of lipids secreted from the exocrine Dufour's glands of short-tongued bees (Colletidae, Halictidae, Oxaeidae, Andrenidae, Melittidae) reflect both (1) occasional evolutionary origins of novel chemical structures, and (2) frequent re-orchestrations of suites of ancestrally derived components. Despite the rarity of unique lipid constituents, cladistic analyses of the combinations of these diverse esters, aldehydes, lactones, hydrocarbons and carboxylic acids yield rooted phylogenies that are often either congruent with well-defined taxa or decisive for otherwise ambiguous taxonomic relationships. The short-tongued bees are chemosystematically divisable by their Dufour's gland lipids into two lineages: the "lactone-producing" bees (Colletidae, Oxaeidae, Halictinae, Nomiinae) and an andrenid-melittid-dufoureine group. Bee taxa that are soundly defined by morphological criteria-such as Perdita, Melitta, Protandrena, and the Calliopsis-Nomadopsis-Hypomacrotera group ("paraffin bees")-also appear to be monophyletic using the lipid characters. The Dufour's gland lipid products of previously unrepresented genera of the Panurginae (16 spp.), Dasypodinae (1 sp.), and Melittinae (1 sp.) are described, as are a new representative each of Andrena, Dufourea, and Melitta.
10.2307/2413163|The relationship between genic and chromosomal distance was examined for 11 sets of mammalian taxa using a matrix regression procedure. Nine of the 11 comparisons were statistically significant, indicating a lack of independence between genic and chromosomal evolution, but not necessarily a causal relationship. The covariation of genic and chromosomal distance may be related to population structure. Genic and chromosomal evolution would be affected in a similar way by a population structure that is sensitive to the influence of genetic drift and inbreeding.
10.2307/2413161|The number and percentage of pages devoted to various topics in Systematic Zoology are traced from the inception of the journal to the present. The categories used include papers that: (a) are largely descriptive; (b) argue for or against a particular taxonomic philosophy; (c) apply the methods of a particular taxonomic philosophy; (d) are primarily quantitative; (e) discuss nomenclatural problems, and are either theoretical or applied papers in (f) evolutionary theory, (g) phylogeny reconstruction, or (h) biogeography. Changes in proportions of contributions in these categories are mapped onto changes in editorship of the journal to see what effects such changes have had on the sorts of papers published. The changes in Editor of primary concern involve the move from the American Museum of Natural History to the University of Kansas in 1963 and the return to the American Museum 10 years later in 1973.
10.2307/2413162|Holomorphological similarities can be based on synapomorphies, symplesiomorphies, convergences, diffuse parallelisms through parallel selection, and underlying synapomorphies (i.e., close parallelism as a result of inherited factors within a monophyletic group causing incomplete synapomorphy). Two sets of minimum criteria for asserting synapomorphies are given; one does not allow for outside parallelism and secondary reductions, reversals or change, while the other allows for reductions in apomorphic part taxa (subgroups) and outside parallelism in groups which cannot be sister groups. A theoretical scheme of argumentation (cladogram) secured through synapomorphies satisfying the strictest criteria is drawn. Three modifications of synapomorphies satisfying the second set of criteria are discussed and exemplified. The remaining six hypothetical trends can be explained as underlying synapomorphies, as diffuse parallel selections (including convergence) or as secondary reductions (and reversals). Hypothetical phylogenetic trees with the distribution of character alternatives for each taxon including hypothetical ancestors are given for each alternate explanation, discussed and exemplified from chironomid morphology. When the monophyly of every taxon is established, underlying synapomorphy may assert monophyly for the collective taxon. As the underlying synapomorphy consists in the capacity to develop synapomorphy, loss of this capacity can be regarded, under certain circumstances, as a new synapomorphy. There appears to be analogy between species genetics (pleiotropy, polygenes, suppressive genes) and supraspecific phylogenetics. The canalized evolutionary potential exemplified through underlying synapomorphies corresponds to the potential information classes of Wiley and Brooks (1982).
10.2307/2413165|A set of 33 descriptions of Vorticella species were selected to represent the range of outline forms observed within the genus. These forms were assigned to one of five groups, quantified and then analyzed by a number of methods including standardization, multivariate analysis, angular measurement and Fourier transformation. All methods were able to resolve the shapes to some degree. The variation in shape seemed to be greater within each of the nominal groups than between the groups.
10.2307/2413279|The Caminalcules are a group of "organisms" generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. A reanalysis of an earlier data matrix of the Caminalcules revealed some inconsistencies and errors which necessitated recoding of some characters. The resulting differences with earlier results are minor. The images of all 77 Caminalcules are featured, those of the 48 fossil species for the first time. The characters of the Caminalcules are defined and a data matrix is furnished for all Recent and fossil species. A new phenetic standard is proposed for the Caminalcules which divides them into five "genera." The true cladogram is revealed for the first time. Recent Caminalcules have evolved over 19 time periods. Five branches correspond to the phenetic genera but originate at greatly differing time periods. Four lines terminate in fossils. A series of measures for quantifying evolutionary change is defined, including measures for homoplasy, parallelism, and reversal. A survey is made of these measures and of other statistics of relevance to systematics for 19 data sets from the numerical taxonomic literature. The Caminalcules turn out to be compatible to data sets on real organisms with respect to all these measures, as well as with respect to evolutionary rates and species longevities. Thus, questions raised by an analysis of the Caminalcules should be of interest to systematists concerned with the analysis of data sets on real organisms.
10.2307/2413278|An attempt was made to repeal computations reported in two previous studies of taxonomic congruence, which concluded that the Wagner method yielded much more stable classifications than did phenetic clustering methods. Two of the nine data sets used in the previous studies could not be reconstructed from the cited sources. None of the values for the consensus index could be confirmed, one reason being that an inappropriate method for computing consensus trees was used which was dependent upon an arbitrary and unspecified system of labelling the internal nodes of the trees being compared (i.e., Adams-1 consensus trees were used rather than Adams-2 trees). In the majority of the data sets, our trees were shorter than those reported in the previous studies. For many of the data sets, a number of distinct tree topologies had the same minimum length. In such cases the congruence between two data sets was estimated both by comparing all possible pairs of trees between two data sets and by computing the strict consensuses of trees found within a data set. Strict consensus trees were used in the comparisons, since Adams-2 trees too often contain sets that are not consistent with either of the two original trees. Since the CI<sub>M</sub> consensus index has been shown to have the undesirable property of being very sensitive to the symmetry of the trees being compared, other indices (CI<sub>C</sub> and CI<sub>R1</sub>) were computed. Contrary to the results of the previous studies, we found that classifications based on minimum length trees were about as stable as those based upon the UPGMA clustering method. The results varied greatly from data set to data set, but the averages for the two methods were very similar (and both were very poor). The implications of these results are discussed.
10.2307/2413276|The stability (measured using matrix correlations) of phenetic classifications based on partitions of continuous morphometric data (skeletal measurements from three groups of birds) was compared for analyses involving two transformations: removal of size and removal of the common part (an estimate of the taxon of the study group). Linear regression was used in both transformations to remove that portion of the variance accounted for by the estimate of either size or the common part. The size estimate was a composite variable computed as the mean of three bone lengths. The estimate of the common part was the set of measurements used to form the data set to be analyzed but taken on a similar species outside the study group. Results derived from three similarity measures (product-moment correlations, average taxonomic distances and Manhattan distances) were also compared. In all cases distance measures produced significantly higher average congruence between classifications than did correlations. For two data sets the transformation to remove the common part resulted in significantly higher mean congruence (for distances) than did the transformation to remove size; for the third data set there was no significant difference. The common-part-removed transformation is suggested for use in phenetic studies of continuous morphometric data.
10.2307/2413275|The Eleutherodactylus rugulosus group of Savage (1975) contains 11 nominal species of frogs distributed throughout Mexico and Central America. Three subgroups are currently recognized from morphological data. The E. fleischmanni subgroup includes E. angelicus, E. escoces, E. fleischmanni, and E. punctariolus, whereas the E. rugulosus subgroup contains E. azueroensis, E. berkenbuschii, E. brocchi, E. rugulosus, E. taurus, and E. vocalis. These two subgroups form a monophyletic component related to the monotypic subgroup, E. merendonensis. A major purpose of the present study is to emphasize that phylogenetic relationships must be constructed with all available information subjected to cladistic methods. The tendency to emphasize one's own data to the complete or partial exclusion of others must be avoided in favor of synthetic approaches. Recently, the morphological data of Savage (1975) have been supplemented with allozyme and karyological characteristics. This recent availability of additional data provides the opportunity to evaluate the relationships of the E. rugulosus group based on a phylogenetic synthesis of multiple character sets. A general cladogram of the E. rugulosus group is constructed from a phylogenetic synthesis of allozyme, morphological, and karyological information. The allozyme, morphological, and karyological data are analyzed separately with the transformation series analysis procedure and the three sets of transformed results are combined into one character set. The combined data matrix is subjected to Wagner analysis and the most parsimonious tree is retained as the general cladogram. The hypotheses (phylogeny and classification) of Savage (1975) are evaluated and modified against the general cladogram. The phylogenetic relationships of the general cladogram do not support the hypotheses (phylogeny and classification) of Savage (1975). Eleutherodactylus azueroensis (the E. azueroensis subgroup) and E. vocalis (the E. vocalis subgroup) constitute separate lineages of a trichotomy originating from the root of the cladogram. All other species belong to the third lineage (the E. punctariolus subgroup) divided into two major components. These components include: (1) E. fleischmanni and the two sister species, E. angelicus and E. escoces (the E. fleischmanni infragroup); and (2) E. berkenbuschii, E. brocchi, E. merendonensis, E. punctariolus, E. rugulosus, and E. taurus (the E. punctariolus infragroup). Eleutherodactylus taurus and the two sister species, E. merendonensis and E. punctariolus, form a distinct cluster related to E. brocchi, E. berkenbuschii, and E. rugulosus in that order.
10.2307/2413280|The ability of numerical methods to estimate the true cladogram is examined, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Estimated cladograms obtained by numerical methods are only moderately good estimates of the true cladogeny. Of the various models applied in numerical cladistics, the closeness of approximation to the true cladogeny is in the following order: best-Wagner parsimony and Camin-Sokal parsimony; second-polymorphism parsimony; third-character compatibility and Fitch's nonsequential method; fourth-UPGMA phenograms; worst-Dollo parsimony. Since the data matrix contains NC (no comparison) states, numerical cladistic algorithms that take account of these states give better results than those that do not. For distance Wagner algorithms, there is little difference in the outcome between midpoint rooting and rooting with a zero vector or with the true ancestor. By separate permutations of the order of the OTUs that are input to the numerical algorithm, trees of varying length were obtained from which the shortest could be chosen. Shortest trees, computed globally over all OTUs or separately for each Caminalcule genus, are not necessarily those that best estimate the true cladogeny. Numerical cladistic estimates separately computed for genera are poorer than those based on the entire taxon. The effects of homoplasy and divergence on the results of phenetic and cladistic algorithms are investigated in general and employed to explain in detail the differences among the true cladogram, the phenogram, and the estimated cladogram. The agreements observed are all in cases where given taxa diverge greatly from ancestral stems. Discrepancies are due to (A) parallelisms in the cladogeny affecting phenetic similarities and (B) divergence of cladistically close relatives increasing the relative phenetic similarity of cladistically more distant relatives. These two cases are about equally frequent.
10.2307/2413277|The phylogeny of the Rana pipiens complex as supported by cladistic analysis of the enzymatic products of 50 gene loci is presented. Two broadly sympatric groups within the complex are identified and named the Alpha and Beta divisions. Within both of these divisions, a dichotomy exists between North American and Middle American species. The two groups in the Alpha division are recognized as the R. montezumae species group and the R. areolata species group; the two in the Beta division are referred to the R. pipiens species group and the R. berlandieri species group. Most of the species within a species group are distributed parapatrically; some hybridization may take place within narrow zones of sympatry. Limited hybridization also occurs in the two narrow zones of sympatry that exist between members of different species groups in the same division. However, although sympatry between Alpha division species and Beta division species is extensive, interdivisional hybridization is relatively rare.
10.2307/2413443|Morphometric variation was studied among samples of fox sparrows taken in 1926-1927 and 1978-1980 at seven sites in California. Samples of males were taken at two of the seven sites in both 1978 and 1979, and five samples of males were measured a second time to assess measurement error. Thus, 21 groups of males (14 "main" samples, 2 samples one year apart, and 5 remeasured samples) and 14 groups of females were used in this study. Thirty-one measurements of skeletal characters were taken on 317 males and 142 females, plus on the 101 males that were remeasured. The main objective was to determine if phenotypic change had occurred over a half century, and to quantify the extent of such temporal change relative to levels and patterns of geographic variation. In the temporal samples, an average of 2.2 (7.1%) significant character differences per site was observed. Hence, most characters showed no significant differences over 50 years. Character differences between remeasured, temporal, and geographic samples were quantified by computing average percentage differences between character means. Taxonomic distances were computed between all pairs of samples (sexes separate). Ten characters were excluded from analyses due to relatively high levels of measurement error. Percentage differences for the remaining 21 character means for remeasured samples averaged 0.33  SD of 0.31% and resulted in an average taxonomic distance between replicates of 0.25. Average percentage differences in character means over 50 years (0.98  0.79%) were similar to geographic differences (1.14  0.88%) among samples taken during the same time period. Average taxonomic distance between samples taken 50 years apart (0.71  0.21) was somewhat less than that between temporally comparable samples from different sites (0.84  0.16). However, samples taken 50 years apart at a site can be as different as those from sites 100 to 200 km apart and assigned to different subspecies. Multivariate analysis of variance revealed that temporal samples at two (of seven) sites differed significantly, and generalized discriminant analysis obtained significant differences between temporal samples at two additional sites. Temporal phenotypic stability was evident in that the same two groupings of samples were obtained in analyses of both old and new samples. However, patterns of variation in the two time periods, within these two main groupings of samples, are not concordant because of phenotypic change over time. That is, temporal change altered geographic patterns. Males and females showed different patterns of variation. No clear temporal trends in morphological change were identified, either in individual characters across sites, or in suites of characters within population samples. Characters with the largest relative differences over 50 years did not tend to show large geographic differences. The average taxonomic distance among old samples did not differ from that computed between recent samples; therefore, the populations at these sites are not diverging phenetically. Although the genetic basis of the phenotypic variation measured here is unknown, temporal variation could be adaptive either through phenotypic response to environmental change or by maintaining a store of morphological variability.
10.2307/2413446|The taxonomic congruence of phenetic and cladistic classifications is tested, as is the closeness of estimated cladograms to the true cladogram as a function of the number of characters employed, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Congruence was tested by random bipartitions of character suites. Results show the stability of phenetic classifications as very much higher than that of cladistic estimates. The consensus of cladistic classifications based on bipartitions is higher with the true cladogram than between cladistic classifications based on complementary bipartitions. But phenetic classifications based on these same bipartitions have an even higher consensus with a phenetic standard classification based on all characters, and a moderately higher consensus with the true cladogram. The following three cladistic estimation methods did not produce materially differing results: distance Wagner procedure with midpoint rooting; the same procedure with rooting at the true ancestor; Wagner parsimony based on additive binary coding, analysis of characters with no comparison states, and rooting at the true ancestor. Estimated cladograms based on all 85 characters are closer to the true cladogeny than phenograms computed for these characters. When estimated cladograms are based on fewer characters, they tend to become less close to the true cladogram than are phenograms based on the identical subsuites of characters. The exact relationships differ with the consensus measure employed. Estimates based on shortest Wagner trees are frequently not as close to the true cladogram as longer trees based on the same characters. The implications of the above findings for systematic theory and practice are discussed.
10.2307/2413445|The consequences of introducing fossil species into a numerical taxonomic data set are examined, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Inclusion of fossils into the phenetic classification introduces some nonconvex taxa at higher phenetic levels, but unites phenetically homogeneous groups of mixed Recent and fossil composition. There is good correspondence of phenetics with phylogenetic sequences. The taxonomic relationships of the phenetic classification of Recent plus fossil forms can be explained by the amount of evolutionary change known to have occurred in given internodes. All but one of the mutually closest pairs in the phenogram are ancestor-descendant pairs. Gingerich's stratophenetic method yields a reasonably good estimated cladogram, but is misled by the occurrence of homoplasy in portions of the tree. Adding fossils improves estimates of the true cladogram based on the distance Wagner method but not estimates based on the Wagner parsimony algorithm. Estimated cladograms approach the true cladogram more closely than phenograms do, yet even the best estimate including the fossils has a strict consensus index no higher than 0.667. There are 10 characters that define genera. Their removal from the data base affects phenetic classifications slightly, cladistic classifications somewhat more. A cladistic classification of the Recent Caminalcules unnecessarily raises the ranks of some taxa. The less speciose and more symmetrical taxa emerge at lower taxonomic ranks than more speciose and asymmetrical taxa. Adding fossils to the Caminalcules requires a greater number of ranks for a cladistic than for a phenetic classification.
10.2307/2413444|Hyperclust is a new clustering method with which we search for hierarchical structure in binary data. These hierarchical trees have the following properties. Any two objects (branches), that are joined at a node, share common characters in a manner consistent with a random allocation model. This model uses a character pool which is explicitly defined for every node. The test statistic (number of characters shared) follows a hypergeometric probability distribution. Furthermore alternative random allocation models can be tested by using different character pools. Finally by constructing alternative trees incorporating overlapping subsets of objects, we can test whether the local structure within those subsets can be adequately described by a hierarchical model.
10.2307/2412812|Multivariate discriminant and canonical analysis techniques were applied to suites of six (A) and eight (B) morphometric characters, respectively, in two separate inbred populations of C57BL/6 house mice. Each population consisted of six classes of male mice which differed only in the particular allele present at the agouti locus. The six genotypes (aa, a<sup>t</sup>a, a<sup>t</sup>a<sup>t</sup>, Aa, A<sup>vy</sup>a, A<sup>y</sup>a) were previously found to exert significant pleiotropic effects on most of the characters, the dominant alleles in general causing a decrease from the standard aa genotype. Among the A characters, the width of the first upper molar was the most powerful genotype discriminator, whereas interorbital width was most important among the B characters. Contributions of the characters to the canonical variates generally reflected known correlation patterns as seen from the results of principal component analyses. Discrimination plots and phenograms of the six genotypes consistently showed the a<sup>t</sup>a<sup>t</sup> and A<sup>y</sup>a genotypes as distinctive. The percentage of correct classification in the discriminant analysis classification matrices was similar (55% and 60%) for both sets of characters. The implications of the results for topics of interest to systematists (pleiotropy, subspeciation, natural selection) are discussed.
10.2307/2412809|The concept of species (as taxa) adopted by an investigator will influence his perception of the processes by which species originate. The concept adopted should have as universal applicability as current knowledge permits. Simpson's definition of a species is modified to state: a species is a lineage of ancestral descendant populations which maintains its identity from other such lineages and which has its own evolutionary tendencies and historical fate. This definition is defended as that which has widest applicability given current knowledge of evolutionary processes. Four corollaries are deduced and discussed relative to other species concepts: (1) all organisms, past and present, belong to some evolutionary species; (2) reproductive isolation must be effective enough to permit maintenance of identity from other contemporary lineages; (3) morphological distinctiveness is not necessary; and (4) no presumed (hypothesized) single lineage may be subdivided into a series of ancestral-descendant "species." The application of the evolutionary species concept to allopatric demes and to asexual species is discussed and it is concluded that the lack of evolutionary divergence forms the basis for grouping such populations into single species. It is suggested that some ecological species definitions lead to under-estimations of the rate of extinction due to interspecific competition because their logical framework excludes unsuccessful species from being species. Finally, the implications of accepting an evolutionary species concept to the field of phylogeny reconstruction are discussed.
10.2307/2412811|The 24 forms of kangaroo rats (Dipodomys) that have been recognized as species by one or more recent authors were studied using phenetic techniques. A total of 41 morphometric characters (4 skin, 16 skull, and 21 post-cranial) were measured for up to 10 males and 10 females of each species. The standardized average measurements were analyzed and then measurements were divided by principal component 1 projections based on unstandardized data to reduce the influence of overall size. Phenograms and three-dimensional principal component models were produced and the results compared with the findings of previous authors, including those from allozyme analyses. Several species pairs and groups involving a few species were stable throughout our studies and consistent with groups identified in phylogenetic, specialization, or other classificatory schemes. These include: compactus and ordii; elephantinus and venustus; agilis, paralius, peninsularis, and antiquarius; nitratoides and merriami; and ornatus and phillipsii. However, marked morphologic gaps (other than those based on size) are not present between many of the species groups and attempts to place species into such groups in classifications probably result in an indication of distinctness that goes beyond what is found in nature. In terms of interspecific comparisons, there was no association between phenetic groups based on morphologic data and those constructed using allozyme findings. When comparisons were made among previous classifications and our results, the allozyme data produced the most divergent classifications. Overall, the associations between our morphologic results and previous classifications were relatively weak, reflecting by and large the variance in arrangements of species groups, rather than major differences within groups. Given the relative indistinctness of morphologic groups, it seems unlikely that any one classification can accurately represent interspecific phenetic, cladistic, and/or phylogenetic affinities within the genus.
10.2307/2412808|Historical explanations of biotic distribution fall into two classes, dispersal explanations and vicariance explanations. Dispersal models explain disjunctions by dispersal across pre-existing barriers, vicariance models by the appearance of barriers fragmenting the ranges of ancestral species. Distributional data seem insufficient to resolve decisively either dispersal or vicariance as the cause of particular allopatric distribution patterns. When faced with such a pattern our first question should therefore be directed not to its cause, but to whether or not it conforms to a general pattern of relationships shown by taxa endemic to the areas occupied. Two-taxon statements are always compatible with a general pattern; three-taxon statements are therefore the most basic possible units of biogeographic (as well as phylogenetic) analysis. Analysis of three-taxon statements involves converting a hypothesis about the interrelationships of taxa (a cladogram indicating relative recency of common ancestry) to one concerning the interrelationships of areas (a cladogram indicating relative recency of common ancestral biotas). The generality of the area hypothesis may be tested by comparison with other groups endemic to the relevant areas. If the area hypothesis is corroborated as general, a statement of the relative recency of interconnections among areas is obtained, and evidence from historical geology may allow us to specify the nature of those interconnections and thereby the cause of those distributions that conform to the general pattern. Analysis of four-taxon statements indicates that the availability of structurally different patterns and of groups that can serve as adequate tests of the generality of those patterns increases with the addition of taxa to the hypothesis, and that neither extinction nor the failure of some groups to respond (by speciating) to given dispersal or vicariance events interferes with the analysis.
10.2307/2412810|A simple method of counting the number of possible evolutionary trees is presented. The trees are assumed to be rooted, with labelled tips but unlabelled root and unlabelled interior nodes. The method allows multifurcations as well as bifurcations. It makes use of a simple recurrence relation for T(n,m), the number of trees with n labelled tips and m unlabelled interior nodes. A table of the total number of trees is presented up to n = 22. There are 282,137,824 different trees having 10 tip species, and over 8.87 x 10<sup>23</sup> different trees having 20 tip species. The method is extended to count trees some of whose interior nodes may be labelled. The principal uses of these numbers will be to double-check algorithms and notation systems, and to frighten taxonomists.
10.2307/2412926|Variation in 26 loci coding for the production of protein products is analyzed in three populations of Plethodon welleri and in 26 populations of Plethodon dorsalis. Protein variation patterns are not consistent with the variation of morphological characters upon which the taxonomic status of these populations has been evaluated. The taxonomic division of P. welleri into subspecies is inconsistent with the electrophoretic data. P. dorsalis includes two groups of populations whose electrophoretic divergence is greater than that observed in any species previously studied. They do not correspond with previously recognized subspecies. Measures of genetic identity (Nei's I) and of population subdivision (Wright's F
10.2307/2412923|For some simple three- and four-species cases involving a character with two states, it is determined under what conditions several methods of phylogenetic inference will fail to converge to the true phylogeny as more and more data are accumulated. The methods are the Camin-Sokal parsimony method, the compatibility method, and Farris's unrooted Wagner tree parsimony method. In all cases the conditions for this failure (which is the failure to be statistically consistent) are essentially that parallel changes exceed informative, nonparallel changes. It is possible for these methods to be inconsistent even when change is improbable a priori, provided that evolutionary rates in different lineages are sufficiently unequal. It is by extension of this approach that we may provide a sound methodology for evaluating methods of phylogenetic inference.
10.2307/2412922|We can represent with a tree structure the dispersion matrix of a group of populations defined by a set of characters. The "treeness" test, T = c log R, where R is the ratio between the determinants of the observed and the estimated expected dispersion matrix and c is the number of characters, evaluates the validity of such a representation for a specific dispersion matrix. The test is based on a model of independent evolution: from an initial population a set of independent populations originates by successive splits. The treeness tends to a 
10.2307/2412927|G- and C-banding analyses were used to determine chromosome homology from representatives of bat families Mormoopidae, Noctilionidae and Phyllostomatidae, subfamily Phyllostomatinae. The karyotype of Macrotus waterhousii 2n = 46, FN = 60 is proposed as primitive for the Phyllostomatoidea. The major strategy involved in karyotypic evolution of taxa analyzed appears to have been reduction of the number of autosomal linkage groups by Robertsonian fusion from the 22 of Macrotus waterhousii to near 15 for the majority of taxa. Chromosome arms were found to be highly conserved. The X chromosomes of all taxa did not vary and were similar to the pattern thought to be characteristic of the primitive X of mammals. Two systematic groups appear recognizable within the Phyllostomatoidea above the family level (Phyllostomatidae in one group and the Noctilionidae and Mormoopidae in the other), whereas three systematic groups are discernible within the Phyllostomatinae. The three groups within the Phyllostomatinae include Macrotus waterhousii in the Macrotus-group, Tonatia minuta, Mimon crenulatum, Phyllostomus discolor and P. hastatus in the Tonatia-Mimon-Phyllostomus-group, and Micronycteris nicefori, M. brachyotis, and M. minuta in the Micronycteris-group. Tonatia bidens and Micronycteris megalotis were karyotypically so divergent that based solely on chromosomal data they could not be placed with any grouping. Examples are shown where extensive chromosomal evolution has been accompanied by little morphological evolution and where extensive morphological evolution has been accompanied by little chromosomal evolution. Such examples are the basis for questioning the hypothesis that chromosomal changes altering the position of regulator genes are a primary mechanism in the evolution of the large magnitude of morphological differentiation in the class Mammalia.
10.2307/2412925|Data from North American terrestrial vertebrates are used to test hypotheses of randomness in several aspects of allopatric speciation (vicariance). The data do not lead to rejection of the following: the initial parapatry of vicariance tends toward randomness as time passes; barriers are random as to affected species (the congruence of barriers is unusual); ranges of geminate species (a pair formed by vicariance) and subspecies (in species with only two) are random in size. The data lead to modification of the following: barriers that lead to subspecific differentiation arise at random places.
10.2307/2412924|Winter distribution and abundance patterns were generated for 65 species of fringillid songbirds, using results of 2,732 Christmas bird counts grouped into 59 latitude-longitude blocks. Similarity coefficients were computed among the blocks, based upon the species occurring in each block and their abundances. Similarity matrices were subjected to cluster and principal components analyses. Results showed four major biogeographic regions: the north, mid-latitudes (with some east-west separations), the southeast, and the southwest. With analyses of abundance, areas of high similarity were those in which the same fringillids were the commonest species in the blocks; in more traditional analyses of presence-absence data, similar areas were those which shared large numbers of species regardless of their relative abundances. Because of these differences, abundance data showed the northern and southeastern regions as larger and more distinctive, while presence-absence data emphasized the extent and patchiness of the southwestern region. Eastern and western latitude-longitude blocks were regularly and increasingly dissimilar with decreasing latitude, a result best shown by principal components analysis of abundance data. This east-west division occurred along the 100th meridian, and the southernmost block along this boundary (southern Texas) had a highly distinctive winter fringillid avifauna.
10.2307/2412969|The congruence (similarity in groupings) between classifications of the same organisms based on different characters measures the stability of classification as new sources of information are considered. Pheneticists have claimed taxonomic stability for their approach and instability for the cladistic system, but have not compared the stability of the results of phenetic and phylogenetic methods. The stability of five phenetic and three numerical phylogenetic methods was assessed using nine pairs of data sets. A phylogenetic method resulted in statistically demonstrable higher stability. All phenetic methods have essentially the same instability behavior. Of the phylogenetic methods, that of Wagner shows consistently greatest stability. The stability of phenetic methods is demonstrably more sensitive to the amount of homoplasious evolution than the Wagner method. Yet, the number of characters has no effect on stability either for the phenetic methods or the Wagner method. Since phylogenetic methodology is more stable than phenetic clustering, the cladistic system should be used as a general reference system for biology.
10.2307/2412970|Geographic coincidence of animal and plant distributions to form recognizable patterns suggests that the separate components of the patterns are historically connected with each other and with geographic history. To seek evidence of these historical connections, cladograms of geographic areas, representing sequences of disruptive geologic, climatic, or geographic events, may be compared with biological cladograms, representing sequences of allopatric speciation events in relation to those geographic areas. Such comparisons, when they meet the minimum requirements of being among dichotomized three-taxon cladograms, can resolve similar or dissimilar historical factors; two-taxon statements do not distinguish between groups with different histories. Congruence of biological and geological area-cladograms at a high confidence level (such as congruence of a five-taxon cladogram or four three-taxon cladograms with a geological cladogram, where the confidence level can be shown in cladistic theory to be 99%) means that specified events of paleogeography can be adopted as an explanation of the biological patterns. In such a cause and effect relationship, where the earth and its life are assumed to have evolved together, paleogeography is taken by logical necessity to be the independent variable and biological history, the dependent variable. Drawing a mathematical simile, the biological cladogram y (dependent variable), is a function of the geological cladogram x (independent variable), as in a simple regression of effect y on cause x where we are given no free choice as to which is the independent variable. Such a view implies that any specified sequence in earth history must coincide with some discoverable biological patterns; it does not imply a necessary converse that each biological pattern must coincide with some discoverable paleogeographic pattern, because some biological distributions might have resulted from stochastic processes (chance dispersal). Determining that all discoverable biological patterns conflict with a given corroborated or observed sequence of geologic, climatic, or geographic change (i.e., that y is not a function of x), in theory, therefore should falsify vicariance biogeography. Because dispersal biogeography presupposes stochastic processes, and any failure to meet the expectation of a postulated dispersal is explained by an additional dispersal, dispersal biogeography is immune to falsification. Without resort to paleontology or earth history, whether a given historical relationship implied by congruence of biological area-cladograms is the result of dispersal or vicariance can also be thought of in terms which minimize the number of necessary assumptions: did the sedentary organisms disperse with the vagile ones or did the vagile organisms vicariate with the sedentary ones? Cladistic congruence of a group of sedentary organisms with a group of vagile ones rejects dispersal for both. Hence, distributions of sedentary organisms have the potential to falsify dispersal theories as applied to vagile organisms, but distributions of vagile organisms cannot falsify vicariance theories as applied to sedentary ones. The problems that arise in various kinds of historical explanation are exemplified by several specific distributions of fishes and other organisms in North and Middle America and in the larger context of Pangaean history, and are discussed in relation to current species concepts.
10.2307/2412971|A distinctive property of polyploids, the loss of duplicate gene expression over time, allows phylogenetic inferences to be drawn from multilocus isozyme data. Once the "loss" of a duplicate gene expression has begun, soon after polyploidization, primitive and derived character states are clearly defined, though not immune to errors in coding. Even with a relatively small number of characters, cladistic, and phenetic trees may be constructed which are similar to each other and to those based on morphology. The Wagner method is shown to be a particularly appropriate method of analysis for handling gene duplication data. Comparison of patristic and phenetic distances has revealed little homoplasy for species in closely related genera of catostomid fishes, but increasing homoplasy for comparisons between more divergent taxa. With increasing employment of isozyme technology, and the concomitant increase in the number of characters it should be possible to analyze many other polyploid taxa with this cladistic technique.
10.2307/2412881|Few supraspecific groups have been defined in North American ranids and the informal groupings which are recognized are often poorly characterized. Two biochemical methods, starch gel electrophoresis and microcomplement fixation, have been used in an examination of the evolutionary relationships among western North American frogs of the genus Rana. Both the electrophoretic and albumin comparisons indicate that the Rana boylii species group presently includes two very different evolutionary lineages. Rana aurora, R. boylii, R. cascadae, R. muscosa, and R. pretiosa are all members of one lineage allied to R. temporaria of Europe. A Mexican species traditionally included in this group, R. tarahumarae, is most closely related to other members of the genus that occur in Mexico and is part of a larger lineage that also includes R. pipiens. Frogs found in eastern North America diverged from western European frogs in mid-Eocene; estimates of divergence time are consistent with the hypothesis that separation of these lineages coincided with the end of a land connection between Europe and North America. The catesbeiana, pipiens, and tarahumarae groups diverged from each other in the Oligocene. Western North American Rana diverged from a Eurasian ancestor in the Oligocene and radiated in this area to form the five members of the boylii group.
10.2307/2412882|Based on a framework of cladistic (genealogical) relationships, the morphological, zoo-geographical, and host relationships of the genera comprising the cestode order Proteocephalidea parasitic in fish, amphibians, and reptilians are examined. The new supra-specific classification scheme proposed differs only slightly from previous classifications. Zoogeographically, the proteocephalideans consist of one family endemic to South America and another exhibiting intercontinental patterns of vicariance. The dispersal-tracks of the second family are consistent with those of ostariophysan fishes, primary hosts for proteocephalideans. Most proteocephalidean genera, including the most primitive and the most specialized, occur in South America. The greatest concentration of species belonging to the most primitive genus occurs in the Northern Hemisphere where the fewest proteocephalidean genera occur. Proteocephalideans are postulated to have originated in South America. In the Southern Hemisphere, all but four piscine hosts are siluriforms, while in the Northern Hemisphere a great diversification of hosts has occurred. An hypothesis of the evolution of the host-parasite relationships of non-piscine proteocephalideans is proposed to explain observed patterns of host relationships. Zoogeographical and host relationships do not contradict the phylogenetic model based on characters of adult morphology. Additional support for the hypothesis that the cestode order Cyclophyllidea is di- or polyphyletic and derived from proteocephalidean ancestors is presented.
10.2307/2412883|The biogenetic law is restated in a falsifiable form; given an ontogenetic character transformation, from a character observed to be more general to a character observed to be less general, the more general character is primitive and the less general advanced. The law, as restated, may be generally valid. In any case, the ontogenetic argument is a valid direct technique of character phylogeny; the anatomical argument ("outgroup comparison") is an indirect technique, the paleontological argument is of uncertain status. Falsification of all three types of arguments is explored in an analysis of L. Agassiz's concept of "threefold parallelism." Neoteny is a falsifier not of the biogenetic law, but of character phylogeny-of all three arguments. Phylogenetic reconstruction in its entirety appears to be an extrapolation of the orderliness of development.
10.2307/2412880|In many groups of animals of restricted vagility very closely related species not only differ in karyotype, but exhibit very extensive differences, due to the establishment of "chains" of several or many structural chromosomal changes. These cases, which until recently appeared anomalous or inexplicable, can now be used to interpret a basic feature of the "stasipatric" mode of speciation (parapatric speciation of some authors). It is suggested that an important reason for the establishment of these chromosomal rearrangements is their role in protecting coadapted gene complexes ("area effects") from disruption by introgression from neighboring populations. A model, based on the mouse (Mus musculus) populations of Italy and Switzerland studied by E. Capanna, A. Gropp, and their collaborators, is proposed; it relies on sequential establishment of chromosomal rearrangements, each within the range of the previous one. By this means the genetic isolation of the area population is progressively reinforced.
10.2307/2412879|The assumption of uniqueness of evolutionary origin of chromosome inversion types is shown not to be adequate to determine phylogenetic reconstructions, but it can be combined with other principles to yield a method of phylogenetic inference. A model is proposed under which the most likely phylogenetic hypothesis given a set of chromosome inversion data can be identified as the most parsimonious tree for those data, a unique origin of each inversion type being assumed. When applied in this way, the method of parsimony can provide information on the ancestral types of inversions. Phylogenetic inferences based on chromosome inversions are thus seen to rest on just the same logical basis as do those from other types of characters.
10.2307/2412374|The bat faunas of the six zoogeographic regions are compared using taxonomic and trophic analyses. Similarity indices are calculated using the percent of total species per area for each genus and the importance of various trophic roles in the areas. Trophic role values were calculated by multiplying generic importance values by indices for the importance of applicable trophic roles for each genus and summing the values for every genus in a given region. Faunal regions are much more similar trophically than taxonomically. Although geographic patterns are discernable from taxonomic approaches, climatic patterns are more important trophically. All of the trophic roles are highly variable from region to region, but foliage gleaning is the least variable. The most important trophic role in all regions is that of the aerial insectivores, followed in order of decreasing importance by frugivory, foliage gleaning, nectarivory, piscivory, carnivory and sanguinivory.
10.2307/2412381|The amino acid compositions of cytochrome c isolated from honeybees, bumblebees, leaf-cutting bees, and yellow jackets have been determined. The composition of the honeybee protein is less related to that of the other insects than is expected from the accepted phylogeny and constant rates of cytochrome c evolution. This suggests that cytochrome c may have evolved faster in the lineage leading to honeybees than in the lineage leading to other insects.
10.2307/2412379|Phylogenetic (evolutionary) taxonomists have often been wrongly accused of circular reasoning. An example is the alleged circularity involved in definitions of "homology" in terms of common ancestry. The gap between phylogeneticism and pheneticism is not as wide as many assume. Phylogeneticists are justified in maintaining that nonphenetic evidence may play an essential role in taxonomy (systematics). Pheneticists should allow such evidence to play a role at least in providing phylogenetic interpretations. The possibility remains that terms like "phenetic" will come to be used in so wide a sense that prevailing controversies are dissolved. This illustrates that part of the disagreements are linguistic in nature.
10.2307/2412375|Karyotypic data indicate that C. ceralbensis, an insular species, is a member of the deppei species group, and that it has the most derived karyotype in that group. The karyotype contains 16 Set II subtelocentric chromosomes, instead of the primitive all-acrocentric condition found in peninsular populations of its close relative C. hyperythrus. In addition to the eight pericentric inversions, ceralbensis is easily separated from hyperythrus on the basis of morphological criteria. The karyotype of whiptail lizards from Isla Espiritu Santo (C. h. hyperythrus) differs from the adjacent peninsular populations by three pericentric inversions, but morphologically they are indistinguishable. The only observable mechanism of chromosomal evolution that has occurred in these two insular lizard populations is pericentric inversion. Karyotypic, geological, and biogeographical data suggest that C. hyperythrus was derived from a population similar to C. lineatissimus in the southern Cape region of Baja California after that portion of the peninsula separated from the mainland approximately 4-5 million years ago. Subsequent to this initial isolation and differentiation, hyperythrus probably radiated northward into the more arid communities of the peninsula and became isolated on several of the newly formed Gulf islands. Several levels of speciation, which correspond to the different geological histories and the variable environments encountered by these lizards, have accompanied the dispersal of this species, the most notable of which is the evolution of the Ceralvo Island whiptail lizard, C. ceralbensis.
10.2307/2412378|A hierarchic clustering, or tree, of several objects can be described by an object x object matrix, whose elements are the number of nodes of the tree lying on the path connecting a pair of objects. It has been suggested that two trees for the same objects might be compared by calculating a coefficient of similarity or difference between the corresponding matrices. This approach has the drawbacks that heterogeneities in the degree of disagreement of the trees with respect to individual clusters cannot be taken into account and that the bounds of the similarity/difference coefficient are difficult to calculate. To avoid these difficulties, a new method, the cluster distortion method, is introduced. This method operates by counting the number of fragments into which the clusters of one tree are broken on another tree, and permits the user considerable flexibility in summarizing the extent and nature of the disagreement between two trees.
10.2307/2412380|The suggestion that caves are habitat islands was investigated by analyzing species diversity and endemism in a set of 48 caves from Tessin, southern Switzerland, using stepwise multiple regression. Measures of environmental diversity (development, representing area; water content; and the presence or absence of bats, representing the presence of guano) and of isolation (altitude, geographical coordinates, clustering of caves) were expected to contribute to the regulation of species diversity and of numbers of endemic taxa. From 50% to 58% of the variance in numbers of species and of endemics can be accounted for with five independent variables in the regression equations. The Tessin caves can be considered insular insofar as an area affect is demonstrated for the total number of species and for the number of endemics, and as a measure of isolation (altitude) helps in accounting for endemism. Deviation from the insular biogeography theory stems from the lack of isolation or distance effects for the numbers of species (whether troglobitic or not), and from the lack of area effect for the troglophiles and troglobites. The number of species of troglophiles and troglobites is correlated with the water scale, and since the latter is correlated with development one can argue that water scale represents an improved measure of habitat diversity over area. The water scale may be an indirect measure of (i) the food input, or (ii) the rigor of the caves in terms of flooding, or else (iii) dispersal. The lack of isolation or distance effect may be attributed to the geographical nearness of the Tessin caves, which can be likened to islands equidistant from the mainland or source region.
10.2307/2412376|A phenetic analysis by numerical techniques was performed on the penis morphology of 28 species of New Guinea murid rodents. A total of 64 traits were scored on each penis. The results were compared to a phylogenetic hypothesis published previously and based on the same data. By this means, the results of the two approaches could be compared, the effectiveness of utilizing a single complex organ in taxonomic studies could be further examined, and the performance of various clustering procedures could be studied in a mammalian group varying in diversity from the subfamily level to that of closely related species. Taxonomic distance similarity coefficients were calulated among all OTU's, and four clustering procedures were used. In two cases, the number of traits analyzed was reduced to those 29 judged to carry the most information on genetic relationships. A diversity of phenograms was generated; the one giving the closest match to the existing phylogenetic hypothesis was based on the subjectively restricted list of traits and complete linkage clustering. It was concluded that: phenograms are easily manipulated to give quite diverse results; it is preferable to select traits for phylogenetic significance and to avoid redundancies; and the use of single character complexes in taxonomy should be avoided, especially with numerical approaches.
10.2307/2412377|Relative weights given to characters are estimated by the amount each must be changed to minimally permit each classical taxonomic decision. An example of the application is followed by a discussion of the classical taxonomic method.
10.2307/2412373|Since morphological analysis of living and fossil material has provided little information on taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships among species in the frog family Ranidae, an attempt was made to obtain such information by comparing their serum albumins. Rabbit antisera were prepared against the purified serum albumins of seven ranid species and tested by the microcomplement fixation method for reactivity with the albumins of 36 ranid species. This method provides a measure of the degree of amino acid sequence difference between albumins. The taxonomic and phylogenetic schemes we have derived from the albumin comparisons are generally in agreement with nonmolecular evidence. In some cases, they go beyond it, permitting demarcations among taxa that were previously unresolved. For example, it is proposed that the North American species of Rana are divisible into at least two major subgroups; an eastern subgroup, which includes R. pipiens and R. catesbeiana, and a western cluster, which includes R. aurora. The nearest relatives of the western cluster appear from albumin comparisons to be the R. temporaria cluster of the Palearctic region. The albumin results also permitted the construction of a phylogenetic tree with a very low percent standard deviation. With the aid of this tree and the molecular clock hypothesis we have estimated the approximate divergence times of various groups, subgroups and clusters of Holarctic ranid species. The molecular differences among Rana species are at least as large as those usually found within orders of placental mammals. This raises an important question regarding the ranking of taxonomic categories. If the genus Rana is equivalent in terms of genetic dispersion to an order of mammals, should one elevate the rank of Rana to the ordinal level? We believe that the molecular findings provide taxonomists with a dilemma.
10.2307/2412952|Physical principles of differentiation play an important part in the morphogeny of complex structures such as shell ornamentations, ammonite septa, and tooth striations. Since they require a relatively small amount of genetic information, resulting patterns may occur in unrelated taxonomic groups and functions as well as in accidental or functionally neutral situations.
10.2307/2412948|When he analyzes an existing biological form, the taxonomist seldom considers alternative forms that might have existed in its stead. Consequently, he does not benefit from the lesson learned by the architect-whose business it is to consider alternative forms-that physical organization is largely determined by the properties of space. A few examples suffice to show that space also imposes order on the development of biological form.
10.2307/2412945|The primary objective of biological classification is to provide the foundation of all comparative studies in biology. These studies require consideration of two factors, namely: (a) the degree of genetic similarity between organisms; and (b) the phylogenetic sequence of events in their history. Classical evolutionary classification provides the best approach to classification, based on Popper's criterion of content, because it attempts to maximize simultaneously both of these semi-independent variables. Evolutionary classification is based on the evolution of organisms, not just their phylogeny. Application of the Popperian philosophy of the demarcation and methodology of science to classification suggests that a major task is the development of severe tests of falsification by which classifications can be tried. Although phenetic methods appear to be the best means of recognizing taxa and deducing classifications, cladistic methods appear to provide the best tests in attempts to disprove these statements of relationships. The best approach to definitions in this historical science is a theoretical one in which the defining criteria and the recognizing criteria may differ. Comparisons, which are closely akin to definitions, must be based on evolutionary theory. Homology is the primary principle in comparative biology with the possibility that all other principles of comparison are reducible to homology. The defining criterion of homology is phylogeny and the only recognizing criterion of homology is similarities of all sorts between features. Any approach to classification that excludes homology and its recognizing criterion of similarity as a primary step in deducing relationships is invalid. Use of falsifying tests suggests that relative weighting of characters may have greatly reduced importance in taxonomic methods. Lastly, the formal classification and the phylogenetic diagram of a group of organisms are not different, but redundant images of each other. Both are essential parts of the conclusions of any study of biological relationships.
2412954|The unicellular eukaryotes are used as an example of extensive adaptive radiation, which in a few evolutionary lines led to the origin of more complex multicellular organisms. The particular kinds of multicellular organisms which were the descendants of a given group of unicellular eukaryotes, whether algae, fungi, metazoa, or slime molds, depended upon particular characteristics which their unicellular ancestors acquired in association with their adaptive radiation. The most significant determining characteristics were autotrophy vs. heterotrophy, presence vs. loss of cellular polarization, rigid vs. flexible cell wall or membrane, and the size and shape of the cell. The most continuously successful groups, the multicellular plants, metazoa and fungi, retained cellular polarity, but their ancestors differed from each other with respect to the remaining characteristics. Based upon this review, the author recognizes three kinds of evolutionary success: narrow success, broad but terminal success, and continuing or progressive success. Hypotheses are suggested about the kinds of characteristics which contribute to each of these kinds of evolutionary success.
10.2307/2412960|Cytochromes c are very widely distributed in bacteria, and many organisms produce several different types of protein,The bacterial cytochromes c vary very greatly in size, in number of hemes, in spectrum, in oxidation reduction potential,and in function,and these differences are reflected in great differences in amino acid sequence.In this paper,the present knowledge of the structure of bacterial cytochromes c is reviewed, and some new preliminary results presented. Sequence variation within classes of bacterial cytochromes c and relationships between cytochrome c classes are considered.The use of amino acid sequence results for the investigation of pre-Cambrian evolution is discussed, and pessimistic conclusions reached.
2412944|Four common, current species concepts are described and their strengths and weaknesses discussed. It is proposed that a review of population biology at the species level will lead to inferences regarding speciational mechanisms, which in turn may lead to a new synthesis of the species concept. Major advances in the study of variation in populations have come through multivariate methodology and biochemical techniques. The relation between genetic, phenetic, and allozymic variation is still unclear. Attention is drawn to the spatial structure of local populations which must play an important role in breeding patterns. Comparisons of patterns in phenetic hyperspace should yield clues to similarities of speciational patterns in sexually reproducing and apomictic populations. There is probably less reproductive connectedness between local population samples of putative species than is commonly assumed. Large-scale population structure will affect geographic variation patterns and reproductive connectedness among populations and needs to be analyzed by various techniques, among them graph theoretical methods. Any theory of species must take into account well-established facts at several levels of biological organization. The great diversity of kinds of species and patterns of species and patterns of speciation is stressed. In In addition to the classical theories of speciation, it is suggested that much local variation is due to the molding forces of local selection, little influenced by gene flow Attention is directed to evidence from patterns of geographic variation of a single species examined over a series of localities, and from phenetic patterns of sympatric species.
10.2307/2412957|Evolutionary trees requiring in toto the fewest nucleotide replacements between ancestors and descendants were constructed from the amino acid sequences of heme-binding globin chains of 22 primates and a wide range of other multicellular organisms. These trees, which maximized the codon indentities due to common inheritance and minimized those due to parallel and backmutations, allowed an evolutionary dimension to be given to the knowledge on structure-function parameters inheme-binding globins. In the gene lineage specifying the monomeric globins out of whichtetrameric hemoglobin evolved, a gene duplication produced the ancestral separation between the myoglobins and hemoglobins in jawed vertebrates. It then appears that at thestage of primitive fish in a common ancestor of teleosts and tetrapods a duplication in agene coding for a ~t4 type hemoglobin produced the separate a and ~t loci. By the time of basal amniotes sophisticated a2/9~ type hemoglobins had evolved. The 7 divergence fromtypicalchains can be traced to a gene duplication in basal therian mammals and the separation of type chains from /gs to later duplications in proto-catarrhines and proto-platyrrhines. From the mutational changes in the lineages emerging from these and other duplications, it was concluded that rates of molecular evolution increased with gene duplication and decreased after selection discovered useful specializations in the products of geneswhich had previously been silent and thus freer to accept mutations. Comparisons of mutational lengths of residue positions with strong functional roles to those without evident functional roles also suggested that the speed of molecular evolution decreases with the intensity of selection. The kinds of nucleotide replacements observed in the descent of theglobin RNA messengers further pointed to the restrictive effects of natural selection by high-lighting the fact that during protein evolution interchanges of amino acids with similarphysical chemical properties were much more readily tolerated than dissimilar interchanges.Evidence was provided by the globin phylogenies for the hominoid affinities of the gibbon and the close phyletic relationship of the African apes to man. Moreover while rates of globin evolution were rapid in the early eutherian radiation, they were extremely slow in the later hominoid radiation. This was related to a more complicated internal organization evolving in human ancestors, thus increasing the possibility that mutations in structural genes would be harmful.
10.2307/2412965|This paper on mangrove-associated molluscs is designed to provide comparative data on physiognomy, diversity, geographic distribution of species, and similarities and differences between parallel assemblages in various geographic regions. In Singapore, both the absolute range and the upper limit of the range of maximum adult size and three other parameters of shell shape are smaller in the littoral-fringe tree-associated gastropod assemblage than in either the intertidal tree-associated or sediment-associated groups. Shells in three of the four families in the littoral-fringe exhibit either internal whorl resorption or apical decollation, possibly resulting from acidic conditions during an aerobic respiration while the animals are exposed to air. Intertidal tree-associated gastropods are morphologically diverse, but there is a tendency toward squatness related to the need for maintaining gravitational stability on hard substrata. In soft sediments, this requirement is obviated, and the diversity of form is even greater.Aside from a number of taxonomic differences between the mangrove assemblages in different provinces, most within-habitat differences in physiognomy and width of geographic distribution are related to species richness. The absolute range, upper limit of the range, and number of categories for all parameters are greater in assemblages of many species than in those with few species. Maximum adult size exhibits a similar correlation with species richness. Physiognomic diversity within a habitat or region is largely independent of taxonomic composition. The high proportion of narrowly distributed species among Singapore littoral-fringe molluscs and the rapid decrease in maximum adult size and number of species in this habitat from Singapore to more peripheral parts of the Indo-West-Pacific suggest that regional differences among littoral-fringe assemblages are greater than those of other mangrove habitats.
10.2307/2412955|Rates of adaptive radiation and taxonomic turnover are much higher for mammals than for bivalve mollusks, largely because characteristic intensity of competition between species indifferent for the two groups.The high degree of interspecific competition typical of mammals is associated with specialized feeding habits, frequent limitation of population densities by food supply,highly developed mobility and behavior, aggressive interactions, and territoriality. Features associated with weak interspecific competition among most coexisting bivalve species are primitive behavior patterns, sedentary modes of life, generalized feeding habits, ability endure long periods of near-starvation, and widespread limitation of population densities by physical disturbances and intense predation. By providing what Mayr has termed a "centrifugal force" in evolution, competition has produced rapid divergence in the Mammalia. Higher taxa of mammals have tended to maintain distinct adaptive zones, and ecologic displacement of one group by another has been common. Rate of appearance of new families has declined since early in the group's Cenozoic radiation because established groups have tended to preempt portions of the overall adaptive zone. In contrast, competition has played a minor role in bivalve evolution and divergence has been gradual. Adaptive zones of subtaxa have tended to overlap, and displacement has been rare. Despite the success of advanced bivalve taxa, many primitive groups have persisted for hundreds of millions of years, and various seemingly primitive groups have arisen quite recently. Competition has also contributed to higher rates of taxonomic turnover among mammals than among bivalves by accelerating rates of extinction.The anomalously high evolutionary rates of reef-building rudist bivalves resulted from competition for space. Similarly, reef-building scleractinian corals have radiated much more rapidly than have nonreef-building forms. The nonmammalian vertebrate classes,the trilobites, and the ammonites have all been characterized by competitive traits like those of the mammals and have also undergone notably rapid adaptive radiations.
10.2307/2412958|The major physicochemical and chemical properties of muscular pachydermum, as known presently, are reviewed, as well as the available indications concerning their occurrence. From these data, and in particular from eight complete or partial sequences, some features of the evolution of these proteins are deduced, and some comparisons are made with other calcium binding proteins.
10.2307/2412953|The potential versatility of form and potential adaptive zone of a higher taxon or body plan depend on the number and range of independent morphogenetic parameters. The actual versatility and adaptive zone of a given higher taxon are determined by interactions of members of that taxon with species belonging to groups with a different body plan. More recently evolved higher taxa tend to exhibit a greater potential versatility of form than related more ancient taxa. In the course of earth history, more potentially versatile taxa have tended to replace less versatile groups in the same or similar adaptive zone. This increase in potential versatility is not the inevitable consequence of the decrease in number of higher taxa through geologic time, but is the result of strong selection favoring some plans of organization over others which may or may not have become extinct. Increasing potential versatility allows for greater homeostasis, efficiency, and exploitation of continuously available resources, and integration of structures and functions. New body plans may arise either from stocks of small adult body size and with relatively simple integration patterns, or else by a process of correlative progression of structures and functions from a relatively specialized ancestral stock.
10.2307/2412963|The problems inherent in deriving phylogenetic treesfrom amino acid sequences are discussed from the point of view of mammalian fibrinopeptides. Sequence data from these hypervariable peptides are currently available from more than forty species representing eight mammalianorders. In the case of four of these-primates, artiodactyls, perissodactyls and carnivores-enough data are available to make some judgments about intraorder variability. A "conservative variability" is observed at certain residue positions whereby the same changes occur repeatedly along different lines of descent. In other cases, the change appears to be more relaxed but still not random. In a few situations, a residue is absolutely invariant. The pattern of these changes is such that direct comparisons of all but the most closely related sequences gives misleading results about taxonomic distances.
10.2307/2412951|In four species of herons with uniform ecological requirements of flight, size-induced differences in values of circumferential wing velocities (and, as a result, increasing angles of incidence in distal sections of the wing with increasing body size) are discovered. To neutralize this departure from dynamic similarity among the four species, regular size-linked departure from geometric similarity develops; this departure manifests itself most obviously in the appearance of wing-tip slots, growing in number with increase in bird size. These slots are an adaptation for utilizing large angles of incidence and for redistributing generated values of thrust and lift. From the viewpoint of the concept of evolutionary transformation of functions, these relationships may be referred to the principle of the evolutionary stabilization of functions.
2412961|The European mistletoe, Viscumal bum L,Coleoptera.Screening of 49 different species of mistletoes representing 9 genera, has shown the presence of such proteins in 9 species from 5 genera,all within the subfamil Viscoideae. The amino acid sequence has been determined for three proteins from Viscum album and one protein from Phoradendron tomentosum subsp, macrophyllum. These proteins all contain 46 amino acid residues with 3 disulfide bridges. The sequences are identical in 29 positions.11 differences can be explained interms of a single base replacement in the coding triplet. For 7 differences two base replacements must be assumed.
10.2307/2412962|Iron-sulfur proteins are found in bacteria, photosynthetic bacteria, algae, plants and animals. Included in the group of iron-sulfur proteins are the ferredoxins, rubredoxins, adrenodoxin, putidaredoxin and High Potential Iron Protein. About nineteen different iron-sulfur proteins have been sequenced. The sequence data has been used to extract genetic and phylogenetic data about the organisms which contain the iron-sulfurproteins. It was concluded that the ferredoxins all have arisen from a common ancestor. The rubredoxin, adrenodoxin, putidaredoxin, and High Potential Iron Protein genomes have evolved separately. The adrenodoxin and putidaredoxin genomes have arisen from the same ancestral gene but have undergone divergent evolution and have different biological activities.
10.2307/2412942|Difficulties in the theory of each of the three main contemporary schools of systematic philosophy are discussed. If categories of taxa are identified with age classes, as proposed by phylogenetic systematists, then changes must be made in the traditional form of the Linnaean hierarchy. The central problem of evolutionary classification is that no satisfactory general measure of evolutionary differentiation has yet been found. The unit character hypothesis in numerical taxonomy is unlikely to be valid, since the logical atomist programme in philosophy proved a failure. Modifications may be expected in the theoretical positions of all schools.
10.2307/2412959|The yield of cytochrome c from different types of plant organs is given and the use ot cytochrome c sequence data for phylogenetic studies is briefly discussed. Sequences of cytochrome c of nineteen angiosperm species and a gymnosperm have been used to construct a molecular tree. This tree is discussed in relationship to existing phylogenetic schemes. The preliminary results of investigations on plastocyanin are mentioned.
10.2307/2412964|A computer program, ALIGN, was developed to test for homology of proteins. This program was used in conjunction with programs previously developed, to set up phylogenetic relationships and ancestral amino acid sequences for 43 snake venom toxins. From these and other studies emerged two mutually exclusive postulates for the evolution of snake venom toxins from digestive tract enzymes. Internal repitition in the sequence of toxins and homology of toxins with various enzymes were found. Evidence seems to favour one of the above postulates to as light extent above the other. According to this it seems as if the short neurotoxins evolved from digestive tract enzymes like, for example, ribonuelease and that the cytotoxins and longneurotoxins evolved from the short neurotoxins. Other toxins have developed from, for example, trypsin inhibitors. The concepts of Darwinian and non- Darwinian evolution are both used to explain the evolution of the protein-toxins in snake venoms.
10.2307/2412966|The systematic position of the family Raninidae De Haan, 1841 (Crustacea, Decapoda, Brachyura) has been widely discussed in the past, but interpretations are rather confused and inconsistent. The reason for this is that these crabs are very aberrant in their organization and shape and therefore isolated in the brachyuran system. Quite an opposite conclusion was drawn after the examination of all available morphological, ontogenetical, palaeontological and ecological evidence in the light of modern evolutionary theory. It is concluded that the raninids have to be placed in the higher Dromiacea as a particular superfamily Raninoidea De Haan, 1841. As highly specialized, burrowing, crabs the raninids have undergone a regressive evolution in both a morphophysiological and ecological sense.
10.2307/2412943|Concepts of phylogenetic relationships are defined, and the possibilities of their expression in a hierarchical classification are explored. Concepts of relationships-either common-ancestor relationships or ancestor-descendant relationships, are precisely and completely expressible in classification, if descendants rather than ancestors are grouped together. Common-ancestor relationships are more efficiently expressed, and are advantageous for groups of unknown or doubtful relationship.
10.2307/2412949|The problems of making functional assessments of human or prehuman fossils are those of relating individual fragments to the spectrum of morphological diversity presented by the nonhuman primates in contrast with the uniqueness provided by man. Although direct biomechanical studies can supply some information towards the functional meaning of such morphologies, indirect inductive methods are also capable of providing considerable insight. In particular, the methods of multivariate morphometrics are sometimes able to characterize the shapes of skeletal regions and their adaptations for function. Multivariate studies of several anatomical regions, shoulder, pelvis, ankle, foot, elbow and hand are now available for the Australopithecinae. These suggest that the common view, that these fossils are similar to modern man or that on those occasions when they depart from a similarity to man they resemble the African great apes, may be incorrect. Most of these fossil fragments are in fact, uniquely different from both man and man's nearest living genetic relatives, the chimpanzee and gorilla. To the extent that resemblances exist with living forms, they tend to be with the orang-utan. This does not, of course, imply genetic affinity with the orang-utan. But it very well could mean that in these fossils we see morphological remnants of adaptations to arboreal locomotion and that if indeed these animals are truly bipedal, then the nature of their bipedality may have differed uniquely from that of modern man.
10.2307/2412950|The percoid fish family Cichlidae possesses a phenomenal ability to colonize lakes and to diversify to an extent unmatched by any other vertebrate family in the presence of predator pressure and strong competition. The invading cichlids successfully occupy contiguous and occasionally overlapping adaptive zones and specialize progressively into diversified subzones, ramifying prodigiously and covering a breadth of total adaptation that would have been entirely unpredictable if we were aware only of the rudiments of the evolutionary process. This evolutionary avalanche can be attributed to the cooccurrence of a wide range of prospective adaptive zones in the lacustrine environment, and the presence of a unique morphological key innovation of maximum versatility. The new adaptive complex has been revealed in this study by electromyographic analysis synchronized with cineradiography of the cichlid pharyngeal jaw apparatus. The morphological novelty characterizing the family Cichlidae involves the development of: a synarthrosis between the lower pharyngeal jaws, a strategic shift of insertion of the two fourth levator externi muscles, and synovial joints between upper pharyngeal jaws and basicranium. This specialized, highly integrated key innovation enables the cichlids not only to transport (deglutination) but also to prepare food, freeing the premaxillary and mandibular jaws to evolve numerous specializations dealing with the collection of dramatically diverse foods. The functional integration of the innovation is so basic and its potential adaptive versatility so rich that it is maintained throughout the adaptive radiation even though numerous non-disruptive evolutionary changes do take place, providing prodigious opportunities for explosive evolution during the exploitation of rich resources of food in the lacustrine environment. The conversion of the preexisting elements into a new and significantly improved cichlid adaptive complex of high selective value may have evolved by rapid steps under influence of strong selection pressure acting on the minor reconstruction of the genotype which is involved in evolutionary changes of the pertinent ontogenetic mechanisms. Such relatively simple evolutionary processes are probably the cause for the general phenomenon that only slight reconstructions of existing structures are necessary for successful and rapid adaptation to drastic shifts of adaptive zones.
10.2307/2412097|The variability in form within the species Oncaea conifera is analysed using principal component analysis. A rapid and repeatable method of measurement was developed. The groupings of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in both the analysis of taxonomic distance and the principal component analysis are found to be similar and in agreement with the subjective grouping with minor anomalies. The effect of removing an aberrant OTU from each analysis was investigated. The trends in variability of "important" measurements (as revealed by the principal component analysis) indicate a complex pattern of between-group variability, thus suggesting that the observed variability is not under the control of a simple polymorphism. The possibilities of more complex genetic control or of genetic isolation, are discussed.
10.2307/2412093|It is proposed that regular use be made of the superphylum as a formal taxonomic category for coelomates. Taxa at this level would serve several important purposes: 1, they are of particular use to paleontologists as a basis for the subdivision of the Animalia during the late Precambrian, before the advent of many modern phyla; 2, they serve to embrace fossils of all ages that do not belong to living phyla; 3, they form a basis for phylogenetic models concerned with the origin of major grades of organization; and 4, they serve simply as a means of organizing phyla, which are now multiplying.
10.2307/2412099|Among twenty Sceloporus woodi populations, levels of fluctuating asymmetry in six characters were not correlated. Populations on hybrid zones between Sceloporus undulatus and S. woodi showed levels of asymmetry near those of nonhybridizing populations of the two species. These results do not support a relationship between genetic coadaptation and population asymmetry level.
10.2307/2412094|Crossing experiments between 8 different species of Trichogramma from the New World are described. Sexual isolation was found to be generally weak, so that substantial numbers of females were frequently inseminated in interspecific crosses and some cases of mechanical isolation resulting in traumatic injury to females when mated with alien males were recorded. Despite high degrees of insemination of females in interspecific crosses, hybrids were rarely produced, or if so, only in small numbers. This suggested the presence of gametic isolation. In most cases where hybrids were produced, unilateral compatibility was observed. All the hybrids obtained were found to be fertile without exception, and hybrid lines could be established. However, on the basis of morphological differences and crossing relationships, it is concluded that some of the populations dealt with bear semispecies status with respect to each other, namely T minutum & T. pretiosum, T. fasciatum & T. pretiosum, T. semifumatum & T. californica, but bear species status with respect to all others. The other species, namely, T. maltbyi, T. perkinsi, T. rojasi, are valid species.
10.2307/2412101|An attempt was made to determine objectively and empirically which combination of transformation and similarity coefficient yields the most predictive results. Standardization and the M.C.D. were found to be the most predictive. A new transformation, "equalization," is presented.
10.2307/2412096|Darwin's barnacle monograph contains an implicit phylogeny which is reflected in the classification system. In accordance with theoretical views he expresses elsewhere, the system has no polyphyletic taxa, but it does have paraphyletic ones. The classification also takes into account degree of difference, gaps, convenience and tradition. His general advocacy of genealogy as the basis of classification never took the form of modern cladistic views.
10.2307/2412100|The constancy and diagnostic utility of setal characters in polychaetes may be questioned on theoretical and empirical grounds. Samples of several populations of Halosydna brevisetosa Kinberg and reconsideration of previous experimental work show extreme intraspecific variation, which is not temperature-induced as formerly believed.
10.2307/2412098|A phenetic assessment of specimens taken along the interface between the ranges of Vulpes velox and V. macrotis, was undertaken using 14 skull measurements. Specimens collected to either side of the area of potential contact in eastern New Mexico and west Texas were used to compare and evaluate the status of 78 specimens from the region of potential contact. Phenetically intermediate specimens occurring in this sample of 78 specimens were concentrated along the interface between the ranges of these foxes, suggesting that they were of hybrid origin. In the Pecos drainage area of eastern New Mexico 4 of 28 specimens (14.3%) were centrally intermediate in skull morphology, and several others were moderately intermediate. However, the presence of at least 13 other specimens from this area, closely resembling the reference material, suggests that selection is generally opposing intermediates and favoring the maintenance of separate adaptive modes. The interface between the ranges of these two foxes corresponds closely to the distribution of desert and high plains grasslands. No evidence of recent shifts in the geographic position of the interface between their ranges was found. It is improbable that any of the phenetically intermediate specimens from eastern New Mexico represented hybrids with Vulpes fulva, the red fox, because they were taken well outside of the known range of V. fulva. A method of standardizing the data matrix to emphasize the importance of discriminating characters before computing a variance-covariance matrix, from which principal components are extracted, was used. This gave somewhat better separation of the suspected groups than did analyses based on principal components extracted either from a character correlation matrix or from an ordinary covariance matrix.
10.2307/2412095|The concordance between phenetics and and phylogenetics in 16 cultivars of oats has been examined through a series of taxometric procedures. Phylogenetic relationships have been established, firstly, from known pedigrees, i.e., the cladogram, which allow the coefficients of common parentage to be computed, and secondly, from the known dates of breeding. Phenetic relationship was assessed by different clustering strategies and by nonmetric multidimensional scaling, using the Gower similarity coefficient computed from a set of characters with agronomic importance, from a set of characters without apparent agronomic value and from the union of these sets. The various methods were compared both by metric multidimensional scaling and single linkage clustering. The main finding is that phenetic relationships shown by the reduced sets of agronomic characters and nonagronomic characters fit best with the cladogram. However, the best of the various clustering procedures, here defined as that which disturbs the original relationships the least, coincides most closely with the genetical relationships. Our data suggest that it is impossible to reconstruct a true phylogeny from phenetic relationships, although some representations of the former may be similar to some of the latter.
10.2307/2412300|New criteria are proposed for describing cases of natural hybridization that overcome the difficulties inherent in schemes based on the history of an interaction (primary or secondary contact) or the taxonomic status of the interacting forms. On the basis of distributional data alone the following types of natural hybrid zones may be recognized: allopatric (corresponding to zones of intergradation), parapatric, peripheral sympatric, localized sympatric, and widespread sympatric. Artificial (extralimital) sympatric hybridization also occurs in nature.
10.2307/2412305|Estimation of evolutionary trees should be treated as a problem in statistical inference, but such treatment requires the explicit formulation of a stochastic model of the evolutionary process. Because an evolutionary inference procedure is likely to be put to such uses as deciding the issue of whether rates of evolution are homogeneous, the stochastic model underlying the inference procedure should not assume homogeneity over time of the evolutionary process, and in fact, should make only the weakest evolutionary assumptions necessary. Such a model is constructed, and it is shown that most parsimonious trees are maximum-likelihood estimated evolutionary trees under the stochastic model. Similarity clustered phenograms appear not to be well justified as statistical estimates of evolutionary trees, even when homogeneity of evolutionary rates is assumed.
10.2307/2412302|Biogeography is the study of biotic areas. The historic development of the essential concepts of areal definition, origin and maintenance are each examined in turn. The early influence of creationism and evolutionism upon biogeographic analysis is discussed and the theoretical bases of some current attempts to apply phyletic analysis to organismic dispersions are examined in detail. The author concludes that biogeography has failed to develop in step with geography as a whole and that a new emphasis on ecologic approaches is required to remedy the situation. Some pioneer efforts by ecologists and biogeographers to integrate ecology and biogeography are discussed in terms of their potential impact on the basic biogeographic questions of areal analysis.
10.2307/2412306|An investigation was made of the biochemical genetic variation within and among Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) and related trout (Salmo spp.). Estimates (based on 19 to 23 loci) of proportion of loci polymorphic and average heterozygosity respectively were: pink salmon (O. gorbuscha)-.111 and .014, chum salmon (O. keta)-.100 and .006, sockeye salmon (O. nerka)-.087 and .018, coho salmon (O. kisutch)-.130 and .018, chinook salmon (O. tshawytscha)-.130 and .015, and rainbow trout (S. gairdneri)-.261 and .037. The differences of these two parameters between populations of salmon and rainbow trout were significant and may reflect the greater habitat diversity of rainbow trout contrasted with Pacific salmon species. Interspecies comparisons were made among the above species plus masu salmon (O. masou) and cutthroat trout (S. clarkii), based on allelic proteins of eight loci and more complex protein patterns assumed to reflect four additional loci. A dendrogram, constructed from indices of similarity which reflected pairwise interspecies protein differences, separated the species into two major groups; one group contained the two trout species which were paired closely and-more distantly-the masu salmon, while the other group contained the remaining five species of salmon. In the latter group the chinook and coho salmon were paired together as were the pink and sockeye salmon; the chum salmon was intermediate between the two subgroups.
10.2307/2412304|The general maximum likelihood approach to the statistical estimation of phylogenies is outlined, for data in which there are a number of discrete states for each character. The details of the maximum likelihood method will depend on the details of the probabilistic model of evolution assumed. There are a very large number of possible models of evolution. For a few of the simpler models, the calculation of the likelihood of an evolutionary tree is outlined. For these models, the maximum likelihood tree will be the same as the "most parsimonious" (or minimum-steps) tree if the probability of change during the evolution of the group is assumed a priori to be very small. However, most sets of data require too many assumed state changes per character to be compatible with this assumption. Farris (1973) has argued that maximum likelihood and parsimony methods are identical under a much less restrictive set of assumptions. It is argued that the present methods are preferable to his, and a counterexample to his argument is presented. An algorithm which enables rapid calculation of the likelihood of a phylogeny is described.
10.2307/2412310|Factor analysis (Q-mode) was used to evaluate interspecific relationships among 27 species of Candaciidae. Twenty-four characters were taken from the first pair of swimming feet, appendages seldom used in copepod taxonomy. The three factors extracted accounted for 93 percent of the total variation among species and identified 4 clusters of species. Clustering of species by factor analysis agrees with a phenogram based upon correlations between species. The four species clusters, reflecting morphological variation of a small, functionally specialized portion of copepod anatomy, are in agreement with many previously suggested interrelationships among the Candaciidae.
10.2307/2412303|Ectoprocts may have descended from a vermiform, burrow-dwelling lophophorate ancestor that would probably be classed with the Phoronida if it were living. Stripped of their adaptations for small size, coloniality, and skeletonization, ectoprocts closely resemble phoronids. We propose that ectoprocts probably arose from a lineage that became epifaunal, reproducing asexually to form tangled aggregations on hard substrates. Under these circumstances the disadvantages of aggregation, chiefly related to crowding, were mitigated through the development of small body size and by adoption of colonial habit. Coloniality was favored because it regulated intraspecific competition by controlling dispersion patterns and the spacing of individuals. It permitted coordinated manipulation of the environment in feeding and waste disposal, enhanced protection, and provided the opportunity for functional differentiation among individuals, thus promoting efficiency. Miniaturization led to the loss of distinct circulatory and excretory systems, while coloniality and eventual skeletonization led to a vast morphological and therefore ecological potential for the group. These factors appear to underlie the important place gained by ectoprocts in many benthic communities from the early Paleozoic until the present time.
10.2307/2412301|Covariant character sets extracted from house sparrow specimens from all sectors of North America by principal component analysis were obtained twice again from specimens taken on an eastwest transect of North America and from specimens generally from western Europe. Uniformity in character covariation is thus evident in ancestral-descendent populations separated by more than 100 generations and in contemporary populations separated by distinct climatic environments. Such covariation is assumed to be a consequence of natural selection, and to represent the genetic ground more immediately than do single characters.
10.2307/2412309|The gradient clustering method of Ihm (1965) was reinvestigated and applied to several sets of real and artificial data. It is based on the technique of defining a function which has the property of being maximal in regions where there are high densities of points and low elsewhere. Points are considered to be in the same cluster if they are "under" the same local maximum of this function. The clusters obtained at different hierarchic levels are not necessarily nested. A generalization of the skyline graph is presented to depict such a system of cluster
10.2307/2412307|In natural populations of Phymata americana year-to-year variation in a character measuring shape (i.e., amount of sculpturing of the exoskeleton) is slight or nonexistent in relatively undisturbed habitats similar to those in which the insects have presumably evolved. In "disturbed" areas associated with urbanization and agriculture, substantial (and statistically significant) year-to-year variation occurs. Year-to-year and locality-to-locality variation of thorax width (selected as a "size" measure) was more complicated, but again variation tended to be less predictable in disturbed than in undisturbed habitats. The interpretation put on these findings is that a stabilization of traits related to fitness (perhaps a more perfect "canalization" of traits) occurs in habitats to which the populations have become acclimated as regards genetic and developmental processes. Amounts of individual variation did not differ in the two types of habitats. A character chosen to represent the color pattern did not show the differences between habitat-types indicated for structural characters. The possible relationship between this result and the similar phenetic differences between geographically marginal and central populations of another insect species is discussed.
10.2307/2412308|To test whether the process of phylogenetic analysis is an unweighted phenetic process, 34 multistate characters were obtained from a recent revision of 29 species of Acanthoscelides, a genus of seed beetles (Bruchidae). Based on these characters, an intuitive unweighted-character phenogram and an intuitive phylogenetic tree were constructed. The intuitive phylogenetic tree was converted to a phenogram format. The characters were treated numerically, generating product-moment and taxonomic distance phenograms for the 29 species. An elementary Wagner tree was constructed from a Prim network. The intuitive and numerical phenograms were analyzed for the topological relationships of closely related OTUs, and the phenograms were compared by means of an "index of positional relationship." This index compares the positions of closely-linked OTUs in two phenograms, regardless of whether the phenogram has been generated by intuitive or numerical means. Within a given numerical technique of calculating similarities (e.g., product-moment), different clustering methods (e.g., weighted-pair and unweightedpair group methods) produced very similar phenograms. Considerably less agreement was obtained between phenograms generated by two different methods of calculating similarities (e.g., product-moment and taxonomic distance). Least agreement was found between the numerical phenograms and the intuitive phylogenetic phenogram, suggesting that the process of intuitive phylogenetic analysis is not solely another form of unweighted phenetic analysis.
10.2307/2412392|The practical application of electrophoretic analyses of proteins of mammalian sera and hemoglobins by simple methods is described. Twenty-five taxonomic relationships, most of which have been controversial, are reviewed, and decisions based on blood proteins and hemoglobins are given. In 19 instances clarifications of relationships were obtained, but in 6 instances the proteins did not help.
10.2307/2412393|Using morphological data from a group of parasitic mites, tests were run to determine the effect on a numerical classification of modifications in technique, involving standardized vs. unstandardized characters, exemplar substitutions, increase in exemplar size, size of group studied and the inclusion of NC (= No Comparison) character values. The results of a test of the hypothesis of non-specificity are also described.
10.2307/2412397|The zoogeography of squirrelfish, genus Myripristis, is discussed, and various hypotheses are presented for derivation of the species. One, M. jacobus, is endemic to the tropical Atlantic, while three species are endemic to the eastern tropical Pacific (M. leiognathos, M. clarionensis, and M. gildi). The following species appear to be restricted to the Pacific Ocean: M. amaenus amaenus, M. amaenus tiki, M. chryseres, and M. woodsi. M. tracyacron and M. vittatus have been taken only in the Indian Ocean and Indo-Australian Archipelago, and M. hexagonus occurs in the Indian Ocean and western Pacific. The following species are found throughout the Indo-Pacific Ocean: M. murdjan, M. kuntee, M. borbonicus, M. parvidens, M. pralinius, and M. violaceus.
10.2307/2412394|This paper is an analysis of patterns of animal distribution by means of (1) calculation and clustering of a distance matrix, (2) factor analysis and trend surface maps of scores of five centroid factors, and (3) a stereogram of the counties projected on the principal axes. The data, which are the incidences of amphibians, reptiles, and mammals in the 105 counties of Kansas, were used principally for illustrative purposes, and comprise 185 OTU's consisting of 137 species (37 of which were subdivided into 85 subspecies). Five factors were extracted from a matrix of correlations among OTU's and mapped by trend surface analysis. These were shown to be of interest even though they yielded overlapping faunal zones. The predictive powers of the method, by the inclusion of environmental variables, is discussed.
10.2307/2412395|A program, written in the computer language BASIC, is described that calculates by various formulas the degree of biogeographical resemblance between areas. The various formulas are described, and the proper machine instructions for each are indicated.
10.2307/2412396|The Fisher multiple discriminant function analysis is used to establish the ten most important morphological characteristics, from a list of forty-three measurements, that best separate the species Cristivomer namaycush, Salvelinus alpinus, S. fontinalis, S. malma, and Salmo gairdnerii of the family Salmonidae.
10.2307/2412391|Difficulties in the concept of stasipatric speciation are examined and a modified version of it proposed. It seems to consist of two components, an allopatric one and a "semigeographic," or parapatric one. The different races of which many species of morabine grasshoppers are composed meet along very narrow zones of secondary intergradation, or "tension zones", these appear to act like semipermeable membranes, allowing free passage to some genetic modifications, but holding back others. The accumulation of genetic differences along these zones is thought to lead eventually to full reproductive (but not necessarily mating) isolation between the two populations. This is the definitive, parapatric phase of the speciation. The races themselves are most simply regarded as originating allopatrically, by random fixation in very small, completely isolated colonies. When these expand and come into contact with the ancestral form, the tension zone is immediately created. This is the preparatory, allopatric phase. The tension zone moves across the country as a front, in the direction of the less adapted form.
10.2307/2412390|The author expounds the main ideas and methods of his conception of exact systematics. The leading principle of his system is an objective evaluation of characters according to their frequency. Thus, the author calls in question the Adansonian principle of equal weights of characters. The indices recommended by the author-indices t-serve for quantitative characterization of taxonomic relationships as well as for evaluating the originality of objects under consideration. The problem of partition of taxa (in general form) is also discussed in the article, and some examples illustrating the recommended methods are given.
10.2307/2412037|The status of the cicindelids with respect to the carabids (Coleoptera) is an issue among taxonomists. Data from immunoelectrophoresis and immunodiffusion were processed using detailed computerized, numerical taxonomic methods which included cluster and principal components analyses. Results indicated that the cicindelids are preferably regarded as a subfamily of the family Carabidae. The genera in the family Carabidae exhibited large amounts of molecular variation. In detailed comparisons, using the computer, unstandardized logarithms of the per cent cross-reaction values gave the highest correlations of the immunological data with morphological classifications of the Coleoptera.
10.2307/2412038|The degree of fit of phenograms (constructed using UPGMA cluster analysis) to similarity matrices based on random data was examined using the cophenetic correlation coefficient. Approximate critical bounds were established for testing for the presence of hierarchic structure in one's data. Sokal's taxonomic distance coefficient was shown to be more sensitive than the product-moment correlation coefficient to differences in the multivariate structure of the sampled distributions.
10.2307/2412041|The relationships of 42 Canadian species of the mosquito genus Aedes were investigated by numerotaxonomic techniques, using the method of matching coefficients. Good agreement with conventional taxonomic arrangements was found when (1) adult mosquitoes and (2) adults and larvae together were considered, but with (3) larvae alone, the agreement was unsatisfactory. The prospects of numerical methods in taxonomy are briefly considered.
10.2307/2412042|Several important terms in biology have recently been criticized for not being "operational." In this paper the course of operationism in physics, psychology and genetics is sketched to show what effect this particular view on the meaning of scientific terms had on these disciplines. Then the biological species concept and the concept of homology are examined to see in what respects they are or are not "operational." One of the primary conclusions of this investigation is that few terms in science are completely operational or completely nonoperational. Some scientific terms, especially theoretical terms, are a good deal less operational than others; but, far from being regrettable, this situation is essential if theoretical terms are to fulfill their systematizing function and if scientific theories are to be capable of growth.
10.2307/2412036|The general structure of taxonomic data sets, the alpha and beta elements of this structure, the departures of this structure from randomness, and the rationale by which departures are viewed as historical evidence have been demonstrated. An operational method for selecting character sets is illustrated, an estimate of the genealogy that produced the species is derived from these sets, and this estimate is presented as a phylogeny In addition, I have demonstrated a method that discloses a stable structure that is relatively insensitive to distortion through addition of new data. Still further, I have shown a procedure that produced clusters of species having phenetic properties that are at least as good as those of clusters produced by direct phenetic methods. It has been demonstrated that different characters have different predictive properties, that different character states of the same character have different predictive properties, and that, in general, derivative states are the sole bearers of valid historical information. Taxonomists cannot, with propriety, weight either characters or character states. They must select and evaluate sets of character states, and this evaluation should be carried out every time new data, breaking established character sets, are incorporated into data tables.
10.2307/2412040|Immunologic analyses of serum proteins, studies of karyotypes, and morphology of spermatozoa reveal that vampire bats (family Desmodontidae) are more closely related to members of the family Phyllostomatidae than is suggested by conventional morphological characters. Immunologic tests show Desmodus to be related to the Phyllostomatidae through the subfamilies Phyllostomatinae and Glossophaginae. When fundamental and diploid numbers of chromosomes are plotted, two monotypic desmodontid genera (Desmodus and Diaemus) have karyotypic values that fall in the area of highest concentration of phyllostomatids. Spermatozoa of Desmodus and the third monotypic desmodontid genus, Diphylla, are indistinguishable in general morphology from those of representatives of five subfamilies of phyllostomatids. It is suggested that the vampires may represent only a subfamily of the Phyllostomatidae.
10.2307/2412039|Immunological precipitin tests were used to determine relative serological propinquity of four subgenera of Spermophilus (Otospermophilus, Callospermophilus, Spermophilus, and Ictidomys). Serum from another sciurid genus, Sciurus, was cross-reacted with antiserum against each of the subgenera of Spermophilus.
10.2307/2412043|This paper consists primarily of an inquiry into the logical status and the epistemological role of nomenifers (literally, "name-bearers"; type specimens). The three major codes of biological nomenclature are ambiguous or misleading or equivocal regarding nomenifers, as evidenced by varying interpretations given by different writers. One important issue which can be isolated is the following: if, as the codes and some writers say, the name is "attached" to the nomenifer, it would seem that the name is a proper name. To know the proper name of a nomenifer would be quite useless scientifically; the practices of biologists would be inconsistent with such a view, since class names are needed for science. To clarify this distinction, the differences between class (common, general) names and proper names are examined. There are at least two differences: proper names name individuals and have no intension; class names name groups (or classes) and have intension. A second difficulty, namely, the difference between attaching a name to a description (a set of words) or to an organism (or class of organisms), is pointed out. A further issue, brought out by noting several writer's views, is the unsettledness regarding whether a type specimen must be typical of its species or only an example of its species. Yet another issue, the alleged diremption between nomenclature and taxonomy, is considered with the conclusion that a total separateness does not exist. Our own view of the epistemological role of the nomenifer is that it, like any other member of the species, can serve to ostensively define the name of the species; the nomenifer is different only in being the "official" instance of the species named by the original investigator and, as such, is required to be included in whatever group is called by that name. Consequently, the nomenifer has no privileged logical status; it is a member of a class like any other member of that class. It bears a name by virtue of its membership in the class but, unlike other members of that class, its name cannot change as long as there is a class with that name.
10.2307/2412357|Phenetic relationships, revealed by multivariate analyses, of 154 black-capped and Carolina chickadees (Parus atricapillus and P. carolinensis, respectively) from 13 localities in Kansas are discussed. It is shown that phenetically (and presumably genetically) intermediate birds occur rather commonly in areas where populations of P atricapillus and P. carolinensis are in contact. The distribution of the intermediate birds not only supports the supposition that interbreeding between the forms occurs, but suggests that occasional back-crosses may take place. Various field observations on chickadees from contact areas are reviewed; these suggest that viability may be significantly reduced by interbreeding.
10.2307/2412355|On being presented with a set of points plotted on a plane space, most observers will agree that the set contains clusters of points if the distribution of the points meets certain conditions. We postulate that these conditions are: (1) that there are continuous, relatively densely populated regions of the space, and (2) that these are surrounded by continuous, relatively empty regions of the space. Using this definition for natural clusters we developed an algorithm for finding such clusters from the relative interpoint distances within a set. Starting with the closest pair of points, additional cluster members are sought by a minimum stepping stone strategy and accepted or rejected on the basis of parameters which indicate a discontinuity of closeness (i.e. a continuous, relatively empty space surrounding the points already admitted to the cluster) The procedure is repeated at a number of levels of resolution to give an overall view of the population. The resolution levels appropriate for a given set of points are determined from an analysis of the interpoint distances. Since the procedure uses only the relative distances between the points, it can be applied to points specified in any number of dimensions.
10.2307/2412358|A model consisting of 37 pieces of hardware, representing as many animal species in a single phylum, has been used successfully at several levels of undergraduate and postgraduate experience to teach problems of beta taxonomy and the arbitrariness, subjectivity, and limitations of higher classifications. Students find this model challenging, stimulating, and thoroughly engaging. The model is simple, durable, inexpensive, and easy to manipulate; it fits comfortably in one laboratory period; it involves a minimum of characters; and it presupposes no familiarity with the morphology and accompanying jargon of any particular group of organisms.
10.2307/2412363|All discussions hitherto on the origin of the coelom have postulated a reduction within the molluscs; moreover, the recent discoveries of Tryblidiacea (Neopilina) have led persistently again to the opinion that the molluscs should have developed from metamerically segmented ancestors. But, as there are neither ontogenetical nor anatomical reasons, the reduction-theory cannot be upheld. The whole organization of the Mollusca (meluding locomotion, muscular system, mesenchyme, digestive apparatus, nervous system, larval features, etc.) proves on the other hand that this evolutionary stem must have developed from turbellariomorphic ancestors. The continuity in the locomotion of the molluscs brought from these flatworms guarantees that they did not need a hydrostatical coelom for locomotion (as in other coelomates) and that, therefore, such a coelom has never existed. According to the `Functional Coelom Theory' the coelom (like every organ) is provided with a special function, and ontogeny as well as the morphological structure of the molluscs refers to the statement that the mollusean coelom has developed as a purely protective pericardium; comparable situations within other animal groups confirm this opinion. The enclosure of the germ cells in the rostral part of the coelom has led to a gonopericardium with double function, and further to a separation in the working organ: pericardium (with coelomoducts) and gonocoel (with gonoducts). The coelomic cavity of the molluscs therefore proves its own development, which is homologous with that of coelomates by way of the cleavage-cell 4d and the derived mesodermal bands. The gonopericardial room itself, however, cannot be considered as a homolog of the secondary body cavity, so that there is a functionally effected diphyletic development of the coelom within molluscs and other coelomates.
10.2307/2412360|This is the first of the newly instituted presidential addresses of the Systematics Association and explores the future of systematics. Simpson's definition of "systematics" as "the study of differentiation" has been followed by developments in the fields of molecular biology, epigenetics, biophysics, prebiology, and exobiology. A "new taxonomy" will arise when the methods of numerical taxonomy are employed for phylogenetic research. Perhaps in the future systematics will invade the province of non-biological evolution.
10.2307/2412362|Nomenclatural procedures in animal taxonomy, especially the application of priority rules in the vast entomological literature, are oppressively inefficient and becoming more so with the passage of time. The authors suggest that the problem be solved in a simple but radical way, by the device of officially recognizing selected monographs as the "new Linnaeus" of the group treated by the monograph. No publication prior to the monograph could then affect nomenclatural usage in the group, but a new monograph could supplant it.
10.2307/2412361|Elongate ocular peduncles have been independently evolved by many non-predatory, burrowing crabs. It is suggested that the burrowing habits of these crabs have provided the selective pressures for the evolution of these structures, primarily in the avoidance of predation whilst feeding on the surface. The development of elongate peduncles has necessitated structural modifications of the anterior carapace; in portunids these modifications are mainly of the anterolateral carapace margins, whilst in ocypodids and goneplacids they are mainly of the front.
10.2307/2412354|The northern form of the common grackle, Q. q. versicolor, mhabiting pine forest and mixed pine-hardwood forest, ranges south in Louisiana to the latitude of Baton Rouge, Opelousas, and De Ridder, where it interbreeds freely in a narrow zone with the southern form, Q. q. quiscula, inhabiting cypress-tupelogum swamp forest and coastal marshes, to produce viable and fertile hybrids. Analysis of geographical variation in four color characters in 637 males from 21 sample areas in Louisiana and the application of discriminant function analysis to form a weighted hybrid index demonstrate that a complete transition in color characters between Q. q. versicolor and Q q. quiscula occurs between 30
10.2307/2412356|The merits of various measures of divergence within a taxon are discussed, and it is concluded that the difference between the two most different OTU's in a taxon is the most reliable measure of divergence. This "maximum difference" criterion of divergence is shown to be related to the categorical rank of a taxon by an equation of the form cd(R) = k2
10.2307/2412010|Species of birds sympatric on islands frequently differ from each other in bill length by a larger amount than do their mainland relatives. Differences between similar species in body size, as indicated by wing length, are smaller than differences in bill length. This suggests that a major adaptation of island birds to potential competitors is a change in feeding habitats. An alternative explanation of the bill features of island birds, that they have been selected for a species recognition function, may be applicable in some instances. But since pairs of species are usually different in plumage features, as well as song and behaviour, species recognition is probably achieved most frequently by these means and not by bill size or shape. Some data show that homogeneric species differ in numbers by a greater amount on islands than on the mainland. Differences in numbers and bill characteristics support the suggestion that for sustained coexistence the requirement of mutual ecological independence of closely related species is often greater on islands than on a mainland. This results from the restricted variety of resources and area of islands.
10.2307/2412005|Ecologic characteristics of species of two genera of soil mites. Veigaia and Asca, were investigated. Among ten species of Veigaia, all collected from deciduous forests in central Maryland, there were considerable differences in vertical distribution: some species were restricted to leaf litter, some occurred mainly down in the A
10.2307/2412007|Although the biomass of the planktivorous fish in any lake is but a few per cent of that of the plant and animal plankton, these fish exert a potent influence upon the composition of these lower trophic levels. The vulnerability of the zooplankton to predation, together with the high degree of selectivity exercised by the planktivores in their choice of prey items are responsible for this pervasive effect. Freshwater planktivores appear to prefer large Cladocera, especially Daphnia. Trout and yellow perch, facultative planktivores, switch to non-planktonic food when large Daphnia are not available. Freshwater populations of the primarily marine genus Alosa are obligate planktivores, shifting to progressively smaller zooplankters as the larger, preferred items become scarce. Within each prey category there is strong preference for the largest items. In an experimental observation of Alosa sp. feeding on a small calanoid copepod, the survival time of each instar was inversely proportional to its mean body length. The strong preferences evinced by lacustrine planktivores can shift the competitive balance between the zooplanktonic herbivores, all of which exploit the same supply of particulate food. Whenever or wherever planktivores are absent, large zooplankters like Daphnia pulex are numerically dominant. When planktivory is more intense the large zooplankters are cropped sufficiently to allow smaller, hitherto suppressed, species to become numerous. The interest displayed by facultative planktivores toward decreasing sizes of prey is considered in relation to the shape-size polymorphism characteristic of most limnetic Daphnia.
10.2307/2412008|Collection and analysis of food samples permitted comparison of the diets of five species of terns that occur together on Christmas Island, Pacific Ocean. All the terns feed mainly while flying, catching fish and squid chased to the surface by predatory fish. Sterna fuscata and Anous stolidus, which are of equal size, catch prey of similar kinds and sizes, but S. fuscata can exploit feeding areas further from land, and is more numerous. Gygis alba and especially Anous tenuirostris are smaller and eat smaller prey. Gygis eats many fish and squid of kinds not important to A. tenuirostris, and may catch them at different times. Procelsterna cerulea, the smallest species, eats mainly fish larvae and tiny invertebrates. The three most closely related species. A. stolidus, A. tenuirostris, and Procelsterna, differ mainly in size. The ratios of their weights are 3.8 : 2.0 : 1, but the ratios of the mean volumes of the largest 2 per cent of their fish prey are 30. ca. 7. 1. The reasons for the discrepancy are discussed. The value of data on bill length, bill thickness, and body size in assessing the extent of competition for food among bird species is considered. It is argued that the phenomenon of ecological segregation need not indicate the operation of competitive exclusion, and it is suggested that many natural habitats cannot be assumed to contain the greatest number of related species that could coexist there indefinitely if the opportunity to establish themselves arose.
10.2307/2412001|The classical definition of a species used by most vertebrate systematists employs interbreeding as a primary criterion. For various reasons this definition is inapplicable and new approaches, defining different kinds of species or eliminating criteria dependent on breeding, are being explored. So far the systematic treatment of uniparental forms has employed the same criteria applied to bisexual species and, by analogy, has recognized them as species too. But in several instances the inability of the uniparental form to breed with morphologically similar and, hence, presumably related species has been used as a species criterion, even though crossbreeding between individuals of the unisexual species is impossible. In other instances supplementary criteria such as continuous range, or distinctive niche, augment the usual criteria. The use of the presumed degree of genetic dissimilarity between two taxa is a hazardous approach to species recognition, for a single gene difference propagated parthenogenetically in a clone might be more distinctive phenotypically than differences involving entire genomes. The best systematic approach to this species problem is still morphological and ecological and infers that the taxon under scrutiny is a lineage evolving separately from other lineages.
10.2307/2412003|A technique is described for summarizing the results of a numerical taxonomic study by a principal components analysis (with projecting the OTU's onto the first three principal components) The three-way scatter diagram which results can be constructed as a solid model, as perspective drawings, or stereo pairs. Data on the Hoplitis complex of bees is used as an illustrative example.
10.2307/2412624|Genetic differentiation and the evolutionary relationships among 30 populations, representing five subspecies of inland cutthroat tout, Salmo clarki (Richardson), were studied by examining geographic variation at 35 genetic loci assayed with starch gel electrophoresis. Analysis of population subdivision using Nei's (1973, 1975) H
10.2307/2412625|The geometric equivalence of loci on organisms is used as a basis for the operational definition of point homology. A mathematical and physical method of transforming the organism outline to a unit circle and of mapping the internal points are compared with reference to taxonomic problems in mesostigmatic mites.
10.2307/2412626|The distribution of sample estimates of the coefficient of variation is studied analytically and by Monte Carlo simulation. Derivations are given for the expected value of a coefficient of variation and for its standard error. Various proposed standard errors for coefficients of variation are evaluated. Standard errors are derived for differences between coefficients of variation for samples of independent and correlated characters. Methods are proposed for testing the homogeneity of sets of independent and correlated coefficients of variation. Tests of homogeneity of variability profiles as well as for parallelism of such profiles are furnished.
10.2307/2412623|A data set of 47 morphological characters derived from the literature and original observation is prepared for the Leptopodomorpha. An argument is presented for considering the Leptopodomorpha as a monophyletic group and the Nepomorpha as its sister group. The data set is analyzed by cladistic (Wagner) and phenetic (UPGMA) methods in an effort to arrive at a most natural classification. Predictivity and stability are measured by comparing classifications based on a complete and partial taxon set as well as a random bipartition of the character set. Cladistic analysis produces more stable and predictive classifications with greater consensus and component information. The minimum length Wagner tree has greater information content than the UPGMA phenogram by virtue of its higher cophenetic correlation coefficient and its more parsimonious description of the character data. The Wagner tree is compared with four existing classifications for the Leptopodomorpha in the form of networks and trees. One of the published schemes is represented by the same network as the most parsimonious tree, but contains additional homoplasies as a rooted tree. The remaining published schemes are represented by different networks and describe the data less accurately (in more steps) than the most parsimonious tree. Wagner, UPGMA, and published results are examined for congruence with available ecological and distributional data. The minimum length Wagner tree and a published scheme of Polhemus show maximum congruence. A classification isomorphic with the Wagner tree is proposed as the one which should be used for future studies in the Leptopodomorpha. Objective criteria for evaluating classifications and properties of cladistic and phenetic methods are discussed.
10.2307/2992340|Latent developmental or physiological responses to environment that can be evoked by laboratory manipulation provide an opportunity to reconstruct the history of latitudinal dispersal and invasion of stressful climates. Examples are given from the photoperiodic regulation of gonadal cycles in birds and from photoperiodic and temperature controls over diapause and polyphenism in butterflies.
10.2307/2992339|Differentiation at 20-21 protein-coding genes was examined by conventional techniques of starch-gel electrophoresis among twelve species and seven genera of North American sparrows and relatives, Emberizidae, subfamily Emberizinae. One species representing Fringillidac was also included. Data were summarized in a distance matrix which was subsequently used to infer phylogenetic trees by a variety of methods. Results were generally consistent with current classification. Two salient results were unanticipated: 1) the relatively close genetic similarity of Pipilo to group I Emberizinae; 2) the relatively large genetic distance of Calcarius from other Emberizinae. A search of the literature revealed that the distribution of a behavioral characteristic, "bilateral scratching," had led to a prediction of phylogenetic relationships for these genera fully consistent with the protein information. This result is significant because it lends support to proposals that some behavioral traits are extremely valuable phylogenetic markers. Levels of protein divergence in birds are compared to previous estimates for other vertebrate taxa. At corresponding levels of the taxonomic hierarchy, birds consistently exhibit far smaller genetic distances than do many fishes and other vertebrates.
10.2307/2412643|The evolutionary models of punctuated equilibria and species selection: 1. rely upon a model of species origin from peripheral isolates, and 2. interpret trends as the net result of selection among daughter species, whose morphologies are random with respect to the trend. The punctuational model asserts that gradual morphological change is less important than the sudden and rapid morphological change which occurs at speciation, and that morphological stasis is the rule through most of the duration of a species' history. Several considerations suggest limitations of these models. 1. Peripheral population model-Evolutionary biologists acknowledge a diversity of speciation models. The extinction-of-intermediates allopatric model and the parapatric model do not require peripheral isolates, and suggest that morphological differentiation may likely arise from typical within-species geographic variation. 2. Anagenesis versus speciation-The punctuated equilibria model, by establishing a dichotomy between evolution at speciation and evolution before and after speciation, obscures more about the tempo and mode of evolution than it clarifies. 3. Stasis-The nature of paleontological species level taxonomy requires the identification of species-specific characters which are invariant with time. This confounds the identification of stasis with species identification. Perhaps a comparison of within- versus among-species character variation might suggest whether within-species variation is the "stuff" of larger scale evolution. 4. Species selection-This requires that morphological characteristics of daughter species be random with respect to a long term trend. Ontogenetic and functional morphological interpretations of phylogeny suggest that trends within species are not necessarily random with respect to trends among species. We describe an example (scallops) where the range of possible daughter species is very restricted. We finally describe a test for the effect of average species duration on rate of anagenesis. Comparing species longevities does not adequately predict the extent of morphological divergence.
10.2307/2412642|Many cladistic systematists consider hypotheses of ancestor-descendant relationship untestable in fossils. Although fossil preservation is never complete enough to know which fossil population is actually ancestral, theoretically it is possible to sample the ancestral population. If all potentially ancestral populations were sampled, then some members of the actual ancestral population must be contained in the sample. Preservation of most vertebrate and macroinvertebrate fossils is notoriously spotty. However, marine microfossil sequences are the most complete available in the fossil record. Since most planktonic microorganisms have biogeographic distributions that closely correspond to the extent of major water masses, it is possible to sample each population by sampling the water masses. Lack of preservation due to non-deposition, erosion, or dissolution can generally be recognized. We can tell if absence of a form from an area is real or due to lack of preservation. Piston cores from the entire world ocean are available for all the water masses since the late Miocene. Their stratigraphy can be carefully worked out by at least three independent means of correlation, and in some cases these cores faithfully record events spaced only hundreds of years apart. Thus, in certain pelagic microfossils it is possible to sample all populations that have existed through millions of years, and be confident that no forms of interest remain unsampled. Therefore, the marine microfossil record can meet the criteria necessary to recognize ancestors. An example from the Radiolaria is discussed.
10.2307/2412644|Albumin immunological distance data obtained primarily from the literature are interpreted cladistically for representatives of virtually all recognized groups of eastern Caribbean Anolis. A classification is proposed that differs substantially from the classification of Williams (1976). We argue that our classification is highly concordant with the character states used by Williams to generate his genealogy, but his interpretation cannot be forced into compatibility with the albumin evidence. We make no assumptions about regularity of rates of the albumin molecule, but the null hypothesis that rates of albumin evolution are equivalent along each lineage cannot be falsified.
10.2307/2412661|Major recent challenges to the view that animal speciation is usually allopatric are reviewed, and are found unconvincing, either because of their theoretical implausibility or because of insufficient evidence. Special attention is given to the theory of stasipatric speciation, and to purported cases, especially in tephritid fruit flies, of sympatric speciation associated with a shift to a new host. Stasipatric speciation is unlikely under population genetic theory; moreover, chromosome rearrangements probably seldom facilitate speciation. In the tephritid genus Rhagoletis, the archetypal case of sympatric speciation, there is little or no evidence of genetic divergence or of sympatric speciation. The conditions under which host-associated sympatric speciation might occur are so exacting as to be met by very few species.
10.2307/2412662|Living and extinct species in Equus have not been reviewed for nearly a century. More than twenty morphological, mostly cranial characters of Equus and Dinohippus are here explained; synapomorphies uniting Equus and Dinohippus and autapomorphies within Equus are discussed. Significant outgroups compared are Dinohippus Quinn, Astrohippus Stirton, and Neohipparion Gidley. Cladistic analysis indicates that Equus is a monophyletic taxon closely related to Dinohippus, and that Equus can reasonably be divided into two (and only two) subgenera, Equus (Equus) and Equus (Asinus), each of which is characterized by a suite of autapomorphic features. The North American fossil record contains close relatives of every living species of equid except E. quagga. An examination of the zoogeographic implications of the cladistic hypothesis here presented indicates a complex pattern of migration from North America to Eurasia during Blancan through late Pleistocene time, and a strong zoogeographic relationship between Africa and North America demonstrated by the equids.
10.2307/2412660|G- and C-band data for seventy-eight species of bats from four families were subjected to a cladistic analysis to determine the number of chromosomal rearrangements required to convert the karyotype proposed as primitive for a family into the karyotype of extant species in that family. The number of rearrangements ranged from 0 to 36, and if the age of families is 60 million years, average rate of incorporation of rearrangements per million years ranged from 0 to 0.6. When chromosomal variation in congeneric species were subjected to a similar cladistic analysis, most (34 of 54) species had undergone no chromosomal rearrangements; however, some species had undergone from 14 to 20 rearrangements and the types of rearrangements that were incorporated in species having the largest amount of change were generally rearrangements that should produce considerable reduction in gamete fertility in individuals heterozygous for such rearrangements. Radically reorganized karyotypes appear not only in bats but in a wide variety of vertebrates. Factors related to demography, breeding structure, and speciation do not appear adequate to explain the occurrence of such radically reorganized genomes. Factors less related to demographic and vagility characteristics, such as mutation rate and mechanisms which reduce the meiotic constraints on the heterozygote, are phenomena which may be involved in evolving a radically reorganized karyotype.
10.2307/2412407|In the quantitative phyletic approach to evolutionary taxonomy, quantitative methods are used for inferring evolutionary relationships. The methods are chosen both for their operationism and for their connection to evolutionary theory and the goals of evolutionary taxonomy As an example of this approach, a detailed analysis of a set of anuran characters is presented and taxonomic conclusions based on those characters are drawn. The methods and conclusions of the quantitative phyletic analysis are compared and contrasted with the methods of previous workers in the field of anuran classification.
10.2307/2412409|Certain confusions about the nature of biological classification and the logical difficulties arising from these confusions are discussed. A simple set-theoretic model for hierarchic classification is proposed. It is shown how the model enables us to define the terms commonly used in describing hierarchic classifications, and how theorems may be derived which correspond to the established rules of usage for such classifications. The ways in which the model can be developed to provide an underlying logic for numerical methods of classification are indicated.
10.2307/2412412|Speculation about the phylogenetic position of the archiannelids is reviewed. The Families Polygordiidae, Protodrilidae, Dinophilidae, Saccocirridae and Nerillidae should form the order Archiannelida within the class Polychaeta. A number of comparisons between each of these families and other polychaetes have been made without demonstrating closer relationships than exist among the archiannelids themselves. It has not been proven that the archiannelids are polyphyletic. The archiannelids should not be assigned to any of the recognized orders of polychaetes. To call the archiannelids either secondarily reduced or primitively simple presupposes that the origin of the annelids is known, which is not the case. The characters which originally were applied to set the archiannelids apart as primitive annelids can now be recognized as more truly representing adaptations for interstitial life. It would therefore be best to refer to the archiannelids as an order of polychaetes, primarily adapted for interstitial life.
10.2307/2412408|The effect of random errors in homology on the results of a numerical taxonomic study was investigated. The correlation coefficient was found to be much more sensitive to the effects of these errors than the distance coefficient. These analyses suggest that in a study composed of around 74 characters one could tolerate confusions about homologies in as many as 6 characters, but not very many more.
10.2307/2412411|I have presented an analysis of the species density of the breeding birds of continental Canada, the United States (excluding Hawaii) and Mexico following the method of Simpson (1964) in his analysis of North American mammals; seabirds were not analysed. A map of species density was constructed using a 153 mile square-quadrant grid system super-imposed upon the range data of each species. Many of the same trends that Simpson found for mammals-latitudinal gradient, topographic effect, east-west gradient, peninsula effect-were also displayed in the avian species density pattern. There appeared to be a greater decrease in species density in southeastern United States in birds, and it is suggested that this may reflect historical factors in the form of repeated glaciation. A family density map and a species/family ratio map were also constructed, and shown to reflect trends similar to the species density map. Species density maps were constructed for the seven largest families of birds; these were the Anatidae, Accipitridae, Scolopacidae, Trochilidae, Tyrannidae, Parulidae, and Fringillidae. The characteristic pattern of each family is discussed in relation to historical factors and present ecological conditions.
10.2307/2412410|Frequency distributions of body scale counts show a positive skewness. Plots of sample standard deviations against sample means confirm the log-normal nature (i.e., the variance proportional to the mean) of scale count distributions. Moreover, variation is conservative. so that related species tend to possess similar coefficients of variation for homologous counts. If certain conditions are fulfilled (approximation to linear relationship, origin intercept, and proportionality of scatter to standard deviation), the mean coefficient of variation not only serves as a short-cut method of obtaining a least squares regression estimate of variation, but simultaneously serves as an index of variability uneffected by changes in the mean scale count.
10.2307/2412183|Anolis lizard species have solitary populations on certain West Indian islands. These populations have a narrow range in mean body size, very different for the two sexes, though they inhabit islands varying greatly in area and environmental diversity. Smallsized exceptions to this uniformity are northerly Sizes of males for solitary forms are collectively significantly larger than sizes of males on the richest islands. With increasing species diversity from island to island, species size distributions for males irregularly decrease in median but increase in range and skewness. On the three richest islands, smaller species are significantly more often restricted in geographic range. From simple assumptions about competition for resources, a relation is derived which holds that snout-vent length or some power thereof for a given species is equal to some multiple of the reciprocal of the number of closely related species on its island plus some constant. This relation is shown to better describe data than two alternatives. The ratio of the length of the principal trophic structure (the head) to the entire body length of a given species is sometimes but not always predictable from the number of congeneric species on its island.
10.2307/2412184|An n x t table, recording the results of n different tests or observations on each of t items, contains information which may be used to classify the items (OTU's) according to their similarities and differences. We equate similarity with relative closeness, and difference with relative distance. Relative closeness and relative distance may be thought of as complementary measures of proximity. The process of converting an n \times t table of test results into a t \times t table of proximities between the pairs of items is called proximity analysis. The process of finding any isolated subsets of similar items is called cluster analysis. Taxometric methods are viewed as approaches to compressing the information in an n \times t table into a graphic, best-fit model for the display of proximity and cluster relations among OTU's. Three general approaches are followed. 1) compression before proximity analysis, 2) compression as an intermediate step between proximity and cluster analysis, and 3) compression after cluster analysis. The utility of these approaches is compared. Taxometric maps are introduced as a means to display proximity and cluster relations. A procedure is given for preparing taxometric maps from cluster analysis results, and two examples are presented for illustration. An appendix on similarity and proximity equates three independently derived similarity coefficients, which are shown to be derivable from a city-block metric proximity measure.
10.2307/2412181|In red-winged blackbirds from central North America, geographic variation in wing length is a good indicator of geographic variation in body size. Multiple regression analysis is used to consider the relationship between geographic variation and eight geographic and climatic factors. Variation in males appears inversely related to two factors, latitude and July wet-bulb temperature, while variation in females is inversely related to only wet-bulb temperature. The statistical associations may indicate natural selection in terms of thermoregulatory efficiency.
10.2307/2412185|Immunological measurements of structural differences among the various carnivore albumins were made in order to develop a quantitative phylogeny of the major pinniped taxa. It is shown that the pinnipeds are definitely of monophyletic origin and that the walrus (Odobenus) is of recent derivation from an otariid stock.
10.2307/2412182|Characters that are reliable for cladistic inference are those that are consistent with the true phyletic relationships, that is, those that have little homoplasy. A set of cladistically reliable characters are correlated with each other in a particular non-linear fashion here referred to as hierarchic correlation. Cladistically unreliable characters can be hierarchically correlated only by chance. A technique that infers cladistic relationships by successively weighting characters according to apparent cladistic reliability is suggested, and computer simulation tests of the technique are described. Results indicate that the successive weighting procedure can be highly successful, even when cladistically reliable characters are heavily outnumbered by unreliable ones.
2412187|A preliminary study of a group of parasitic nematodes tested the usefulness of numerical taxonomy in the recognition of overall similarities and groupings. Two approaches were followed, a 7-OTU study involving average character values, and a 27-OTU study using character values taken from individual replicates. Qualitative and quantitative characters were used, with measurements expressed as percentages of total body length. Distance and correlation coefficients were structured by graphic and cluster analysis, and the various groupings obtained in the two studies were compared.
10.2307/2412604|A method of selecting from a data matrix the characters most likely to lead to valid phylogenetic conclusions is put forward, based on the concept of a uniquely derived character and its logical consequences. A coefficient of character-state randomness is defined which gives a measure of how far the distribution of character-states is random between the different characters. These principles are illustrated by application to published data on the seven species of Argodrepana.
10.2307/2412603|Cerion uva (L.) and Tudora megacheilos (Potiez and Michaud) are the dominant land snails of Aruba, Bonaire and Curacao; both display the high degree of intraspecific character variation so often noted in terrestrial gastropods. This study correlates patterns of morphologic diversity with geographic and environmental distribution. Projected upon factor axes, the samples of each species fall into four groups corresponding to degrees of geographic isolation: Aruba, Bonaire, eastern and western Curacao. Factor axes represent the major trends of variation in shell size and shape. Subgrouping within geographic clusters is influenced by environmental parameters. In Cerion, for example, shells collected from volcanic rocks tend to be larger than those from limestone. In all geographic regions, these volcanic samples are distinguished by their higher projection on an axis representing increased size and concomitant changes of shape. Pulmonates usually favor limestone, but the anomaly of Cerion's smaller size is related to the unfavorable climatic conditions associated with limestone areas in the Dutch West Indies (dry, windy, and poorly vegetated). If the morphologic differences among geographic regions are similar to ecologically-induced variation within regions, then interregional differences are probably adaptive, and not a fortuitous result of geographic isolation, as many have claimed. Cerion is small and Tudora large in eastern Curacao; Tudora is small and Cerion large in western Curacac. This interregional relationship is parallelled by significant negative correlations between sizes of the two species for samples within regions. Diversity patterns did not change significantly during 16 years separating the studies of Baker and Hummelinck. Baker's data show the same distinction of four geographic areas and similar patterns of distribution within areas; significant positive correlation exists between measures made by Baker and Hummelinck on samples collected from the same localities. Fossil samples from cave phosphates do not conform to modern distributions. The basic character diversity pattern-good (presumably genetic) distinction among regions and ecologically induced variation within regions-requires a revision of Baker's classification. Separate names for the four regions are warranted, but the cumbersome nomenclature for intraregional diversity should be dropped.
10.2307/2412601|The general aspects of planktonic foraminiferal radiation during the Cenozoic are shown by the distributional patterns of several morphotypic groups. There were two major radiations, one occurring during the Paleogene, the other during the Neogene. The radiations followed severe reductions in diversity which occurred at the close of the Cretaceous and again during the mid-Tertiary. Distributional patterns are iterative, and the Neogene radiation is essentially a repetition of what occurred during the Paleogene. According to the present interpretation, the iterative patterns reflect major changes in the dynamic structure of surface waters. By analogy with the distribution of the modern fauna, it is suggested that thermal barriers were degraded during times of reduction and the oceans were uniformly cool. During the radiations thermal gradients were restored and the structure of the surface waters was essentially as it is today.
10.2307/2412602|Protein extracts of pupae from eight populations of the Rhagoletis pomonella complex (Diptera, Tephritidae) reared on apple, Crataegus, Vaccinium and Gaylussacia were compared serologically using both quantitative (Boyden method) and qualitative (immunodiffusion and immunoelectrophoresis) techniques. Those populations feeding on apples and Crataegus were indistinguishable but were differentiated in all tests from those forms developed on Vaccinium and Gaylussacia, supporting the recognition of two entities, R. pomonella and R. mendax, within the complex. The serological identity of the apple and Crataegus forms substantiates the hypothesis that the apple form may have evolved from a Crataegus-feeding population.
10.2307/2412605|The phenetics of European sparrows, Passer domesticus, P hispaniolensis, and their hybrids, are here examined by univariate and multivariate statistics to determine the nature and direction of phenetic variation and the possible adaptive significance of this variation. There seems to be a close relationship of dimensional and color characters with climatic and other environmental variables; most instances of character variation are strictly clinal, with longer individuals occuring in southerly localities and shorter individuals at northerly localities. Thicknesses of bony elements tend not to vary geographically, so longer-limbed individuals are relatively thinner. Regression analyses suggest a persistent positive relationship between summer temperature and bone lengths, such as is subsumed by Allen's "ecogeographic rule." There is sexual dimorphism in the size of wing and sternal elements, but not of other dimensional characters, meaning that females are proportionally larger in the head and legs than males. Probable causes for this complex dimorphism lie in (1) selection for large body size in males as advantageous in display and fighting, (2) selection for small body size in females for thermoregulatory advantage in closed nests, and (3) common use by both sexes of a single food resource. Results of multivariate cluster analyses are such that specimen localities show regularity in clustering occurrence when grouped by 33 male specimen characters, by 27 female specimen characters, or by 37 mean monthly climatic characters. Such coincidence suggests that at least part of the character variation used to construct infraspecific classifications of these sparrows is elaborated by finely-graded climatic differences.
10.2307/2412330|A number of cases of specific names of animals of various groups, formed with an incorrect genitive ending, or without a genitive ending when one might better have been used, are cited; correct forms are given, and the whole subject is discussed. An addition to the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature is recommended and a plea made for more care in forming names.
10.2307/2412328|Some numerical methods for group-forming are discussed in relation to the important informational requirements of classification. Departures from these requirements are termed informational distortions. Such distortions seem to be almost absent for Relative Heterogeneity and Homogeneity Functions, which are described in detail. However, they may reach serious proportions in the product-moment correlation coefficient, Jaccard's and Czekanowski's similarity coefficients, and mean Euclidean distance. Care is needed to avoid the informational distortions of scatter diagrams and models. Further distortions and losses of information are pointed out for the clustering systems using single, median and group average linkage. Such difficulties are avoided with average member linkage, which is suitable for sets derived from poor sampling (open arrays) where a `looser', space-conserved classification is needed. Probably minimal space-conservation is given with group homogeneity as the test for clustering. This is suited to sets where the sampling has been effectively complete (closed arrays) A criticism of some aspects of principal components analysis, and some notes on interpreting dendrograms are included.
10.2307/2412329|An analysis of morphologic measurements from geographically separated samples of the American lobster, Homarus americanus, was made. The centour concept, which involved inferring an individual's group membership from multivariate data, was used. The study involved identification of inshore and offshore groups of lobsters by means of small shape differences based on simultaneous consideration of linear measurements from 16 body parts. The results of the study showed that definite profile differences existed between inshore and offshore groups when matched by size and sex. The observed differences were greater between inshore and offshore groups than those occurring within geographically separated samples of both inshore and offshore lobsters. The results of the study suggested that relatively little overlap was discernible between the inshore and offshore areas in the characters measured. These studies support inferences made from tagging studies to date.
10.2307/2412324|Some algebraic properties of the cophenetic correlation coefficient (CPCC) are derived. Conditions under which the CPCC is maximized for a phenogram are calculated, and a strategy for finding a phenogram with largest CPCC is described. The desirability of the CPCC as an optimality criterion for classifications is discussed.
10.2307/2412327|The effects of constraints-external conditions imposed on but not inherent in the data-are subtle, and they are as yet insufficiently understood. In line constraint arises when the character states of each Operational Taxonomical Unit are made to add up to some constant, as might be the case with percentage data. A simple transform is indicated. Cross constraint on a classification of OTUs would arise as a result of operations like row standardization. It shows up as a tendency for correlations to go negative, and such standardizations are best avoided if possible.
10.2307/2412323|The authors discuss the problems of describing geographic variation data and develop statistical methods for categorizing sets of populations sampled from different localities. The general approach of the simultaneous test procedures, available with a variety of statistical tests and for continuous as well as for categorical data, is employed with these techniques. Geographical regions are defined as sets of connected localities, with connectedness being defined geometrically. Maximal acceptable connected sets of localities (defined as regions) or coarsest acceptable connected partitions of the entire set of localities are found by these procedures. These are illustrated with several examples.
10.2307/2412326|Inferences about the evolutionary history of a group based upon studies of its living members can only be made utilizing assumptions about evolutionary rates. One such assumption current among biochemists and serologists is that biochemical evolution has been steady and the same in all lineages. If this were so, cladistic relationships could easily be inferred from phenetics. The assumption of strict time-dependency may be interpreted either as a deterministic or as a stochastic statement. In the former case, the form of phenetic groups is logically determined in ways incompatible with the results of serological studies; this is illustrated by examples from the comparative serology of marsupials. A simple computer model for the evolution of a group of hypothetical taxa of known phylogeny, operating according to the rules of a stochastic interpretation of time-dependency, generates data about those taxa very like empirical data on marsupials. However, the inferred cladistics of the hypothetical group are incorrect in many details, and this is indicated by the incompatibility of phenograms representing the affinities of the taxa with their known cladistics. It is not claimed that the model reproduces the conditions of antigen evolution, but that it does indicate that such evolution, if time-dependent, must be so in a stochastic rather than a deterministic sense; and further, that having introduced chance as a factor in the evolution of biochemical characters, one has only a probability of inferring the correct phylogeny of a group from the resulting data about the similarities of contemporaneous taxa.
10.2307/2412325|Data resulting from an immunological study of relationships among fissiped and pinniped albumins show that albumin evolution has occurred in a regular fashion in these taxa. This finding allows the conclusion that the pinnipeds share much more recent common ancestry with the canoids than either group does with the feloids. It is pointed out that it now appears possible to develop an internally consistent quantitative phylogeny for a group of species through the immunological study of a single protein found in that group.
10.2307/2412777|This paper gives a method for obtaining subgroups of objects related by a dendrogram. After showing the relationship between spanning trees and dendrograms, the proposal is made to use the former to obtain a subset of all possible partitions. To decide which of the subsets is best, it is necessary to use a measure of clustering; the desirable attributes of such a measure lead to one which is based on a comparison between an object in its original disposition and on its conjectured group membership. The minimization of this measure, called a loss function, is proposed as the criterion for choosing the "best" groups. A small example illustrates the method.
10.2307/2412776|Species densities of Texas amphibians and reptiles are highly correlated with several components of the physical environment. Multiple regression and partial correlation analyses of these relationships lead to several conclusions: 1) species densities of salamanders, frogs, turtles, lizards, and snakes increase significantly with increasing topographic relief, probably because of the greater number of habitat types that occur in uneven terrain versus flat terrain; 2) altitude, per se, has a negative effect upon species densities of all five groups, especially lizards and snakes; 3) species densities of salamanders and turtles increase with increasing mean annual precipitation, either because of increasing productivity or increasing numbers of aquatic habitats; 4) mean annual temperature and growing season have significant effects on species densities only for salamanders, temperature having a positive effect and growing season a negative effect; 5) with a few exceptions, seasonality and year-to-year variability of climatic factors are not correlated with species densities; and 6) species densities of snakes and, to a lesser degree, lizards increase with increasing species density of small mammals. The mean number of species per genus in each of the five groups of Texas amphibians and reptiles also exhibits considerable geographical variation. Much of this variation is caused by variation in species densities, since species per genus and species density are strongly positively correlated. However, even after this correlation is statistically removed there is extensive geographical variation of numbers of species per genus. Some of this variation can be accounted for by environmental influences: 1) species per genus of frogs and snakes increase significantly with increasing mean annual precipitation, possibly due to increasing uniformity of habitats and 2) species per genus of frogs and, to a smaller degree, snakes increase with increasing altitude. This may be related to decreasing productivity of food resources with increasing altitude.
10.2307/2412774|The following hypotheses are developed by cladistic methodology, using only synapomorphic characters to assess phylogenetic relationships. The sister group of perissodactyls is formed by phenacodont condylarths, as evidenced in both groups by reduction (or absence) of metapodials and reduction (or absence) of the paraconid-paralophid complex on the lower cheek teeth. The taxon Perissodactyla is monophyletic, as defined by the presence of a saddle-shaped, or concave, navicular facet on the astragalus. Within perissodactyls, Hyracotherium and other equids form a monophyletic group, distinct from all non-equid perissodactyls, as evidenced by confluence of the foramen ovale and middle lacerate foramen in the ventral basicranium, and by the optic foramen that has migrated close to, or has become confluent with, a group of posteroventral foramina; anterior lacerate, rotundum, and anterior opening of the alisphenoid canal. The "Palaeotheriidae" are included in the Equidae at a lesser taxonomic rank. Within equids, Orohippus has apomorphic dental characters (greater degree of molarization of the premolars) relative to Hyracotherium. Orohippus and Haplohippus are morphologically similar. The premolars of Epihippus have a degree of molarization greater than those of Orohippus and Haplohippus. The subfamily "Hyracotheriinae" is a paraphyletic taxon and should be abandoned.
10.2307/2412775|Genetic variation at 21 loci as determined by isozyme electrophoresis was examined from 218 specimens of Macrotus representing two species and including both mainland and island populations. Karyotypic and electrophoretic data suggest that specimens from the Antillean population (Macrotus waterhousii) are conspecific with populations of the southern mainland taxa. This high degree of similarity between Antillean and the southern mainland taxa and the tendency for the average heterozygosity of populations to be higher in peripheral populations than at the zone of contact between the two mainland species are best explained by the classical allopatric model of speciation and the data do not support the centrifugal model of speciation in this genus. A reduced degree of average heterozygosity per individual as is thought to be characteristic of island populations was not found for specimens of Macrotus from Jamaica. A decrease in variation is indicated, however, by a reduced number of loci that are polymorphic with most of the heterozygosity of the Jamaican population being in the esterase loci. The high degree of exomorphological similarity in Macrotus is not reflected in genic similarities. Macrotus display the lowest range of interspecific similarities reported for mammalian sibling species and are comparable in protein identities to sibling species of Drosophila.
10.2307/2412779|Anolis lizards of the northern Lesser Antilles were studied with starch gel electrophoresis. A total of 22 genetic loci was analyzed for 15 populations. These data were used to estimate genetic distance between populations, and genetic variation within populations. Genetic distance estimates between populations are considerably lower than the estimates for the ecologically equivalent Anolis roquet species group of the southern Lesser Antilles. The relative proximity of islands in the northern part of the archipelago increases the probability of multiple colonizations, hence introgression, and a relatively slower rate of genetic divergence. The data also suggest that the northern bimaculatus group is evolutionarily younger than the roquet group, hence has had less time for genetic divergence. There is a geographic pattern discernible in the genetic distance data. One very tight cluster involves the southernmost populations studied from Dominica, Guadeloupe, Marie Gallante, and Montserrat; a second cluster includes more northern forms from Redonda, Saba, and St. Martin. Variability is lowest on the three smallest islands, but beyond that, there is no correlation between island size and heterozygosity. Relative degree of heterozygosity may be related to colonization history. Source populations tend to have higher variability than derived populations. The degree of genetic differentiation as estimated electrophoretically is very poorly correlated with differentiation for morphological characters such as body size, color, or pattern.
10.2307/2412778|Lateral plate polymorphism and asymmetry, gill raker number and asymmetry, body size and certain other traits were compared in 25 Gasterosteus aculeatus populations. Fluctuating asymmetry and mean number of lateral plates as well as body size and proportions were correlated with the presence of predatory fish. In the absence of other fish species, gill raker number was correlated with lake area. Fluctuating asymmetry of the lateral plates and gill rakers did not appear to decrease with age; in three populations the converse occurred. Directional asymmetry was present in six populations. Fluctuating asymmetry in these populations does not seem to conform well to current concepts concerning developmental stability and asymmetry.
10.2307/2412510|The known sirenians of the North Pacific comprise one halitheriine species, which became extinct about 12 million years ago, and an unbranching lineage (the Hydrodamalinae) of two genera and possibly six species, ending in Steller's sea cow (Hydrodamalis gigas). On the basis of the temporal and spatial distribution of these forms, their functional morphology, and several basic generalizations about the biology of sirenians and their food, the causal factors in North Pacific sirenian evolution may be reconstructed. Late Tertiary climatic cooling and marine regression on the west coast of North America restricted and changed the character of food resources and habitat, intensifying competition between sirenians and desmostylians and leading the hydrodamalines toward evolution of novel morphological adaptations in a new adaptive zone. Explanation of the latter event, to which the term "quantum evolution" may be applicable, does not seem to require recourse to the concept of "punctuated equilibria."
10.2307/2412509|Advances in our knowledge of fossil sirenians over the past four decades are reviewed and a cladistic phylogeny of the order presented. Salient features of the recently re-prepared type skull of the most primitive known sirenian, Prorastomus (middle Eocene, Jamaica), are summarised.
10.2307/2412511|Classical studies in comparative anatomy in the last century led to the recognition of a tripartite subdivision of the living Carnivora, modified in this century into a bipartite subdivision formalized in most classifications at superfamily rank (Canoidea and Feloidea). Osteological characters, particularly those of the cranium, support the sister-group relationship of the Canoidea and Feloidea and permit their recognition into early Oligocene time. Analysis of the Canoidea further supports the sister-group relationship of the Canidae (Cynoidea) with the Ursidae-Procyonidae-Mustelidae (Arctoidea) as classically perceived. These groups are also recognizable on osteological criteria in the Oligocene. Recent studies in the comparative anatomy, paleontology and immunology of the pinnipeds have reinforced their phylogenetic affinity with the Arctoidea. Paleontology and comparative anatomy in particular have presented a convincing case of sister-group relationship of the Ursidae (especially the Amphicynodontinae) with the Otarioidea (including the extinct Enaliaretinae). A major gap in the early history of the Phocidae limits paleontological contribution to the question of their precise sister-group within the Arctoidea. The early Miocene aquatic arctoid Potamotherium fulfills many of the morphological criteria deduced for a phocid sister-group when autapomorphous characters of the living and fossil phocids are removed. Posteranial resemblances are particularly strong reflecting the reliance of Potamotherium on body flexion in swimming as in the phocids. Potamotherium retains a differentiated dentition and cranial characters which can be compared with other arctoids and these agree most unequivocably with those of the mustelids suggesting a specific sister-group relationship of the Mustelidae with the seals and Potamotherium. Thus the osteological evidence supports a specific sister-group relationship of the otariids with the ursids and of the phocids (including Potamotherium and its close relative Semantor) with the mustelids within the Arctoidea. By contrast immunological comparisons provided to date suggest a sister-group relationship of the pinnipeds as a whole with the remaining Arctoidea. A cladogram (Fig. 5) summarizes the criteria for recognition of the sister-groups within the Canoidea and suggests a new classification which would express the phylogenetic conclusions of this paper.
10.2307/2412508|Geologic formations on the west coast of North America from Baja California, Mexico to central California, U.S.A., provide fossil evidence for a succession of Tertiary cetacean assemblages. Formations representing time periods of stage magnitude from early Miocene to Pleistocene age produce diverse aggregates of Cetacea containing fewer species than can now be found in latitudes corresponding to the Californian Province in the Pacific Ocean. Most fossil assemblages include a sperm whale, several dolphin-like taxa, and 3 or 4 baleen whales, although taxonomy is unstable, and many specimens cannot be assigned to named genera and species. New records of the earliest North Pacific occurrence of the families Balaenidae, Ziphiidae, Monodontidae, Phocoenidae, and Delphinidae (sensu stricto) date from the Miocene, and of the Eschrichtiidae from the Pleistocene. Squalodontidae are notable by their rarity. Early Miocene assemblages are dominated by Eurhinodelphidae, and late Tertiary ones by Stenodelphininae and primitive Balaenopteridae. On the generic level, there is a high degree of endemism among small Odontoceti, and a low degree among Physeteridae and Mysticeti. Collecting biases and deficiencies prevent recognition of antitropical distributions of fossil taxa, and paleoclimatology can not yet be inferred from the fossils.
10.2307/2412507|Early in the Oligocene Epoch, Cetacea of the primitive suborder Archaeoceti had already declined sharply from their apparent abundance in Eocene seas. By the beginning of the Miocene, archaeocetes are known to have survived only in the northeast Atlantic and southwest Pacific Oceans. Concurrently with this decline, the first members of the suborders Odontoceti and Mysticeti appeared. They are known from only a few specimens, mostly in upper Oligocene deposits, on both coasts of North America, in Germany, Austria, Italy, the Caucasus, Azerbaijan, Australia, and New Zealand. Two important odontocete genera, Agorophius and Xenorophus, come from beds that are probably no older than late Oligocene and that are certainly not as old as Eocene, where these genera have previously been placed. The wide distribution of known Oligocene Cetacea, especially their presence in Australia and New Zealand, indicates the probable existence of a cosmopolitan cetacean fauna by the end of Oligocene time. The Oligocene Odontoceti are represented by Agorophius and related forms and by the Squalodontidae. Several types of skull telescoping are shown by contemporary members of these groups. Recently collected squalodont skulls from the Oligocene of South Carolina show differences in the pattern of eranial bones that may be ontogenetic. Some toothed whales have morphologic features that have led to their being assigned variously to Archaeoceti and Mysticeti because they are regarded as representing a transitional stage between the two suborders. These forms are all of late Oligocene age; they cannot be mysticete ancestors because true Mysticeti are known from middle Oligocene deposits.
10.2307/2412514|The recently discovered fossil seals from the Middle Sarmatian deposits of South Dobrogea provide a basis for clarifying the taxonomic and evolutionary problems of the Paratethyan seals. Few of the named fossil species are satisfactorily known and the lack of stratigraphic controls on these fossils makes interpretation of their evolutionary history difficult. Study of the South Dobrogea fossil seal fauna, representing mainly Phoca pontica, and re-examination of Simionescu's and Macarovici and Oescu's classic collections enables the recognition of specific variability in Phoca pontica which was widely dispersed in Eastern Paratethys. In addition, it enables preliminary characterization of the imperfectly known Phoca sarmatica and Phoca bessarabica which provides a basis for interpreting the evolution of the Paratethyan seals.
10.2307/2412513|Phocid distribution suggests origin in and primary radiation from the North Atlantic-Paratethyan region. Phocines and monachines are equally old groups, known first from the lower middle Miocene Calvert Formation. Phocines dominated Paratethys in semi-isolation. Both groups dispersed freely around the margins of the North Atlantic in Miocene and Pliocene time. Phocines entered the North Pacific, probably from the north, in Pliocene time, and have modernized and radiated in latest Cenozoic time, exclusively in the cold waters of the northern hemisphere. Monachine distribution receded southward in the North Atlantic during latest Cenozoie time, and in the Pliocene they spread into both the southern hemisphere, where they radiated in the empty Antarctic, and into the Pacific via the middle American seaway.
10.2307/2412512|The order Otarioidea includes two living and two extinct families. Of these four, the extinct Enaliarctidae were ancestral to the others and were derived from canoid fissiped carnivores. This family, which was most diverse from 22 to 16 million years ago, rapidly developed the locomotor, cerebral, and olfactory adaptations to marine life. The extinct Desmatophocidae and the extant Odobenidae (walruses) and Otariidae (sea lions) evolved from the Enaliarctidae at different times and in the order in which they have been mentioned. Each of these three went through their period of greatest diversity in the same order; the Otariidae of today represent the period of greatest diversity of this family. Each of these three independently developed similar dental, vascular, and social adaptations to marine existence but in different ways. All families were native to the North Pacific. The odobenids alone entered the North Atlantic through the Central American Seaway about 8 million years ago, and the otariids alone invaded the southern hemisphere by 5 million years ago.
2412515|Although fossil remains of marine mammals were reported from western Oregon as early as 1849, collections and knowledge of them have grown slowly and haltingly until recently. Milestones have been discovery and description of the specimens on which are based the pinnipeds Pontolis magnus (True) 1905 and Desmatophoca oregonensis Condon 1906, the desmostylian Desmostylus cymatius Hannibal 1922, and the cetaceans Cophocetus oregonensis Packard and Kellogg 1934 and Aetiocetus cotylalveus Emlong 1966. Beginning in 1956 and continuing to the present Douglas Emlong of Lincoln City, Oregon, has amassed an unparalleled collection of fossil marine mammals, including approximately 1000 specimens from coastal Oregon, of which some 85 are desmostylians, 360 are pinnipeds, 3 are fissipeds, and the remainder cetaceans. Specimens are known from the Oligocene to the lower Pleistocene; from the Alsea, Yaquina, Nye, Astoria, Empire, Port Orford, and Elk River Formations. As specimens continue to be prepared and studied the Emlong Collection will yield many of the answers to problems of origin, evolution, and interrelationships of many lineages of marine mammals, and will contribute significantly toward establishment of fossil marine mammals as a powerful tool in geologic correlation over long distances.
10.2307/2412739|Tests were made to ascertain the effect upon computed phenetic distance values of using different character-sets. Random selection of various sized subsets of the total character-list were made in order to simulate the differences which occur due to mixed, missing data. The phenetic distances were computed from sub-sets of characters which were selected from lists of characters for bromels, milkweeds, and legumes. Distances are treated as new variates. Means and standard deviations were found for the OTU x OTU distance matrices computed with less than and more than 50% of the total character-set. While significant differences were revealed between means computed with character-sets of 13 and 30% of the total, matrical summary statistics did not differ significantly when the number of characters represented 50% or more of the total set. Some evolutionary connotations are discussed. Tests showed little evidence of heterogeneity of variance. The results support the use of summary statistics of phenetic distance matrices to express intra-group variation, but with the caution that the biologist should be aware of the actual number of characters being used to compute the phenetic distances.
10.2307/2412736|The isopod families Eurycopidae and Ilyarachnidae constitute an important component in deepsea macrofaunal communities. They have been treated as distinct but closely related families by previous workers. We discuss two little known taxa from the deep sea which completely blur the distinction between the families. The condition of these taxa clearly documents the evolutionary origin of the Ilyarachnidae in the Eurycopidae and permits us to discuss major evolutionary events at the intrafamilial level.
10.2307/2412737|New species of opisthobranch mollusks often have been erected on numerical differences of the radular teeth. Regression analyses of radular counts of Discodoris evelinae (comprising also the synonymized species, D. hedgpethi) indicate intraspecific variation is ontogenetic. Predictions are given regarding the occurrence of this phenomenon among opisthobranchs, and suggestions are made for the use of radular characteristics in opisthobranch systematics.
10.2307/2412743|Linnaean nomenclature in its present form cannot represent phylogenies unambiguously when fossil species are included. It is possible to avoid this difficulty by discontinuing the classification of taxa into Linnaean categories. The features of the resulting unclassified hierarchy and the way in which newly discovered taxa may be inserted in it are explained. Taxa may be classified in different ways, for instance into age classes or into evolutionary grades. The Linnaean category names, with their essentialist connotations, are inappropriate in either case. The international codes of nomenclature should be concerned primarily with the rules for naming taxa and should not prescribe how classes (categories) should be named and used. The prescription of suffices to indicate categorical rank conflicts with the stated aim of the codes to promote stability of nomenclature, and should be discontinued. While binomial nomenclature will surely be retained, a difference of logical status between the forenames of Quaternary and earlier species will need to be recognized.
10.2307/2412738|The striking year-to-year color variation in natural populations of Phymata americana Melin is strongly correlated with an environmental variable, average April temperature, i.e., temperature during the egg stage. Amount of dark pigment in the color pattern (as measured by the character Ca) was strongly negatively correlated (-0.42 to -0.89) with April temperature in nine out of ten populations monitored over a period of six to eight years. Comparisons of color variation in P. americana are made with that of some other insects whose adaptive strategies require a more stringent control of year-to-year color variation.
10.2307/2412744|The processes which contribute to the evolution of biological species take place at a variety of levels of organization; e.g., genes give rise to other genes, organisms give rise to other organisms, and species give rise to other species. All of these processes require continuity through descent. If species are to be units of evolution, they need not be composed of similar organisms; instead they must be made up of organisms related by descent. Taxonomists do not impose this requirement on the phenomena; rather it follows from the nature of the evolutionary process itself. In addition to spatiotemporal continuity, species must also possess a certain degree of unity to function as units of evolution. Gene exchange is one means by which such unity can be promoted. The mechanisms by which asexual species maintain a similar unity are problematic; higher taxa pose an even more serious problem. However, if species are chunks of the genealogical nexus, they cannot be viewed as classes. Instead they possess all the characteristics of individuals-that is, if organisms are taken to be paradigm individuals. The major difference between organisms and species as individuals is that organisms possess a largely fixed genetic makeup which constrains their development, whereas species do not. If species are individuals, then their names are most naturally viewed as proper names, names which denote particular individuals but do not possess any intensional meaning.
10.2307/2412740|Results are presented of an empirical analysis on the statistical consequences of compounding ratios of continuous variables. Three commonly employed relationships among the ratio variables Y and Z were examined including 1) Y = X
10.2307/2412735|It is suggested that the role of ballooning as a mechanism of intercontinental dispersal in spiders has been greatly overemphasized, at least for medium-sized and large ground-dwelling species; that most intercontinental distribution patterns in spiders are the result of vicariance in response to changing geography rather than chance dispersal; and that hypotheses based on vicariance, unlike those involving ballooning, are testable (by correlation with known geological events) and have predictive value. An analysis of the vicariance patterns of the genera of the spider subfamily Laroniinae and the species of the genus Callilepis is presented, and is tested by correlation with the geological events involved in the breakup of Pangaea according to current theories of continental drift; this analysis was successfully used to predict the occurrence of Eilica in India before any Asian specimens of that genus were known.
10.2307/2412742|Speciation phenomena are discussed with special consideration of those taxa that are near the species-level borderline. Such forms, when judged to represent full species, have been termed "allospecies," and are designated by use of brackets (Amadon, 1966). There is a need to designate and treat the complementary phenomenon, namely those well-marked forms approaching the level of species, but nonetheless judged to be conspecific. To fill this void we suggest employment of parentheses to designate these latter forms, and we offer "megasubspecies" as a term for them. For example, one can treat the Savannah Sparrow, Passerculus (sandwichensis) sandwichensis, citing its various minor subspecies in the usual way, and, as a megasubspecies, the "Ipwich Sparrow," Passerculus (sandwichensis) princeps, a distinctive isolate that often is considered a separate species. Other examples are provided to illustrate the use of parentheses for megasubspecies as an adjunct to the use of brackets for designating allospecies of superspecies. It is hoped that the use of parentheses for megasubspecies will prove as useful in preparing checklists, in zoogeographical analyses, and in other ways as are brackets for designating allospecies.
10.2307/2412495|Several aspects of present classificatory theory lead to logical weaknesses in phylogenetic classification and practical difficulties in classifying fossil forms. Modifications of classificatory methods are proposed to resolve these problems. The use of monotypic taxa has no logical basis and should be abandoned. (Species and genera must be exempted from this rule for reasons of nomenclature.) In consequence, sister groups may not be required to have the same rank. Phylogenetic classification can nonetheless properly represent sister group relationships. Categorical rank may not be determined by age of origin. Age of differentiation may be used to assign rank, as may temporal span: the elapsed time between the differentiation of a monophyletic group and the extinction of the group's last species (or the present, for living groups). Category names should be generated by a systematic rule, to avoid confusion if many ranks are required. Categorical ranks may not be analogized formally to integers, but should be regarded as rational numbers.
10.2307/2412488|A "center of origin" explanation for the distribution and diversity patterns of the organisms comprising the principal shallow-water habitats in the tropics-hermatypic corals, mangroves, and sea-grasses-is highly unlikely, based on fossil data and the dispersal capabilities of the organisms. Instead, these biogeographic patterns are better explained by the existence of a previously widely-distributed biota which has since been modified by tectonic events, speciation, and extinction, in accordance with modern geological and biogeographical theory.
10.2307/2412489|A conceptual model for the evolution of phenotypic diversity of the threespine stickleback on the Pacific coast of North America is presented. This model takes into account biological characteristics of the three-spine stickleback and climatic changes during Pleistocene times. Biological features considered include: (1) life history patterns in freshwater and anadromous populations; (2) distribution of freshwater and anadromous populations; (3) morphological variation in freshwater populations; (4) genetics of morphological features; (5) the characteristics of highly divergent populations and their distribution in time and space; (6) character displacement. Previous models for the evolution of phenotypic diversity and the interactions of selection and gene flow are considered. Hypotheses concerning protein evolution in Pacific coast sticklebacks are generated from the model. These hypotheses depend on recent evidence that protein evolution does not have a cause and effect relationship with phenotypic divergence and speciation. A causal relationship between the unusual mode of evolution in western North American Gasterosteus and their low haploid DNA content is tentatively suggested. If the model is correct, freshwater subspecies proposed by Miller and Hubbs (1969) for the nominal species Gasterosteus aculeatus are polyphyletic.
10.2307/2412491|A new approach to invertebrate taxonomic keys is presented in the form of identification manuals. These guides are written in a style useful for the professional systematic specialist, but at the same time allow the general biologist to easily and accurately identify invertebrates. The manuals incorporate the use of several distinct but complementary formats, enabling the user to approach identifications from different perspectives. Biramous pictorial keys of the type employed by the U. S. military forces for insect disease vectors during World War II offer inexperienced persons a vehicle for easy and accurate identifications of otherwise difficult and obscure groups. These are followed by the more traditional dichotomous keys which have been modified to include more detailed information than is possible with the pictorial keys. These, in turn, are followed by detailed tabular keys which present complete diagnoses at a glance. Full descriptive material and illustrations are included, the latter also arranged in "tabular" form so that similar aspects of related taxa are presented together. Complete, illustrated glossaries are provided which include corresponding terms employed by other authors; the French and German equivalents are also given where appropriate. It is hoped that this approach will make the primary literature more accessible to the general reader.
10.2307/2412494|In view of the growing concern that evolutionary information obtained from morphological data may differ in content from evolutionary information from molecular data, we have asked whether morphological data yield phyletic interpretations consistent with those inferred from allozymes. Minimum length Wagner trees were calculated from sets of morphometric and allozyme data on sixteen populations representing five nominal species of Menidia (Teleostei, Atherinidae). The two sets of characters yield nearly perfectly congruent evolutionary trees, despite the fact that phenetic analyses reveal very great disparity between the similarity structures of the morphometrics and the allozymes. A quantitative method for estimating convergence and parallelism was developed and revealed no significant differences in the proportions of these types of homoplasy for the two data sets. This cladistical method for estimating convergence is contrasted with partially phenetic methods used in the past; the later are shown to be incorrect. Mosaic evolution between morphometries and allozymes is demonstrated statistically, and shown to result from heterogeneous rates of apomorphy, rather than from a preponderance of plesiomorphy in one data set. This mosaicism is the probable source of the large phenetic disparity. We conclude that 1) cladistical, rather than phenetic, methods are required for the analysis of character evolution, and 2) that the ease of obtaining sufficient information, rather than presumed inherent differences between characters, should determine which characters are used for evolutionary taxonomic inference.
10.2307/2412490|Electrophoretic analysis of proteins encoded by polymorphic loci demonstrates that Etheostoma spectabile populations show greater differentiation in allelic frequencies in an area of sympatry with E. radiosum than in an area of allopatry. The data are more compatible with the assumption that degree of gene-flow rather than natural selection is the primary mechanism maintaining local differentiation. Increased heterogeneity in sympatry is attributed to exclusion of spectabile from downstream areas through competition with radiosum, thereby isolating spectabile in headwater areas and restricting gene flow between populations. In sympatry, spectabile showed greater differentiation than radiosum, presumably because of greater gene flow in the latter.
10.2307/2412492|Recent improvements in construction and use of tabular keys are described. These are (1) an increase in the cognitive value of codes for character variants by use of longer codes, (2) routine inclusion of up to 20 characters at each level, both in the tables, and also on the data cards, (3) introduction of cross-references of characters between different key groups in the tables, (4) the introduction of a standardized card for statements of characters, and (5) the adoption of a uniform system of numbering key groups to show their level in the key. Additional information is given on (1) how compound characters may be used to enhance clarity of statements of characters, (2) the coding of continuously varying characters, and (3) techniques for expediting the coding of characters. Preparation of diagnoses of species or other taxa from the tables or from the data cards is described. Advantages and disadvantages of computerization of tabular keys are discussed briefly with the balance being in favor of non-computerized keys.
10.2307/2412493|A set of intuitively obvious properties of a coefficient of similarity for binary data is established. Critical examination of the coefficients available from the literature shows that none of them satisfies all these properties, and a new coefficient is proposed to obviate this inconvenience. The distribution of the new coefficient is studied on very large, perfectly random samples of OTU's, and a table is constructed to show its critical values at different significance levels. A mathematical appendix is given to demonstrate the procedure used to construct perfectly random samples of different size.
10.2307/2413341|Previously developed phylogenetic hypotheses for Neotropical colubrids are used as a framework to interpret the biogeographic history of these lineages. The distributions of members of two lineages of xenodontines, which comprise most of the Neotropical colubrid fauna, are documented. One lineage, the Central American clade, has its greatest generic diversity throughout Central America and is poorly represented in North and South America. In contrast, the other major Neotropical xenodontine lineage shows its highest generic diversity in Amazonian and southern South America. Species richness patterns for each clade generally correspond with those shown at the generic level, with the exception that the Central American component has a high species richness in the Andes of Colombia and Ecuador due primarily to the presence of a large number of species of Atractus. Significant dispersal by Central American xenodontines into South America is inferred, but South American xenodontines are poorly represented outside South America. The major phyletic separation of Neotropical xenodontines into Central and South American clades is inferred to result from a late Cretaceous or early Tertiary vicariance or concordant dispersal event. This pattern corresponds to that shown by other components of the Neotropical biota. The relationships of the West Indian xenodontines do not conform to the commonest pattern predicted by general biogeographic models for the Caribbean; moreover, the suggested temporal framework for this radiation implicates dispersal as a plausible mechanism for its deployment. Xenodontines are suggested to be the oldest members of the Neotropical colubrid fauna, and probably date from the late Cretaceous or early Tertiary in that region. Their earlier history is uncertain, and may be with either northern taxa or with a Gondwanan-derived fauna in South America. Colubrines and natricines are much more recent components of the Neotropical fauna. For investigating mechanisms in historical biogeography, the desirability of deriving temporal estimates for the separation of major components of a biota independently of biogeographic considerations is emphasized.
10.2307/2413344|Some systematists, pattern cladists in particular, have recently argued that phylogenetic patterns are essentially a reflection of the "orderliness of ontogeny." In fact, these authors contend that information derived from the study of ontogenetic sequences is the most reliable source to determine character polarities. Heterochronic analysis, in spite of its emphasis on process over pattern, shares many of the same assumptions about ontogeny. This is because both systematic and heterochronic analyses belong to the comparative tradition of embryology. Essentially, ontogeny is viewed as a sequence of morphological stages that are assumed to be conserved. Furthermore, in spite of claims that the analyses are based on Von Baer's law, the approach is fundamentally Haeckelian, since its comparison of ontogenies (at least in the manner currently done in systematics and heterochrony) requires that embryonic stages be homologized with adult stages. Nelson's revised "biogenetic law" is used as an example to illustrate these points. The nature and informational value of ontogenetic sequences are examined and I conclude that, in contrast with strictly temporal sequences, the only "meaningful" sequences (in the sense that they will be conserved through phylogeny) are the causal ones, where the antecedent stage is required for the expression of the subsequent one. However, I present some examples of causal sequences where inductive relationships change through phylogeny. Therefore, there are no good arguments to assume a priori that ontogenetic sequences are conserved. A more fundamental problem is pointed out when I discuss that the methodology of comparison of ontogenetic sequences, used by systematists and heterochronists, is not compatible with the dynamic perspective of development endorsed by experimental and mechanistically-oriented embryologists. Examples are provided where, although the process can be arranged in a sequence of stages, these are effectively meaningless and useless in a systematic context. Two additional empirical cases are discussed where a heterochronic analysis is integrated within a dynamical framework of development. A paradox emerges, since the resultant morphology in the derived species is not represented in the primitive ("ancestral") ontogenetic sequence, in spite of the fact that it has been produced by a regulation in the timing and developmental rates of the ancestral ontogeny. I conclude that these problems result from the usage of a static and unrealistic view of ontogeny. A major challenge in systematics will be to incorporate the dynamic perspective of development into a methodological framework amenable to comparative analysis. I agree with Nelson and others in that development is ordered and that this internal order structures pattern. However, the information is not necessarily in the ontogenetic sequence.
10.2307/2413343|The hypothesis of monophyly of the avian family Tyrannidae is tested using outgroup comparison of traditional characters, as well as several characters examined in recent studies of the group. No characters support the original hypothesis, but possession of internal cartilages in the syrinx and an intrinsic syringeal muscle, M. obliquus ventralis, supports monophyly of a slightly larger group. A published phylogeny based on DNA-DNA hybridization data suggests a different view: that the Tyrannidae is not monophyletic; and that some traditional tyrannids are more closely related to members of the Cotingidae and Pipridae than to the rest of the family as currently recognized. The significance of the different results of these approaches is discussed.
10.2307/2413342|Cladistic analysis of restriction endonuclease cleavage map data, particularly from animal mitochondrial DNA, is considered within a maximum-likelihood framework. The required probability model of evolutionary change is developed from current empirical evidence, and is specific to mtDNA. A large asymmetry is shown to exist between the probabilities of gaining a new site and losing an existing site, with the loss of a site being the much more common event. Since Wagner parsimony assumes that the probabilities of forward and reverse changes are equal, it is a very inefficient estimator of relationships for these data. Dollo parsimony, on the other hand, assumes that the probability of a loss is much greater than that of a gain, an assumption of Dollo parsimony which fits restriction map data well. Dollo parsimony is shown to be a consistent and efficient estimator of phylogeny for mtDNA restriction map data.
10.2307/2413345|An image-analytic technique that automatically determines the outlines for simple silhouettes is described. These outlines are numerically characterized using elliptic Fourier decomposition. Since the resulting Fourier coefficients can be normalized so that they are invariant to changes in magnification and rotation as well as other such transformations of the original silhouette, they quantify shape per se, and can be used as variables in multivariate analysis of form. In an application, discriminant analysis distinguishes between electrophoretically distinct populations of the mussel Mytilus edulis. While the technique was able to demonstrate an association between genotype and morphology, it was not able to identify reliably the population from which each specimen was collected.
10.2307/2413203|The systematic relationships within the speciose genus Corydoras have been very difficult to elucidate due to similar body forms among species, lack of discrete morphological features, and uncertain homologies of pigmentation patterns. Most taxa have been described on the basis of pigmentation and of proportional differences in body measurements, which often are variable within and among conspecific populations. Multivariate comparisons of body form among species indicate that both meristic and mensural attributes are highly correlated with body size, thus displaying strong evolutionary allometry. Most ratios of measurements, including those often considered diagnostic among taxa, are as strongly dependent on body size as are untransformed measurements; however, some bivariate ratios reflect multivariate patterns of shape variation and, thus, may be useful in descriptive taxonomic studies. Size-independent variation in form seems to be continuous among species, with no apparent morphological gaps with which to distinguish "natural" species groups. Thus, changes in morphology in these fishes are highly conservative and result from subtle, perhaps heterochronic changes in relative growth rates among body structures.
10.2307/2413207|Forms of Levene's test for evaluating relative variation (univariate) are compared by simulation, along with the F-test of ratios of squared coefficients of variation, the F-test of ratios of variances of logarithms, and Bartlett's test on logarithms. Only the Levene's tests using the medians were always robust. These consisted of transforming each of a set of sample variates X<sub>i</sub> to Y<sub>i</sub> = |X<sub>i</sub> - Md(X<sub>i</sub>)|/Md(X<sub>i</sub>) or to Y<sub>i</sub> = |ln X<sub>i</sub> - Md(ln X<sub>i</sub>)| for comparison by ANOVA, where the Md's represent the medians. The use of medians with the log transformation was slightly more powerful when the underlying distributions were positively skewed, while the use of the untransformed ratio form of the test was slightly more powerful when the distributions were symmetrical or negatively skewed. Recommendations and some problems that remain are discussed.
10.2307/2413205|Allelic frequency data were used to identify familial limits within the avian superfamily Tyrannoidea. Several hypotheses were generated from this data set using distance-Wagner, Fitch-Margoliash, and cladistic analyses. In addition, a jackknifing procedure was employed to identify those portions of the phylogenetic hypotheses that were robust to such factors as the choice of taxa analyzed. The genus Sapayoa, previously considered to be a manakin (Pipridae), was found to be distant from all other taxa considered. The true affinities of this taxon, therefore, may lie outside of the Tyrannoidea. The electrophoretic data also indicated that the 12 cotinga species (Cotingidae) analyzed belong to five distinct lineages, each of unknown affinity within the superfamily. Finally, sister taxa were identified for the monogeneric families Oxyruncidae and Phytotomidae. The former was found to be closely related to tityras, becards, and flycatchers (as indicated by Myiarchus), while the latter family is closely related to the cotinga genera Ampelion, Doliornis, and Zaratornis. The improved ability to determine higher-level relationships within this assemblage was considered a consequence of the use of biochemical characters, the interpretation of which is greatly simplified because of the stochastic nature of molecular evolution. However, conflicts between this and a recent DNA-DNA hybridization study indicate that the extraction of phylogenetic information from biochemical data may not be as free from assumptions as we would like. Several explanations for this lack of concordance are discussed.
10.2307/2413204|Phylogenetic trees, derived from distance measures, may be of variable reliability due to variance in the quality of the data sets from which they are produced. Such trees, therefore, are of questionable value as a means of summarizing large data sets. To improve our confidence in these trees, a jackknife technique is presented that, in combination with existing consensus techniques, identifies those portions of evolutionary history that are poorly known due to inconsistencies in the data. Such trees more accurately represent the results of a study than do current tree-generating algorithms that obscure areas of uncertainty. The approach is a simple modification of existing tree-generating methods. As an illustration, a biochemical data set is analyzed using this technique.
10.2307/2413206|Phyletic, biogeographic, and ecologic relationships among relictual montane populations of least chipmunks (Eutamias minimus) from Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico were examined by analysis of pelage color, cranial and bacular morphology, protein electrophoresis, and habitat characteristics. Unlike previous investigations of geographic variation involving these populations, a pattern of relationship and differentiation corresponding to contemporary geographic discontinuities in the Southwest is demonstrated. Populations along the east and west sides of the Rio Grande Valley constitute distinct evolutionary lineages, with the most geographically isolated populations exhibiting the greatest amount of genetic divergence. This pattern of differentiation is consistent with the hypothesis that montane corridors present during the Pleistocene facilitated colonization by ancestral northern stocks in accordance with vicariant biogeographic theory. Microhabitat assessments demonstrate that least chipmunks inhabit a diverse spectrum of environmental regimes ranging in elevation from 2,400 to 3,900 m, and encompassing several habitat types. These results are consistent with observations on other populations of this species, yet contradict the hypothesis that least chipmunks in the Southwest have such restrictive ecologic requirements as to be predisposed to rapid extinction during interglacial episodes of the Pleistocene. The significance of this study to the most recent vicariant explanation of southwestern montane mammal biogeography is discussed.
10.2307/2413326|A method to measure how similar are two phylogenetic trees for the same collection of evolutionary units (EUs) is described. The measure does not change with changes in the direction of evolution in either of the two trees being compared, and thus it depends only on the convexity and proximity of the groups of EUs within the collection under study. It can also be used with only partially resolved phylogenetic trees. The measure is based on the idea that a group of four EUs is the smallest group for which there is more than one possible distinct undirected phylogenetic tree. For a given phylogenetic tree, the undirected subtree inherited by a group of four EUs is the tree that results when all the branches containing only EUs not in this group of four are removed. Every group of four EUs either inherits one of three distinct types of undirected phylogenetic trees, or is unresolved. Two phylogenetic trees can be compared on the basis of which groups of four EUs inherit the same type of undirected phylogenetic tree. The ideas can be extended to comparisons of three or more trees.
10.2307/2413321|Computer selection of random sets of real characters was used to elucidate the relationship between character number and the reliability of multivariate patterns of geographic variation. The simple pattern of geographic variation was a distinct pair of parapatric races (categorical or "stepped clinal" variation) in the grass snake (Natrix natrix) in Europe. The characters used were 71 significant characters of low within-group correlation drawn from six different character systems (e.g., scalation, color pattern and internal morphology). The pattern was assessed by principal coordinate analysis, and the congruence was taken as the absolute correlation between the "first" principal coordinates. The investigation was based on two procedural models: (A) the congruence between completely independent character sets using from 1 to 35 characters; and (B) the congruence between the analysis based on the total 71 characters and analyses based on from 1 to 65 characters. The relationship between congruence and character number is expressed by one of two mathematical models depending on the procedural model employed. Congruence is clearly asymptotic with respect to character number. This indicates the existence of a stable, overall pattern of racial variation that, once established, is unlikely to be influenced by the addition of further characters. The asymptotes are reached at an early stage and, between 8 to 10 characters, reveal the distinct patterns of racial variation with at least 90% confidence, depending upon whether one is characterizing patterns on the basis of a geographic transect or a scatter on the first two principal coordinates. It does not appear to be cost effective to use more than 18 significant characters, because each additional character increases the minimum congruence by very little beyond this point. Univariate characters, and those patterns based on too few characters, can misrepresent this stable pattern. The observed failure of univariate/conventional studies to reveal this pattern, or to agree with one another, is related to the low probability of selecting the appropriate individual characters, even though they occur.
10.2307/2413323|For three species in the presence of a molecular clock, it is possible to compute how many steps a phylogeny must have to be significantly worse than the most parsimonious phylogeny. This analysis extends the pioneering work of Cavender (1978, 1981) by taking advantage of the constraints imposed by the assumption of a molecular clock. The distribution of two statistics is obtained by direct enumeration of all possible outcomes in a worst-case phylogeny which has a trifurcation. The two statistics are the number of fewer steps in the best tree than in the next best tree, and the number of "phylogenetically informative" characters supporting the best tree. These two statistics prove to be approximately equivalent in statistical power, and tables of 95%-significance values are provided for each. The possible extension of these results to more than three species is discussed. The enumeration of all outcomes also allows us to compute exact tail probabilities for Templeton's (1983) test of one tree against another. His test is not exactly correct, but usually is conservative when used as a two-tailed test.
10.2307/2413324|Twelve taxonomic characters of the genera in the phylum of marine worms, Sipuncula, are examined and polarities assigned to the various states. A Hypothetical Ancestral Sipunculan is proposed and probable evolutionary pathways are presented. The PHYLIP "Cam-in-Sokal" and the PAUP "Wagner" parsimony programs are used, as well as Dice's similarity coefficient and UPGMA cluster analysis. These provided both cladistic and a hybrid phenetic/cladistic analyses. Only 5 of the 12 characters are clearly not homoplastic. While monophyly is not demonstrated in all cases, the 17 genera are now grouped into six families, four orders, and two classes as a result of using evolutionary, phenetic, and phylogenetic methodologies. The selective removal of homoplastic characters within the two classes did not significantly alter the composition of the orders or families. The evident congruence among these methods affirms the value of a synthetic approach.
10.2307/2413322|Patterns of taxonomic congruence were examined in 17 species of Rhytidoponera endemic to New Caledonia, using disparate data sets based on allozymes and morphology. These ants belong to four informal "species groups," one of which is monotypic. Both phenetic (UPGMA clustering) and cladistic (minimum-length tree estimation) methods were employed. Adams-2 and strict consensus trees were constructed for all pairs of equivalent rival trees. Since the rival trees were fully resolved or nearly so, the degree of resolution of the consensus trees was used to assess the amount of taxonomic congruence and was measured with the consensus indices of Colless (1980; Cl
10.2307/2413320|Electrophoretic examination of the products of 29 gene loci in the five species of Pholidobolus and three species of Proctoporus largely substantiates the taxonomic arrangement that was based on earlier morphological work. The electrophoretic data are used to construct a phylogeny of the species and the morphological data are reanalyzed for comparison; these data sets are largely consistent. The hypothesized phylogeny places Ph. affinis as the sister species to the other Pholidobolus, Ph. macbrydei as the sister species to the remaining taxa, and the two populations referred to Ph. prefrontalis as the sister species to Ph. montium plus Ph. annectens. Because of the small size of the genus Pholidobolus and the concomitant small number of possible phylogenetic hypotheses, comparisons among various methods of constructing phylogenetic trees from electrophoretic data are facilitated. All 105 possible bifurcating unrooted trees were examined for each of 13 goodness-of-fit statistics; three similar trees were consistently favored by all criteria. If outgroup rooting is used, the most favored of these trees is identical to the most parsimonious cladogram. However, with midpoint rooting, almost all phylogenetic information is lost and the resulting tree is identical to the UPGMA phenogram. The midpoint-rooting option of distance trees reinvokes an assumption (equal rates of change) that the distance methods are supposed to avoid. This assumption is clearly not met for the genus Pholidobolus. Biogeographic analysis of the species of Pholidobolus with respect to the hypothesized phylogeny of the genus reveals that no contact zones of this parapatric complex involve two sister species. This emphasizes the need for phylogenetic reconstruction as the first step in the examination of speciation mechanisms. This finding also suggests that competing species, rather than geographic barriers, may at times serve to isolate differentiating populations.
10.2307/2413325|In the panbiogeographic evolutionary synthesis, orthogenesis is referred to as a process which involves an inherent tendency to vary in certain directions, as ancestors vicariate or break apart into descendants. Orthogenesis has origins in the studies of form, but is given a biogeographic perspective in panbiogeography. The panbiogeographic use of orthogenesis is compatible with the origin of the term as presented by Haacke and Eimer. Misinterpretations of orthogenesis describing it as mystical, teleological and linear are invalid. The orthogenetic aspect of evolution was recognized by Darwin as "laws of growth," but was neglected in favor of natural selection. Although an internal component to evolution is recognized by contemporary biologists, it is often considered to be secondary to natural selection. Where recognition is given to an internal tendency for evolution to proceed without requiring the action of natural selection, terms such as "constraints," "bias," and "potential" may imply orthogenesis.
10.2307/2413150|Distance data have posed a number of problems for phylogenetic analysis. Among these are the loss of information about individual character states, and the frequent departures from metric properties of distance matrices derived by molecular techniques. The common degree-of-fit methods for the analysis of such data imply possibly unrealistic assumptions about these distances. As an alternative, a minimum-length criterion is considered. This has the appeal of requiring more conservative assumptions about distance data and represents the equivalent criterion to that for the analysis of character data by numerical cladistic techniques. Based upon its similarity to the character-Wagner algorithm, the distance-Wagner algorithm is suggested as a possible heuristic method for the approximation of most-parsimonious trees from distance data. Both the distance-Wagner algorithm and a recent modification have weaknesses in this role. Computer simulations demonstrate that the new algorithm developed in this study compares favorably with not only the distance-Wagner algorithm but also the character-Wagner algorithm in the approximation of most-parsimonious trees.
10.2307/2413147|Characteristics of organisms often vary widely across geographic space as a result of natural selection, migration and environmental heterogeneity. I present canonical trend surface analysis as an approach to the study of this variation. The method is based on the canonical correlations between sets of orthogonal axes in the space defined by the characteristics of the organism and in the space defined by the coordinates of the localities (and their squares and crossproducts). I apply this method to simulated data sets of trends and patches; the basic patterns are recovered. Next, 1 analyze two real data sets; the distribution of 21 HLA human blood types at 58 localities in Europe; and the distribution of 26 species of Foraminifera in 61 sediment core top samples from the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The derived patterns are similar to those developed by other investigators using different methods on these same data. However, canonical trend surface analysis is shown to be less sensitive to geographically unpatterned data than the methods used in these earlier studies of the same data. The canonical trend surface method extracts that part of the character variation that is most nearly coincident with the geographic information, and leaves unresolved the other covariances.
10.2307/2413148|In an attempt to clarify the relevance of ontogenetic transformations for systematics, the ontogenetic method for determining character polarity (the biogenetic law of Nelson, 1978) is analyzed from the perspective of phylogenetic systematics. In phylogenetic systematics, as defined here, the relationships sought are those of common ancestry and, thus, the concept of phylogeny is taken as an axiom from which systematic methods are deduced. This perspective has a number of consequences concerning the role of ontogenetic transformations in systematics, among which are the following: (1) Von Baer's second law, which states that less general characters are developed from the most general, is not universally true. (2) The validity of Nelson's biogenetic law (not to be confused with other concepts of similar name) does not depend on the validity of von Baer's law. (3) As a theory about the relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny, Nelson's biogenetic law can only be tested by known character phylogenies. However, outgroup, paleontological, and ontogenetic methods of polarity determination need not be interpreted as scientific theories; instead, they can be interpreted as theorems deduced from the axiom of phylogeny and certain auxiliary assumptions. (4) The usefulness of the ontogenetic method rests on an assumption of ancestral character retention. If ancestral characters are retained in descendant ontogenies, then ancestral characters will be more general than their phylogenetic derivatives. (5) The sequence of ontogenetic transformation is irrelevant to the usefulness of the ontogenetic method; generality is the critical factor. (6) An "ontogenetic" method based on generality may be useful for determining evolutionary polarity when characters are instantaneous morphologies, but ontogenetic transformations rather than instantaneous morphologies are more appropriately considered characters when attempting to determine phylogenetic relationships among organisms. When ontogenetic transformations are viewed as characters, there can be no ontogenetic method for determining evolutionary character polarity; however, the comparative phylogenetic method properly involves a comparison of ontogenetic transformations. (7) Ontogenetic polarities are different than phylogenetic polarities; the two have the relationship of part to whole, respectively. (8) For characters that exhibit ontogenetic transformation, homology is distinct from synapomorphy. (9) Finally, there is no threefold parallelism in phylogenetic systematics. Comparative anatomy, paleontology, and embryology are not three separate disciplines within systematics; rather, the three form a single comparative method unified in the organism by the concept of evolution.
10.2307/2413151|Five methods of coding character differences for meristic or continuous variables when variability within taxa exists are discussed: (1) scaling by among-group variability; (2) scaling by within-group variability; (3) simple gap-coding; (4) homogeneous-subset coding; and (5) generalized gap-coding. Scaling by among-group variability is ineffective as it does not use within-group variability for coding purposes. Scaling by within-group variability does not effectively alleviate computational and theoretical problems associated with within-group character variability. The implications of gap-coding for character differentiation are examined, and the relationship between increasing sample size and decreasing information content of gap-coded characters is reviewed. The technique of generalized gap-coding is proposed to eliminate the problems apparent with simple gap-coding. Homogeneous-subset coding is developed in more detail than previously and compared to generalized gap-coding. The two techniques differ only in the critical values used to establish homogeneous or discriminant groups. These differences are most pronounced with unequal sample sizes for taxa. For moderate to large sample sizes, homogeneous-subset coding will detect more differentiation than generalized gap-coding for most choices of critical gap size. Seven data sets, representing a range of number of taxa and characters, as well as types of taxonomic units, were coded following the three procedures (3, 4, and 5, above), and phylogenetic trees were constructed. The results are discussed with regard to the amount of useful information retained by the coding procedures, the number of minimum-length trees found, and character consistency of the characters on the constructed trees. Consistency levels for all the coding methods were low and inversely related to the number of taxa present in the study. Finally, character-coding methods for phylogenetic analysis are discussed with regard to implications from the Kluge-Kerfoot phenomenon.
10.2307/2413152|Methods are described for the automatic measurement of morphological features of mosquito wings (wing outline and venation) from TV images of specimens mounted on microscope slides. The digitized images were preprocessed to locate the "ridge points" in the gray-scale image surface and the digitized images were thinned so that veins could be represented by curves only a single pixel wide. The image was then segmented into the wing outline and the 10 longitudinal wing veins. Polynomial functions were fitted to each vein. The coordinates of the end points of each vein and the coefficients of the polynomials could then be used as descriptors of each wing for subsequent multivariate analyses. Comparisons are made with other algorithms and the results are shown.
10.2307/2413149|Inferring phylogenies from gene frequencies should be regarded as a statistical problem rather than treated in the framework of the hypothetico-deductive method. The approximations involved in a statistical treatment are discussed, as are the models of gene frequency change implicit in the use of statistical methods. In particular, the different genetic distance statistics have different assumptions. These are pointed out, and a Markov chain treatment of genetic drift in a small population is used to evaluate the behavior of a number of the most popular genetic distances. Distance measures that are standardized to correct for the effect of initial gene frequencies behave as expected, but only for moderate amounts of time and when initial gene frequencies are not extreme. The distance measures such as those by Balakrishnan and Sanghvi and by Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards, which are standardized for the effect of the initial gene frequencies, perform acceptably if the initial gene frequencies are not too extreme and the divergence time is not larger than twice the effective population size. A genetic distance based on discrete character coding of alleles according to their presence or absence shows quite unusual behavior. No genetic distance copes very well with extreme initial gene frequencies. The prospect of getting useable additional information from population samples of sequences is also discussed. Criticisms by J. S. Farris of an earlier paper that used statistical criteria to evaluate parsimony and compatibility methods are rebutted.
10.2307/2992220|The phylogenetic relationships of the osmeroid fishes are examined in the context of character congruence. The Osmeroidei is monophyletic, and its sister taxon is the monophyletic Argentinoidei. The division of osmeroids into Northern and Southern Hemisphere groups is largely corroborated. Two problematic taxa, the neotenic Salangidae and the monotypic Lepidogalaxias salamandroides, are hypothesized to be members of the Southern Hemisphere clade; in which reductive evolution has been common. The Northern Hemisphere clade includes the Osmeridae proper and the Japanese Plecoglossus altivelis. The utility of reductive characters in phylogeny reconstruction is discussed, with examples from the osmeroid fishes.
10.2307/2992222|Theoretical considerations and the results of computer simulations demonstrate that Swofford and Berlocher's (1987, Syst. Zool. 36:293-325) reason for preferring the Manhattan metric over Rogers's distance for inferring phylogenetic trees from allele frequencies under the principle of maximum parsimony is not necessarily valid. The theoretical considerations lead to the proposal of a new general criterion for choosing between cladograms or trees of equal length for qualitative characters as well-when two trees are of equal length, the one that is consistent with more possible transformation series of the characters under consideration is preferable. Rogers's genetic distance also is shown to be less sensitive to the overestimation of distance produced by heterozygous loci and finite sample size than the Manhattan metric, Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards's distances, or Hillis's (1984, Syst. Zool. 33:238-240) modified Nei's distance. Finally, Rogers's distance is preferable to Wright's (1978, Evolution and the genetics of populations, Volume 4, Univ. Chicago Press, Chicago) modified Rogers's distance for inferring phylogenetic trees because the latter distance results in unnecessary homoplasy on a minimum-length tree.
10.2307/2992223|A method for quantifying levels of observed homoplasy in cladistic analyses is proposed. The homoplasy slope is a function that describes the relationship between number of taxa in a cladistic analysis and the observed number of extra steps per character. The homoplasy slope ratio (HSR) relates the homoplasy slope of a cladistic analysis (real data) to that of an analysis based on random binary data sets of the same size. Tests show that HSR is not correlated with numbers of characters and taxa, and this quality makes the index particularly useful for comparing the levels of observed homoplasy among cladistic analyses based on data sets of different sizes. All of the other homoplasy indices currently available-including the consistency index (CI), retention index (RI), and homoplasy excess ratio (HER)-are correlated with number of characters and/or number of taxa.
10.2307/2992221|Simberloff et al. (1981, pages 40-63 in Vicariance biogeography: A critique [G. Nelson and D. E. Rosen, eds.], Columbia Univ. Press, New York) proposed three different sampling distributions of trees for testing cladistic biogeographic hypotheses. Two of these distributions involved sampling from a uniform distribution of cladograms (either labeled or unlabeled), whereas the third distribution was calculated by a simple Markovian model. This paper presents a proof that the third distribution of cladograms is identical to the uniform distribution of dendrograms (rooted trees with internal nodes ranked). Hence, all three sampling distributions are uniform distributions that differ solely in the kind of tree being sampled. The paper concludes by suggesting ways of constructing nonuniform tree distributions.
10.2307/2992218|We present a phylogenetic methodology to test hypotheses of adaptation and to discriminate adaptation from alternative causal explanations of character evolution. To constitute an adaptation, a character must be shown to provide current utility to the organism and to have been generated historically through the action of natural selection for its current biological role. The criterion of current utility is applied by comparing the performance of a derived trait to that of its phylogenetically antecedent state. If the performance of a trait exceeds that of its antecedent state, it constitutes an "aptation" for its observed biological role. Alternatively, if the performance of a trait equals or falls below that of its antecedent state, it constitutes a "nonaptation" or "disaptation," respectively. The criterion of historical genesis is applied using the concept of "selective regime," the aggregation of organismal and environmental factors that combine to determine the expected action of natural selection on actual and potential character variation. An aptation that arose on a lineage having the same selective regime as the focal taxon constitutes an "adaptation," whereas one that arose on a lineage having a different selective regime constitutes an "exaptation." For nonaptations and disaptations, the criterion of historical genesis serves to determine whether the nonaptive or disaptive status arose coincident with the trait itself or secondarily through a change of selective regime. We suggest that this phylogenetic approach will help to overcome general criticisms of adaptationist studies and will serve to bridge the gap between microevolutionary and macroevolutionary studies of adaptation.
10.2307/2992219|The problem of identifying all of the possible tree cross sections in a given slice of time for an observed change of the diversity is solved using the theory of branching processes and the multinomial theorem. The methods can be used in exploratory fashion to examine the ways in which the numbers of possible cross sections and their properties can differ with the starting and ending diversities, for instance. But, because tree cross sections can be stacked together, the methods can also be applied to answering certain statistical questions regarding complete phylogenetic trees. A phylogenetic tree for the Elephantidae (Mammalia) is tested for statistical significance using the methods developed. Because the focus is on examining the possible tree cross sections and complete trees for observed changes of diversity, the solution may be of particular value for testing hypotheses about phylogenetic trees that are constructed using data from paleontology.
10.2307/2992238|Methods of polarity determination are governed by both the basic assumptions of the analysis and particular auxiliary assumptions. Differences in basic assumptions between phylogenetic systematics and pattern cladistics result in different approaches to polarity determination. In phylogenetic systematics outgroup comparison, the ontogenetic method and the paleontological method are valid procedures for determining polarity because they can be derived from basic evolutionary axioms. The applicability of each method of polarization in particular instances depends on the veracity of auxiliary assumptions. Auxiliary assumptions entail necessary conditions implicit in the rationale of the method or the adequacy of available information. Each method has a unique combination of auxiliary assumptions and is not a special case of, or dependent on, other methods. Much of the recent debate regarding the overall relative applicability of the three methods suffers from the failure to properly consider auxiliary assumptions. Outgroup comparison has the broadest utility, but the applicability and utility of all methods should be considered in each instance.
10.2307/2992240|Computer-generated phylogenies were used to examine the relationship between the temporal position and completeness of additional taxa in a phylogenetic analysis and the rate of evolution or, equivalently, the temporal scope of the phylogenetic problem. In the simulations, four fossil taxa of varying temporal position and completeness were added to an analysis that included four living taxa. Additional taxa varied in completeness (25%, 50%, 75%, and 100% completeness) and in temporal position (0%, 33%, 66%, and 100% of the distance from the ancestor to the living time plane). Fifty trees were generated each for low, low intermediate, high intermediate, and high rates of evolution or temporal scope. Because additional taxa that are 100% complete and 100% of the distance to the living time plane are equivalent to the addition of living taxa, this study directly compares the effects of addition of living versus fossil taxa in phylogenetic analysis. The importance of fossil taxa varied depending on their completeness and temporal position and on the rate of evolution under which the phylogeny was generated. In general, high completeness and temporal position near the ancestor of a clade improved phylogenetic resolution as measured by the percentage of the tree-length distribution that contains the real tree. Furthermore, the conditions of completeness and temporal position under which fossil taxa improved phylogenetic resolution over living taxa became less restrictive as the rate of evolution or the temporal scope of the tree increased. A simple analytical model is proposed to explain these results.
10.2307/2992235|The comparative analysis of DNA molecules is a useful means for phylogenetic reconstruction, because different types of genetic elements yield resolution at different levels of taxonomic divergence. A single individual is usually characterized for each operational taxonomic unit (OTU), based on the premise that within-OTU variation can be safely ignored. Whereas that premise is expedient, it may not be generally valid. Sometimes variation within OTUs can affect the analysis. We develop a formal analytic treatment of variation in phylogenetic output as a consequence of intraspecific variation. Using restriction site data from the mitochondria of three species of cyprinid fishes to illustrate, we show that genetic variation within taxa impacts on tree topology. Genetic variation among populations is most important; that within populations is small. Genetic variation should be expected within any taxon, and it is generally useful to sample (replicate) one taxonomic level below that of interest.
10.2307/2992236|Multivariate methods for "size correction," such as shearing or multiple-group principal component analysis, assume that the groups under consideration share a common allometric growth pattern. However, this assumption has rarely been tested empirically. A variety of patterns of allometric growth in larvae of 17 species of marine fishes is revealed by principal component analysis. The bootstrap technique is used to assess statistical accuracy, and the hypothesis of one common growth pattern is clearly rejected. Even taxonomically related species are not always similar in their growth patterns. This indicates that techniques for "size correction" should not be applied without testing the assumption of a common growth pattern. To summarize the variation in allometric patterns, a recent approach, principal points, is used to find a small number of "typical" patterns. Flury (1990, Biometrika 77:33-41) defined the k principal points of a multivariate random vector X as those points that minimize the expected Euclidean distance of X from the nearest principal point. For our data set, four typical allometric patterns are thus characterized by means of principal points. Some common features of allometric patterns are possibly of functional importance, but combinations of different allometric patterns and initial morphologies can lead to a variety of body forms in fish larvae.
10.2307/2992241|An implementation is explored for standard assumptions (zero and one) for historical biogeographic analysis based on three-area statements specified by widespread taxa and nodes of taxon cladograms. Analysis of simple examples suggests that three-area statements permit a better measure of fit between an area cladogram and data on area relationship than do existing implementations of assumption zero, such as Brooks parsimony analysis, or existing implementations of assumption one, such as that of Nelson and Platnick (1981, Systematics and biogeography: Cladistics and vicariance, Columbia Univ. Press, New York, London), which proves defective in its oversensitivity to information specified by widespread taxa. Aspects of assumptions one and zero are adapted for evaluation of alternative assumption-two cladograms, first with data for nodes and then with data for widespread taxa.
10.2307/2992239|This study was undertaken to determine the range of consistency index (CI) values obtainable from random data sets. We generated multiple random data matrices for each of 49 different matrix sizes ranging from 5 taxa and 4 (binary) characters to 49 taxa and 124 characters. The CI of the minimum-length tree(s) was calculated for each. CIs decreased in a monotonic, nonlinear fashion with addition of either taxa or characters. The influence of addition of taxa was far greater than that of addition of characters, and an interaction effect was recognized. The general curvilinear relation we found between CIs and number of taxa is consistent with results obtained by other authors, but our random data CIs were lower than those of other studies. Mean random CIs varied from 0.70 for the smallest data sets to 0.072 for the largest. Maximum random CIs reached 0.80. A regression through means of random CIs against number of taxa was calculated with a 95% confidence interval. This CI<sub>random</sub> is the minimum value that real data sets should exceed to be considered to contain phylogenetic information. The CIs of real data sets can be adjusted with the CI<sub>random</sub>, and these values are found to meet current criteria for adequate measures of homoplasy. However, the homoplasy indices that are uncorrelated with taxa are also insensitive to internal data set structure, and no current index is adequate for comparison of homoplasy among data sets.
10.2307/2992237|Cleavage site variation of 18 restriction endonucleases in the transcribed portion of the ribosomal DNA gene complex was mapped from 42 genera of New World leaf-nosed bats (family Phyllostomidae). These data were used to test the higher taxonomic relationships of a traditionally recognized phylogeny against a recently revised phylogeny and classification for the family. Major conclusions from this study are that (1) support is provided for the theory that early phyllostomid radiation proceeded by the diversification of three or four lineages; (2) New World leaf-nosed bats, including vampire bats, compose a monophyletic group; and (3) the newly proposed classification and topology are supported. This study demonstrates that additional resolution can be obtained by testing new data for congruence with existing phylogenies.
10.2307/2992254|Historical biogeographic patterns of relationships among southern and northern South America, North America, and southern temperate areas were investigated by a cladistic biogeographic analysis of 17 taxon cladograms. Three techniques were applied: Wiley's biogeographic parsimony analysis, Nelson and Platnick's component analysis, and Humphries, Ladiges, Roos, and Zandee's quantification of component analysis. Biogeographic parsimony analysis yielded two general area cladograms (CI = 0.74). Under component analysis, six general area cladograms (two under Nelson and Platnick's assumption 1 and four under their assumption 2) were obtained through the intersection of a maximum of 10 sets of area cladograms. Quantification of component analysis produced nine cladograms (CI = 0.50) under assumption 1 and one (CI = 0.45) under assumption 2. The results support a hybrid origin of the South American biota. The northern South American biota is most closely related to that of North America, and southern South America constitutes a monophyletic group together with Australia, Tasmania, New Guinea, New Caledonia, and New Zealand, reflecting the existence of an ancient austral biota. Four conflicting hypotheses of area relationships concerning southern South America and the other austral areas are proposed, suggesting that southern South America may be a composite area in itself.
10.2307/2992253|Advocates and adversaries of single-copy DNA hybridization find both promise and pitfalls in the application of this technique to phylogenetic reconstruction. Measurement error, biased sampling of sequences, and homoplasy reduce the additivity of DNA hybridization data, although numerical corrections exist. If distortions of hybridization data can be rectified, pairwise tree construction algorithms should provide reliable estimates of phylogeny. We used single-copy DNA hybridization studies to elucidate interfamilial relationships within diprotodontian marsupials. Peroryctes longicauda, a peramelid, was included as an outgroup. To improve their additivity, data were corrected for nonreciprocity (the compression effect), reduced normalized percentages of hybridization, and homoplasy. Results of DNA hybridization experiments suggest an initial radiation of diprotodontian marsupials into three major lineages: (1) vombatiforms, (2) macropodids, and (3) phalangeroids plus petauroids. Subsequent diversification occurred first in the phalangeroid-petauroid group, second in vombatiforms, and last in macropodids. Within the phalangeroid-petauroid clade, phalangerids and burramyids form one monophyletic group whereas acrobatids, petaurids, and pseudocheirids form a second. This branching pattern obtains for both uncorrected and corrected data.
10.2307/2992252|We sequenced 2.7 kilobase pairs of contiguous coding mitochondrial DNA from Antilocapra americana (Antilocapridae), Capra hircus (Bovidae), and Tragulus napu (Tragulidae) and compared these to previously published orthologues for other ruminant species. Phylogenetic analysis of these sequences provided no robust patterns of relationship for the four families of pecoran ruminants studied. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that the pecoran families resulted from a rapid radiation in the Early Miocene to Late Oligocene. This hypothesis is supported by the short internal branch lengths of our most-parsimonious solutions and, more importantly, by the narrow range of interfamilial sequence divergence, suggesting that the radiation may have occurred over a period of 5 million years (about 23-28 million years ago). The importance of using large amounts of conservative sequence data for resolving relationships among members of a rapid radiation is discussed.
10.2307/2992255|Geographic variation in color pattern, body dimensions, and scalation of the low-altitude populations of the Tenerife gecko (Tarentola delalandii) is analyzed and depicted by multivariate ordination and contouring. Comparison with parallel geographic variation in other lizards on Tenerife and an adjacent island suggests an "ecogenetic" rather than "phylogenetic" cause (i.e., adaptation to current latitudinal habitat types with different climate and vegetation). Three quantitative procedures that may be of use in distinguishing between ecogenetically and phylogenetically caused geographic variation are used to test the geographic variation in the Tenerife gecko (i.e., investigating congruence by random resampling, anagenesis in putative phylogenetic trees, and partial correlation/Mantel tests). The latter two procedures appear to be the most useful; in particular, simultaneous Mantel tests indicate that scalation is significantly associated with latitudinal habitat types irrespective of the effects of spatial proximity.
10.2307/2992256|A recently described test for a consistent pattern of timing of cospeciation between host and parasite taxa uses the correlation between observed genetic distance matrices for the hosts and parasites. In this paper I argue that this method can be improved by comparing trees rather than distance matrices. In the special case of a molecular clock, the test compares cluster heights in dendrograms for the hosts and the parasites. Because tree topology alone can cause a significant correlation between the cluster heights, a randomization test is described that allows for this autocorrelation. The degree of autocorrelation is a function of tree topology, increasing as the trees become more unbalanced. Balanced trees offer more sensitive tests of hypotheses concerning timing of cospeciation.
10.2307/2992326|The jaw morphology of needlefishes (Beloniformes: Belomdae) passes through distinctive ontogenetic stages. When hatched, larvae have short jaws of equal length. The lower jaw first elongates to produce a "halfbeak" form, then the upper jaw elongates to produce the adult "needlenose" morphology. Onset and duration of the halfbeak stage vary among belonid species. We tested the hypothesis that heterochronic evolution produced this diversity in jaw morphology. First, a cladogram was developed for 27 belonid species. Ontogenetic trajectories for upper and lower jaw elongation were determined for 18 of these species. For upper and lower jaw elongation, trajectories of these 18 species were statistically compared to determine character transitions, which were then mapped onto the cladogram. The results showed that the growth trajectories of upper and lower jaws changed independently of each other, and that neoteny and acceleration occurred repeatedly during belonid evolution. Evidence suggests postdisplacement and predisplacement were also important mechanisms. The resulting morphological diversity may be interpreted as adaptations to food availability, because jaw morphology (halfbeak vs. needlenose) seems to be correlated with feeding modes (planktivory vs. piscivory). [Heterochrony; ontogenetic trajectory; Belonidae; jaw morphology; character coding; M-coding.]
10.2307/2992321|Computer simulations in which phylogenies were generated under various conditions were used to examine the relationship between the phylogenetic signal of a character data set, the skewness of the tree-length distribution, and the position of the real tree relative to the most parsimonious tree for a four-character-state system. Character data that are consistent with one phylogenetic hypothesis produce tree-length distributions that are highly skewed to the left, whereas character data consistent with many phylogenetic hypotheses produce more symmetrical tree-length distributions that cannot be distinguished from tree-length distributions produced by random character data. The relationship between the skewness of the tree-length distribution, as measured by the g
10.2307/2992325|The set of most-parsimonious trees for a data matrix may include several distinct classes (islands) of trees. An island is defined as a collection of trees, all less than a specified length, each tree connected to every other tree in the island through a series of trees, and each one differing from the next by a single rearrangement of branches. One advantage of this method of defining classes of trees is that islands are easily found by tree-searching programs. Multiple islands can be discovered by conducting many searches using a tree-searching program, each search beginning with a different tree. Among 37 data matrices examined, all 8 data matrices with two or more islands have retention indices less than 0.67. Trees are generally more similar within islands than among islands, as judged by analysis of partition metric distances between trees. As a consequence, trees in different islands may have different implications for character evolution, and for this reason should be sought.
10.2307/2992323|Extremely conflicting phylogenetic conclusions for the same taxa derived from different data sets are rare. When conflicts do occur, they may result from homoplasy as well as nonindependence of characters. We present an analysis of the phylogenetic relationships of the salamander family Ambystomatidae, based on variation at 26 allozyme loci. Our results conflict strongly with those derived from Kraus's (1988, Syst. Zool. 37:106-141) morphological analysis of the same taxa. The major conflict involves five species traditionally placed in the Ambystoma subgenus "Linguaelapsus." This group, and the clades within it, are each diagnosed by many morphological synapomorphies, providing unambiguous evidence for the monophyly of the subgenus. However, our allozyme data provide equally compelling evidence that "Linguaelapsus" is polyphyletic. We jackknifed and bootstrapped our allozyme data in a likelihood and a cladistic parsimony framework, respectively; all analyses point to the same conclusions. Subdividing the allozyme data into rapidly and slowly evolving loci, and analyzing each separately by maximum likelihood, does not change our conclusions. Our results demonstrate that even apparently "well-corroborated" nodes of a cladogram may be suspect if the assumption of character independence is violated.
10.2307/2992324|A direct algorithm is described to reconstruct on a phylogenetic tree the ancestral states of a continuous-valued character, using a parsimony criterion that minimizes the sum of squared changes along the branches. It is shown that when the squared changes are inversely weighted by the lengths of the branches, the squared-change parsimony reconstruction is that which has maximum posterior probability under a Brownian motion model of evolution. The squared-change parsimony estimates are also closely related to the contrasts in Felsenstein's test of character correlation.
10.2307/2992322|Studies of sexual dimorphism commonly focus on male morphology, often viewing males as divergent both evolutionarily and ontogenetically. For example, in continuously growing vertebrates such as lizards and fishes, it has been assumed that adult dimorphism arises from growth rate changes in male characters at the onset of maturity. However, there has been little explicit treatment of the ontogenetic origin of morphological sex differences. I present here a method for testing hypotheses of sex-specific allometric change, and offer an example of its application in four species of labrisomid blennies. I develop three hierarchical models to test for allometric divergence: (1) the null model, in which adult allometries of both sexes are simply an extension of the juvenile allometries (model A); (2) a model in which either adult males or females (but not both) diverge from the juvenile trajectory (model B); and (3) a model in which adults of both sexes diverge from the juvenile allometry (model C). Growth that fits either of the two latter models results in shape dimorphism. Although size dimorphism may occur in all three cases, it is not explicitly treated here. The models were tested with size-series of four species of fish (Paraclinus, Labrisomidae). To further explore overall shape similarity among males, females, and juveniles, a multivariate analysis of shape (independent of size) was applied. Analysis of 42 mensural characters showed that divergence from juvenile allometry occurred as frequently in female traits as in male traits. Multivariate analysis showed that in all four species, female shape diverges more from juvenile shape than does male shape. In addition, similarity among adult dimorphic character states often resulted from quite different growth patterns, suggesting that resemblance of adult characters among related species is insufficient evidence to conclude character homology. Interpretations of sexual dimorphism, currently emphasizing male morphology, may be biased and may underestimate the importance of selection on the female form as a cause of sexual dimorphism.
10.2307/2411501|Representative members of the fauna of Central Europe are discussed in relation to the present and probable past distribution of the groups to which they belong. The effects on this fauna of geological changes during the Tertiary and especially of Pleistocene glaciation are emphasized.
10.2307/2411503|A computer method for aid in biological classification based on graph theory is presented. The program not only defines hierarchical clusters but discovers intermediate forms and provides measures of internal affinity and external isolation for each cluster. The theoretical biological justification for this technique is given. A test of the method is presented, using 31 specimens selected from different genera of the subtribe Oncidiinae of the Orchidaceae.
10.2307/2411499|The occurrence of a special type of polymorphism in some leptodactylid frogs is reported. The polymorphism differs from normal polymorphism in crossing species lines and is termed tautomorphism. The polymorphic variants are named tautomorphs.
10.2307/2411498|The author proposes a system of identification, positional, and phyletic numbers for taxa that makes possible a significant relationship between numerical classification and phylogeny.
10.2307/2411497|Geographic variation of quantitative characters may be represented by a polynomial model and plotted automatically as a contour map with a digital computer. Linear, quadratic, and cubic surfaces are fitted to the variation patterns of two characters of the fathead minnow, Pimephales promelas, from 54 localities distributed over a large area of North America. The cubic surfaces describe the variation pattern quite well and account for as much as 90% of the variability among localities. Regional trends are simply represented by the contour plots, while local variability and breaks in the variation pattern may be analyzed by examination of the automatic plots of residuals.
10.2307/2411504|The Dusky Flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri Phillips) and the Gray Flycatcher (Empidonax wrightii Baird), sibling species which usually breed in allopatry in the western United States because of altitudinal separation of preferred habitats, occur in local sympatry along the western edge of the Great Basin. Here extensive populations of each species defend mutually exclusive territories where the vegetation forms a mosaic of habitats suitable to both. An analysis of bill size and shape of 774 specimens, comparing allopatric and sympatric populations, revealed no evidence for character displacement, implying that interspecific competition for food is lacking. Sexual dimorphism in the bill, varying geographically in extent, indicates intraspecific competition, probably between the members of a pair on their territory. Differential niche utilization, within and between the two species, is also suggested by differences in wing shape. Apparently these two species evolved distinct enough habitats and foraging spheres when in allopatry so as to preclude competition when in sympatry. Gene flow from extensive regions of allopatry may suppress divergence in bill dimensions of the sympatric individuals.
10.2307/2411500|Discrimmation of adults of the three closely related species of the Hoplopleura hesperomydis complex of lice (Anoplura) is discussed, including a standardized system for taking measurements, followed by various statistical analyses of the data. Certain measurements are shown to have taxonomic value in discriminating between species after analysis, and the method of a posteriori selection of such characters is described. The literature on statistical means of species differentiation is reviewed.
10.2307/2411502|A method is proposed whereby existing biological nomenclature might be stabilized without discarding the familiar binominal system.
10.2307/2411989|Many species of relict boreal insects reside along the postglacial border in central and eastern United States in scattered series of sphagnum bogs. The distributional patterns of these insects are often influenced to a considerable extent by climatic factors and may reflect past climatic conditions, especially if the species involved are restricted by specific microclimatic requirements and are themselves mcapable of active dispersal beyond these limits. Over 20 species of pselaphid beetles with boreal affinities are characteristic bog inhabitants. The range of each species is correlated with glacial processes and the contemporary distribution of bog plants. Included among the factors discussed affecting their distribution are glacial influences, ecological limits, and species dispersal potentials. None of the true bog pselaphids are known beyond the limits of Wisconsin glaciation, except for the Wisconsin driftless area and New Jersey breaches paralleled by bog plant distributions. The specificity of most species to these relict boreal habitats bespeaks their value as indicators of biotic displacement.
10.2307/2411984|Taxonomy and nomenclature cannot be separated. Taxonomic results can be expressed only through nomenclature, and therefore the system of nomenclature in use at any time constitutes a framework within which taxonomists must work. The existing system of zoological nomenclature cannot function simultaneously for traditional methods and for the quantitative methods that will be necessary in the near future. The rigid framework of a mandatory Code, and in particular its type-system are incompatible with quantitative methods based on a long series of specimens. The International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature should plan for a date, not too far ahead, after which all traditional taxonomy shall cease at the species-level and below. The Commission should give a lead in exploring the problems and possibilities of quantitative methods, and in devising an entirely new nomenclature appropriate to these. Above the species-level, traditional methods should continue, but the Code should cease to be mandatory, and names should be stabilised by usage.
10.2307/2411991|The obstacles which have prevented the haplosporidans from fitting into the classification prepared by the Committee on Taxonomy and Taxonomic Problems of the Society of Protozoologists have no objective basis but are essentially semantic in nature. The resemblance between the different kinds of filaments in spores is largely verbal. Therefore, the notion that the presence or absence of a "filament" is the essential character for segregating different groups of sporozoans into subphyla should be rejected. Then, if the subphylum names Sporozoa Leuckart, 1879, and Cnidospora Doflein, 1901, are replaced with the appropriate ones, Rhabdogena Delage and Herouard, 1896, and Amoebogena Delage and Herouard, 1896, all obstacles to putting the order Haplosporida Caullery and Mesnil, 1899, into a satisfactory position are removed. Likewise, it then becomes logically possible to put the order Paramyxida Chatton, 1911, into the classification. Accordingly, these two orders are placed in subphylum Amoebogena, in classes Microsporea Corliss and Levine, 1963, and Myxosporea Butschli, 1881, respectively. The latter class, having two groups of orders which are in sharp contrast to each other with respect to structural complexity, is here divided into two subclasses, Myxosporia Butschli, 1881, (with orders Myxosporida Butschli, 1881, and Actinomyxida Stolc, 1889) and Paramyxia (with orders Paramyxida Chatton, 1911, and Helicosporida Kudo, 1931). It is suggested that the older name Sporozoa Leuckart, 1879, be used (after appropriate change of ending) to replace the class name Telosporea Schaudinn, 1900, and that the latter be discarded.
10.2307/2411986|In an earlier paper, numerical techniques were developed and used to analyze distribution patterns of the native terrestrial mammals of North America. An error in method is here corrected, indicating that 35 provinces, 13 superprovinces, four subregions, and one region may be recognized. The methods used are relatively objective, quantitative, and suited to computerization.
10.2307/2411987|The small six-rayed sea stars on the rocky shore of San Juan Island, Washington, have been previously classified by different authors into at least two species: Leptasterias hexactis and Leptasterias aequalis. Examination of adult morphology reveals three morphologically distinct groups, among which two are L. hexactis and one is L. aequalis. However, a study of distribution and reproduction has shown that these three groups are not isolated ecologically or reproductively. They do not constitute separate populations, and they are capable of interbreeding. It is concluded, therefore, that all the six-rayed sea stars of this area belong to one biological species, L. hexactis. The morphological variations are discussed in terms of polymorphism and geographical races.
10.2307/2411988|Evidence is presented for the thesis that a taxometric analysis using haphazardly assembled, equally weighted characters results in a haphazard classification, at least in the Basidiomycetes. We consider that not all characters, in the currently accepted sense of that word, contain equal amounts of phylogenetic information, and that a proper taxonomic value can be placed on each character only if its degree of conservatism within the group is understood. So far, not only has it been impossible to instruct a computer to take conservatism into consideration, but also the limitations of the taxonomist's knowledge about homology and analogy in the fungi restrict his ability to designate characters in taxometric terms.
10.2307/2411985|The multituberculate mammals declined in numerical abundance from the late Cretaceous to their extinction in the late Eocene. Their maximal diversity, however, occurred in the late part of the middle Paleocene, suggesting an increase in specialization in the face of competition from placental mammals, which diversified very rapidly in the Paleocene. Various lines of evidence lead to the conclusion that first condylarths, then primates, and finally rodents contributed to the gradual extinction of multituberculates, at least in part by evolution in the same region of competing resource requirements. A phylogeny of the Cenozoic Multituberculata and their ancestors is given, the mammal faunas of the Paleocene are listed by more or less their absolute ages, and the fauna of Bear Creek is analyzed in detail. A theory of replacement of supraspecific taxa is presented and applied.
10.2307/2411628|The Linnaean hierarchy is a system of nested classes whose members are individual organisms. It will be the purpose of this paper to set out the logic of this system in a manner which is faithful to taxonomic theory and practice, which avoids certain paradoxes in previous attempts, and which is in terms that a biologist might reasonably be expected to understand.
10.2307/2411629|This paper proposes that not only do species arise and subsequently become extinct but may behave in fundamentally similar fashions between their times of origin and extinction. Four major steps in the species' life cycle are recognized, based on the relative success of the organism as reflected in such traits as relative abundance, extent of subspeciation, and characteristics of geographic distribution. The first stage, or neospecies, is characterized by increasing abundance and expanding range; representatives are found in many introduced forms, including the English sparrow and European starling. The second stage, or mesospecies, has stable range boundaries, a relatively great abundance, and extensive subspeciation, as illustrated by the song sparrow, gray wolf, house rat, and many others. In the third stage, or euspecies, the level of abundance is generally high and the range boundaries stable, but subspeciation is scant or absent. The final stage, or telospecies, is marked by reduction in range, absence of subspeciation, and a low level of abundance and is exemplified by the whooping crane and other forms nearing extinction.
10.2307/2411630|Some errors in systematic theory have arisen by attempts to define things instead of words. The abstract concept of the biological species definition is discussed, together with objections to it. The author shows that "homology" is a theoretical term and that phylogenetic definitions of it are not circular.
10.2307/2411634|Available data on the marine shore faunas of the old (apparently Pliocene or earlier) and well isolated oceanic islands (300 miles or more from nearest land) reveal a very interesting pattern of endemism. The endemic rate is very low in the north and middle Atlantic, markedly greater in the south Atlantic and Pacific, and exceedingly high in the Sub-Antarctic waters. It is suggested that this peculiar pattern of endemism may be correlated with the extent of the drop in sea surface temperature that occurred during the Pleistocene glaciations. Contrary to most of the literature on the subject, it seems that the effect of the ice ages on ocean temperature may have been quite different in various parts of the world. The islands that demonstrate the least amount of endemism were probably exposed to the greatest decline in surface temperature.
10.2307/2411631|A connection is established between matching coefficients and distance in n-dimensional space for a variety of character scoring procedures. Following this, geometric interpretations are given of some clustering methods used for matching coefficients, and the merits of the methods are considered. As a consequence, it is suggested the average coefficient method should be replaced by the centroid method.
10.2307/2411633|The evidence for race formation in the three major schistosome parasites of man is reviewed. Evidence comes from egg morphology, differences in number and placement of adult testes, length of adult worms, prepatent period, snail penetration studies, and virulence and pathology (egg distribution) in the definitive host. At least four races (Japanese, Chinese, Formosan and Philippine) are currently believed to exist in the Schistosoma japonicum complex, and five (Caribbean, Brazilian, Egyptian, Tanganyikan and South African) have been demonstrated for S. mansoni. Two races have been demonstrated for S. haematobium in Ghana. More work needs to be done on this species and on S. mansoni. S. japonicum has been most extensively studied. The importance of elucidating subspeciation in these parasites is discussed briefly from an evolutionary standpomt. On the basis of virulence, an origin of formation on Formosa is postulated for S. japonicum. No similar speculation can be made on the other parasites due to insufficient study.
10.2307/2411388|Many problems which involve organizing data into homogeneous groups can be approached by defining a function for measuring or evaluating the structure present in a given partition of the set of data, and then attempting to find that partition for which the function is optimized. In general, different functions are required for different types of problems. One possible measure of structure is presented here, together with a discussion of the types of problems to which it applies. Also described is a general hill-climbing algorithm which can be used with any measure of structure to attempt to climb to the optimum partition. The algorithm does not require a numerical measure, but only a decision as to which of two partitions is more highly structured, or more valuable. Areas of application include biological taxonomy; isolation of disease syndromes in medicine; information retrieval; business applications such as "types" of sales offices, TV audiences, etc., anthropology (categorization of civilizations), and sociology (categorization of tribes).
10.2307/2411391|Chromosomes from 14 species representing the six subgenera of the ground squirrel genus Spermophilus are evaluated as indicators of taxonomic relationships. The diploid number and karyotype of S. franklini (2n = 42), subgenus Poliocitellus, are described here for the first time, together with supplementary chromosomal characters from S. beecheyi (2n = 38) and S. variegatus (2n = 38), subgenus Otospermophilus, and S. lateralis (2n = 42), subgenus Callospermophilus. Chromosomal characters are diagnostic at the subgeneric level in Poliocitellus, Otospermorphilus, Xerospermophilus, Callospermophilus, and Ictidomys. The subgenus Spermophilus cannot be differentiated at this level because of a striking degree of interspecific variation (2n = 30-46). An evaluation of possible mechanisms for karyotype evolution within the genus Spermophilus provides additional taxonomic data. The subgenera Ictidomys and Poliocitellus appear to share an equally close chromosomal relationship to Spermophilus. Because more complex chromosomal rearrangements must be postulated to explain the differences observed between Callospermophilus, Otospermophilus, and Xerospermophilus greater evolutionary divergence may exist between these taxa than between Ictidomys, Spermophilus, and Poliocitellus.
10.2307/2411398|The concept of "superspecies," as applied to a monophyletic group of allopatric or nearly allopatric taxa that are known or believed to have evolved to the species level, was introduced to the literature by E. Mayr and by B. Rensch. The concept is of great utility in many studies of evolution and zoogeography. The use of superspecies has been somewhat retarded by the absence of any formalized notation for them in Linnaean nomenclature. It is here proposed that brackets (= square parentheses) enclose the first named species of a superspecies: thus, superspecies Bubo [bubo], or Bubo [bubo] virginianus to indicate that the species virginianus is a member of the superspecies Bubo [bubo]. The term "allospecies" is suggested for the species comprising a superspecies. The use of parentheses ( ) should be restricted to indicating "semispecies," that is, forms believed to be subspecies, but approaching, or possibly of, species status, e.g., Accipiter (gentilis) atricapillus.
10.2307/2411390|The division of pocket gophers (Geomyidae, Rodentia) into many subspecies has been criticized frequently in recent years. The history of the nomenclature and taxonomic practice in one complex of species of the genus Thomomys is analyzed, and continuous progress is apparent. Studies of Thomomys in Chihuahua, Mexico, are summarized. Thomomys baileyi is synonymized with Thomomys bottae. T. bottae is not conspecific with T. umbrinus. More field work is needed since inadequate material, rather than the concept of subspecies, has limited advances in knowledge of gopher classification and relationships.
10.2307/2411389|Small specimens can be stored safely in vials, tightly stoppered with cotton and placed upside down in a larger jar. Due to the unavailability of tight jars, methods used in several institutions to prevent alcohol loss have been tried out. Either plastic tape (3M no. 472) or dipping in plastic coating (Uniroyal Adhesive no. 6273) appreciably slows evaporation. Seventy to eighty per cent alcohol is the best preservative; 40-70% isopropyl alcohol seems an excellent substitute, and is easily obtained. Methods of reconditioning dried specimens are controversial. All locality labels should be typed or mimeographed or the labels can be photo-offset, or Xerox copied on good bond paper.
10.2307/2411397|Louis Agassiz was under the false impression that the shells of brachiopods were lateral in position and that the group was related to mollusks. N. S. Shaler considered the shells to be anterior and posterior in position. E. S. Morse proved that the shells are dorsal and ventral, and showed that brachiopods form a distinct group somewhat related to tubicolous annelids. Journal records of Morse give historical sidelights which illuminate his controversy with Agassiz. Morse's classification of Brachiopoda became one of his principal contributions to zoology.
10.2307/2411392|A number of philosophical arguments for taxonomic doctrines appear based upon misinterpretations of valid logical principles. Among these, definition of words is confused with identification of things, circularity of definition with circularity of argument, operational verifiability with the practicality of such verification, biological individuals with logical individuals, logical proof with convincing argument, logical derivation with historical derivation, the logically prior with the psychologically prior, the relation of similarity with the impression of similarity, hypotheses with questionable premises, and objective reality with the consistency of the subject's reasoning. A failure to grasp the distinction between induction by simple enumeration and the modern, hypothetico-deductive scientific method seems in part responsible for many of the errors, suggesting that the fundamental nature of science has been imperfectly understood.
10.2307/2411395|A rearrangement of Orders, Suborders, Families, and Subfamilies is essayed for those Sarcodina of the Superorder Lobida, as included in the Subclass Cyclia, Class Hydraulea, within a classification for the Sarcodina based on mechanisms of movement. The genera included are listed with the designation of each familial group; but the families are not given names. The problem of naming families, using those within the Lobida as examples, is discussed, with emphasis on the need to use logic, whether or not the International Rules of Nomenclature provide for or permit it. An example is given of the confusion sometimes occurring due to impedance of logic by the rigidity of rules. Some other difficulties are considered. It is concluded that the extension of the Rule of Priority to include names of family groups imposes a rigidity of mental behavior which is often counter to logic in the naming of families, especially new ones based on new approaches and/or new data. It is further concluded that the Rule of Priority cannot be supported by the authors for any familial group or higher taxon.
10.2307/2411519|This study of House Sparrows was undertaken to determine the nature and degree of differentiation in color and morphology along a 1000-mile transect of the Great Plams and montane Colorado, and to relate these patterns of variation to climatic gradients encountered along the transect. The study is based upon examination of 785 specimens collected at 12 different localities in Illinois, Kansas, and Colorado. The results confirm earlier reports that North American House Sparrows have undergone conspicuous adaptive differentiation in color and morphology. Interpopulational variation in tarsus length is clinal and conforms with Allen's ecogeographic rule. Wing length of House Sparrows varies geographically, but variation of this character is not a function of altitude or isophane. Interpopulational variation in bill length of House Sparrows is thought to reflect differences in wear consequent to differences in abrasive action of food at the respective localities. There seems to be no relation between bill length and annual precipitation or ambient temperature. Partitioning of the food niche has not occurred in North America. Color of cryptic plumages of adult and subadult male House Sparrows varies clinally in accord with Gloger's ecogeographic rule. Auricular display plumage of adult males also varies in color, but the clinal pattern is opposite to that which obtains in cryptic plumages. No such trend in coloration is apparent in auricular plumage of subadult males. Clinal variation in color in accord with Gloger's rule is manifest in adult female House Sparrows, but not in subadults. Local differentiation has occurred in no more than 90 years. Slow rates of evolution thought to obtain for birds cannot be attributed in every instance to rigid restraints upon the genetic system; in some cases barriers to dispersal or relative constancy of the environment over long periods of time must have dictated rates of differentiation.
10.2307/2411512|An examination of certain basic concepts employed in phenetic taxonomy provides a logical framework within which the taxonomic process may be operationally defined, with little or no violence to traditional views. There remain elements of apparently subjective choice for methods adopted in practice, but the "non-probabilistic" approach, based on the concept of "association," is conceptually simple and corresponds closely to traditional methods. There is available for such an approach a "general coefficient of association," which incorporates both qualitative and quantitative information.
10.2307/2411516|A bionumeric code, used by the BCF Exploratory Fishing Base in Pascagoula, Miss. is presented and discussed. The basic code consists of 9 digits divided into phylum-class, class-order, family, genus, and species categories. The code, a modification of one proposed by the FAO in 1960, has facilitated the handling of large quantities of faunal data from the southwestern North Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean Sea. Expansion capabilities are inherent in the code structure and are discussed. Comparisons are also made with several code systems previously suggested by other workers. The present need for bionumeric coding systems is emphasized and a suggestion is made for establishing a central agency wherein all taxonomic records would be maintained and coded.
10.2307/2411513|Coastal lowlands on the western side of the Americas are irregularly narrow and squeezed between the shoreline and adjacent montane country. The 407 species belonging to 189 genera (marine and insular forms excluded) that are recorded as living on this coastal strip are best arranged in sectors north to south as follows: in Nearctica, the Tundran (67
10.2307/2411514|Chromosome numbers are reported for 30 species representing eight families of anurans. These, together with previously published records, provide some evidence of trends in numbers of chromosomes at the family level. With the exception of two genera of leptodactylids, diploid numbers range from 20 to 36 and haploid numbers, from 10 to 18 in anurans studied to date.
10.2307/2411520|In female Tetraopes tetraophthalmus there is significant heterogeneity in allometric growth ratios of prothoracic tubercle size and prothorax width among different areas of the range. This suggests that different relative growth rates in the formation of the adult prothorax may have been selectively favored in different areas of the range. However, males do not show the effect. Furthermore, the relationship between individual and population allomorphosis is also strikingly different in the two sexes; estimates of growth ratios at these two levels are similar in females, very dissimilar in males.
10.2307/2411515|The meaning of "relationship" in taxonomy is discussed. An exact meaning of evolutionary relationship is derived, and operational methods for placing organisms according to evolutionary relationship are considered.
10.2307/2411517|Immunological comparisons of beetles involving 66 species from 24 families were made by photodensitometrically measuring the precipitin zones that developed in agar-gels. Comparisons at the intrageneric and intergeneric levels were most suitable for study using the photodensitometric technique, and results obtained at these levels agreed with predicted results based on morphological studies. Unusually high immunological correspondences of Melanotus (Family Elateridae) and Oryzaephilus (Family Cucujidae) to Tenebrio molitor suggested previously unsuspected relationships. The high degree of reciprocal correspondence between members of the families Cerambycidae and Chrysomelidae indicated that relegation of these families to subfamilial status would be reasonable. An interfamilial cluster analysis revealed systematically useful data.
10.2307/2412152|Qualitative identification and quantitative estimation both of aromatic biogenic amines and pharmacologically active polypeptides in the skin of amphibians appear to offer a valuable contribution to studies in taxonomy and evolution of this vertebrate class. Several examples of the accordance of the biochemical data herein reported with the data of traditional taxonomy are described for the neotropical family of frogs Leptodactylidae, but particular emphasis is laid on the striking correspondence between the systemic distribution of the spectra of biogenic amines and morphological taxonomy which is demonstrated by the species of the genus Leptodactylus.
2412149|Karyotype evolution apparently involving Robertsonian centric fusion of chromosomes in iguanid reptilian species (Sceloporus clarki and Sceloporus magister) is consistent with the recent evidence pertaining to the evolution of North American Desert species of animals and plants derived from tropical and subtropical communities of the Madro-Tertiary Geoflora during the evolution of the North American Desert.
10.2307/2412150|The relationships of adult butterflies were evaluated using the techniques of numerical taxonomy and various sets of characters. Using a total of 196 characters of the external and internal anatomy produced phenograms quite similar to the one arrived at by classical taxonomic techniques. There were, however, significant differences (e.g., relatively low similarity of the Papilionidae and Pieridae). Relationships based on most subsets of characters showed a "family resemblance" to one another and to the classical relationships. Relationships based on 96 internal and 100 external characters were compared by a randomization test. When evaluated by correlation coefficients the internal and external relationships were significantly different. When evaluated by distances they were not. Our results in general seem to support a "weak" version of the nonspecificity hypothesis-analysis of different large samples of characters ordinarily will yield positively correlated but non-identical patterns of relationship. This study has led to an appraisal of ideas of general classification and the utility of numerical taxonomy. Theoretical considerations make it seem unlikely that the idea of "overall similarity" has any validity. In any case it is clear that overall similarity cannot be dealt with operationally. All classifications are inherently special, and no one special classification is any more or less "correct" than any other. It is suggested that numerical taxonomy is a more sophisticated tool than is required for doing most routine taxonomic jobs. Numerical taxonomy, however, can be used in those situations where refined answers seem to be desirable, either where economic problems are involved or where light can be shed on general problems of population biology.
10.2307/2412151|Numbers of papers, subjects discussed and major workers on the Phylum Ectoprocta were compiled from the literature published from 1555 to 1963. The average yearly number of papers on ectoprocts increased greatly throughout the Nineteenth Century, stayed about constant from 1900 until after the second world war, and has been increasing modestly since then. Approximately 5500 papers have been written on ectoprocts, of which about 3600 deal with systematics and other biologic topics (excluding ecology), the remainder are on the use of ectoprocts in ecologic or stratigraphic studies. About 75 per cent of the literature is in English (50 per cent), French (15 per cent) and German (10 per cent). Since the limited catalogues published in 1900 and before, no catalogue of the literature on ectoprocts has been prepared. As a consequence, the literature on all aspects of the study of ectoprocts is poorly organized for modern workers. Probably more than any other single publication, a modern Catalogue of Ectoprocta, cross-indexed to taxonomic names and subjects, would lead to greatly increased interest and work on these animals. A journal devoted to all aspects of ectoprocts apparently has a large enough group of potential contributors (more than 100) to be viable.
10.2307/2411408|Molluscs had a common origin with the annelids, as shown by remarkable ontogenetic similarities. Their common ancestors were non-segmented (non-eumetameric), acoelomate animals. Molluscs developed from the common stock through incorporation of the distinguishing molluscan characters such as the shell, mantle, mantle cavity, radula and etenidium and annelids by the adoption of coelomic segmentation and of changes accompanying it. The assertion that molluscs hand ancestors with coelomic segmentation is contradicted by ontogenetic and anatomical facts as well as by theoretical considerations. The common molluscan-annelid stock most likely originated from ancestral flatworms; this is indicated by the developmental, and to a lesser extent, structural similarities between the flatworms, molluscs and annelids, and by the lower level of organization of the flatworms. The coelom is a phylogenetically new structure in the molluscs and annelids, and was acquired independently in the two phyla. Coelomic segmentation also is a phylogenetically new acquisition of the annelids; it came about through developmental changes affecting the growth of the mesoderm bands. These views are the corollaries of ontogenetic considerations.
10.2307/2411404|Shrew populations on the islands in the Bering Strait region (Sorex pribilofensis, S. jacksoni, S. hydrodromus) were regarded as related to Sorex arcticus of the Alaskan mamland. Our data indicate that S. pribilofensis and S. jacksoni are members of the S. (Otiosorex) cinereus group, which occurs both in Alaska and eastern Siberia. Sorex hydrodromus apparently does not exist on Unalaska Island, and is a synonym of S. pribilofensis. The Holarctic evolution of the S. cinereus and S. arcticus-S. araneus groups, and their occurrence on the Bering land connection in the late Pleistocene, is discussed.
10.2307/2411403|The effect of using only intercorrelated characters in a numerical taxonomic study was investigated using 74 external morphological characters of pupae in 45 species of North American mosquitoes. Correlation and distance coefficients were computed based upon standardized data. Cluster analyses and factor analyses were performed and compared. In addition, analyses were made of the correlation among the characters using centroid components analysis and multiple factor analysis with rotation to simple structure. The only effect of using correlated characters appears to be that it causes the generic clusters to appear very elongated in the n dimensional character space. Standard methods of cluster analysis have a tendency to make the OTU's at the ends of these clusters appear much more isolated than they "should be." Methods for correcting for this bias were discussed.
10.2307/2411407|A method of equalized scaling is proposed for taxonomic or classificatory systems, designed so that problems involving a mixed set of variables (some quantitative and others multistate qualitative) can be handled automatically and so that variables of neither class will unduly dominate the classifying process. The method is formulated in terms of Euclidean distance in n-dimensional space but is easily adapted to a system using similarity coefficients. Other advantages of the method are discussed.
10.2307/2411405|Karyotypic data are presented for members of the Lesser Antillean Anolis of the roquet group, and their geographic near neighbors. The roquet group is characterized by six pairs of metacentric macrochromosomes. The near neighbors to the south (A. chrysolepis) and west (A. lineatus) have seven pairs of macrochromosomes. The species to the north, A. oculatus, has a distinctly different karyotype, with no sharp distinction between macrochromosomes and microchromosomes, and shows male chromosomal heteromorphism. Within the roquet group, five forms have 12 pairs of microchromosomes, and three forms have 11 pairs. The latter is considered a specialized condition that only arose once within the group and is indicative of close taxonomic relationship.
2411406|A factor analysis with a Varimax rotation of the initial solution was applied to a system of 27 dental and cranial measurements in the house mouse. Five common "factors" were identified with respect to the 27 variables. These factors in decreasing order of their contribution to the total variation, were width, anterior length, posterior length, skuil and M3. The proportion of the total variance accounted for by the total communality was 73.99%.
10.2307/2412069|The relationships of 83 species of psocids of the family Peripsocidae (Insecta: Psocoptera) were analysed numerico-taxonomically, using alternative methods of processing. The results of using different sets of adult morphological characters and different combinations of them were compared. The effect of admitting a large number of species with incomplete data (known from one sex only) into the system was investigated. Certain modifications of the accepted classification of the family were suggested.
10.2307/2412068|The distributional data for the metabolic amino acid 3-hydroxy-L-kynurenine as a wing pigment in nymphalid butterflies would suggest taxonomic groupings essentially in contradiction with those resulting from more broad-scale morphological, breeding and behavioral studies; this indicates that the storage of this pigment is a taxonomically relatively unimportant unit character. The inherent danger of taxonomic misuse of single-compound chemical analysis is discussed, as is the significance of the use of the same chemical compound to achieve a given color by several divergent but mutually mimetic forms.
10.2307/2412066|A numerical taxonomic study of the acarine family Dermanyssidae comprised 17 OTUs, including the females of all described species of the genus Dermanyssus and one representative of the genus Liponyssoides (=Allodermanyssus). OTU distances and correlations were computed on the basis of 135 characters taken from all areas of the body, and these similarity values were structured by means of graphic analysis, cluster analysis, contour diagrams and centroid factor analysis. A technique developed for the identification of OTUs poorly placed in a phenogram also provided a method supplementary to the cophenetic correlation coefficient for the assessment of phenogram distortions. Several taxonomic changes are proposed as a result of the study.
10.2307/2412070|Use of the scientific method to achieve valid generalizations in biology rests on classifications. If a proposition is empirically known to be true of several organisms, it is normally postulated, as a hypothesis to be tested, that it is true of all members of the smallest taxon to which all the known instances belong. If possible, further instances testing the hypothesis, are sought among the organisms most distantly related to those already known while still within the taxon about which the generalization has been postulated.
10.2307/2412071|Random masks made from twenty-five IBM cards, each perforated with twenty-five randomly chosen holes, were placed over black and white drawings of twenty-nine "species" of Caminalcules and pupae of thirty-two species of Culicine mosquitoes. Black lines appearing through a hole were scored "1," and empty holes were scored "0." Similarity matrices were constructed on the basis of matching scores for corresponding masks and holes. The resulting phenograms agreed well with previous numerical taxonomic studies obtained by deliberately looking for and scoring characters. Complete scanning of the entire image also gave satisfactory results, but classifications were not necessarily better than by the random scanning method. Increasing the size of the apertures in the mask degraded the classification somewhat when compared with the complete scans, but it is not obvious that the overall classifications so obtained are worse than those from the complete scan. Some of the problems of scanning organisms for taxonomic analysis and the implications of such work for taxonomy are discussed.
10.2307/2412067|The purpose of the work described in this paper is to review several data centering techniques and to evaluate their effect on the outcome of component analysis. Data centering is defined as a translation of the co-ordinate origin to the centroid of the system. The conditions under which the R- and Q- techniques of component analysis are applicable as alternative strategies are discussed and the techniques are illustrated in a numerical example. A mathematical appendix is included.
10.2307/2413187|The analysis of the world distribution pattern of 38 inland fish families is undertaken. I present areography as an approach to assess area-interrelationships among these families. The spatial aspect of quantitative biogeography is studied with classification and ordination methods similar to those used in ecological biogeography, although my aim is not ecological determinism and, besides, the spatial and temporal limits characteristic of ecology are here exceeded. The evolutionary and time-dimensions are also considered, but the approach is historical and has not a strict phylogenetic background. First, cluster analysis is performed from the similarities between areas measured in terms of surface-overlap; then, the inverse approach is developed, namely, cluster analysis of arbitrarily defined geographical areas which are compared through the extent of their common family ranges. The derived pattern of fish distribution does not fit the traditional zoogeographical regions and reflects past geographical connections. Finally, principal coordinates analysis (PRA) from present biotic distances among the arbitrary geographical areas permits to verify statistically that a concordance exists between these biotic distances and past geography, and this shows the biogeographical projection of evolution. The parallelism between this approach and Croizat's method of generalized tracks is discussed, as well as the extension of the approach to other groups of organisms and to taxa of lower rank.
10.2307/2413188|This paper analyses the ecological concept of niche that Mayr (1982) adopts in his new, adjusted biological species definition. It is argued here that this concept is part of a typological paradigm still persisting in ecology and thus does not fit the remainder of Mayr's concepts of evolutionary processes based on population thinking. Consequently, adopting this concept in such a definition confuses matters more than it helps. In this analysis particular attention is given to the question of being able to measure niches and populations independently, together with chosing a spatio-temporal scale of variation. Some concepts central to the typological paradigm are also briefly mentioned, together with an alternative approach that could fit better Mayr's population thinking. This alternative approach does not rely on these concepts, nor on a particular choice of scale of variation and allows for the spatio-temporal dynamics of individual species resulting from environmental instability. Thus, it also allows for gradual speciation which the approach using the ecological typological paradigm cannot. Adopting the concept of niche within biological species definitions is not recommended.
10.2307/2413185|In the context of a numerical systematic analysis of dental occlusal morphology of extant hominoid Primates, consideration of alternative procedures for each of several analytic tasks revealed that: 1) ordination of sample means for hominoid primate molar occlusal landmark co-ordinates gave results similar to those of methodologically more rigorous canonical variate analyses (Hartman, 1986); 2) analysis of metric variables (e.g., group means) standardized by character may give biologically less meaningful results than use of variables not so standardized; 3) nonmetric multidimensional scaling may often give a superior two- or three-dimensional summary of phenetic relationships, compared to ordination techniques restricted to rigid transformation (e.g., principal component or co-ordinate analyses); 4) elimination of a latent "size" vector as an adjustment for intergroup size differences will often be inappropriate; and 5) under certain circumstances regression adjustments for the influence of size on shape (allometry) may be unsuitable.
10.2307/2413186|A characterization of Simpson's categories of relict species allows discrimination between relictual coevolved associations and associations due to a sequence of host-switching or colonization that coincidentally matches the host group phylogeny. Relictual groups are recognized by (a) highly speciose sister groups and (b) biogeographic distributions indicating great age. Numerical relicts are the relatively few surviving members of a once-speciose group, such as crocodilians. In the absence of a fossil record, past diversity can be inferred from the degree of ecological diversity among surviving members of the clade. Coevolved numerical relicts show spotty distribution among ecologically diverse members of an inclusive host clade. Phylogenetic relicts are "living fossils," members of old groups that have persisted relatively unchanged for a long period of time, such as horse-shoe crabs. Coevolved phylogenetic relicts are either restricted to host groups that are themselves phylogenetic relicts, or inhabit members of a non-relictual host group that share a common plesiomorphic ecology. Three examples drawn from flatworm parasites and their vertebrate hosts are discussed.
10.2307/2413189|A computer simulation suggests that, for large cladograms, it is impossible to intuit by visual examination whether an observed degree of similarity is non-random. Drift may hinder our ability to see that several large area cladograms reflect one underlying sequence of vicariant events. Natural selection, by contrast, may cause area cladograms to resemble one another even if they represent taxa that underwent very different sequences of vicariant events. In other words, drift and selection can both becloud phylogeny. But these hindrances do not prevent phylogenetic inferences altogether, and even apparently minor similarities between apparently dissimilar cladograms can be so highly non-random as to implicate a common sequence of vicariant events.
10.2307/2992196|The principle of the common cause and a background theory concerning the dependence-independence of the events responsible for allopatric lineage splitting are used to justify the concept of parsimony in the study of vicariance biogeography. A quantitative vicariance method is formulated, which in many respects is analogous to numerical cladistics. Syntaxon, the unit of evidence, is a composite of sister lineages which occupy two or more different areas of endemism. A new coding/weighting scheme also allows sympatric terminal taxa to be used in the analysis. Widespread terminal taxa and those missing from recognized areas of endemism are not considered relevant sources of evidence, and they are scored in a neutral manner. A Greater Antillean example illustrates the vicariance methodology. Five taxonomic sources of evidence, including boid snakes belonging to Epicrates, suggest the following biotic history: (mainland ((Cuba, Jamaica) (Hispaniola, Puerto Rico))).
10.2307/2992201|The spanning-tree approach to biogeography developed by Craw and Page offers results even when little or no cladistic information about taxonomic relationships is available. Because relationships are effectively resolved on the basis of present-day geographic proximity, however, those results may frequently be artifacts of the method.
10.2307/2992200|The relationships of the Antillean terrestrial arthropodan and onychophoran taxa are reviewed using track analysis, in which tracks are considered the connected areas of endemism of cladistically unresolved monophyletic groups. The West Indian fauna is shown to be of complex affinities, with elements related to Central and South America, North America, Africa, Asia, and Australia. Numerous taxa in a variety of insect orders exhibit Antillean-African relationships, suggesting that resolved cladistic analyses of such groups will allow testing of vicariance hypotheses of Antillean geohistory. Relationships among taxa on Cuba, Hispaniola and Puerto Rico support a geologic reconstruction in which proto-Hispaniola is composed of eastern Cuba, central and northern Hispaniola and Puerto Rico during the early Tertiary. Cladistic analysis of a clade within the carabid beetle genus Platynus is used to generate taxonarea cladograms. The clade is composed of 32 species, 8 from the mainland, 14 from Hispaniola, 4 from Jamaica, 4 from the northern Lesser Antilles, and 2 from Cuba. Fitch optimization is used to generate area transformation series from the taxon-area cladograms. Of the 39 equally parsimonious character cladograms generated in the cladistic analysis, two taxon-area cladograms most parsimoniously account for the area relationships of the Platynus species. These are compared to two contrasting geologic hypotheses of area relationships: a mobilist geologic hypothesis and a stabilist geology/taxon dispersal hypothesis. Using component analysis and a graphical representation of the area transformation series, called closed biogeographic graphs, the mobilist geologic hypothesis is shown to better account for the area relationships of the Platynus clade. These area relationsips include: 1) a relatively earlier association of portions of the northern Lesser Antilles with the Greater Antilles; 2) a hybrid origin for Hispaniola, with the central and northern cordilleras related to eastern Cuba, and the southern Haitian peninsula related to Jamaica; 3) a relatively later relationship of Jamaica and northern Central America. The techniques of biogeographic graph analysis are compared to recent attempts at track analysis and to the methods of cladistic biogeography. The biogeographic graphs are shown to be a useful adjunct to component analysis, but suffer from a loss of directed component information.
10.2307/2992197|The North American freshwater fish fauna exhibits considerable species diversity and patterns of endemism. The fauna has enormous potential for use in investigations and tests of biogeographic and evolutionary theories. Many of these studies are presently impossible to execute, however, because of our impoverished knowledge of native fish species relationships. Fish communities of the Central Highland Regions of eastern North America are exceptions to this observation. The fauna is diverse and contains patterns of endemism identifiable as generalized biogeographic tracts. This ichthyofauna is reviewed and employed as a case study in applications of phylogenetic relationships of organisms in vicariance biogeography. In this new method species relationships and distributions are coded in a binary and multistate data matrix and analyzed using a parsimony algorithm to elucidate the age, origin, and biogeographic history of the fauna. Rivers inhabited by species are analogous to taxa; relationships between species and their distributions are analogous to characters possessed by each of the taxa (Rivers). From seven fish clades, 33 equally parsimonious cladograms are obtained for the Central Highland drainages. The resulting strict consensus cladogram is consistent with the known pre-Pleistocene geological history of eastern North American rivers and supports the hypothesis of an ancient ichthyofauna. With this group of fish clades the Mobile Basin forms the sister group to all rivers of the Mississippi River Basin. Among the Mississippi River tributaries, a clade inclusive of the Tennessee, Duck, Cumberland, and Green rivers forms the sister group with the Salt River in Kentucky. This clade is sister to a large Teays-Mississippi clade. Within the latter group, a sister-group relationship is obtained between tributaries of the upper Ohio River, formerly of the Teays River, and a clade inclusive of rivers across the glaciated Central Lowlands and into the Interior Highlands. These relationships may be predicted from pre-glacial drainage patterns, but not by present-day drainage connections. Concordance between the known preglacial drainage history and the drainage cladogram supports the existence of a diverse and widespread pre-Pleistocene Central Highlands ichthyofauna.
10.2307/2992199|Insects comprise approximately 79% of all described animals, probably form an even greater percentage of the animal component of terrestrial biotas and are excellent subjects for biogeographic studies. This paper applies vicariance biogeography methods to samples of insects from Canada, the United States and Mexico. Analysis of the reduced area cladograms of 22 genera representing 11 families and 6 orders shows that North America (Canada and continental United States) and Mexico have ten zones of disjunction which separate allopatric sister taxa. The predominant pattern among the cladograms is for the various pairs of sister areas to each have a different outgroup area. The general lack of compatibility among reduced area cladograms is apparently due to four factors. (1) Some groups of insects have probably dispersed across barriers. (2) Barriers within at least 6 of the zones of disjunction have been cyclic in occurrence, alternating between being present and then temporarily subsiding; these cycles have offered opportunities for cyclic dispersal and cyclic vicariance. (3) The geographical ranges of many insect groups have apparently changed greatly in the past, thereby obscuring any orderly vicariance patterns. (4) Extinctions probably have played a major role in producing incompatible reduced area cladograms. Selective pressures at times have probably favored the most vagile insect groups and thereby selected for those least likely to have compatible reduced area cladograms while selecting against more sedentary groups, those most likely to have compatible cladograms. The methods of vicariance biogeography may be unable to fully elucidate the historical biogeography of many major components of continental biotas due to factors such as those affecting insects. Such methods may be most appropriate for relatively sedentary organisms found in areas outside the ranges of drastic environmental changes such as Pleistocene ice sheets. The methods of vicariance biogeography need to be further tested with data from real organisms rather than from simplified or hypothetical taxa; such testing may lead to the devising of more robust procedures. For many groups of organisms the methods of vicariance biogeography will be an important subset of a more multidisciplinary approach.
10.2307/2992198|The biogeographic patterns exhibited by freshwater fishes in the Greater Antilles are examined. These twelve groups of fishes (gars of the genus Atractosteus, synbranchid eels of the genus Ophisternon, cichlids of the genus Cichlasoma, cyprindontiforms of the genera Cyprinodon, Cubanichthys, and Rivulus, and poeciliids of the tribe Girardiini, the subgenera Limia and Poecilia of the genus Poecilia, and the nicaraguensis, puncticulata, and punctata species groups of the genus Gambusia) all belong to Myer's (1938) secondary division, which he felt was uninformative for historical biogeography. Cladograms are presented for each group, largely taken from the literature. Many are poorly resolved, and several become only two-area statements when converted into area cladograms; however, a composite area cladogram, derived from the resolved areas of the individual area cladograms, proposes a hypothesis of area relationships in the Greater Antilles that all freshwater fish cladograms are consistent with, although this composite area cladogram, because of the lack of resolution in many of the individual area cladograms, is not robust to some statistical tests. This hypothesis predicts: 1. that neither Cuba nor Hispaniola are single areas of endemism, Cuba being divisible into western and eastern portions and Hispaniola into southwestern and central portions; 2. that western Cuba (including the Isla de la Juventud), the Cayman Islands, Jamaica, and southwestern Hispaniola form a monophyletic group; 3. that eastern Cuba is related to the Bahamas and central Hispaniola; and 4. that these two island groups together form a group, which is most closely related to Nuclear Central America (Yucatan, Guatemala, and Belize). Geological evidence (summarized by Rosen, 1985) also supports these predictions, but it is emphasized that better systematic input, in the form of more resolved, more highly corroborated area cladograms, will provide a more critical test of this hypothesis.
10.2307/2992271|The ontogeny character polarization criterion was empirically evaluated relative to the outgroup criterion using the salamander genus Ambystoma. The ontogeny criterion produced a single most-parsimonious tree which was equally or better-resolved than the four most-parsimonious trees produced by the outgroup criterion. Using the consensus tree to represent the outgroup results, the two criteria derive essentially the same topology. Thus, in comparing topological similarity, level of resolution, and degree of ambiguity, the ontogeny criterion performs as well as or better than does the outgroup criterion in resolving the relationships of this study group. The superior performance of the ontogeny criterion appears to be due to its robustness to the effects of paedomorphic characters as long as those characters do not predominate in the data set. This robustness suggests that the requirements for successful application of the ontogeny criterion may be widely met in nature and that the criterion, therefore, may be useful in resolving the relationships of taxa in which outgroup analysis is problematical.
10.2307/2992272|Discussions of the theory and practice of systematics and evolutionary biology have heretofore revolved around the views of philosophers of science. I reexamine these issues from the different perspective of the philosophy of history. Just as philosophers of history distinguish between chronicle (non-interpretive or non-explanatory writing) and narrative history (interpretive or explanatory writing), I distinguish between evolutionary chronicle (cladograms, broadly construed) and narrative evolutionary history. Systematics is the discipline which estimates the evolutionary chronicle. Explanations of the events described in the evolutionary chronicle are not of the covering-law type described by philosophers of science, but rather of the how-possibly, continuous series, and integrating types described by philosophers of history. Pre-evolutionary explanations of states (in contrast to chroniclar events) are still widespread in "evolutionary" biology, however, because evolutionary chronicles are in general poorly known. To the extent that chronicles are known, the narrative evolutionary histories based on them are structured like conventional historical narratives, in that they treat their central subjects as ontological individuals. This conventional treatment is incorrect. The central subjects of evolutionary narratives are clades, branched entities which have some of the properties of individuals and some of the properties of classes. Our unconscious treatment of the subjects of evolutionary narratives as individuals has been the cause of erroneous notions of progress in evolution, and of views that taxa "develop" ontogenetically in ways analogous to individual organisms. We must rewrite our narrative evolutionary histories so that they properly represent the branching nature of evolution, and we must reframe our evolutionary philosophies so that they properly reflect the historical nature of our subject.
10.2307/2992273|The conditions under which Nei's (1972) genetic identity measure (I) yields results which are discordant with changes recorded in the gene identities at single loci are defined. We noticed that upon reassessment of allele frequencies, the value of I can in some cases change in the opposite direction of changes recorded in single locus gene identities. This anomaly may affect phylogenetic reconstructions especially when closely related populations and/or rare alleles are involved. We illustrate this problem using two examples, one based on real electrophoretic data from two Macaca species, the other based on hypothetical allele frequencies. We propose to use instead of Nei's I, an alternative measure, which we call Nei's modified genetic identity (I). This measure is based on the arithmetic mean of single locus gene identities. Nei's modified distance (D) is derived analogically to Nei's D. We present the sampling variances of these modified estimates.
10.2307/2992275|A previously derived parasite cladogram for North American fresh water ancyrocephalids with articulating haptoral bars was compared with one obtained for their centrarchid hosts. Mapping of the parasite phylogeny on the host phylogeny gave a consistency index of only 0.38. Host-parasite coevolution was attributed solely to ecological association (co-accommodation). Absence of historical association (co-speciation) was correlated with lack of host specificity and host hybridization. Both broad and narrow co-accommodation were demonstrated and attributed to a combined effect of host hybridization and differential geographic distribution of hosts and parasites in response to Pleistocene glaciation events.
10.2307/2992274|Geographic races of pocket gophers, Thomomys bottae, have been defined classically by differences in cranial dimensions, augmented by pelage color variation. Here, we distinguish between size and non-size related components of cranial variation and show that overall size is predicted mainly by features reflecting the nutritional quality of the available vegetation among the habitats occupied by gophers. Body size thus has a strong non-genetic, or environmental, basis. Cranial shape, on the other hand, identifies geographically homogeneous units that are concordant with electromorphically determined segments of the species' range. Cranial shape is, therefore, considered to represent underlying genetic influences and to identify more closely historical (phyletic) evolutionary units. In our view, these evolutionary units should form the basis for the infraspecific taxonomy of pocket gophers, and other organisms as well. The number of formal subspecies of T. bottae for the region of study (the deserts of eastern California) would be reduced from 11 to three by application of this criterion.
10.2307/2992270|The Hawaiian "picture-winged" Drosophila are a well characterized group among which there are marked differences in the pattern of expression of several developmentally regulated enzymes. We have assessed the phylogenetic information content of these pattern differences by using them in the PAUP computer program (Swofford, 1984). The resulting phylogenies were examined for internal consistency and compared to phylogenies based on other character sets. The results suggest that these patterns have changed so extensively that relationships between distantly related species have been obscured. However, the amount of homoplasy within groups of closely related species is sufficiently small that regulatory patterns may be useful for inferring relationships at this level, especially between chromosomally homosequential species.
10.2307/2992374|Panbiogeographic and vicariance cladistic methods are compared and contrasted through applications to two aspects of New Zealand biogeography involving the inter-relationships of endemic rich and poor areas, and of the Chatham Islands biota. Biological area cladogram methods are utilized and for the first time the construction of a geological area cladogram based on cladistic analysis of geological characters is demonstrated. A new method of track analysis based on compatibility and clique approaches to graph analysis is outlined and applied to distributional data sets for taxa distributed in New Zealand and the Chatham Islands. This track analysis provides the basis for a novel parallel arcs model for the origin of the Chatham Islands biota. This model exemplifies reciprocal illumination between panbiogeography, phylogenetic systematics and geology.
10.2307/2992369|This paper discusses some methodological problems associated with reconstructing the evolutionary history of continental biotas through a biogeographic analysis of areas of endemism. Present evidence suggests continental biotas have had a long, complex history as judged by patterns of relationship among areas of endemism. Thus, an analysis of species-cladograms, in which component taxa share areas of endemism, reveals, first, that more than one general area-cladogram typically exists for the areas of a continental biota, and second, that there is often incongruence among these general area-cladograms. Under the vicariance hypothesis that general area-cladograms describe real historical patterns for components of the biota, such incongruence implies that the biota has been subjected to a number of processes that can produce highly complex histories among areas of endemism, including area-hybridization, vicariance events of different ages located in the same areas, extinctions, and loss of barriers, among others. Current methods of biogeographic pattern analysis-specifically component analysis and biogeographic parsimony analysis-are reductionist in the sense that they attempt to resolve multiple conflicting patterns across species-cladograms to a singular, less complex pattern, or general area-cladogram. As incongruence increases among general area-cladograms, component analysis will resolve fewer shared components. Biogeographic parsimony analysis, in contrast, will always be able to produce parsimonious solutions, but those solutions may not explain much of the original biogeographic data satisfactorily. This latter method is predicated on viewing areas as analogues of taxa and taxa as analogues of characters. The analogy may not always be appropriate, however, because, among other things, areas can have multiple histories, but taxa cannot. It is suggested that "nonreductionist" methods need to be developed within historical biogeography in order to generate hypotheses that can unify the historical patterns implied by incongruent general area-cladograms. These problems are illustrated by biogeographic patterns among the areas of endemism of the Amazon basin.
10.2307/2992370|The metaphor "Space, Time, Form: The Biological Synthesis" has proven to be valuable in the development of theory and method in biogeography. It has also helped polarize biogeographers. In an attempt to unify the polarized positions and promote cooperation and appreciation among scientists with different special interests, yet another view of Space, Time, and Form is offered. Ecological and historical biogeography can be seen as portions of a continuum that relates temporal and spatial scaling effects in the production of biomass and diversity. The utility of this non-reductionist view is illustrated using a study of Neotropical freshwater stingrays and their parasites.
10.2307/2992371|It is argued that inference procedures used in cladistic phylogenetics and in vicariance biogeography make different assumptions. In cladistic phylogenetics, vertical transmission of characters is assumed; in vicariance biogeography, the competing hypotheses disagree as to whether transmission is horizontal or vertical. The bearing of this difference on the idea that a single methodology underlies the two inference problems is considered.
10.2307/2992372|This paper describes methods for constructing and comparing area cladograms. Three different interpretations (Assumptions 0, 1 and 2) of widespread taxa and redundant distributions are outlined. Algorithms for Assumptions 1 and 2 are presented, and a measure of relative parsimony for area cladograms is discussed. By using quantitative measures of the similarity between two or more area cladograms it is possible to test statistically hypotheses of biogeographic congruence. The algorithms described in this paper have been implemented in a computer program available from the author. Rosen's (1978, 1979) and Cracraft's (1986) data are reanalyzed using this software.
10.2307/2992373|Two major methodological approaches to vicariance biogeography are reviewed. Component analysis is rejected as a general technique because (1) the assumptions that have been used with the method are not the most parsimonious assumptions available, and (2) those applications of the method that rely on consensus techniques produce unparsimonious hypotheses and are incapable of finding equally parsimonious alternative hypotheses. Brooks Parsimony Analysis (BPA) uses data from independent phylogenetic hypotheses in a parsimony analysis to reconstruct either biogeographic relationships of areas or coevolutionary relationships among species inhabiting the same community. Biogeographic analysis using BPA offers vicariance biogeographers both a strategy for problem solving and a method for analyzing area relationships that are free of the limitations inherent in both cladogram reduction methods and component analysis. Modifications to Brooks (1981) coding removes the objections of critics regarding the independence of variables. Each analysis requires the investigator to deal with the total distributional evidence available using the (methodologically) most parsimonious assumptions available. A Brooks Parsimony Analysis results in one or more hypotheses of area relationships. At present, full implementation of BPA is impeded by a lack of appropriate options in available computer programs. Using PAUP, a posteriori analyses can be performed to "normalize" the distributions of ancestors and descendants (area synapomorphies) on each area cladogram. Rules used to accomplish this task include specific reference to the original data inherent in the phylogenetic analysis of each group.
10.2307/2412239|A Fortran program for constructing identification keys is described. The strategy used by the program aims to minimize the probability of error or the amount of difficulty in using the key. The main considerations in assessing the merit of a character are the reliability or convenience of the character (as estimated by the maker of the key), the evenness of the division produced by the character, and the amount of intra-taxon variability for the character. The key maker has a high degree of control over the strategy, as the relative importance of these criteria may be specified, and the automatic choice of characters may be overridden.
10.2307/2412240|Art and science are inextricably mingled in taxonomy as in other disciplines. The process of improving science is not equivalent to a process of reducing or eliminating art. Semantics, theory, and practice should be distinguished in discussions of taxonomic problems. Distinctions should also be drawn carefully between the real universe, the models we construct, and the classifications or sets of formal names we use. Comparisons are made between the three principal strands in taxonomy, the phenetic, cladistic, and eclectic. Different values, for example nomenclatorial stability and fidelity of classification and model in taxonomy, cannot be simultaneously maximized; this makes compromise necessary. Two cladistic models and related classifications are compared.
10.2307/2412242|New information of value in phylogenetic and systematic considerations of the ciliate Protozoa is rapidly accumulating; to give this the attention it merits, a revised scheme of classification for the CILIOPHORA, now believed to represent a separate protistan phylum in its own right, needs to be developed. First, the history of past attempts at erecting phylogenetically-based classifications for the group is reviewed, with emphasis on changes which have evolved in response to technical advances in the field, growth in interest of biologists in these protozoa, and promulgation of new ideas and hypotheses by qualified leaders. Such a critical look at the past lends perspective to the overall problem and has provided a basis for the new revision proposed here. The First Period (1880-1930), the Age of Discovery, is noted for the simplicity of the classification scheme, credited principally to Otto Butschli. But there were only 500 species of ciliates known at the beginning of the period and they were separated into several groups primarily on the basis of easily visible differences in the location and composition of the external ciliature. The long life of the Butschlian system is credited to its adequacy, under the conditions which existed, and to the weight of the authority of the men backing it. The Second Period (1930-1950), the Age of Exploitation, was marked by the tremendous growth both in numbers of species and in interest in these protozoa by biologists who were not exclusively taxonomists or parasitologists. The diversity of the 3,000 species recognized by the early 1930's required considerable expansion in the number of higher-level taxa within the subphylum, as it was then called. The leadership fell to Alfred Kahl, an able and hard-working ciliatologist from Hamburg who described many new species and published monumental monographs, still indispensable in many ways today, on nearly all groups. But the classical scheme was essentially retained in the Kahlian classification. The Third Period (1950-1970), the Age of the Infraciliature, gave birth to what appeared to be a very conservative scheme of classification; but, in fact, it represented a revolutionary change over the preceding systems. Brilliantly conceived by E. Faure-Fremiet of Paris and supported almost entirely by the insightful works of other French protozoologists of the time (and of men like E. Chatton even earlier), the combination of a most appropriate and effective cytological technique (silver impregnation) and of phylogenetic and evolutionary hypotheses based on a full appreciation of the heretofore unknown infraciliature of ciliates made possible a fundamental revision of the Kahlian classification. Supposed evolutionary interrelationships were reflected in significant and often iconoclastic regroupings of major taxa within the subphylum. The number of species involved reached about 6,000 by 1960, and many new ecological niches (e.g., sands of intertidal zones) were beginning to be explored. The Fourth Period (1970-), the Age of Ultrastructure, can be identified primarily by its focus on the exciting data made available through electron microscopy. Fine structure studies of the parts of the infraciliature and of other organelles have supplied information bearing directly on the degrees of difference and similarity among ciliate species (now nearly 7,500 in number). A greater diversity than expected has demanded a splitting up of many of the groups established in the Faurean scheme, description of entirely new groups, and important evolutionary realignment of a number of groups. Even recognition of the ciliates as comprising an independent phylum is based on appreciation of the tremendous diversity within the overall assemblage. Leadership has become diffuse; E. Faure-Fremiet himself foresaw a number of the changes; critical ideas have emanated from various sources; but many of the ultrastructural facts so crucial to the revision have been produced by members of the de Puytorac school in Clermont-Ferrand. Most active in publishing new overall schemes for the ciliates has been Anatol Jankowski of Leningrad. The new classification of the CILIOPHORA proposed in the present paper incorporates some of Jankowski's ideas but reflects many other changes over the Faurean scheme as well, including a sizable multiplication in number of high-level taxa and postulation of quite different affinities among some of the key groups, the latter based in large measure on interpretation of pertinent morphogenetic data available from studies (including, but far from exclusively, ultrastructural research) on cortical, infraciliary, organellar, and macronuclear material in species representative of many ciliate taxa.
10.2307/2412237|Chromosomal data reveal the existence of two mainland species of Macrotus that are parapatric in distribution. Individuals can be identified to species by both chromosomal features and cranial morphology. A stepwise multiple discrimmant analysis and canonical variate analysis show that the two species are morphometrically divergent. The distribution of these two taxa is proof that parapatry occurs in species with high vagility If chromosomal data had not been available or if chromosomal divergence had not accompanied speciation in Macrotus, this unique pattern of distribution probably would not have been detected. Allopatric, stasipatric, and centrifugal speciation are considered in light of the presently available data for Macrotus.
10.2307/2412241|Several statements are suggested as necessary for the formulation of any theory of phylogeny reconstruction; these include statements about kinship relationships, the origination and diversification of taxonomic units, and clustering. From these basic statements an attempt is made to construct phylogenetic models corresponding to the theory and methods of the two principle schools of systematic thought. The models are compared, and it is concluded that the phylogenetic systematic model is a more powerful tool in reconstructing phylogeny than is the evolutionary systematic model. The ways in which the phylogenetic models influence the form and content of classifications are discussed. Only information about phylogenetic (cladistic) relationships can be stored in and retrieved from Linnaean hierarchical classifications, and thus classifications should be based on a phylogenetic systematic model because such a classification will reproduce precisely the information (phylogeny) used to construct it.
10.2307/2412238|Experiments were performed in the field on males of five species and females of ten species of damselflies (Odonata: Zygoptera: Coenagrionidae) to determine the relative importance of visual and mechanical reproductive isolating mechanisms. Males of all five species did not distinguish visually their own female from heterospecific females of the same genus, but they were slightly less responsive to females of other genera, probably because of size differences. When the males attempted to mate with females of other species, they were usually prevented from doing so because their abdominal appendages were unable to secure a firm grip on the appropriate thoracic structures in the females. In only one species pair was the male able to achieve the tandem position successfully most of the time, and the reciprocal was unable to do so. Mechanical isolation is clearly very important in this group of odonates, and it is hypothesized that it will be found to be important in all odonates in which male appendages differ substantially between species while female coloration does not.
10.2307/2412235|Skulls from 284 wild canids collected in Arkansas from July, 1968 through March, 1971 approximately one year old or older and of known sex and capture locality were analyzed taxonomically Each skull was compared to six target populations of skulls from known canids (coyotes, coyote x dog hybrids, dogs, red wolves, northeastern forest gray wolves, and plains gray wolves) for identification. The 165 male unknowns were identified as: coyote, 117, coyote x dog intermediate, 26; dog, 3; red wolf, 2; coyote x red wolf intermediate, 16; dog x red wolf intermediate, 1. The 119 female unknowns were identified as: coyote, 91, coyote x dog intermediate, 12; dog, 5; coyote x red wolf intermediate, 11. Coyotes occur in all counties of the state and are the predominant wild canid in most areas. Local pockets of coyote x dog intermediates are randomly distributed but fairly common. Wild dogs have become established in some areas, especially in east-central Arkansas. A strong red wolf influence still exists in the canid population on the Gulf Coastal Plain of southern Arkansas. Occasional pockets of red wolf influence are found in the Ouachita and Ozark Mountains and Delta.
10.2307/2412236|A broad survey of immunological affinities among squirrels (Sciuridae) was achieved by testing sera of 36 species in immunodiffusion using antisera to the sera of 11 species. The results (net spur values) were summarized using set theoretical notation in a computer program which ordered the compared species in order of their divergence from the homologous species. A dendrogram was constructed by the Unweighted Pair Group Method. Species within genera were usually discriminated by this method and taxa recognized on morphological evidence as related were more similar in their proteins than unrelated ones. Among members of the Sciuridae the first branching was of chipmunk-ground squirrel and tree squirrel-flying squirrel lineages. The immunological evidence for the divergence of chipmunks and ground squirrels early in the evolutionary history of the family is in accord with the fossil record. Systematic relationships among ground squirrels suggested by the comparison data correlate with accepted classification; prelimmary data also support the hypothesis that prairie dogs are most closely related to the genus Spermophilus. The data suggest divergence of three phyletic lines of tree squirrels and two of flying squirrels. The Asian tree squirrel lineage includes members of the tribe Callosciurini (Callosciurus, Sundasciurus, Tamiops, and Menetes) and the Indian Funambulus which were more similar to each other antigenically than to any other tree squirrels. The giant squirrel genus Ratufa represents a separate phyletic line and Sciurus and Tamiasciurus constitutes a third line. Except for the Asian Iomys, all flying squirrels examined (Glaucomys, Petinomys, Pteromys, and Petaurista) were more closely related to each other than to other squirrels, and as a group show a close affinity to the Sciurus phyletic line. This observation opposes the present classification which assigns flying squirrels to the subfamily Petauristinae and the tree squirrels and ground squirrels to the subfamily Sciurmae. The immunodiffusion technique permits comparisons over a wide taxonomic range, providing data useful at several taxonomic levels; Aplodontia rufa, the most primitive living rodent, was greatly divergent from all squirrels.
10.2307/2412471|Traditionally, species (like other taxa) have been treated as classes (universals). In fact they may be considered individuals (particular things). The logical term "individual" has been confused with a biological synonym for "organism." If species are individuals, then: 1) their names are proper, 2) there cannot be instances of them, 3) they do not have defining properties (intensions), 4) their constituent organisms are parts, not members. "Species" may be defined as the most extensive units in the natural economy such that reproductive competition occurs among their parts. Species are to evolutionary theory as firms are to economic theory: this analogy resolves many issues, such as the problems of "reality" and the ontological status of nomenclatorial types.
10.2307/2412470|Cerion displays an extraordinary range of phenetic diversity. This has led to the naming of several hundred species, though only a mere fraction of these are valid if, as we believe, morphological diversity does not reflect reproductive isolation in this genus. The taxonomic morass has precluded fruitful evolutionary study of these extremely plastic animals. We apply techniques of multivariate morphometrics and biochemical genetics to a local situation on the northeastern coast of Great Abaco, Bahamas. Here, a local population is semi-isolated along a strip of coastline near the settlement of Pongo Carpet; it is in contact with other populations only to the north. Its morphology is highly distinct and, on all previous criteria, it merits recognition as a separate species. We find, however, that its patterns of covariation (as revealed by factor analysis) cannot be distinguished from those of the only recognized taxon of northern Abaco, C. bendalli (while patterns in the southern Abaconian species, C. abacoense, are entirely different). Canonical analysis displays a cline towards standard morphology from the region of maximum isolation at Pongo Carpet to the northern area of potential contact with standard C. bendalli. Levels of morphological variation do not differ among samples; those of intermediate morphology show no increase in variability or other signs of hybridization. Starch-gel electrophoresis showed the pongo carpet samples to be genetically indistinguishable from standard bendalli at the 18 structural gene loci surveyed. No evidence for selfing or inbreeding was detected. The proportion of polymorphic loci in each population ranged between 16.6-22.2%; genic heterozygosity per individual was 5.25-6.79%. The only genetic "anomaly" within the area contrasts some standard and pongo carpet samples with C. bendalli from elsewhere on Abaco and Grand Bahama Island. We conclude that the pongo carpet population is a well-marked geographic variant within Cerion bendalli. The coordinated application of biochemical genetics and multivariate morphometrics can resolve many issues in the systematics of highly variable organisms.
10.2307/2412466|In a previous paper the author showed that the American planarian Dugesia dorotocephala possesses a haploid set of 8 chromosomes. New investigations have now demonstrated in two populations a haploid set of 4 chromosomes. The possible ways this karyotype has varied and its taxonomic value are discussed.
10.2307/2412465|Syngens 1, 2, 4, and 6 (at least) of Paramecium aurelia are morphologically distinct in their multivariate complexity. On the basis of 20 attributes, requiring only 7 measures and 3 counts on stained specimens, the synegic ascertainment of stocks of these four syntens is feasible using multivarate methods. Extension of these methods to all of the syngens of the aurelia group is necessary before definitive syngenic ascertainment in practical by morpholgy alone
10.2307/2412468|The ultrastructure of the chorion in three pairs of closely related Drosophila species endemic to Hawaii was determined using a scanning electron microscope. All species have a generally similar pattern of a network of hexagons, yet they differ in the detailed structure of the chorion. The size and shape of the hexagons, the thickness and shape of the hexagonal rims and the presence and size of the respiratory pores are strikingly different between the members of each pair. It is suggested that these differences are correlated with the substrates used for oviposition by each species. The chorionic structure of eggs of interspecific hybrids indicates polygenic control with both parental genomes being involved, yet with a strong maternal influence on the shape and size of the hexagonal rims.
10.2307/2412469|A new concept based on Dollo's Law, the uniquely evolved character concept, is defined; it can be applied only to characters involving evolution of a structural character or development of a new enzymatic pathway. From this, a new method of trying to establish cladistic relationships has been developed and studied with the same published data on taxa of orthopteroid insects as used in my earlier paper (Le Quesne, 1972).
10.2307/2412464|Two consistent observations from recent multi-locus electrophoretic studies are: (1) levels of genic similarity between conspecific populations appear very high (populations nearly identical in allelic content at 85 percent or more of their loci) and (2) genic similarities between different, even very closely related species, are generally much lower and more widely dispersed (congeneric species pairs often completely distinct at one-fifth to four-fifths of their loci). These observations have valuable implications regarding the practical utility of electrophoresis: (1) one or a few samples often yield adequate data for the description of an entire species for systematic purposes and (2) closely related species may be arranged according to percentages of shared alleles or genotypes. A survey of the literature indicates that when such arrangements are made, they usually correspond very closely to previously recognized relationships of various species groups based on classical systematic criteria. This observation, coupled with several theoretical advantages of the study of allozymes, makes it clear that electrophoretic techniques will provide an extremely valuable tool for systematists.
10.2307/2412467|The evolution of the protostome coelom is an adaptation to burrowing as is segmentation in the annelids. The burrowing ancestral polychaete resembled in body-form recent terrestrial oligochaetes. Recent polychaete families originated in an adaptive radiation following the migration of the ancestral annelids into the flocculent detrital layers in shallow marine muds and from there onto hard bottoms and other specialized environments.
10.2307/2412131|The geographical distribution of the six genera and 130 species of nematodes within the Family Camallanidae Railliet and Henry, 1915 is plotted and discussed. The family is divided into three subfamilies, the Procamallaninae, Camallaninae and Paracamallaninae, based upon buccal capsule structure. The fauna within each zoogeographical region is characterized as to host type and degree of specialization. Some general principles of parasite biogeography are discussed and applied to the data to hypothesize a center of origin and patterns of dispersal for the family. The use of female body volume as a fitness character in temperate climates for dispersing species is discussed. Estimates of the mean female body volume of the genera within various geographical regions are given. These estimates are correlated with the distribution pattern of the family.
10.2307/2412130|Coastal rivers are isolated habitats that can be studied as biogeographic islands. Forty-nine rivers of the North American Atlantic and Eastern Gulf of Mexico Coastal Plains and their freshwater mussel (Unionidae) faunas are analyzed as a discrete island biogeographic system. Cluster analyses group the rivers on the basis of faunal similarity into five intergrading zoogeographic provinces. Distributional patterns in these provinces are strongly influenced by the proximity of species source rivers. Independent variables measuring stepping-stone distances (number of intervening rivers) from species source rivers, area of river drainage basins, and water quality parameters were tested in multiple regression models for their ability to predict numbers of species. Area of drainage basins is the best predictor of numbers of species. The species-area effect is greatest for provinces containing important source rivers and is lower for provinces in which rivers were colonized primarily by stepping-stone dispersal. The influence of stepping-stones on dispersal was assessed by constructing a stochastic model that uses immigration and extinction probabilities on serially arranged islands. Simulations of the model demonstrate that numbers of species on the islands should decrease approximately geometrically with distance from the species source. Numbers of freshwater mussels in the coastal rivers display a similar geometrical decline. The species-area and stepping-stone dispersal effects are combined in a descriptive model that stresses an interaction between area and distance from source rivers in determining species numbers. When combined with measures of environmental quality (hydronium concentration, amount of dissolved solids, and nitrate concentration), this model explains up to 80 percent of the variance in unionid species numbers among the coastal rivers.
10.2307/2412139|The concept of center of origin in the Darwinian sense is often accepted and used as if it were a conceptual model necessary and fundamental to historical zoogeographical analysis. But in certain respects it is inconsistent with the principles of common ancestry and vicariance
10.2307/2412132|The distribution patterns of western and central Oklahoma fishes were analyzed, utilizing factor analytical techniques, to determine generalized patterns and their correlation with certain environmental variables. Twenty-seven drainage units of the major Arkansas and Red river tributaries were scored for the presence or absence of each of 53 species and values for 13 environmental variables. Six factor groups were obtained through oblique rotation of principal axes that were factored from the correlation matrix of the variables. These six associations were judged biologically meaningful and provide insight into the limiting factors affecting the Oklahoma fish fauna. The relative effects of historical and environmental components on current distribution groupings are discussed and some predictions are made concerning future faunal changes.
10.2307/2412129|The Bathynellacea are one of the oldest groups of the freshwater fauna. They most likely inhabited surface habitats during the Carboniferous prior to becoming established in the mesopsammal. Their dispersive capacity is severely limited. The occurrence of some species in oligohaline to polyhaline waters is secondary. The centre of evolution of the Bathynellacea is located in East Asia where the most primitive species of the two extant families are to be found. As for the Parabathynellidae two lines extending from there onwards can be distinguished. One leads to the west in the direction of Europe, Africa and South America. The "Cteniobathynella-group" of genera belongs to this line. The other is represented by the "Chilibathynella-group" of genera and leads to the south via Australia also to South America. Along both lines the genera become more and more apomorphic in their characters. In order to understand the distribution of the "Cteniobathynella-group" Mesozoic land connections between Africa, Madagascar and South America have to be envisaged. The distribution of the "Chilibathynella-group" cannot be explained unless there had been land connections between Australia/New Guinea and New Zealand and between Australia and South America via Antarctica in the Mesozoic. There are indications that the distribution of the family Bathynellidae may have paralleled that of the Parabathynellidae. But lack of a proper insight into the systematic relationships within this family prevents a detailed reconstruction at present.
10.2307/2412136|Information about the operation of various, major zoogeographic barriers in both marine and terrestrial environments is presented. The data appear to indicate that such barriers affect the distribution of animals in a consistent manner. Therefore, it is possible to propose a general theory of barrier function. If we assume that such barriers have been constant in their function over long periods of time, we are provided with a relatively simple explanation for certain, worldwide distributional (and phylogenetic) patterns that apparently have taken millions of years to become established. If it is recognized that, in general, the more advanced species will be found in the center of origin, the task of working out the relationships of an animal group, and hence the course of evolution, will be made easier. The data on barriers indicate that the cladistic biogeographic principle, which states that the most primitive species are found closest to the center of origin, is probably unsound.
10.2307/2412134|We have examined allozymic variation at 25 loci in nine species of Peromyscus inhabiting the southwestern United States, Sonora, Baja California, and islands in the Gulf of California. Four previously studied species of Peromyscus are also included in a dendrogram formed by cluster analysis of genic similarity coefficients. Mainland populations currently assigned to P. eremicus represent two distinctive genetic types, an eastern form in Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona, Texas, and Sonora, and a western form in southern California and Baja that may have been separated originally by the Gulf of California embayment in the Pleistocene. Peromyscus merriami is genically distinct from sympatric P. eremicus populations of the eastern type, although it falls within the range of genetic variation found between eastern and western P. eremicus forms. The insular endemics P. guardia, P. interparietalis, and P. dickeyi, and two insular subspecies of P. eremicus, are similar to the western P. eremicus type on Baja and probably share a recent common ancestor. Populations on shallow-water islands near Baja are more similar to mainland populations than are those on deep-water islands. Other insular species, P. caniceps and P. stephani, are genetically more distinct from P. eremicus and may have closer relationships with other mainland species. P. sejugis is closely related to P. polionotus (maniculatus species group) and probably evolved from maniculatus. There is considerable variation in level of genic heterozygosity among mainland populations, although the mean of six percent is consistent with "normal" heterozygosity estimates for other vertebrates. All insular populations have low variability, averaging less than one percent of loci in heterozygous state, presumably as a consequence of random drift in small populations.
10.2307/2412133|A population of Leiobunum longipes Weed from west central Indiana was compared with a population of the same species from southwestern Michigan. This comparison was based on two parameters: daily cycle of activity and secretion of serotonin. The daily activity patterns of the two populations were found to differ. The Indiana forms were active during the nighttime hours and quiescent during the day, with only one peak of activity per 24 hours. In contrast the Michigan forms had two peaks of activity, one during the night and another during the daylight hours. The pattern of the secretion of serotonin also differed in the two populations. In the Michigan form the peak of production came during the daylight hours while the Indiana individuals had their peak production during the night. It is proposed that such behavioral and physiological differences are useful as indicators of speciation before morphological differences can be noted.
10.2307/2412135|Operational biological classification at the species level is analyzed as a series of sequential steps employing phenetic, reproductive, and ecological parameters. The first step involves segregation of individuals or populations into phenetically similar groups. Numerical techniques for objectively assessing phenetic similarities are well established, and are the method of choice. The next major step involves reproductive grouping, whenever possible. Reproductive isolation may be a sufficient criterion for species status in the case of sympatric populations. In other cases species decisions are usually deferred until the following step, or ecological grouping, which is based on ecological similarities and differences, quantified and analyzed with numerical methods. Species limits may be visualized graphically by considering phenetic, ecological, and reproductive similarities as axes of a three dimensional space. Populations may be plotted within this space and may be tested for conspecific status by existing computer techniques.
10.2307/2412137|The highland avifauna of thirteen mountain tepuis of southern Venezuela has been examined through multiple regression analyses to determine which parameters of environmental diversity (area, elevation above sea level) and isolation correlate most strongly with the number of species. A linear model with elevation as the independent variable accounts for 81% of the variation in species number. All independent variables account for 84% of the variation in the multiple regression. This result is discussed in terms of extinction since the last glacial lowering of vegetation zones and it is suggested that elevation and topography may significantly affect the probability of extinction and recolonization. In a comparison of the Pantepui species with two other highland avifaunas, it is shown that the major portion of the variation from the regression of species number on elevation (Fig. 3) is due to the presence of more suboscines than expected, suggesting differential survival during interglacials at higher elevations.
10.2307/2412543|An apparent dimorphism in a sample of galls of the aphid Pemphigus populitransversus was substantiated by several univariate and multivariate methods. The initially observed dimorphism in gall shape could be substantiated by objective analyses and it was found that life history characteristics not originally noted were more dimorphic than measures of gall shape. Morphometric characters of stem mothers and alates also exhibited the dimorphism. Two measures of dip intensity, clustering, and ordination were employed to analyze six other samples. Three of these were found to be dimorphic in the sense established in the first locality, one turned out to be monomorphic, while the remaining two samples were nonallocable by the criteria established earlier. The importance of objective, logically consistent methods in analyzing apparent dimorphisms is stressed. The problems of establishing dimorphism in population samples are discussed in some detail, as are geographic variation of the dimorphism and of each morph. The possibility of a polythetically variable dimorphism over different localities or niches is discussed. Various biosystematic interpretations of the phenomena observed in this aphid are briefly enumerated.
10.2307/2412539|Study of the Middle Pennsylvanian, Mazon Creek, Essex fauna Crustacea (Johnson and Richardson, 1966; and Richardson and Johnson, 1971) of northeastern Illinois has prompted an examination of the entire Late Paleozoic radiation of caridoid malacostracans. Members of this radiation bear several gross anatomical similarities to Mesozoic-Cenozoic eucarid forms, yet are totally and completely distinct taxonomically from them. This convergent phenomenon affords a rare look at the evolution of a major taxonomic category extending over a period of some 300 million years. The comparison also bears on general theoretical considerations of diversity and convergence in evolutionary theory.
10.2307/2412541|Contacts between the ranges of four pairs of different chromosome forms of pocket gophers of the Thomomys talpoides complex were studied in an effort to gain insight into the relationship between karyotype differences and level of evolutionary divergence. All contacts are located in the mountainous region of western Colorado. Three different results were found. At one contact no evidence of hybridization between the two chromosome forms was detected by an examination of karyotypes. At two other contacts limited hybridization occurs between the chromosome forms. The fourth contact studied is a broad zone of intergradation (20 miles or more in width) in which more or less unrestricted interbreeding occurs. A discussion of each contact area is presented and I conclude that frequently, though not always, karyotype differences in pocket gophers are indicative of species-level differences.
10.2307/2412542|A multidimensional scalogram analysis, MSA-I, shows that 27 inbred mouse strains, classified by thirteen loci, can be represented as points in a two-dimensional space. Five of the loci provide a rectangular coordinate system for partitioning of the space, three a polar, while the remaining ones make little further systematic contribution. The systematic partitionings may suggest theories of the origin of the strains' similarities and differences.
10.2307/2412544|A phylogeny based upon genetic similarity coupled with information from cytogenetics, behavior, ecological distribution, and geography is developed for the roquet species group of Anolis lizards in the southeastern Caribbean region. We postulate that the primary events were stepwise colonization of the three island banks closest to the South American mainland (Grenada, St. Vincent, and St. Lucia). The secondary events were colonization from St. Lucia to the more westerly islands of Blanquilla, and from there to Bonaire; the acquisition of a second species on St. Vincent by in situ speciation or by secondary colonization; the colonization of Martinique, Barbados, and the Grenada Bank (the latter for the second time).
10.2307/2412545|Morphometric differentiation in 10 egg guide characters was examined in 13 chromosomal races and species within the Viatica group of morabine grasshoppers. Considerable divergence was found to have occurred among races within each provisional species and among the various provisional species. The extent of multivariate phenetic overlap among races within a species ranges from 28% between the 2n = 19 and 2n = 17 races of viatica to 13% among the three races of P24. The interracial relationships among the taxa as reflected by canonical variate analyses of the 13 taxa and of the 8 taxa (races pooled) generally gave close correspondence to the known genetic and geographic affinities among the taxa. Factor analysis of the pooled data followed by analysis of variance and a posteriori testing of the factor scores provided evidence of intertaxa differentiation in the shape of the egg guide. Again, a close correspondence between phenetic variation, genetic divergence and ecogeographic separation was noted. Finally, the extent of multivariate phenetic overlap was found to decrease as a function of phylogenetic distance with the phylogenetically most primitive races having the greatest overlap with the other taxa and the most derived forms being phenetically the most discrete.
10.2307/2412540|Nine different karyotypes are evident among samples of six subspecies of Peromyscus boylii (P. b. rowleyi, P. b. spicilegus, P. b. simulus, P. b. levipes, P. b. ambiguus, and P. b. beatae). All specimens have a diploid number of 48; the principal differences are in the numbers of large and medium-sized biarmed autosomes which range from 2-10. Three chromosome races are recognizable in P. boylii; they are distributed parapatrically with respect to one another, and present evidence suggests that limited gene exchange occurs among them. The karyotype for topotypes of P. b. simulus from Nayarit, Mexico, is markedly different from all other forms of P. boylii, suggesting that this taxon is a distinct species. Chromosomal polymorphism of a non-Robertsonian type is seen in certain populations of P. boylii and may be the result of intergradation between the different chromosome races. The polymorphism involves a variable number of large biarmed autosomes with certain individuals in a population possessing a heteromorphic pair of autosomes. The karyotypes of P. oaxacensis and P. evides, both members of the boylii species group, are also described for the first time.
10.2307/2412538|The morphological order of evolutionary trees has been the traditional argument for the operation of directional causes in macroevolution. We show, in this work, that a similar order can be generated within stochastic systems bounded by minimal biological constraints. Our system generates an evolutionary tree by making random decisions about each lineage in each time interval given preset probabilities for branching, extinction and persistence (Raup, Gould, Schopf, and Simberloff, 1973). Morphology is determined in an independent and equally stochastic manner. Using ten hypothetical characters, the beginning lineage is given an all zero morphology. At each branching point, each character may change by one unit (in a positive or negative direction) according to preset probabilities for positive change, negative change, and no change. Our simulations display most of the ordered features generally associated with uni-directional selection: morphological coherence of monophyletic groups and incomplete filling of "morphological space"; regular "unfolding" of morphology (as seen in strong correspondence between phenetic and cladistic taxonomies); marked evolutionary "trends"; strong correlation among characters; large variation in rates of evolution; and specialization of derived forms. We attribute much of this order to abstract topological properties of the tree itself and urge that the data for inferences about directional causes be sought elsewhere (in functional morphology, for example). We suggest, with caution, that undirected selection may be the rule rather than the exception in nature, if a temporal unit of sufficient duration be used as the yardstick of measurement.
10.2307/2412547|A workshop with 28 participants was convened at the Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, from 30 May to 1 June 1974 to consider the trends, priorities, and needs in systematic and evolutionary biology. The group represented a broad spectrum of interests, and presents this summary report in anticipation of stimulating responses from many colleagues. Major extrinsic factors affecting the field are 1) its vast and virtually unmanageable data base; and 2) the imminent destruction of whole ecosystems, especially the lowland tropics, with the consequent loss of information. The nature and control of genetic variation in natural populations and the control of structure in complex ecosystems were among the important intellectual problems identified. Five major needs were identified as follows: 1) additional substantial resources for studies in the tropics, especially those of the New World; 2) additional laboratories to attack the nature and control of genetic variation in natural populations at a biochemical level; 3) a taxon-based data bank for some portion of the biota of the United States by 1980 as a stage in the development of a worldwide data bank; 4) establish four kinds of chemosystematic centers with an initial capital outlay of about $1 million and an annual total budget of about $300,000; and 5) operating an apparatus for monitoring and responding to requirements for systematic studies in the solution of human problems in the health sciences, the production of food, and similar areas. The last point would include, but not be limited to, the establishment of an Institute for Applied Systematics with appropriate funding and staffing.
10.2307/2992207|Superimposition methods for comparing configurations of landmarks in two or more specimens are reviewed. These methods show differences in shape among specimens as residuals after rotation, translation, and scaling them so that they align as well as possible. A new method is presented that generalizes Siegel and Benson's (1982) resistant-fit theta-rho analysis so that more than two objects can be compared at the same time. Both least-squares and resistant-fit approaches are generalized to allow for affine transformations (uniform shape change). The methods are compared, using artificial data and data on 18 landmarks on the wings of 127 species of North American mosquitoes. Graphical techniques are also presented to help summarize the patterns of differences in shape among the objects being compared.
10.2307/2992206|The repeatability (precision) with which lizard scale counts can be made was assessed using two observers who repeatedly scored six scale characters on the same five adult and five hatchling specimens of Anolis sagrei. The precision with which characters could be scored varied by more than an order of magnitude, and there was congruence between observers as to which characters could be scored precisely and which could not. Variances derived from the repeated counts were always correlated with the character means, thus confounding the relationship between intrinsic character variation and the mean. For one observer, character variances were consistently higher for hatchlings than for adults, a finding that impugns the conclusions of some vertical cohort analyses that reduction in variance in samples of larger (=older) lizards is evidence of stabilizing selection. There was enormous inter-observer variability in the precision with which the characters were scored, and the observers differed in their conception of the characters themselves. Discriminant analyses "discovered" differences in the data that were easily of the magnitude used to justify taxonomic decisions, even though the differences were due solely to inter-observer variability. There was no evidence of skewness in the distribution of the repeated scale counts, and thus no indication that deviations from the mean were biased. Choice of characters and of the individuals who score the characters is critically important. Pilot studies are recommended in order to identify those characters that can be scored with acceptable precision, and those individuals capable of scoring characters precisely. Error variances based upon repeated counts on the same specimens provide a rationale for partitioning character variances into their intrinsic and artifactual components.
10.2307/2992204|We propose a method to compare rooted classifications when the fusion levels between OTUs are to be taken into account. This problem can be formulated as a statistical randomization test, that includes a double permutation procedure involving the generation of random dendrograms from ultrametric matrices. We test the null hypothesis stating that the two dendrograms under comparison are not more similar than dendrograms randomly generated in terms of three different aspects: topology, leaf positions, fusion level positions. The similarity beween nested trees is computed using a normalized form of the intermediate consensus index of Faith and Belbin (1986). A special case is discussed where limited permutations are required to test a conditional null hypothesis. This test is applied to kangaroo classifications to measure the congruence between dendrograms derived from different character sets.
10.2307/2992205|A unified methodology for parsimony analysis in studies of the co-speciation of clades that co-occur in ecological associations is presented. It incorporates two methodological prescriptions proposed by Wiley with a third, namely duplication of areas when members of single or multiple clades are differentially represented. This third component eliminates the need to ignore data on widespread taxa or to weight taxa differentially. Re-analysis of Neotropical bird data demonstrates that the proposed method is sensitive to a variety of general and unique evolutionary influences in studies of historical biogeography, and is hence non-reductionist. Parsimony analysis at the level of clades is analogous to parsimony analysis at the level of ecological associations because the process invoked for homology, i.e., common history, is the same, even though the processes invoked to explain homoplasy differ, in all cases.
10.2307/2992208|This analysis considers the validity of the assumptions of the Gaussian perturbation model as applied to landmark data collected for morphometric analyses. The primary conclusion is that the assumption of homoscedasticity is unrealistic when applied to biological data sets. We also point out some important difficulties associated with alternate models.
10.2307/2992354|We discuss the use of phylogenetic patterns in testing the predictions of coevolutionary scenarios or process models. For this purpose we develop a general method for reconstructing the coevolutionary history of an association from the phylogenies of the component groups and an association matrix describing the associations between the species. We focus on the evolution of the traits that determine which species are associated, and therefore set up a null model with no change in these traits. Furthermore, we distinguish among three different processes that change association patterns: (1) colonization, whereby new associations are created; (2) exclusion, whereby old associations disappear; and (3) successive specialization, through which ancestral associations split into two or more descendant associations. In contrast to earlier methods for coevolutionary analysis, the method we propose explicitly includes all these processes as possible explanations of observed deviations from the null model. The parsimony principle can be used to choose between alternative reconstructions of the history of an association if successive specialization, colonization, and exclusion events are given weights relative to the probability of each of these events occurring. However, it is often possible to take advantage of the distribution of traits in the phylogenies of the associated groups to choose between alternative reconstructions; then, the weights need not be specified. Although the method we propose is explicitly developed for coevolutionary analysis, it should also be applicable to biogeographical problems with suitable modifications. The method is compared to parsimony mapping (Brooks parsimony analysis) and found to be superior in several respects. To illustrate the potential of the method, we first discuss different coevolutionary process models for insect-host plant associations with emphasis on the patterns they predict and how reconstructions of the coevolutionary history of an association can be used to test these predictions. We then use the method to analyze the evolution of an association between gall midges (Semudobia spp.) and birches (Betula spp.).
2992353|Defining the names of taxa in terms of common ancestry, that is, using phylogenetic definitions of taxon names, departs from a tradition of character-based definitions by granting the concept of evolution a central role in taxonomy. Phylogenetic definitions bear on other taxonomic principles and practices, including the following: (1) Names cannot be applied to nonmonophyletic taxa as the result of mistaken ideas about relationships or characters. Such mistakes do not affect conclusions about the monophyly of taxa but about their content and/or diagnoses. Because nonmonophyletic taxa can only be named deliberately, they are easily avoided. (2) Definitions are clearly distinguished from descriptions and diagnoses. Definitions are ontological statements about the existence of entities that result from the relationships of common ancestry among their parts; descriptions and diagnoses are epistemological statements about how we recognize the parts of those entities. (3) By precisely specifying the clade (ancestor) with which a name is associated, phylogenetic definitions clarify the limits of taxa, and this in turn clarifies related phenomena such as time of origin and duration. (4) Unlike the case for character-based intensional definitions and enumerative extensional definitions, phylogenetic definitions provide an unambiguous criterion for synonymy of taxon names: names are synonymous if they refer to clades stemming from the same ancestor. (5) Because of their relevance to synonymy, phylogenetic definitions also are relevant to priority, of both names and authorship. In phylogenetic taxonomy, priority is based not on first use of a name at a particular rank or rank-group but on first use of a name in association with a particular ancestor.
10.2307/2992358|Genetic distances measured by DNA-DNA hybridization experiments are subject to inherent levels of measurement imprecision that may limit the resolution of estimated phylogenetic trees. This type of error is reflected by the variance of replicate pairwise comparisons of OTUs within cells of the distance matrix. We propose an application of the bootstrap method to gauge the effects of such imprecision in phylogenetic reconstruction. Pseudoreplicate distance matrices are generated by resampling the original data with replacement, and phylogeny estimates are made for each pseudoreplicate matrix using a least-squares pairwise algorithm; the process is repeated many times to produce a distribution of possible trees. The frequency of occurrence of specific clades in this distribution measures the resolving power of the original measured distances. This procedure does not assay the effects of inaccuracy (bias) in measured distances, but, in conjunction with a jackknife approach for resampling OTUs, provides a means for quantitative assessment of the robustness of trees estimated from DNA hybridization distances.
10.2307/2992357|Previous observations indicate that morphologic distinctness of suprageneric taxa (superfamilies, suborders, and orders) of trilobites increased during their Cambro-Ordovician diversification. Analysis of nearest-neighbor distances (NNDs) among trilobites in morphospace is used to test the robustness of this pattern while avoiding the overprint of higher-level taxonomy. The properties of the uniform distribution are used to determine the bounds of the morphospace, and computer simulation of random points is used to circumvent edge effects in the analysis of NNDs. Observed NNDs became significantly smaller relative to expected distances, supporting the hypothesis that morphospace became more discontinuously occupied from the Cambrian to the Ordovician. However, absolute NNDs (not considered relative to expected NNDs) actually increased. Therefore, the increase in clustering intensity reflects the expansion of morphospace that accompanied the diversification, because the expected NND is proportional to the morphologic range. The increases in clustering and in absolute NND hold even if Cambrian genera are treated as equivalent to Ordovician species.
10.2307/2992356|Little is known about individual variation in the muscles of birds. We dissected the hindlimb muscles bilaterally in a large series of two species of passerine birds to assess the kinds and frequencies of variation in their structure and to evaluate the effect of such variation on the reconstruction of phylogeny. Variation was rare. Three of 33 muscles varied in Cardinalis cardinalis, four of 32 muscles varied in Hylocichla mustelina, and no individual possessed more than three variants. We found no correlation of variation with sex and no significant tendency for multiple variants to occur in an individual. However, there was a significant tendency for variation to occur in specific muscles. Muscular variation was divided into several categories for which descriptive terms are introduced. Two of these categories, minor variants and incongruous variants, are unlikely to cause problems in phylogenetic studies. In contrast, mimicking variants and singular variants do pose a danger of introducing error into phylogenetic analysis. A special case of rare occurrence is explosive variation, in which multiple variants occur at high frequencies, and which may also cause problems in reconstructing phylogeny. We found the error rate in identifying species-typical conditions to average 2.0% and to range from 0.5 to 3.3% in passerine birds. We propose a research strategy that maximizes the probability of avoiding errors while minimizing the number of specimens dissected. We conclude that this strategy yields highly accurate assessments for phylogenetic analysis, and that individual variation is probably a minor source of error in phylogenetic reconstructions based on myological data for birds.
10.2307/2992355|Maximum likelihood inference is discussed, and some of its advantages and disadvantages are noted. The application of maximum likelihood inference to phylogenetics is examined, and a simple Poisson process model of DNA substitution is used as one example. Further examples follow from the clarification of implicit models underlying traditional "parsimony" and "compatibility" analyses. From the elucidation of these models and analyses, it is seen that Poisson process analysis gives a statistically consistent estimate of phylogeny, and that parsimony methods do indeed have a maximum likelihood foundation but give potentially incorrect estimates of phylogeny. The maximum likelihood formulation provides a common framework within which these analyses are discussed and compared.
10.2307/2992450|A new approach to assessing percent measurement error (%ME), using an old statistical technique (Model II Analyses of Variance and Covariance: ANOVA/ANCOVA), was developed using both weight and linear measurements made three times each on 87 freshwater snails (Cipangopaludina chinensis; Vivipariidae). Variability of each measurement, as well as covariability between pairs of measurements, was partitioned into among- and within-snail (i.e., measurement error) components. The %ME varied by two orders of magnitude across the ten measurement variables considered. Shell weight had the lowest %ME (0.059%), while body whorl height had the highest (3.88%). There was a low correlation between %ME and the among-snail coefficient of variation for each variable (r = -0.28; P > 0.20). Within-snail correlations between pairs of measurement variables were uniformly low (r
10.2307/2992449|Computer simulations of randomly evolving lineages were performed using the model of Raup and Gould (1974). The mean, variance, and distribution of quantitative traits were evaluated. These results were compared with the predictions of diffusion theory (Slatkin, 1981). It is a common feature of all simulations that the predictions fit better in rapidly expanding clades than in slowly expanding clades. Hence, high probabilities of extinction compared to the probability of speciation cause a high degree of stochasticity in character dispersion. We therefore recommend restricting the statistical analysis of interspecific variation to recent and rapidly evolving clades. The results also show that the within clade mean has exceedingly high interclade variance, which calls into question the significance of a direct comparison of within clade means. In contrast the distribution of variances and variance ratios of two traits is more predictable and these statistical parameters might be useful in comparative biology: variances increase linearly with time according to the diffusion approximation, variance ratios of two independent traits follow approximately an F-(variance-ratio) distribution, and the distribution of the variance ratio is independent of speciation rate and the age of the clade. On the basis of these results it is possible to design two kinds of statistical tests: 1) Comparing the variances of a set of homologous traits in two monophyletic clades allows one to test whether the traits show cladespecific evolutionary flexibilities. 2) The ratio of variances of two different traits within the same clade provides a measure of the relative evolutionary flexibility of two traits which is independent of the exact phylogeny and the age of the clade. To illustrate the application of these tests the interspecific variation of seven meristic characters from three clades of blennioid fishes is analysed.
10.2307/2992451|Gene flow estimates between groups of populations (Nm
10.2307/2992453|Coevolution of parasites and their hosts is presumed if the phylogeny of a group of parasites matches that of their hosts, producing a high value of a consistency index. Such comparisons are done using relatively host specific parasite species that are usually separated only by morphological characters. Parasitic, unionicolan mites in the subgenus Unionicolides are described, from sampling data, as highly host specific and are thought to have co-speciated with their freshwater mussel hosts. However, experimental observations of Unionicola Unionicolides poundsi and U. U. lasellai were inconsistent with these mites' supposed high host specificity. A transplant experiment, in which nymphs metamorphosed in the "wrong" host, demonstrated that the morphological characters used to differentiate these mite species are plastic and host-determined. Hence, when taxonomists use only morphological characters and host-induced morphological variation is present, morphological variants can be elevated to the status of species. Consequently, parasites can appear to be highly host specific. If morphs are then grouped, as species, into the same taxon, phylogenetic comparisons can produce high consistency indices independently of any coevolutionary processes. The conditions under which this bias can occur are commonly true of phylogenetic comparisons. Hence, host-induced morphology is a viable, alternative explanation for high consistency indices.
10.2307/2992452|Analyses of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and allozymes were used to estimate phylogenetic patterns in the avian genus Ammodramus. Levels of interspecific genetic differentiation were greater than most previous estimates for other congeneric avian taxa. Phenetic and phylogenetic patterns were highly concordant for these two genetically independent data sets, suggesting a robust estimate of the evolutionary history of these sparrows. However, the genetic pattern was not concordant with an estimate of variation in skeletal morphometrics produced by Robins and Schnell (1971); we suggest that ecological pressures effect convergence in skeletal morphology. Independent calibrations of mtDNA and allozyme distances suggest times of divergence that differ by a factor of two among the species assayed.
10.2307/2992181|Documentation of widespread cospeciation in a host-parasite assemblage requires statistical evidence that the congruence observed between the host and parasite phylogenies exceeds that expected by chance. Although the validity of this test rests on the assumption of independence of the host and parasite phylogenies, this critical assumption may be violated in many tests of cospeciation. Herein, we emphasize the need for rigorous tests of cospeciation in host-parasite assemblages, and we show how estimates of genetic distance can be used to investigate relative rates of evolution and timing of phylogenesis in the hosts and parasites once widespread cospeciation has been documented for the assemblage. The method involves a non-parametric test of association between genetic-distance matrices for the hosts and their parasites. If the association is statistically significant, the relationship is examined in greater detail using bivariate analysis. We use an example from our studies of pocket gophers and chewing lice to illustrate how genetic distances can be used to explore relative rates of genetic change in the two groups and to investigate relative timing of cospeciation events in the assemblage.
10.2307/2992186|Hierarchic classifications can differ with respect to tree balance-the degree to which branches divide the subtended taxa into subsets of equal size. Several indices, sensitive to different aspects of tree balance, are compared. Extensions of these indices to multifurcating trees and to trees with varying numbers of OTUs are proposed, and suggestions for employing these indices are furnished. Different tree-forming algorithms may result in trees with differing degrees of balance no matter which index is computed. Tree balance is an important consideration for phylogenetic systematics, because balance of the true phylogeny will affect the accuracy of its estimates.
10.2307/2992184|Multilocus data are an important source of information on genetic variation within and among natural populations. Hierarchical techniques are used widely for examining multilocus data. However, the limitations of hierarchical (phenetic or phylogenetic) algorithms to depict geographic genetic structure, particularly within species, have long been recognized. Multidimensional scaling of genetic distances is herein examined as a useful technique for exploratory analysis of geographic genetic structure. The advantages and limitations of multidimensional scaling are discussed and illustrated with reanalyses of two case studies: pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae) of the central California "genetic group" and a hybrid zone of two chromosomal forms of the tent-making bat (Uroderma bilobatum). Multidimensional scaling does recover hierarchical patterns when present and is especially useful to uncover nonhierarchical patterns of variation. The finding that reticular and clinal patterns of variation may be examined via multidimensional scaling even in the absence of fixed genetic differences between hybridizing taxa opens new possibilities for studying geographic genetic divergence and speciation.
10.2307/2992183|Tests of adaptive explanations are often critically confounded by phylogenetic heritage. In this paper we propose statistics and a null model for estimating phylogenetic effects in comparative data. We apply a model-independent measure of autocorrelation (Moran's I) for estimating whether cross-taxonomic trait variation is related to phylogeny. We develop a phylogenetic correlogram for assessing how autocorrelation varies with patristic distance and for judging the appropriateness and effectiveness of an autoregressive model. We then revise Chevcrud et al.'s (1985, Evolution, 39:1335-1351) autocorrelational model to incorporate greater flexibility in the relation between trait variation and phylogenetic distance. Finally, we analyze various comparative data sets (body weight in carnivores, clutch size in birds) and phylogenies (morphological, molecular) to illustrate some of the complications that may arise from using an autoregressive model and to explore the effects of different weighting matrices in adjusting for these complications. Although our approach has limitations, it is both effective in partitioning trait variation into adaptive and phylogenetic components and flexible in adjusting to peculiarities in taxonomic distribution.
10.2307/2992182|Cladistic analysis of congruence between different area cladograms, and between parasite and host cladograms, is typically limited to comparing branching sequences only. Adding information on timing of the cladogenetic events can increase the power of the analysis. Instances where two cladograms have the same branching pattern but the relevant events occurred at different times can be distinguished from genuine congruence (cladistic and temporal agreement). Temporal information can also help resolve instances of apparent incongruence. As an example, I reanalyze data from Hafner and Nadler's (1988, Nature, 332:258-259; 1990, Syst. Zool., 39:192-204) elegant study of cospeciation between pocket gophers and their chewing lice. By combining both cladistic and temporal information, estimates can be made of relative roles of cospeciation, dispersal, and extinction in structuring the pattern of host-parasite association between the gophers and their lice.
10.2307/2992185|A cladistic analysis of 42 two-state characters of the adults of five species in the monophyletic Trimmatom nanus species group resulted in a fully resolved cladogram of 48 steps with a consistency index of 88% (excluding autapomorphies of the group and of terminal taxa). The initial analysis was based on 52 osteological and external two-state characters (although in both cases some characters were analyzed as ordered transformation series). The monophyly of three of the species-T. sagma, T. offucius, and T. nanus-was especially well corroborated, with 19 synapomorphies. Within this subgroup, eight synapomorphies unite T. offucius and T. nanus as sister species. These two species mature at smaller sizes and do not reach the lengths attained by the other three species in the species group. Reexamination of the eight apomorphic character states in similar-sized specimens of their sister species, T. sagma, led to the interpretation of three of the eight character states as being consistent with progenesis. Because these character states are the result of progenetic processes, they are subsumed as a single apomorphy of truncated development. The potential to reassign the position of the progenetic (at this level of analysis) character states on the tree is explored. Some character states involving lack of ossification that cannot be positively identified as synapomorphies of T. offucius and T. nanus by comparison with juveniles of T. sagma and T. zapotes may be interpreted as the result of heterochronic shifts earlier in development. Cladograms therefore can be used on real data sets to identify progenetic characteristics and their level of universality.
10.2307/2413294|Explicit, ad hoc character weighting, widely dismissed by cladists as too subjective for practical application, can be useful in resolving difficult instances of homoplasy. Such weighting should be avoided to the extent possible, and should only be tried when critical reexamination of the evidence and the parsimony criterion have failed. So long as such uses of weighting are fully explicit and their results are viewed as tentative solutions, they support formulations of hypotheses where none might otherwise be possible.
10.2307/2413295|Previously presented arguments for and against character weighting in systematic analyses are briefly reviewed and the bases for different weighting methods summarized. A priori and a posteriori methods are defined. I conclude that a priori weighting is the only noncircular approach for weighting of characters in the construction or recognition of groups of taxa, but that no objective method of a priori weighting has been proposed to date. A hypothetico-deductive methodology for character analysis completely prior to and independent of cladistic analysis (or phylogeny reconstruction) is briefly summarized. Identifications and characters are shown to be hypotheses testable prior to the construction of a cladogram. In that context, rather than attempting to weight on intrinsic properties of characters as suggested up to now, weighting on the basis of the relative degree of corroboration of the character in the character analysis provides a rational basis for character weighting if character conflicts occur in the cladistic analysis.
10.2307/2413289|The intergeneric relationships of the lizard family Xantusiidae were reevaluated against a cladistic synthesis of morphological (squamation and osteology) and karyological data. The two data sets were analyzed independently and examined for congruent patterns with each other and against biogeographic-geologic data. Patterns indicated by morphological, karyological, and biogeographic-geologic data suggest two sister groups: (1) Klauberina-Xantusia; and (2) Cricosaura-Lepidophyma. Our phylogeny differs from the accepted view of xantusiid relationships in suggesting that Lepidophyma should be transferred from the subfamily Xantusiinae (currently consisting of Klauberina, Lepidophyma, and Xantusia) to the Cricosaurinae. We propose a vicariance model for the distribution of the Xantusia-Klauberina clade.
10.2307/2413296|A fundamental assumption of any phylogenetic analysis is that characters are evolutionarily independent. This suggests the genetic correlation as a potentially useful weighting tool for quantitative characters. The quantitative genetic framework used to measure genetic correlations and heritabilities is first briefly described. Several hypothetical examples are then discussed where purely phenotypic values of characters lead to incorrect phylogenetic conclusions. These may occur either because characters are presumed to be genetically independent when they are not, or by misinterpreting environmentally induced variation as under genetic control. Genetic correlations and heritability estimates for eight characters from a quantitative genetic study of a population of Mexican ambystomatid salamanders are presented. On the basis of these data, gill lengths have low heritabilities and are rejected as useful characters. Head width, head length, and interorbital distance have very high genetic correlations, and are best considered as a single character. In the final section, some of the difficulties in interpreting quantitative genetic data are discussed; these include extrapolating from laboratory to field situations, variability in genetic parameters during phylogeny, and using intermediate genetic correlations as character weights.
10.2307/2413290|Chromosome banding techniques have been used in a large-scale survey of karyotypic variation within and between the chromosomal races of the Gehyra variegata-punctata species group. A total of nine chromosome races are now known among these taxa. G-banding confirms that the principal mode of chromosome change is centric fusion and, in most cases, allowed the specific chromosomes involved to be identified. The location of C-band heterochromatin and the nucleolar organizing region varied within and between the races. In two of the chromosome forms, heteromorphic sex chromosomes were observed in the early stages of evolution. The cytogenetic characters were evaluated and then used to construct a phylogeny for these taxa. The types of chromosome change between the races and their geographic relationships were then considered to examine the role of chromosomal mechanisms of speciation in these gekkos. The previously suggested role of single centric fusions as initiators of speciation in Gehyra requires further evaluation. In one case, an unusual form of tandem fusion has been established and this race is clearly reproductively isolated from all others. The presence of monobrachial homology between the biarmed chromosomes of some taxa suggests that a distinct mode of chromosomal speciation may also be important in Gehyra.
10.2307/2413287|The phylogenetic relationships of 30 taxa of Holarctic hylid frogs were examined using starch gel electrophoresis. Allelic variation was scored at 33 presumed genetic loci and genetic distance data were used to construct trees representing the phylogenetic relationships. There are two major groups: (A) Hyla regilla, H. cadaverina, H. crucifer, Limnaoedus ocularis, and all presently recognized species of Pseudacris; and (B) the remaining species of Holarctic Hyla. The positions of Acris and H. meridionalis are unclear. In general, the relationships based on electrophoretic data agree well with immunological, hybridization, and chromosome studies, but conflict with some morphological studies. A phylogenetic classification requires that H. regilla, H. cadaverina, H. crucifer, and L. ocularis be transferred to the genus Pseudacris. This genus is characterized by terrestrial species that breed during cold weather and possess small digital pads and spherical (or ovoid) dark testes. Holarctic Hyla are arboreal species that breed during warm weather and possess large digital pads and elongate white (or yellowish) testes. The correlation between albumin immunological distance (AID) and Nei's electrophoretic distance (D) is significant, with 1 D = 70 AID. Calibration of the molecular clock for Holarctic hylid frogs suggests that Pseudacris diverged from a Hyla-like ancestor in the early Tertiary. The physiological traits associated with cold-weather breeding and the morphological trait (small digital pads) associated with terrestrial habits appear to have been key innovations that allowed Pseudacris to undergo an adaptive radiation in North America coinciding with the radiation of Holarctic Hyla.
10.2307/2413292|Phylogenies of the hominoid primates based on biomolecular or karyological data routinely feature an African ape-human clade that excludes orangutans, while phylogenies derived from continuous variables of the skull include the four great ape species in a single clade that excludes humans. This difference obtains whether cladistic or phenetic methods are used to estimate phylogenies. Phenetic trees based on anatomical features differ from those based on biomolecular data because of greater heterogeneity in evolutionary rates for the former among hominoid lineages. Cladistic trees from the two types of data differ primarily because similar features in gibbon and human skulls are treated as shared, derived characters in quantitative cladistic analysis, although they are size associated in gibbons and neotenic in humans. The most-parsimonious trees based on craniodental data from which such pseudoconvergences have been removed are those with an African ape-human clade. This result supports the hypothesis that man is more closely related to the chimpanzees and to the gorilla than to other living apes, as does the fossil evidence.
10.2307/2413288|Prior to Darwin, the evolutionary vision had always looked for the unity of life with nature's overall dynamics. Darwin had to truncate this connectivity to establish evolution as a science, as opposed to a philosophic perspective on change. An autonomy-of-biology mentality has grown from this separation that is now antithetical to the evolutionary project. As the science of macroscopic process, thermodynamics is essential to bringing life back to nature. The entropic drive to randomness underlies the phenomena of both variation and speciation; competition between thermodynamic flow patterns underlies the phenomenon of selection; the dissipative structure schema provides basic constraints on morphological transformation. Semantic problems regarding the meaning of entropy obstruct delivery on these promises. I discuss some of those problems in the first sections of this paper, then consider a possible way in which principles drawn from statistical thermodynamics can be extended into the biological realm to illuminate the phenomena of variation and speciation.
10.2307/2413291|The dispersal of a community in a territory can be reconstructed using various more or less specific methods of data analysis. When the data are in the form of presence/absence of species for the various units of territory, or in the form of frequencies of occurrence, they are analogous to the data used for reconstructing evolutionary trees. Furthermore, when one is looking for a treelike structure of dispersal, issued from a common trunk, the tree-reconstruction methods may represent an appropriate analytical tool. Four tree-reconstruction methods are found to be appropriate in their hypotheses. They lead to satisfactory trees when applied to a data set describing the geographic distribution of the stenohaline freshwater fishes of the Quebec peninsula, previously divided into 21 regions. For binary data, the method of Camin and Sokal and the polymorphism parsimony method were used with success, while the continuous character data maximum-likelihood method and the least-squares method of Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards were applied to frequency-of-occurrence data. When compared to a method of pairwise comparison of adjacent regions, it is shown that the tree-reconstruction methods provide the user with information that is not found otherwise. I also show that external information (i.e., geographic adjacencies, and the degree of asymmetry of the faunal vectors of regions connected by the tree), available in biogeographic data but not taken into account by the tree-reconstruction algorithms, must be considered to render the results meaningful.
10.2307/2413109|An earlier phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters (Livezey, 1986a) indicates that Tachyeres is a member of a specialized clade of Southern Hemisphere shelducks (Tadorninae). Within Tachyeres, the three flightless species appear to be monophyletic, with the two Atlantic species-T. leucocephalus and T. brachypterus-being closest relatives. This phylogenetic hypothesis mirrors the pattern of morphometric similarities among the four species. Speciation in the genus is explainable by the isolation caused by two major glaciations in southern South America and related fluctuations in sea level, and intervening dispersals. The biogeographic model is compared to a morphometric assessment of populations of T. patachonicus and electrophoretic analyses of the four species of Tachyeres.
10.2307/2413116|The D measure is presented as a quantification of historical constraints in phylogenetic data. It is derived from information-theoretic considerations, and offers increased resolution of the criteria used in parsimony analyses. Thus, it can be used as an optimality measure in phylogenetic studies. The D measure is more sensitive to the evolutionary nature (symplesiomorphy, synapomorphy, autapomorphy) of characters on trees than two commonly used phylogenetic optimality measures: the consistency index; and the F-ratio. The consistency index does not distinguish between shared and unique characters on a tree. The F-ratio is affected by factors relevant to undirected, rather than directed, trees. Neither the D measure nor the F-ratio are biased a priori towards choosing postulates of reversal or parallelism in equal-length trees. Neither the D measure nor the F-ratio always indicate the shortest tree when used alone. The D measure can be used to choose among equal-length shortest trees that have been produced by standard parsimony techniques.
2413113|Plethodontids, a monophyletic group, comprise about 60% of living salamanders. Many have a tongue that may be projected rapidly and for a distance up to half the body length. Previous studies have focused on the functional morphology of the projectile tongue and the comparative morphology of the feeding system in the family. Here we present a working hypothesis for the phylogeny of plethodontids and a scenario for the evolution of tongue feeding based on the phylogenetic hypothesis. Primitive and derived states are identified and transformation series proposed for 30 characters. Four alternative phylogenetic hypotheses are presented. Our choice of a preferred phylogenetic hypothesis is based on consideration of conflicting characters and tongue projection mechanics. The preferred hypothesis is not the most parsimonious, in a strict technical sense, because several homoplasious characters appear (on functional grounds) to be closely associated with attainment of tongue projectility, which itself has evolved several times. In our hypothesis the bolitoglossines and plethodontines are sister taxa. They in turn are the sister taxon of the hemidactylines, and this grouping is the sister taxon of the desmognathines. Within the bolitoglossines, Batrachoseps is the sister taxon of the Neotropical genera (supergenus Bolitoglossa). In our scenario for the evolution of tongue feeding, the ancestral plethodontid had an attached protrusible tongue. From this condition attached projectile tongues have arisen at least three times within the family: in the ancestors of the hemidactylines; in the ancestors of Ensatina; and in the ancestors of the bolitoglossines. In turn, the attached projectile condition has given rise to free projectile tongues at least once within the hemidactylines and twice within the bolitoglossines. This scenario tends to maximize the number of times attached projectile and free projectile tongues have evolved in the family.
10.2307/2413112|Relationships among lizards of the anole genera Chamaeleolis, Chamaelinorops, Phenacosaurus, and Anolis (sensu lato) are discussed based upon a cladistic analysis of osteological, karyological, and albumin immunological data. Osteological data support a sister-group relationship of carolinensis subsection and beta section anoles, while anoles of the bimaculatus-cristatellus-cybotes, cuvieri series, and latifrons series are sequentially more distantly related to this terminal cluster. Karyological data support five major groupings. One of these groups represents those forms with the primitive karyotype for lizards and includes: Chamaeleolis, Chamaelinorops, and Phenacosaurus; the cuvieri, cybotes, and latifrons series; and most of the carolinensis subsection. Two groups with advanced karyotypes characterize the cristatellus and bimaculatus series, respectively. The remaining two groups of karyotypes characterize the beta subsection. One population of beta anoles possesses the modal karyotype of both of these groups suggesting a saltatorial evolution of chromosomes within anoles and making difficult the determination of relations among the five groupings of karyotypes. Albumin immunological data support a close sister-group relationship among the beta section, and the cristatellus and bimaculatus series, while the carolinensis series and latifrons series are sequentially more distantly related. Within Anolis (sensu lato), five distinct monophyletic lineages are recognized as genera. The latifrons series (placed in the genus Dactyloa) is derived relative to the primitive anole genera in the presence of autotomic septa on the caudal vertebrae and reduced numbers of aseptate caudal vertebrae. The cuvieri series (placed in Semiurus) shares with other advanced anoles the derived conditions for the shape of the parietal, parietal cresting, total number of parasternal ribs, and number of attached parasternal ribs, but lacks the derived condition of occipital region of more advanced anoles. The bimaculatus-cristatellus-cybotes series (placed in Ctenonotus) represents a lineage possessing a derived condition of the occipital region and a derived total number of parasternal ribs but lacks the derived shape of the interclavicle. The most derived lineages-the carolinensis subsection and beta section-are linked by the derived shape of the interclavicle. The carolinensis subsection is diagnosed by derived numbers of lumbar vertebrae and constitutes the genus Anolis. The beta section is diagnosed by derived processes on the caudal vertebrae and is placed in the genus Norops. This systematic arrangement eliminates the paraphyletic nature of the alpha section and punctatus subsection. Although some aspects of current distribution patterns of anoles must be due to dispersal events, it appears that vicariant events provided the impetus for the separation of the anole genera into their current ranges. On the basis of a cladogram of areas and recent geological evidence of vicariant and accretional events in the Caribbean, it seems that a widespread ancestral distribution of anoles throughout Central and South America, connected by a proto-Greater Antilles bridge, was fragmented by geological events forcing part of the proto-Greater Antilles northeastward towards their present location. This fragmented the distribution of primitive anoles in South America (Phenacosaurus and Dactyloa), and on Hispaniola and Cuba (Chamaelinorops and Chamaeleolis, respectively) from the ancestors of the advanced forms on Central America and associated portions of the rest of the proto-Greater Antilles. More advanced anole genera were added to the Caribbean by additional geological activity which separated the remainder of the proto-Greater Antilles into a Hispaniolan-Puerto Rican block and a Cuban-Hispaniolan block. Separation and accretion of these blocks brought Semiurus, Ctenonotus, and Anolis to their present distributions, leaving Norops on Central America as well as on an attached block that later separated to become Jamaica. The closing of the Panamanian portal allowed extensive invasion of South America by Norops and less extensive invasion of Central America by Dactyloa.
10.2307/2413110|A simple way is needed to indicate the approximate uncertainty in phylogenetic diagrams. The reliability of reconstructed phylogenetic trees is considered with respect to sampling error. A measure of uncertainty is developed for a triad of integral Manhattan distances surrounding an inner node of a tree, using three statistical models based on the Poisson and binomial distributions. The three models give broadly similar results. The methods give very approximate estimates that indicate the order of magnitude of the standard error of the central node's position, as well as a rough estimate of the probability that another random sample of characters would lead to a local change in tree topology. The uncertainty can be shown graphically, and illustrations are given on trees from cytochrome and myoglobin sequences, Hennigian analysis of morphology, and DNA pairing data. The sampling errors for the first three are substantial; that for DNA data is in theory very small, but experimental error is shown to have a noticeable effect.
10.2307/2413117|Monte Carlo methods were used to examine the sampling distribution of eight consensus indices based on either of the following two models: all bifurcating trees are equally likely; or all trees (including both bifurcating and multifurcating trees) are equally likely. Ten different consensus-tree methods were applied before computing consensus indices. The strictness of a consensus-tree method and the recognition ratio of a consensus index are the two main factors determining the consensus-index distribution. The former factor influences the mean index values; the latter changes the shape of the distribution curves. We furnish significance test tables for consensus trees or indices based on randomly generated trees permitting multifurcations. These tables can be used to test whether a given consensus tree or consensus-index value obtained from data on real organisms differs significantly from what one would expect if one were computing such quantities from randomly sampled trees.
10.2307/2413111|The current hypothesis of relationship among the Loricarioidea (a diverse group of Neotropical catfishes) is used as the basis for a case study of historical transformation in the feeding mechanism in this monophyletic clade. The historical approach to functional morphology is discussed and is used in this analysis as a means of examining the evolutionary sequence of structure-function transformation. The distribution of structural novelties in the feeding mechanism and their functional correlates are mapped onto the current hypothesis of loricarioid phylogeny. Three major steps in the transformation of the feeding mechanism are identified. The first was the acquisition of highly mobile premaxillae in the lineage leading to the Callichthyidae, Astroblepidae, and Loricariidae. The second step occurred in the lineage leading to the Astroblepidae and Loricariidae: both families possess highly mobile premaxillae with new muscular insertions and movements that are independent of maxillary mobility. Another specialization at this level was the loss of the interoperculo-mandibular ligament and the acquisition of independent bilateral lower jaw mobility via loss of the tight connection between right and left sides of the lower jaws. The third major step occurred in the lineage leading to the Loricariidae. Further subdivision of the jaw adductor muscle resulted in an additional mesial subdivision with a direct muscle insertion onto the premaxillae. A neomorphic structure, the intermandibular cartilage plug (also shared by astroblepids) is specialized in loricariids with a direct attachment to the hyoid, resulting in an additional biomechanical linkage between the hyoid and mandible. A major trend in the evolution of the loricarioid feeding mechanism is the increase in the number of biomechanical linkages. This is hypothesized to be causally related to morphological and trophic diversity. Two explicit predictions are made testing the hypothesis that decoupling of primitively constrained biomechanical elements is related to increased morphological and functional diversity in descendant species.
10.2307/2413108|A computer model that simulates general aspects of ontogeny is presented as a heuristic device for studying the relationship between ontogenetic changes and the evolution of morphologies. The model consists of a set of developmental rules limited to known cellular properties and activities of gene products; it assumes development to be an algorithmic and hierarchical process. Morphological patterns are generated through the interactions of developmental rules. Thus, by its very nature the model establishes pleiotropies and complex characters. To represent mutations, changes were introduced in the developmental rules. Phylogenetic analysis of mutant forms showed that morphology retained significant information about ancestry. Genetic parallelisms, as a rule, did not result in morphological parallelisms, because the effect of a given "genetic rule" is context-dependent. Morphological parallelisms that did arise were a consequence of different mutations that affected certain populations of cells in related ways.
10.2307/2413115|The evolutionary school of biological classification, which considers both dissimilarity and evolutionary branching pattern when classifying species into higher taxa, has been criticized by: cladists for the vagueness with which it makes evolutionary considerations; pheneticists for trying to use something so poorly known as evolutionary branching pattern; and both for its lack of operational methods. In the past 20 years, both the volume of data and the quality of operational methods have increased, so that more credible estimates of evolutionary branching pattern are being constructed. Progress has also been made in understanding the properties, strengths, and weaknesses of both cladistic and phenetic classifications. This work describes and illustrates an operational criterion for using an estimate of evolutionary branching pattern to constrain phenetic clusters to reflect both dissimilarity and branching pattern. The resulting evolutionary classifications are operationally defined, reflect both evolution and similarity, are less cumbersome than cladistic classifications, and permit a more stable system of formal higher taxa while debate and revision of ideas concerning ancestors and evolutionary directionality continue.
10.2307/2413114|The logarithmic transformation can be utilized to equilibrate variances of traits of different size when these variances scale proportionally to the square of the trait means. Otherwise variances will not be equilibrated by log transformation. A simple model of ontogenetic growth is utilized to show that trait variances increase with the square of the mean during ontogeny when individual growth increments are perfectly correlated. Alternatively, if these individual growth increments are uncorrelated, trait variance accumulates only in direct proportion to the mean itself. For most actual ontogenies, the incremental growths would not be perfectly correlated, so log-transformed variances would be expected to decrease during ontogeny. The model was extended to address the comparison of variances between two traits differing in size. When two traits are highly correlated, the ratio of variances of the traits will be proportional to the square of the mean ratio. When two traits are uncorrelated, the ratio of variances scales directly to the ratio of means. Biological traits are usually characterized by varying degrees of intercorrelation (i.e., they exhibit multivariate structure). Since the appropriate transformation to accommodate scale depends upon the intercorrelation among a set of traits, it is unlikely that a single transformation would equilibrate variances (and covariances) among all traits. A similar caution applies to genetic variances and covariances in quantitative genetics. However, narrow-sense heritabilities and additive genetic correlations are both approximately invariant under a change of scale and can be compared across traits and/or populations with less concern about scale effect.
10.2307/2413427|The evolutionary relationships of the soricine shrews were examined cladistically and phenetically using allozyme electrophoresis. Nine species representing three tribes of the Soricinae (sensu Repenning, 1967), plus three crocidurine species, were examined. UPGMA cluster analysis generated a phenogram from the Rogers' similarity matrix; the soricine species clustered separately from the crocidurine species. Using the crocidurines as an outgroup, distance-Wagner and qualitative locus-by-locus cladistic analyses were performed. Results support Repenning's (1967) classification rather than those proposed by Stirton (1930), Gureev (1971), and Reumer (1984). The Blarinini and Soricini shared a common ancestor after the Neomyini diverged. Comparing the results of the electrophoretic analyses to the fossil record provided estimated divergence times within the Soricinae of early Miocene for the initial dichotomy and middle Miocene for the Blarinini-Soricini dichotomy.
10.2307/2413433|The higher-level systematics of the mammalian infraclass Eutheria is investigated with protein sequences of seven polypeptide types combined in an extended tandem alignment. Evolutionary trees constructed from the sequence data by the maximum-parsimony algorithm depict five major lineages of living eutherian orders which are treated as superorders in a phylogenetic classification. Glires (orders Lagomorpha, Primates, and Rodentia) and Therictoidea (Carnivora, Chiroptera, Insectivora, Pholidota, and Scandentia) constitute extant sister groups which are allied to the superorders Ungulata (Artiodactyla, Cetacea, and Perissodactyla), Paenungulata (Hyracoidea, Proboscidea, Sirenia, and Tubulidentata), and Edentata in that order. As sequence data for extant mammalian taxa continue to accumulate, we anticipate that many remaining questions about eutherian phylogeny will be resolved.
10.2307/2413428|For the past approximately 6,000 years, chromosomal fusions have been occurring in populations of Mus domesticus in the mountainous regions of central and northern Italy and southern Switzerland. From these areas, 13 different karyotypically transformed races of communal house mice have been described with chromosome numbers reduced to 22, 24, 26, and 28 from the original 40 still possessed by all the known surrounding populations of house mice. It is likely that, once fused, chromosomes do not separate again in subsequent generations. The establishment of a race with a newly fused chromosome pair requires several complicated steps, so that nearby races with a common fusion very likely share that common fusion event in their evolutionary history. Each fusion, identified by G-banding patterns, has been used as a cladistic character in compatibility analysis to construct plausible hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships among these races of Robertsonian mice. Those fusion events that seem most likely to be incompatible with history are identified and discussed; both parallel evolution and hybridization are suggested as possible explanations.
10.2307/2413431|Variation in land-snail shell form has been extensively documented, but its causes are poorly understood. For no character are there general rules relating shell form to environmental characteristics, although certain correlations are common. Size variation generally has a large genetic component. Larger snails are often associated with moister conditions; the effect may be inductive (direct) or selective, but the mechanism is not documented. Snails may attain smaller adult sizes at higher population densities, apparently through the effects of pheromones on growth rate. Relative aperture area tends to be smaller under drier conditions, probably because of selection for smaller whorl cross-sectional area to reduce water loss. Larger snails tend to have higher whorl expansion rates. This pattern is variously interpreted as relating to the maintenance of constant attachment area/weight, whether of foot surface area when the snail is active or when attached to a substrate or of aperture perimeter when attached. Apertural denticles are generally thought to represent adaptations to reduce predation. Relative shell height of snail species relates to the angle of the substrate on which activity occurs; this could be related to the mechanics of shell balance. For unknown reasons, helicid species in the Mediterranean area frequently have forms with keeled and with rounded shell peripheries. Snails living on calcareous substrates sometimes have thicker shells; the effect is not necessarily direct. Surprisingly, only a weak relationship exists between shell thickness and moisture conditions. Shell coiling sometimes occurs in the opposite direction between sympatric species, probably as a result of selection for reproductive isolation. A recurring problem in the explanation of shell form is the interpretation of covarying shell characters. Identification of nonadaptive variation which results from developmental dependence on another character is dependent on the study of the selective and direct-environmental causes of variation in land snail shell form.
10.2307/2413430|Systematists often attempt to avoid the problem of correlated characters by establishing an arbitrary number of variables that must be significant before groups are considered distinct. The appropriateness of this approach has not been evaluated empirically in the biological literature. We analyzed morphometric data for 27 species of bats from the Brazilian Northeast. Twenty-two mensural characters (12 cranial, 10 external) were analyzed for interlocality and secondary sexual variation in each species using ANOVA and MANOVA. The univariate and multivariate analyses showed little correspondence; no predictable relationship between the number of characters exhibiting significance for a particular treatment effect in the univariate analyses and the significance level for that treatment in the multivariate analysis was discernible. Small sample sizes or disparate sample sizes do not contribute to this phenomenon. Results ranged from: 11 of 12 characters significant using ANOVA and nonsignificance in the MANOVA; to no character significant using the ANOVA with significance in the multivariate analysis. Because MANOVA utilizes rather than ignores correlations among characters, it is the correct statistical test for evaluating overall group differences. We show that even conservative interpretations of the univariate results can lead to erroneous systematic conclusions.
10.2307/2413432|A well-known approach to inferring phylogenies involves finding a phylogeny with the largest number of characters that are perfectly compatible with it. Variations of this problem depend on whether characters are: cladistic (rooted) or qualitative (unrooted); binary (two states) or unconstrained (more than one state). The computational cost of known algorithms that guarantee solutions to these problems increases at least exponentially with problem size; practical computational considerations restrict the use of such algorithms to analyzing problems of small size. We establish that the four basic variants of the compatibility problem are all NP-complete and, thus, are so difficult computationally that for them efficient optimal algorithms are not likely to exist.
10.2307/2413429|The worldwide occurrence of antitropical organisms is correlated with a reorganization of world climate culminating in the middle Miocene. It is suggested that rising tropical temperatures in the Miocene led to a global exclusion of stenothermic taxa from low latitudes. The phylogeny and distribution of the New World silversides are congruent with this interpretation of antitropical origins. Evidence bearing on the relationships of the American anchovies is consistent with this paleoclimatic hypothesis as well. Alternative hypotheses promoting long-distance dispersal, tropical submergence, competition and predation contribute to a fuller understanding of the mosaic nature of the global antitropical pattern.
10.2307/2413384|Chromosomal, genic, and morphologic variation was examined among populations of Dipodomys agilis from southern California and Baja California, including populations previously recognized as D. antiquarius, D. paralius, and D. peninsularis. Populations with a diploid chromosomal number of 62 and a fundamental number of 110 were found north of San Gorgonio Pass, and those possessing a diploid number of 60 and a fundamental number of 116 were found to the south. Genic data also indicated a similar separation of northern and southern populations. Analyses of morphologic data revealed that populations in the north were significantly larger than those in the south for several characters. Considering the three data sets, there is considerable differentiation of populations north of San Gorgonio Pass from those to the south. Apparently, the terrain at San Gorgonio Pass, and possibly human habitation, has prevented genetic exchange between these populations for a sufficient period for differences between them to accumulate.
10.2307/2413390|Unpaired male least sandpipers (Calidris minutilla) emitted three main kinds of calls to attract mates and in sexual or agonistic interactions. The call types varied slightly across the nesting range (samples from British Columbia, Yukon Territory, Manitoba, and Nova Scotia). One call type, analyzed in most detail, was given in long rhythmic series during aerial displays. Tape recordings of 2,250 calls from 80 males were analyzed using four measurements on temporal characteristics and eight on frequency. Most of the variance (59-82% for the 12 characters) was attributable to variation among males, less to cells (13-41%), and least to locality (0-9%); only one variable differed significantly among geographic samples. Temporal characteristics varied more than frequency characteristics, with coefficients of variation (Vs) averaging 4 to 9% for the former and 2 to 3% for the latter. Vs were significantly heterogeneous across characters for each locality but variability profiles were very similar among localities. No Vs differed significantly among geographic samples. The extreme geographic uniformity in call structure, univariate and multivariate variation, variance components, and correlational relationships among call variables was unexpected. Comparative studies using similar quantitative techniques are needed to assess the generality of the findings.
10.2307/2413385|An undirected phylogenetic tree is an unrooted tree with labeled leaves in which no interior vertex has just two incident edges; the labels associated with the tree's leaves identify organisms or evolutionary units in a study collection. Any subset of four leaf labels is called a quartet. Each quartet inherits from the phylogenetic tree a subtree providing basic information about branching relationships among the quartet's organisms within the phylogenetic tree. Consequently, quartets can be used to measure resolution of, and to construct measures of structure and dissimilarity between, such trees. I report empirical and theoretical investigations of six quartet dissimilarity measures. The empirical study provides information about frequency distributions of quartet dissimilarities when trees are randomly sampled from the set of all phylogenetic trees of given size. The theoretical study analyzes expectations of quartet dissimilarity measures when trees are randomly sampled; for this model, expectations of quartet dissimilarity measures are determined by the expectation of a measure of tree resolution.
10.2307/2413381|C-banded karotypes of five species of frogs endemic to western North America were analyzed to investigate the use of such chromosomal data in determining their systematic interrelationships. Morphologically, three of the species (Rana aurora, R. cascadae and R. pretiosa) may be considered generalized "brown frogs," while the other two species (R. boylii and R. muscosa) are morphologically divergent and may be termed "stream frogs." The peculiar karyotype of R. muscosa, with its three pairs of telocentric chromosomes, can be derived from that of R. boylii by postulating a series of chromosomal inversions. Based on karyotypic character analysis, R. boylii and R. muscosa constitute a pair of sister taxa that appears to have arisen from within the western Rana. The chromosomal evidence, while concordant with morphological considerations, conflicts with various systematic hypotheses that have been proposed concerning these frogs based on immunological distance studies and reanalyses.
10.2307/2413382|Eight species of frogs of the genus Rana, comprising five species endemic to western North America and three related species, were examined electrophoretically in order to investigate their systematic interrelationships. Two morphotypic "stream frogs," R. boylii and R. muscosa, were found to be sister taxa derived from within an assemblage of "brown frogs" that included R. aurora, R. cascadae and R. pretiosa. Rana cascadae was closely allied to R. aurora. The two subspecies of R. aurora were discernable, but closely related, and exhibited variation conforming to a north-south pattern of allozyme divergence. Allozyme differences indicated considerable divergence in R. pretiosa, both between samples and from other species. The five western species were found to be a monophyletic group exclusive of the Eurasian species R. temporaria and R. dybowskii and the North American R. sylvatica. The 24-chromosome species R. dybowskii was very distant genetically from all other species examined. The electrophoretic evidence agrees with a number of conclusions drawn from karyological investigations, such as the common derivation of R. boylii and R. muscosa, but disputes previous conflicting systematic hypotheses concerning these frogs based on immunological distance studies and reanalyses of existing data. The widespread "brown frog" morphotype may be considered a conserved primitive state in Rana. In certain respects, karyotypic, morphotypic and genotypic evolution in these frogs may have proceeded independently.
10.2307/2413389|While many advances have been made in the statistical treatment of morphometrics, there has been little improvement in the design of measurements subjected to statistical analysis. Commonly measured linear dimensions result in a loss of geometrical integrity and an inability to translate multivariate statistical results into material three-dimensional morphology. Problems with the definition of size and shape, spurious correlation, and anatomical localization of form change or difference arise with linear dimensions. Finite-element scaling methods overcome these problems and produce measures that can be subjected to standard multivariate statistical analyses. The finite-element scaling method is described, as are measures of local and general size and shape change. We use finite-element scaling as a basis for an analysis of sexual dimorphism in rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) facial growth. Males grow approximately twice as fast as females, although facial growth stops at nearly the same age in the two sexes. The adult female face is morphologically quite similar in all aspects of size and shape to that of a juvenile male (4.5 years old). Thus, considered heterochronically, and taking the female morphology as primitive, sexual dimorphism in the size and shape of the rhesus face arose through rate hypermorphosis. Growth of the face was strongly allometric, with the maxillary alveolus growing much faster than other facial regions. Finite-element scaling is a very useful measurement tool for the comparison of forms, especially in studies of growth and phylogenetic transformation.
10.2307/2413383|An iterative procedure for deriving minimum-length phylogenetic trees from allele frequencies using Rogers' genetic distance as the measure of branch length is extended to include eight additional distances: a modified Rogers' distance; Nei's standard, maximum and minimum distances; Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord and arc distances; and modified forms of the chord and arc distances. The derivation of such trees is defended as a parsimony procedure, and I conclude that any distance used in this procedure must be metric. The nine genetic distances are compared on the criteria of: metricity; ability to produce ancestral allele frequencies with heterozygosity approximating that of the terminal taxa; convergence to a stable solution; and computer time. The modified Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord distance is equal or superior to the other distances on the first three criteria, but requires more computer time than most. Rogers' distance has the properties of metricity and convergence, and ranks below the modified chord distance on ancestral heterozygosity, but generally requires about one-half as much computer time as the modified chord distance.
10.2307/2413388|Panbiogeography, from Croizat to its latest developments in New Zealand, is treated at length. Craw and Weston's attempt to squeeze their approach into Lakatos' philosophy of science is shown to be futile. Due to a heavy burden of a priori assumptions, panbiogeography is to be viewed, especially in Craw and Weston's version, as an adjunct to historical geology, rather than as a biogeographic theory. The role of panbiogeography as an impetus to the development of vicariance or cladistic biogeography is acknowledged.
10.2307/2413387|A method is presented that constrains principal components analysis (PCA) to extract a first component that, by definition, summarizes isometric size alone. The remaining information is partitioned according to variation in shape. Size-constrained and conventional procedures are compared with analyses of data on sexual dimorphism in the painted turtle (Chrysemys picta marginata) and a crayfish (Cambarus bartoni). Contrary to results from standard analyses using covariance or correlation matrices, the size-constrained technique shows that turtles are dimorphic in isometric size but not in shape. Conventional methods do not completely isolate variation in isometric size from variation in shape. Analysis of the crayfish data confirms that PCA with the correlation matrix separates size from shape more effectively than analysis with the covariance matrix. Secondary shape components (i.e., the third and subsequent components) differ markedly, suggesting that incomplete partitions of isometric size and shape by the traditional methods dramatically affect the results.
10.2307/2413386|The iguanid lizard Sceloporus grammicus is one of the most chromosomally variable of all nonmammalian vertebrates, and is an often-cited example of stasipatric or cascading chromosomal speciation in progress. We report on a sampling effort focused on populations in central Mexico of this complex that was designed to describe the (1) extent of karyotypic variability, (2) interpopulation divergence as defined by chromosomal markers, and (3) levels of within-sample chromosomal polymorphism. A total of 597 lizards karyotyped from 42 localities revealed extensive inter- and intrapopulational variation, with a minimum of 42 distinct karyotypes being scored by conventional staining techniques. These ranged in diploid number from 2N = 31 to 2N = 46, and are most parsimoniously explained as being derived primarily by the fixation of a sequence of fission rearrangements in the macrochromosomes. Summary statistics of genetic similarity and distance coefficients were used to group populations by overall chromosomal similarity, and this resulted in an objective designation of seven distinct cytotypes. Distributional evidence indicates that the ranges of the most derived cytotypes are internal to ranges of the more ancestral races. Of 14 chromosomally polymorphic populations analyzed, all conformed to Hardy-Weinberg expectations. Implications of these findings for models of chromosomally-mediated speciation are discussed.
10.2307/2411679|Contemporary population and developmental genetics sees no problem in finding mechanisms adequate to effect a change from one level of adaptive organization to another. Natural populations contain sufficient genetic variability to respond to directed selection for a change in the mean of almost any character. Such responses usually come by the accumulation of small increments and can be attributed to shifts in the frequencies of different alleles in polygenic systems. The extent of the response to persistent selection depends on whether the remainder of the genome adjusts to include the new mean in an integrated whole. The greater the change and the more fundamental the reorganization, the lower the probability of occurrence. Hence the prediction of such events with any degree of precision presents difficulties close to insuperable.
10.2307/2411682|Evolution is neither an autonomous sequence of spontaneous organic changes nor a predictable chain of unalterable reactions of organisms to their environment and its changes; hence ecological factors are neither just the background for evolution nor do they determine it directly and unequivocally. The contribution of ecological factors to the timing and the direction of evolution depends upon the role they assume, or are allotted, in the life history of the species in question. The adaptation of species to momentary relationships with their particular environments may preadapt them to the establishment of new ecological relationships. Preadaptation is achieved when new or even existing components of the organism's environment acquire additional or totally novel roles in the ecological niches of these organisms, i.e., when the organism interacts with parts of its environment in new and different ways. The exploitation of the evolutionary opportunities emerging from the interaction between organic and environmental diversity involves both chance and choice. The central role of behavior permits the element of choice; the importance of choice in evolution increases with increasing complexity of animals and their behavior. The role of ecological factors in evolution must be investigated by clarifying the multiple feedback relationships between structure, habit, and habitat.
10.2307/2411680|The relationship of morphogenesis to evolution of higher levels of organization is discussed, with three embryological examples: the origin of the cerebral inductor complex, the probable origin of paired fins and of variation in the skull bones of fishes, and the reduction of the fibula and digits in tetrapods. Minor changes in morphogenesis may lead to major alterations in adult structure, usually affect the entire organism, and must be balanced with respect to the morphology and function of the organism.
10.2307/2411684|The transition from one higher level of organization to another always involves some form of biological improvement for the same or a new way of life. Except in rare cases when a single lineage attains a new level, the transition is expressed in terms of similar adaptations (broad adaptations) that evolve more or less in parallel in lineages of common ancestry. Within the limitations imposed by ancestry, canalization and directional selection, experimentation with various combinations of primitive, intermediate, and advanced characters will lead to both niche adaptation and to broad adaptation. Broad adaptations may evolve at different rates and times in related lineages, but they are, in effect, responsible for the recognition of a higher level. The partly opportunistic nature of this process implies that these lineages will approach or enter a new level with varying degrees of success. A particular higher level of organization may therefore have a multiple origin even though it has a monophyletic origin at a particular lower level.
10.2307/2411681|One of the most controversial questions in the study of major evolutionary changes is whether or not all macroevolutionary steps are fully adaptive and completely understandable in terms of the known principles of microevolutionary change. The answer appears to lie not in the search for new evolutionary mechanisms, but in the correct description and analysis of the events involved in the origin of new higher levels of organization, as has been stressed by several workers who are dissatisfied with the synthetic theory of evolution. Evolutionary adaptation is the relationship of a species to a specific set of environmental conditions; it connotes both the process and the state of being. An adaptation is a form-function complex (= faculty) that has two components: it has a definite biological role that interacts with a selection force; and it has a relative degree of efficiency. The degree of adaptation, as a state of being, is defined as the ability of the feature to execute successfully its biological role with the minimal expenditure of energy. As a process, adaptation is defined as any evolutionary change that reduces this amount of energy. Preadaptation occurs when a feature, by virtue of its present form and functions, acquires a new biological role and thus gains a new adaptation. Key innovations are those adaptations focal to the exploitation of a new habitat. The model suggested for the sequence of events in the origin of new groups is an evolutionary change that: (a) involves a series of many steps, each representing an intermediate stage between the ancestral and descendent groups; (b) occurs in an intermediate adaptive zone; and (c) involves a number of phyletic lines. Each step involves preadaptations, key innovations and a postadaptational period with an adaptive radiation of forms. This radiation, in turn, may result in a new preadaptation leading to another step, and so on. If the evolving group in the transitional zone reaches a new major adaptive zone, a larger adaptive radiation may occur, marking the primary flowering of the new group. However, no single point can be cited as the origin of the group. The series of modifications involved in the evolution of a new higher level of organization is exactly the same as the continuous evolutionary change within the old adaptive zone, except for the steady change in niche relationships in the transitional zone. The adaptive mechanisms involved are identical for both series of changes; a search for new mechanisms is not needed.
10.2307/2411683|The process of natural selection operates at the population and species levels, but its effects are seen at all levels of organization. Directional selection is the primary mechanism for changes that result in the evolution of higher levels. The effectiveness of natural selection can be measured by three types of evolutionary rates: taxonomic, morphological, and biological (species origin). The most useful rate is that of species origin, which can be compared with rates obtained from experimental or mathematical models. The rates computed from the fossil record of many Pleistocene mammals are higher than those derived from models. The history of several well-known vertebrate lineages clearly demonstrates that higher levels of organization evolve by means of microevolutionary processes rather than by special genetic and selective mechanisms. Phenotypic variation observed in phyletic lines does not give a direct index of the genetic variability underlying the phenotype.
10.2307/2411737|This paper relates to aspects of taxonomy and systematic zoology contained in volumes of the Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, published by the Geological Society of America and Kansas University Press.
10.2307/2411733|The generic name Ichthyosporidium Caullery and Mesnil, 1905, was created for two original species. One of them was probably a fungus and the other a protozoan, but neither was ever designated as type-species. In subsequent studies this name has been applied by some authors to organisms known to be fungi and by other authors to quite different organisms which are generally conceded to be protozoans. In this study the protozoan originally included in the genus, I. phymogenes, later corrected to I. giganteum (Thelohan, 1895) Swarczewsky, 1914, is selected as type-species and the generic name is thereby reserved for the protozoans. The other original species, I. gasterophilum C. and M., 1905, is transferred to genus Ichthyophonus Plehn and Mulsow, 1911.
10.2307/2411546|The 17 modern Canadian arctic tundra mammals share only six broad patterns of taxonomic variation and geographic distribution. These are believed to result from differing distributions during the Wisconsin glacial stage, and the past distributions to have been in large part determined by the ecological relations of the species during the preceding interglacial stage. Those that were tundra species were able to maintain populations in the northern refugia, both in Beringia and Pearyland if the species was widespread (e.g., varying lemming) and only in the former if confined to western North America (e.g., brown lemming). Tree-line species (e.g., caribou) gave rise to both woodland and tundra forms, the former from populations isolated south of the ice, and the latter from populations trapped in the cooling northern refugia. Other species maintained themselves only in Beringia (e.g., man), and others only south of the ice-sheets (e.g., wolverine). Two species, polar bear and arctic fox, find sea-ice no barrier to distribution, and their present ranges are of as little zoogeographical relevance as those of anadromous fish.
10.2307/2412997|Chromosomal homologies between Neotomodon alstoni, Baiomys taylori and species of Peromyscus for which G-band chromosomal data are available in the literature were identified using G- and C-banding techniques. The primitive karyotype for the peromyscine genera is hypothesized to have a 2n = 48 composed of two or three pairs of biarmed and 20 to 21 pairs of acrocentric autosomes, with heterochromatin restricted to the centromeric regions. Patterns of chromosomal change are presented in the form of a cladogram. The G-banded karyotype of Baiomys taylori is composed of all acrocentric autosomes and is most like that of Peromyscus crinitus, differing only by pericentric inversions in pairs 1, 22, and 23. Neotomodon alstoni shares synapomorphic inversions with several species of Peromyscus. Based on these data, we believe Neotomodon is best considered a congener of Peromyscus.
10.2307/2412998|A probabilistic model of evolution in a character is presented. It involves two character states, 0 and 1. The population may have a third state, 01, in which there is polymorphism for both character states. There are three evolutionary events in the model: origination of state 1, reversion from state 1, and loss of polymorphism, plus an event corresponding to total misinterpretation of the character by the taxonomist. The maximum likelihood method of estimating the phylogeny is described. When the probabilities of the four events are taken to be extreme, then depending on their relative sizes under different circumstances four different phylogenetic inference methods emerge as maximum likelihood methods. Three are known: the Camin-Sokal parsimony method, Farris's Dollo parsimony method, and the Estabrook-Johnson-McMorris compatibility method. A new method, the polymorphism parsimony method, also emerges. It explains parallelism and convergence by persistence of character-state polymorphism after a unique origin of the derived character state, and attempts to find that evolutionary tree which requires the least extent of polymorphism. Details of implementation of the polymorphism parsimony method are given. Some variants of the evolutionary model are discussed, involving unrooted character state trees. The use of the model to resolve a paradox which arises when we attempt to apply the Dollo parsimony method to multiple-state characters is briefly considered.
10.2307/2412995|Cladistic analysis is the analysis of hierarchically branching diagrams (cladograms), which estimate, with more or less informativeness and efficiency, one or more cladistic parameters. Branch points (components) comprise part of the information of a cladogram (the component information); and branch tips (terminal taxa) comprise the other part (the term information). In an analysis of five cladograms published on allodapine bees, components were segregated into four categories: (1) replicates; (2) components non-combinable with replicates; (3) components combinable with replicates and with each other; (4) components individually combinable with replicates but not with each other. Components replicated in cladograms based on independent data sets have low, but specifiable, probabilities of occurrence. For the five cladograms of bees, the replicates were found to be non-random (P = 10
10.2307/2412996|Six species of periodical cicadas have been recognized even though there are only three morphologically distinct types. Each of the three types exhibits 13-year life cycles in certain areas of its range (primarily southern) and 17-year life cycles in other areas (primarily northern). It has been suggested that the two life cycle forms of each morphological type originated from a single splitting event and that the three 13-year-17-year pairs should be considered sibling species pairs. An alternate interpretation is that shifts between 13- and 17-year life cycles have occurred more than once in each morphological type making untenable the classification of life cycle forms within a type as sibling species. The fact that each life cycle form of each morphological type is divided into broods, the adults of which emerge synchronously in different years, complicates matters further but multiplies the opportunities for studying the evolution of the various forms. Numerical phylogenetic analysis of allozymic information supports the second interpretation. Allozymic variation was generally low. Genetic distances between 13- and 17-year forms based on 20 loci proved to be no greater than those found between local populations of most other organisms. Phylogenetic analysis of two 17-year and three 13-year broods indicated that, in this case, brood formation in the 17-year cicadas preceded the formation of the 13-year life cycle. The present geographic distributions of broods coincide logically with the proposed branching sequence. Testable predictions are made as to the relationships of unstudied broods which are based on geographic distributions and Pleistocene paleobotany. Morphological studies, in progress, will serve as an independent test of the proposed cladogram.
10.2307/2412999|A positive correlation between intrapopulation variation and among population diversity has been demonstrated for morphometric characters (the Kluge-Kerfoot phenomemon). This study extends the relationship to allozyme variation. Four sets of statistics are utilized to partition genetic variation into within and among population components of diversity and the strength of association between these components is assessed by means of rank order correlation. All but one of the seven species tested demonstrate significant, positive correlation coefficients for all four of the diversity measures. Although both selective and stochastic mechanisms may generate such a relationship, it appears that stochastic forces do not totally account for the correlations seen in the data sets analyzed here.
10.2307/2412560|The purpose of a general formal classification of animals is to foster effective communication within and between zoological subdisciplines. Cladistics is a method of classification based only on phylogeny, but knowledge of phylogeny requires a relatively dense and continuous fossil record not available for many groups. Cladistics presumes phylogeny, and it cannot be used to reconstruct phylogeny. Furthermore, phylogenetic relationships are not the only attributes of organisms, and classifications based solely on phylogeny ignore important attributes related to adaption, biogeography, and age. Effective communication requires that a classification be as simple as possible, balanced, and relatively stable. In practice, organisms are grouped into species, and species are grouped into successively higher taxa primarily on the basis of (1) overall similarity (including morphology, geography, and age), with the boundaries between taxa being drawn in such a way that (2) each group is monophyletic in the general sense of this term, with (3) traditional groupings being maintained to the maximum extent consistent with (1) and (2). Classification is basically phenetic, with phylogeny (where known) providing an important constraint on acceptable phenetic arrangements. Traditional and cladistic classifications of North American Eocene primates of the family Adapidae are compared, with a slightly modified traditional classification being favored because of its simplicity, balance, and stability. Phylogeny itself is better expressed in a diagram than in a formal classification.
10.2307/2412566|Although Henning presented cladistic methods by referring to a model of the evolutionary process, neither the value nor the success of the methods is limited by the value or success of that evolutionary model. Dichotomous cladograms can be preferred simply on the basis of their maximal information content, without reference to speciation mechanisms. Because only the interrelationships of diagnosable taxa (those with unique sets of apomorphic characters) can be investigated, questions about whether speciation can occur without branching, or whether species become extinct at branching points, are irrelevant to cladistic practice. The distinction between plesiomorphic and apomorphic character states depends not on the reconstruction of actual evolutionary history, but on the discrimination of more general from less general characters; groups based on plesiomorphy are defined by the absence of characters and are therefore artificial. Hence cladistic methods are not the methods of phylogenetics per se, but the methods of natural classification in general; phylogenetic conclusions are an extrapolation from hypotheses about natural order.
10.2307/2412558|The goal of cladistic systematics is to discern sister-group relations (cladistic relations) by the methods of cladistic analysis and to represent them explicitly and unambiguously in cladograms and cladistic classifications. Cladists have selected cladistic relations to represent for two reasons: cladistic relations can be discerned with reasonable certainty by the methods of cladistic analysis and they can be represented with relative ease in cladograms and classifications. Cladists argue that features of phylogeny other than cladistic relations cannot be discerned with sufficient certainty to warrant attempting to represent them in either cladograms or classifications and could not be represented if they could. I argue that a better alternative is to work toward improving methods of cladistic analysis (or else to supplement them with other methods) so that such features of phylogeny can be discerned and to devise methods of representation capable of representing them in both cladograms and classifications. However, cladograms and classifications cannot represent everything about phylogeny. It is better to represent one or two aspects of phylogeny explicitly and unambiguously than nothing at all.
10.2307/2412570|When recent literature on the falsifiability of natural selection is examined critics and defenders seem to communicate with each other very poorly. An examination of the structure of tautology and that of causal explanation provides criteria by which to examine the claims of both critics and defenders. Natural selection is free of tautology in any formulation that recognizes the causal interaction between the organism and its environment, but most recent critics have already understood this and are actually arguing that the theory is not falsifiable in its operational form. Under examination, the operational forms of the concepts of adaptation and fitness turn out to be too indeterminate to be seriously tested, for they are protected by ad hoc additions drawn from an indeterminate realm. Future knowledge may reduce the organism to a determinate system, but until such time too little is known to investigate organism-environment relations. Researchers should consider whether natural selection is necessary to empiric investigation in their area, and whether it can serve the purpose for which it is applied.
10.2307/2412565|Systematists of all minds, be they pheneticists, evolutionists, or cladists, are urged to reconsider the kinds of criteria that ought be used in judging the scientific worth of a method of classification. It is suggested that the current enthusiasm for Popperian falsificationism may be mistaken, and that systematists might more profitably consider a criterion of merit based on what William Whewell termed the "consilience of inductions."
10.2307/2412567|The development of hypotheses in phylogenetic systematics involves two activities: (1) the construction of phylogenetic hypotheses, and (2) subjecting these hypotheses to critical tests. Both may be analyzed within the framework of Bayes' theorem. Both are, in my view, inherently probabilistic and, as such, do not fit well into Popper's rigidly deductive models of scientific methodology. Regarding item (1), phylogenetic hypotheses are constructed, wholly or in part, by applying an ordering principle of shared derived character states to M taxa out of a group of N taxa. In order to establish a rational basis for when to apply the ordering principle (when to believe it), the principle is analyzed in terms of a relative frequency model. Application of Bayes' theorem to this model, first for M = 2, and then for M >2, establishes a necessary condition for applying the ordering principle. As it turns out, the conditions under which one might rationally apply the principle vary markedly from one value of N (and M) to the next; this conclusion provides a good incentive for following a probabilistic approach when applying the ordering principle. The testing of phylogenetic hypotheses (item 2 above) is also viewed in terms of Bayes' theorem. These probabilistic approaches contrast markedly with the strictly deductive view of scientific methodology developed by Popper.
10.2307/2412569|An electrophoretic comparison of proteins is used to evaluate the genetic relationships of the salamanders of the genus Plethodon. The genetic relationships are generally in agreement with the morphological data upon which recent classifications are based but several discrepancies are discussed. In particular, the discovery that the eastern small plethodons are paraphyletic suggests that the ancestral plethodon resembled the small species in size and that the large size of the other eastern species is a derived state. Plethodon neomexicanus, whose relationship to the other plethodons has long been ambiguous, is most closely related to P. larselli; these two species share, in addition to protein similarities, a derived osteological character state not found elsewhere in the genus Plethodon. Electrophoretic genetic distance (D) is highly correlated with albumin immunological distance determined for the same set of populations (r = .86) and both measures estimate similar divergence times for Plethodon lineages even when values of D are very large. Average net rate of speciation in Plethodon equals that previously determined for salamanders in general (0.12 speciation events/lineage/million years) but the rates vary considerably. Estimates of genetic distance are used in an analysis of the results of DNA annealing studies. Evolutionary divergence of total single copy and total middle repetitive DNA fractions is highly correlated with genetic distance indicating that both DNA fractions include sequences that diverge in a time dependent manner. Sequence divergence of single copy DNA, which is directly proportional to  Tm, is calculated to be 0.17-0.18%/million years as a minimum estimate for Plethodon. The middle repetitive fraction as a whole appears to evolve rapidly in Plethodon as measured by changes in percentages of reassociation and by  Tm in interspecific comparisons, but a small subset of the middle repetitive sequences is highly conserved. It is concluded that the eastern and western species of Plethodon diverged slightly over 40 million years ago (in the late Eocene). Compared to other North American salamanders, morphological divergence among plethodons has been slow.
10.2307/2412561|The nature and historical origins of the phenetic approach to classification are described. A common misconception equates phenetics with numerical taxonomy, but in fact most phenetic taxonomy (at least of plants) is not numerically based. Phenetics is not characterized by any particular methodology but by its primary, perhaps single, purpose, which is to provide a convenient general-purpose framework for accommodating the diversity of plants and animals. It is recognized that it is the process of evolution that permits such a general-purpose classification of organisms, but otherwise phenetics makes no attempt to reflect evolution in classification. Instead, phenetic classification seeks to reflect the overall characteristics of the organisms being studied and to describe the distributions among organisms of as many of their character-states as possible. Phenetic studies usually start by "arranging" organisms by overall similarity. In numerical phenetics this arrangement has generally involved the calculation of a set of pairwise dissimilarities and the subsequent transformation of these to a set of ultrametric distances which define a dendrogram. Attention is drawn to the distinction between a dendrogram which is usually distance-defined and a classification which is necessarily rank-defined. The point is also made that, except in very small groups, constructing a practical classification involves a process of simplification of the number of ranks and branching-points suggested by any dendrogram. Criteria for judging phenetic classifications require, therefore, a component which assesses the simplification process as well as one measuring the extent to which an ultrametric transformation reflects the original data. Methods of phenetic classification are reviewed and the role of a posteriori weighting of characters is discussed. Iterative character-weighting to reinforce incipient groupings, and analogous methods such as those based on ordinations are considered often to provide a better reflection of the maximally predictive properties of phenetic groupings than do unmodified transformations of overall similarity matrices. The cladistic and eclectic ("evolutionary") approaches to classification are assessed. Although phenetic relationships cannot be expressed in reduced dimensionality without loss of information, a two-dimensional diagram can (at least in theory) always perfectly express cladistic pathways. Consequently, it is suggested that it is redundant to seek to make a classification reflect cladistic pathways. Both a phenetic classification and a cladistic reconstruction can usefully be presented in the same study. Attempts to reflect cladistic pathways in a classification leads to a complexity that cannot be expressed in the normal taxonomic framework and consequently result in an explosion of ranks. The problems associated with these attempts and the axiomatic treatment by cladists of certain classic biological uncertainties are noted. Eclectic classification is ill-defined. Often it seems indistinguishable from the neural assessment of relationship by non-numerical pheneticists, and in general it differs from phenctic classification only by its claim to express evolutionary relationships in a different way from that implicit in the former.
10.2307/2412568|The possibility of deciphering patterns of evolutionary diversification using the semiaquatic bugs (Hemiptera: Gerromorpha) as an example group is examined. Two different approaches are contrasted: the evolutionary systematic and the phylogenetic (cladistic) approach. The methods of phylogenetic inference are thereafter applied to data on the structural, behavioral, and ecological divesity of semiaquatic bugs. Semiaquatic bugs comprise an unusual life form as they are the most successful group of insects inhabiting the water surface in almost any kind of habitat, including the open ocean. Semiaquatic bugs are currently classified in eight families: Mesoveliidae, Hebridae, Paraphrynoveliidae, Macroveliidae, Hydrometridae, Hermatobatidae, Veliidae, and Gerridae. A cladogram of relationships among these families is constructed. It provides a hypothesis about the sequence of branching in evolution corroborated by synapomorphic characters. An estimate of the amount of evolutionary change within single lineages (derivation load) is introduced. The habitat preferences of semiaquatic bugs are superimposed upon the cladistic relationships among taxa. Phylogenetic inferences suggest that the ancestral type of habitat of most families was humid terrestrial and/or marginal aquatic. Species belonging to most families have remained in the ancestral habitats and a few species of the Veliddae and Gerridae have secondarily invaded similar habitats. Derived habitats include the plant-covered water surface, the free surface of stagnant fresh water, flowing fresh water, intertidal marine waters, and the surface of the open ocean. Each of these categories of habitats has been independently invaded several times from more ancestral habitats. Several adaptive features of semiaquatic bugs are discussed and their ancestral and derived states separated. There are definite associations between the physical nature of the environment and the structural, mechanical, and behavioural elements of locomotion. The evolutionary transition from the walking rhythm of leg movements towards the rowing rhythm and locomotion by jump-and-slide movements has probably taken place several times. Two different kinds of predator strategies in semiaquatic bugs can be distinguished: that of a searching predator, which is the most ancestral, and that of a waiting predator utilizing surface ripples in prey-location, which is the derived strategy. Wing polymorphism, sexual behaviour of surface-inhabiting bugs, and diversification of the egg system are also discussed. The evolutionary diversification of semiaquatic bugs is visualized as a repeated series of transitions between a hygropetric and a pleustonic adaptive zone and adaptive radiation towards various subzones of the latter. This model has some weaknesses from an ecological point of view. Ecological diversification is not just a problem of the relations between structure and environment. The limited supply of resources, conflicting demands of various factors, and interspecific competition and/or predation may be important as well. In conclusion, the neo-Darwinian views on the origin and differentiation of higher taxa are examined and criticized.
10.2307/2412564|Philosophy, especially metaphysics, is not easily distinguished from science at the borderline since both are realistic pursuits of truth, with their theories held open to criticism. It is not useful to apply the distinguishing criterion of falsifiability strictly at the margin, and anyway falsifiability needs supplementing with an attitude of openness to criticism (refutation). This is Popper's view. Applied to taxonomy, it challenges pheneticism severely (as superficial) and classical evolutionary classification and cladism just a little. The scientific character of the search for natural taxa should not be obscured by the conventional character of an internationally agreed classification.
10.2307/2412559|The goal of evolutionary systematics, to provide classifications of maximum utility through maximum use of evolutionary theory, has failed of accomplishment to the extent that practitioners of evolutionary systematics have relied upon descriptive rather than theoretical definitions of terms. Monophyly and related terms are discussed, a new definition of higher taxon is provided, and a new methodology for producing classifications of maximum utility, employing cladistic and anagenetic analysis, is partly outlined. Cladists, by ignoring a significant part of evolutionary theory, produce classifications that are less useful to systematist and nonsystematist alike.
10.2307/2412562|Both pheneticists and evolutionary taxonomists claim that their classifications contain more information on characters and degrees of similarity than does the phylogenetic system, but until recently no attempt had been made to measure the information content of phylogenetic classification. Extending previous results, I show that both distance and character information is better retained by phylogenetic than by phenetic classifications. The phylogenetic procedure of grouping according to synapomorphy corresponds to expressing distance information as a path-length distance, while phenetic clustering expresses distance information through clustering levels. It is impossible for a clustering-levels distance to fit distance data better than the best-fitting path-length distance. Classifications are most natural in Gilmour's sense, and have greatest information content per taxon, when they allow description of data in the fewest symbols. Most parsimonious trees have highest information content, are most natural, allow data to be completely summarized by the most succinct diagnoses, minimize exceptions to such complete diagnoses, and permit the greatest number of predictions between adjacent taxa. Values of Brothers' (1975) index of distinctness are perfectly described by a phylogenetic classification, but not by any other. There is no justification for either a phenetic or an evolutionary approach, since the phylogenetic system contains greater information than either on characters and similarities, while at the same time better reflecting phylogenetic kinship.
10.2307/2412521|Principal components analysis and linear discriminant function analysis were applied to two data sets comprised of a sample of laboratory-reared hybrid fish, and wild-caught parental samples. For each method, the assumptions required for making statistical inferences and the biological assumptions employed in hybrid studies are reviewed. The degree to which we can expect biological data sets to conform to both types of assumptions is assessed by examination of the two data sets discussed here. The usefulness of each method for hybrid identification, quantification of hybrid variability, and general determination of morphological distance from the suspected parents is evaluated by considering the results of the methods when applied to known hybrids. Evidence is presented for decreased developmental integration in the hybrids. Principal components analysis makes apparent the difference in the branchial baskets of the very similar Notropis spilopterus and N. whipplei, suggesting an ecological separation related to this morphology. The hybrids of both the Notropis and Lepomis cyanellus x L. macrochirus crosses had generally intermediate scores in both analyses, but were not uniformly intermediate, instead graded into the parental phenotypes. In the results of principal components analysis, F1 variability precludes the confident identification of all hybrid individuals as well as any specific identification of F2 and backeross individuals; the majority of hybrids should be identifiable as being of mixed genetic origin. Principal components analysis is demonstrated to be of use in the examination of variation in hybrid fishes. Linear discriminant function analysis as it is presently employed does not appear useful for hybrid analysis, for both practical and theoretical reasons. Discriminant function analysis of samples of known hybrid origin may permit subsequent analysis of suspected hybrids.
10.2307/2412520|Electromorphic variation of -glycerophosphate dehydrogenase in 71 species of Drosophila has been studied using sequential polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, sequential starch gel electrophoresis, and isoelectric focusing. Although this locus was previously reported as nearly invariant among many species of the genus, this study shows a substantial increase in variation between species which is concordant with the known taxonomy of the genus. However, these methods revealed no additional variation within the species themselves. Each of the three methods found variation not detectable by the other two; thus, all are necessary for maximizing the observed variation between species. In comparison to previous electrophoretic studies of this enzyme in Drosophila, these new data show a much increased concordance with reported immunological and kinetic differences between this enzyme in different species. The implications of these results for electrophoretic studies of speciation and taxonomy are discussed.
10.2307/2412519|The gene phylogeny for a set of contemporary species is defined as the ancestral order of branching of evolutionarily related gene lineages leading to the expressed genes in the contemporary species. The species phylogeny for this set of species is defined as the evolutionary branching of species lineages leading to the contemporary species. Since a given gene may duplicate within its species lineage, and distinct sister genes may be expressed by different species, the topologies of the gene and species lineages may not be the same for the same set of contemporary species. The present paper develops a parsimony strategy for scoring the gene duplications and gene expression events needed to fit gene lineages into their corresponding species lineages. In the usual parsimony reconstruction, an effort is made to minimize the number of nucleotide replacements throughout the tree. In the present study, the sum of nucleotide replacements, gene duplications, and gene expression events is the value to be minimized. Gene expression events are further subclassified as gene loss events, activating regulator mutations, and inactivating regulator mutations. Analysis of amino acid sequence data from the alpha and beta hemoglobins and myoglobins suggests that the gene lineages deviate relatively little from established species relationships, and that most contemporary gene pairs in this phylogenetic system may be regarded as orthologous (split at the time of speciation) rather than paralogous (split prior to speciation). It also appears that as the statistical sample of orthologous sequence sites becomes greatly enlarged by tandem alignment of enough different types of protein chains, the parsimony reconstruction based strictly on minimal nucleotide replacement length will itself reveal the correct cladogram for the set of contemporary species.
10.2307/2412518|The major source of funds in the U.S. Government to which most American university and museum biologists can turn to support their studies of plant and animal systematics is the Systematic Biology Program (SYST) of the National Science Foundation (NSF). Commonly requested information on award patterns (zoological and botanical) of SYST is summarized for a recent five year interval. Funding for botanical versus zoological projects was comparable, with a slightly greater amount having gone to the latter. Regular research grants comprised by far the most significant activity of SYST. Paleobiological projects received at least 10 percent of the total yearly programmatic budgets. About two-thirds of the funds for botanical work supported projects on phanerogams; of this, most was for flowering plants. Morphology, the major category of botanical research activity, received a decreasing percentage of funds as other areas, especially in the experimental realm, grew. Support for floras and revisions showed general, though not precipitous, reduction. Research on insects, molluses, and crustaceans dominated awards for invertebrates; work on many groups of invertebrates was poorly represented. In contrast, the classes of vertebrates were represented fairly evenly in research support. Research on terrestrial and freshwater animals generally received more than 75 percent of the dollars allotted for zoological projects. A 15-year comparison was made with funding levels of four other NSF programs (Developmental, Metabolic, Regulatory, and Genetic Biology) selected because of their close conceptual relationships with evolutionary biology and because their funded research frequently leads to laboratory procedures used by systematists. Although total funding within NSF for research in systematic biology held its own in comparison with these related areas, most systematists have had much more limited alternative agencies for Federal support of their research. A result is that SYST has consistently provided significantly more awards per year than the average of the other four selected NSF programs, but with a comparatively much smaller dollar value per award.
10.2307/2412587|The possibility to use the fine structure of ooplasmic inclusions in the classification of fresh-water triclads has led to an examination of numerous planarian species. It was found that in the genera Dugesia and Cura autosynthetic yolk is present while in Polycelis, Planaria, Plagnolia, and Dendrocoelum only cortical granules are present, which are localized in the peripheral cytoplasm of mature oocytes. These findings are consistent with the recently proposed phylogenetic theory of Ball, in which the primary division of the fresh-water triclads is into the Dugesiidae and the Planariidae plus Dendrocoelidae.
10.2307/2412582|Experiments and field observations document vocal imitation in six cardueline species representing four genera. Flight call learning was found in all birds studied; learning of many other call types was observed in two genera. Additional evidence extends call learning to other carduelines bringing to eight the total number of genera in which call learning has been observed. Call learning is perhaps characteristic of subfamily Carduelinae, and the taxonomist should consider the possibility that learning may affect the patterns of all adult cardueline vocalizations. The taxonomic value of cardueline calls in particular and passerine calls in general is re-examined in light of this extensive call learning. It is suggested that the ontogenetic, learned modification in call pattern can be eliminated from the taxonomic analysis, and that calls may then be taxonomically valuable behavioral characters. The problem of homologizing behavior is discussed, with criteria for homology applied to two call types, both associated with call learning. Cardueline flight calls are autapomorphic characters useful as species specific characters, while social/alarm calls are synapomorphic at the subfamilial level and can be used as taxonomic characters at the family level.
10.2307/2412585|Some general characteristics of classifications are discussed. The usual components of phylogenetic classifications are species and supraspecific groupings. The concept of natural taxa is discussed in relation to concepts of monophyly espoused by Hennig, Simpson, and Ashlock. It is concluded that only Hennig's concept is internally and externally consistent. Genealogy is discussed in relation to natural taxa. Unique genealogical descent is defended as the only necessary and sufficient criterion for justifying a taxon as natural. The use of non-genealogical characters for justifying natural taxa rests upon two bridge principles which tie character modification to genealogical descent. The only non-genealogical characters which conform to the bridge principles are synapomorphies employed at their correct level of universality. Therefore, it is concluded that natural taxa are monophyletic sensu Hennig. Two rules of phylogenetic classification are stated and three systems which conform to these rules are contrasted. It is concluded that the Linnaean system, suitably amended, can fulfill the role for general biological classifications. Definitions of Linnaean categories are suggested. Nine conventions for classifying phylogenetic trees are presented. These conventions purport to classify phylogenetic trees of any complexity, including ancestral species and taxa of both hybrid and symbiotic origin, in such a way that their phylogenetic relationships are expressed exactly to the level that the hypothesis permits.
10.2307/2412588|A general method for making initial hypotheses and projections for secondarily analyzed characters in comparative biology is presented. Initial hypotheses are preferred (1) which are implied by compatibility of the cladogram of the group with that of a relevant character and (2) which have the greatest precision and empirical content and the highest degree of falsifiability. In cases for which compatibility analysis is not possible, a minimal character state set hypothesis meets the latter criteria. Deduction of testable implications of the various hypotheses is made possible by fully stating them in a narrative summary. Finally, character state hypotheses for ancestral species may provide a basis for projecting unobserved character states of modern taxa.
10.2307/2412584|Coevolution is defined as a combination of two processes: co-accommodation between host and parasite with no implication of host or parasite speciation and co-speciation, indicating concomitant host and parasite speciation. Parasite speciation in general is viewed as primarily the result of allopatric speciation processes regardless of host speciation or changes in host type. The observation that co-speciation of hosts and parasites forms a predominant pattern relates to a more general principle of biotic allopatric speciation explicit in the vicariance biogeography model, more than to an assumption that host speciation somehow causes parasite speciation. The close ecological relationship between hosts and parasites, which may be depicted using a variation of the MacArthur-Wilson island biogeography model, explains their spatial proximity at any time during which an isolating event occurs and thus may be necessary in some cases, but is not sufficient to explain parasite speciation, coevolution, or parasite phylogeny.
10.2307/2412581|Immunological, electrophoretic, and other macromolecular comparisons strongly suggest that Theropithecus gelada (Primates: Cercopithecidae) is cladistically closer to the genus Papio than the latter is to any other Old World monkey, despite customary views to the contrary. Review of the distinctive features of gelada anatomy, behavior, and ecology show them to be almost wholly autapomorphic and therefore not indicative of cladistic relationships. The fossil record suggests the Theropithecus lineage has existed for somewhat more than four million years. The time of separation of the Papio and Theropithecus lineages estimated from the results of three techniques of macromolecular comparison is compatible with this evidence.
10.2307/2412583|Thirty-one island populations of Podarcis sicula and P. melisellensis from Yugoslavia were examined to determine phenetic similarities based on means of 15 characters. Both cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling (MDS) revealed the following patterns of variation: 1) the two species formed distinct groups; 2) within each species, OTUs from northern and southern islands grouped separately; 3) within P. melisellensis, OTUs from small islands tended to resemble other small island OTUs from geographically close islands. These patterns appear to contradict similarities implied by previous subspecific designations based largely on color and pattern differences. Genetic drift, gene flow, and selection are evaluated as explanations for observed phenetic patterns. Drift appears to be highly unlikely as a major force determining regional, large island, and small island similarities among OTUs. Channel depths and estimates of the rate of net increase in sea level suggest that the northern islands are younger than the southern islands, supporting the idea that gene flow has been restricted among the southern islands and between the two regions for a longer time than among the northern islands. Combined with differences in selection regimes, the recency of gene flow appears to have been important in determining north-south phenetic similarities. Populations on small islands are exposed to qualitatively different selection regimes than those on large islands. The closer similarity of northern, small island OTUs to large island OTUs suggests that the northern OTUs have not responded to small island selection regimes to the same extent that southern island OTUs have.
10.2307/2412586|Multivariate statistical techniques (such as canonical variate and principal component analyses) are often used to ordinate or summarize morphometric data to facilitate biological interpretation of the morphological relationships under study. While the major axes of statistical variation which are derived in such analyses may have direct biological significance, there is no a priori reason that the biological and statistical determinants of morphological variation necessarily be concordant. Multiple regression provides a simple means of identifying and describing the maximum degree of relationship between (1) a variable, such as size or latitude, which is thought to have some biological relevance to the problem at hand, and (2) the set of uncorrelated variables, such as canonical or principal component variates, which represent the major axes of statistical variation and which may be thought of as a convenient, analytically efficient system of reference axes describing the multivariate data space. Of particular significance is the ability to examine the full multidimensional space and detect biological information having an angular relationship to the major axes of statistical variation.
10.2307/2413413|The leopard frog Rana berlandieri is presently considered to be comprised of three subspecies: R. b. berlandieri; R. b. forreri; and R. b. brownorum. In two of the purported races, genetic similarity was investigated by assessing interpopulation genetic compatibility and spermatocyte bivalent formation in interpopulation hybrids. Primary structural components of racial mating trills were analyzed and compared. The data do not support the recognition of R. b. berlandieri and R. b. forreri as conspecifics.
10.2307/2413412|A cladistic analysis of the skeletons of loons (Gaviidae), grebes (Podicipedidae), and the Cretaceous diving birds, Hesperornis and Baptornis, supports the hypothesis that they form a monophyletic group (here called the Gaviomorphae) within the class Aves. Two lineages within the gaviomorphs can be delineated: (1) loons + grebes, and (2) Hesperornis + Baptornis. The Early Cretaceous Enaliornis and the Late Cretaceous Neogaeornis are related to the second lineage; the Late Cretaceous Lonchodytes, often placed near loons, is apparently not a gaviomorph but perhaps a charadriiform. Skeletal evidence also suggests that penguins (Spheniscidae) are the sister-group of the Gaviomorphae. Arguments that similarities of gaviomorph taxa represent convergence are not well founded. First, morphological differences among taxa do not constitute valid evidence against their monophyly, as many previous workers have argued. Second, in no case has anyone supporting convergence presented a corroborated alternative phylogenetic hypothesis. A close relationship among gaviomorphs, penguins, and apparently also the Procellariiformes and Pelecaniformes implies that a lineage of aquatic birds was established very early in avian history, presumably in the Early Cretaceous or Late Jurassic.
10.2307/2413410|Evolution may be described as a nonequilibrium process involving the conversion of information from one form to another and the maintenance of old or forging of new reproductive networks. Species participate in nonequilibrium processes because they have properties of closure and because evolution is a historically irreversible phenomenon. Speciation is a process which consolidates available potential information into two or more stored information systems. Character change and the history of a clade are highly correlated because potential information is constrained by its own evolutionary history. Thus new and potential information may be converted into stored information only to the extent that this new and potential information is compatible with the ancestral information system or can find expression in an alternate ontogenetic pathway. All modes of speciation as well as anagenesis follow the second law of thermodynamics and may be described by a summary equation which charts the changes of entropy states of information and cohesion over time. We suggest that some empirical evidence corroborates our theory and that the research programs involved in further studying nonequilibrium evolution are largely in place now.
10.2307/2413411|Disillusions concerning evolutionary theorizing have forced a split among cladists. The disillusioned group of "pattern" cladists seeks an evolutionarily neutral brand of cladistics. But pattern cladistics is not, after all, evolutionarily neutral. Rather, it is at odds with evolutionary theorizing.
10.2307/2413414|Trees with branch length assignments may be constrained so that the sum of branches connecting any two labelled tips of the tree is at least as large as a previously observed distance value. When the sum of all branch lengths is minimized under this constraint, one has a minimal length tree. Two conditions regarding minimal length trees, one proved necessary and the other conjectured to be sufficient, are presented. They provide simple tests of minimality and raise problems in the interpretation of the individual branch values.
10.2307/2413368|Some geometric and probabilistic aspects are examined for three commonly used statistical distance functions. It is argued that the distance between centroids can be viewed as a probabilistic function reflecting both the geometric position of each taxon and/or the variance and correlation between the variables. A Monte Carlo simulation study is carried out to assess the effects of sample size, different variances and intercorrelations on the variability or "precision" of the distance estimates using the Euclidean distance, Pearson's Coefficient of Racial Likeness, and the Mahalanobis distance. All three distance estimators are shown to be biased and consistently overestimate the theoretical distance. The effects of these results on studies in systematic biology are discussed.
10.2307/2413369|The interpretation of two state features on a cladogram presents no problem in that Farris optimization (Farris, 1970) produces the simplest (most parsimonious) explanation of a set of changes. The only methods which produce parsimonious explanations for multistate characters either require theories of character evolution or assume that any transformation between different states is always possible. A method-Transformation Series Analysis (TSA)-for obtaining the cladogram which best explains all the data including multistate characters is developed. TSA derives parsimonious interpretations of character change (cladistic characters) from a cladogram, and the cladogram iteratively until a stable point is reached. It is demonstrated that the cladograms resulting from TSA do not depend on the initial classification. Further, the solution (stable) cladogram results in a set of characters of greater consistency that the original Wagner tree for the 20 multistate data sets examined. Sometimes this stable cladogram is the same as the original "best" (parsimonious) cladogram. When Transformation Series Analysis (TSA) gives results different from the original Wagner trees, the cladograms from the former show greater taxonomic congruence between data sets. Therefore, TSA is an improvement on existing phylogenetic methods. Because the cladistic characters are different from the original characters, "theories" for character evolution are not so well verified as has been presumed. Cladogram characters resulting from TSA are powerful systematic tools to be used in the study of character evolution.
10.2307/2413362|Traditionally, taxonomic rates of evolution have served primarily as estimators of "transformational" rates-i.e., rates of anatomical and underlying genetic change. This approach comes from the Modern Synthesis, which sees all evolutionary patterns reducible (at least in principle) to simple generation-by-generation change in gene content and frequency. If, however, species are individuals (sensu Ghiselin, 1974) rates of speciation (and species extinction) are important intrinsically, and cannot be construed as a mere function of rates of transformational change. In general, it can be argued that for every kind of biological individual posited, there is implied a quasi-discrete phenomenological level of the evolutionary process. Different sorts of biological individuals are nested hierarchically (for example, individual organisms within species), conveying an ontological (rather than purely epistemological, cf. Stebbins and Ayala, 1981) basis to the claim that evolution involves more than one phenomenological level. Each level has its characteristic patterns of change produced by its own array of deterministic and stochastic processes. Such processes cause a shuffling of component smaller individuals with-in the next higher individual. Rates of change within the levels are to a significant extent independent of one another. Five levels of the evolutionary process are briefly characterized and discussed.
10.2307/2413366|Biostratigraphically based rates of morphologic change often provide the basis for interpreting rates of evolution and speciation. A rate of morphologic change must specify the amount of and duration for that change. So, evaluating the temporal component in biostratigraphic rates of morphologic change requires the ability to tell time precisely in stratigraphic sections. A few stratigraphic levels can be calibrated by radiometric ages, but biostratigraphers have had difficulty determining how precisely they can tell time between these levels of known age. In other words, we have yet to define and estimate completeness practically in our stratigraphic records. Here, completeness is defined as a ratio contrasting the time represented by sediment vs. the total time-span of a section. This method estimates the average or expected completeness of sections at specific levels of temporal precision. Since a biostratigraphic record cannot be resolved more finely than the lithostratigraphic record containing it, these estimates usually represent the maximum amount of temporal precision attributable to a given biostratigraphic pattern. Biostratigraphic patterns should not be interpreted below the level of precision at which a section is estimated to be complete, unless that section is far above the average completeness for sections of comparable duration that represent similar environments. Accordingly, we might begin to distinguish between stratigraphic patterns resulting from geologic processes and ones resulting from biologic processes of longer duration than the level of precision at which a section is complete. For example, our previous inability to estimate completeness has often resulted in one biostratigraphic pattern being interpreted to represent both punctuated and gradual rates of morphologic change. To use the new approach, we must precisely define rate-related concepts like punctuation and gradualism in terms of their temporal duration and amount of morphologic change. Illustrations based on the biostratigraphic record of an Eocene primate from the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming and Plio-Plcistoccne molluses from the Turkana Basin of Africa caution against applying short-term neontological concepts to most biostratigraphic patterns.
10.2307/2413363|Macroevolutionary analysis focuses on the explanation of general patterns of diversity among monophyletic groups. Three general patterns can be recognized: radiation diversity in which species richness increases through time, reduction diversity in which richness decreases, and steady-state diversity in which it remains relatively constant. Most clades show some combination of these three patterns. Clades also exhibit a pattern of phenotypic change that can be superimposed on the pattern of diversification. With speciation, descendant species can become either markedly apomorphic or remain plesiomorphic relative to the ancestral condition. There is no necessary correlation between a particular phenotypic pattern and a specific pattern of diversity. Explanations of macroevolutionary patterns have been of two principal types: adaptationist and species selectionist. The adaptationist approach has explained patterns of diversity in terms of the occupation of "adaptive zones," driven by natural selection. "Adaptive zones" are tautological constructs and lack ontological status. The other macroevolutionary explanation, species selection, is a pattern of species survival through time and as such is neither a process nor a theory of macroevolutionary change. A deterministic theory of macroevolution lies in explaining inter-cladal diversity patterns by variation in the rate-controls of speciation and extinction. Speciation rate is controlled by factors intrinsic to species such as morphogenetic complexity (Wiley and Brooks, 1982) and by external factors. It is hypothesized here that the primary external rate control of speciation is lithospheric complexity, which relates directly to the number of geological and climatic barriers promoting geographic isolation. It is also proposed that plate tectonic activity controls extinction rates through mechanical influences on habitats and its effects on environmental climatic change. Extinction rates are postulated to be lower in environments of higher favorableness, which is defined in terms of relatively high mean annual temperature, low range of mean annual temperature, and high annual rainfall dispersed evenly throughout the year. The interaction of relative environmental complexity and favorableness can be used to make predictions about diversity patterns among clades and to investigate the relative importance of internal morphogenetic complexity.
10.2307/2413367|Advocates of syncretistic classification have generally held that the descriptive and explanatory roles of the biological reference system should be kept separate, and that description and explanation impose conflicting goals on classification. I show that view leads to contradictions, and I summarize earlier demonstrations that the phylogenetic system satisfies both goals at once. Pheneticists have advocated ordinations as an alternative to hierarchic classification, claiming for them superior descriptive power. I show that ordinations are more general than had been thought, as hierarchies can be subsumed under such structures. This viewpoint allows a great many classificatory criteria to be analyzed under a factor or regression model. Present phenetic criteria for clustering amount to evaluating a multiple correlation as the sum of simple correlations. This fallacy can be avoided by regressing data multiply on classificatory factors (groups), but then perfect fit to data can always be achieved, so that the classificatory problem becomes one of choosing among alternative sufficient bases. This problem is approached by analogy with simple structure criteria of factor analysis, and it is found that classificatory simple structure leads to the phylogenetic parsimony criterion. From this new viewpoint the phylogenetic system thus emerges again as a unified descriptive and explanatory structure. Objections to the descriptive power of the phylogenetic system are discussed with emphasis on recent claims by Rohlf and Sokal. It is shown that attempts to defend phenetic classification have comprised nothing other than abandoning or rendering untestable every claimed advantage of phenetic methods. There is thus no possible substantive basis for preference for phenetic grouping.
10.2307/2413365|Cladistic analysis by the maximum parsimony method was carried out on amino acid sequence data from 579 polypeptide chains of 250 species, and also on nucleotide sequence data of 41 globin genes and pseudogenes of eight species. The genealogical trees constructed in this analysis provided evidence on the phylogenetic relationships of eutherian mammals and other vertebrates, which in turn served as a framework for evaluating long term trends-rates and mechanisms-in molecular evolution above the species level. Individual proteins proved to be very poor evolutionary clocks because they evolved at markedly non-uniform rates. We hypothesize that positive selection for differentiation of the chains produced by duplicated globin genes was responsible for greatly accelerated globin evolutionary rates, especially at sites acquiring cooperative functions, during the basal radiation of Gnathostomata and Tetrapoda. Furthermore, we suggest that stabilizing selection to preserve functional improvements explains the markedly decelerated rates of globin evolution in the amniote lineages to birds and mammals. On the eutherian and early primate stem to the Anthropoidea, globin evolution again speeded up as adaptive substitutions occurred, e.g., in the -chain of primate fetal hemoglobin; globin evolution then drastically slowed in hominoids. Similar acceleration-deceleration patterns of evolutionary rates observed in the other protein genealogies, such as that of cytochrome c, further emphasize the central role of natural selection in protein evolution.
10.2307/2413364|Studies of taxonomic rates of evolution depend largely on a literal reading of the fossil record for extinction and origination events. This approach can yield estimates that grossly misrepresent phylogenetic patterns derived independently from character analysis. Such distortion can arise even in cases (e.g., Primates) where the fossil record is thought to be comparatively well-documented. Results of studies of rates at broader taxonomic levels (e.g., mammals versus bivalves) vary markedly according to, often unwarranted, assumptions regarding origination times. The significance of much of the published study on taxonomic rates is moot until fossil data for these rates are broadly compared with cladistic hypotheses.
10.2307/2413033|Electrophoretic analysis of Rhagoletis (Diptera: Tephritidae) has been performed to gain insight into phylogenetic relationships in the genus, and to determine whether Rhagoletis species have cospeciated with their host plants. The electrophoretic phylogeny differs from both the conventional classification and the assumed phylogeny of the host plants. Most of the changes suggested in the conventional classification are compatible with morphological data. The differences in the phylogenies of Rhagoletis and its host plants are not, however, likely to be resolved by further systematic analysis of the host plants. In addition to these topics, we also discuss the electrophoretic phylogeny with respect to the biogeography of the genus.
10.2307/2413034|The rigor of different parsimony methodologies and the significance of alternative branching networks with slightly differing nucleotide replacement (NR) scores are a focus of debate in studies of primate systematics. Branching topologies generated by our use of the maximum parsimony algorithm are criticized as equivalent or inferior to alternative networks generated by other methods of ancestral reconstruction. Critics also argue that it is not possible to determine which of several alternative topologies, differing by a small number of NR's, most closely reflects cladogeny since the statistical significance of the NR score differences is unknown. A careful investigation of the method of these critics reveals that their method is nonrigorous, nonreplicable and produces erroneous results. The need for rigorous, automated systems of data analysis in studies of molecular evolution is made apparent, particularly in light of the voluminous nature of the data. We here describe a series of parsimony tests conducted with globin amino acid sequence data, focusing on the position of Tarsius within Primates, in order to illustrate the importance of interpreting NR score differences within a context which includes the number of lineages represented in a data set, the density of the lineages in particular regions of a dendrogram and the exact nature of the changes attributed to specific NR savings. Analyzed within the context of these changing parameters, small NR score differences between alternative topologies can be meaningful and do produce results with significant confidence. The phylogenetic relationship of Tarsius to Anthropoidea, as well as other important issues in primate systematics, are expected to be greatly clarified with the gathering and rigorous analysis of nucleotide sequence data which can resolve the difficulties presented by convergent evolution and paralogous gene lines.
10.2307/2413035|Of the eight currently recognized species of Ceratophrys (aurita, calcarata, cornuta, cranwelli, ornata, pierottii, stolzmanni, and testudo) six are considered to be species. Ceratophrys testudo is considered a synonym of C. cornuta. The subfamily Ceratophryinae is argued to be monophyletic and is defined on the basis of two synapomorphies. The genus Ceratophrys (excluding C. pierottii) is monophyletic and is defined on the basis of three synapomorphies. Two subgenera are recognized within Ceratophrys. The subgenus Ceratophrys (one synapomorphy) includes C. aurita, C. cranwelli, and C. ornata where C. aurita and C. ornata are more closely interrelated. The subgenus Stombus (three synapomorphies) includes C. calcarata, C. cornuta, and C. stolzmanni where C. calcarata and C. cornuta are nearest relatives. Ceratophrys pierottii is hypothesized to be an intergeneric hybrid between Ceratophrys cranwelli and Lepidobatrachus llanensis. The least refuted hypothesis of relationships is inconsistent with the hypothesis that speciation amongst forest-dwelling species was mediated by Pleistocene contractions of forest into refugia. The northern species of Ceratophrys form a group fragmented in part by the Andes and the southern (and eastern) species form a second group fragmented ecologically but not physically. The widespread Amazonian species, C. cornuta, shows little evidence of having had its distribution fragmented by forest contractions. Ceratophrys cornuta is the most widely distributed species, is centrally distributed, and is by far the most apomorphous (measured in terms of autapomorphies). Such a combination is contrary to the expectations under the macroevolutionary hypothesis termed punctuated equilibria.
10.2307/2413032|In principle, any measured distances between landmarks of a form may serve as characters for morphometric analyses. Systematic studies typically are based on a highly biased and repetitious sample of these. But collections of landmarks and the distances among them must be homologous from form to form for comparisons to be meaningful, and an adequate character set should at least permit the full reconstruction of the original configuration of landmarks. We describe a geometric protocol for character selection, the truss network, which enforces systematic coverage of the form and which exhaustively and redundantly archives the land-mark configuration. Reconstruction of the form from truss measures provides Cartesian coordinates for landmarks and allows estimation of, and compensation for, measurement error. Samples of forms may be averaged and standardized to one or more common reference sizes by regression of measured distances on a composite measure of body size, followed by reconstruction of the form using distance values predicted by the regression functions at some standard body size. Principal component loadings of distance measures may be indicated directly on the truss network to display patterns of within-group allometry or between-group shape differences. Because the truss enforces use of cross measurements, discrimination among groups may be enhanced. Composite mapped forms are useful in biorthogonal analyses of differences in shape because they allow the comparison of averaged forms among samples. Certain patterns of principal component loadings are concordant with, and provide an initial sampling of, the biorthogonal grids for these deformations.
10.2307/2413231|Differentially stained chromosomes, when analyzed in a cladistic framework, provide a systematic hypothesis for ten glossophagine genera. Two separate groups are recognized on the basis of chromosomal data; a chromosomally conservative or plesiomorphic group consisting of Glossophaga, Monophyllus, Leptonycteris, and the brachyphyllines, and a relatively rapidly evolving derived group consisting of Anoura, Lonchophylla, Lionycteris, Choeroniscus, Choeronycteris, Hylonycteris, and Musonycteris. Among the six genera characterized as slowly evolving, only a single rearrangement has been identified, whereas, among the seven genera characterized as rapidly evolving over 100 chromosomal rearrangements are required to explain the observed variation. Such a contrast in rate and type of chromosomal evolution is difficult to explain in terms of most currently accepted theories of chromosomal evolution and the pattern of change is most like "karyotypic megaevolution." Within the derived group, cladistic relationships are resolved to the generic level. Variation in the magnitude of evolution at the morphological and chromosomal levels is such that chromosomal data are useful for the resolution of relationships among genera, whereas, morphological data are more informative at the subfamilial level. A combination of the two data sets is compatible with the hypothesis that the Glossophaginae is monophyletic and provides a better understanding of the nature of evolution within this subfamily.
10.2307/2413230|A cladistic analysis of the neotropical bat families Noctilionidae, Mormoopidae, and Phyllostomatidae is presented utilizing structures of the female reproductive tract. Several shared-derived (synapomorphous) features of the uterus, oviduct, and ovaries were identified within these taxa. These included features of external and internal uterine anatomy, the uterotubal junction, form of oviductal mucosal folds, anatomical relationships between oviduct and uterus, and the position of the ovarian ligament. A cladogram based on these female reproductive histomorphological synapomorphies was constructed and is proposed as a phylogenetic hypothesis. This hypothesis was tested for congruence with independent data sets involving comparative morphological, karyological, and biochemical characteristics. Noctilionids, mormoopids, and phyllostomatids possess synapomorphies that indicate they shared a common ancestor and thereby form a monophyletic group, the Phyllostomatoidea. However, based on features of the female reproductive tract, the neotropical family Thyropteridae (which has been previously assigned to the superfamily Vespertilionoidea) should be included in considering phylogenetic relationships of the Phyllostomatoidea. Familial relationships are somewhat conflicting; some studies (including the present analysis) specify a sister-group relationship between mormoopids and phyllostomatids, whereas others suggest a noctilionid-mormoopid relationship. Relationships within the Phyllostomatidae are resolved at subfamilial levels with female reproductive and independent data sets. The high level of congruence found between the phylogenetic relationships predicted by these data sets is proposed as strong evidence for the phylogenetic resolving power of female reproductive histomorphology.
10.2307/2413232|Univariate comparisons of twenty morphometric characters of sixty adult Bufo marinus recorded before preservation and six and 14 months after preservation reveal a statistically significant heterogeneity among group means of fourteen characters. After six months in preservative, the means of six of these 14 characters are significantly larger, and eight are significantly smaller, than for the same individuals prior to preservation. After eight additional months in preservative, the means of five of these 14 characters differ significantly in the opposite direction of that initially detected. Linear regressions and analyses of covariance suggest that over the range of sizes considered here, preservation effects the elevations but not the slopes of the regressions between pairs of morphometric characters. Sexual size dimorphism in six characters is documented for the fresh material; certain of these intersexual differences are reduced or are undetectable in the preserved material, and in one instance a new, marginally significant, difference is apparent after 14 months in preservative. Not all characters are measurable with equal precision, and there is a highly significant rank correlation between precision and inter-individual character variance. Principal component analyses confirm and extend the univariate findings, and discriminant function analysis reveals differences between fresh and preserved specimens of roughly the same magnitude as those commonly used to justify taxonomic decisions. The assumption that preservation induces tolerably little morphological distortion in frogs appears to be substantially violated, but an unknown proportion of among-group character variation may be attributable to measurer bias.
10.2307/2412027|Various methods of summarizing phenetic relationships are briefly reviewed (including a comparison of principal components analysis and non-metric scaling). Sequential agglomerative hierarchical clustering schemes are considered in particular detail, and several new methods are proposed. The new algorithms are characterized by their ability to "adapt" to the possible trends of variation found within clusters as they are being formed. A nonlinear version allows the isolation and description of clusters which are parabolic, ring-shaped, etc., by the introduction of appropriate dummy variables. Procedures for computing the best fitting trend line through the cluster are also presented, and problems in measuring the amount of information lost by clustering are discussed.
10.2307/2412026|Multivariate statistical techniques are used to describe phenetic relationships of the 93 species in the suborder Lari (Charadriiformes: Aves). A total of 51 skeletal and 72 external characters from adult specimens was analyzed. Classifications based on skeletal characters, external characters, and both combined are compared and contrasted. Product moment correlation coefficients and average distance coefficients were used as measures of similarity. OTUs were clustered using the unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic averages (UPGMA) and linear adaptive hierarchical clustering schemes (linear AHCS). In addition, three-dimensional models were constructed of OTUs plotted with respect to the first few principal components extracted from a matrix of correlations among characters. Part I describes the materials, methods, and the results of the principal components analyses. Part II will include the phenograms resulting from various analyses, as well as discussion and conclusions sections.
10.2307/2412028|The article derives some properties of Wagner Trees and Networks and describes computational procedures for Prim Networks, the Wagner Method, Rootless Wagner Method and optimization of hypothetical intermediates (HTUs).
10.2307/2412024|Hennig's (1966) Phylogenetic Systematics is primarily concerned with cladism. The central thesis is that all taxa must be monophyletic in a special, rigid sense, and that their rank must be determined solely by time of origin. Secondary concepts are that species split in a very simple way; that one of two daughter species derived from a common ancestor will deviate more than the other; that species divide only dichotomously and that phylogenies must be dichotomous; that rates of evolution and divergence are constant and the same in different groups, unless known to be different; that relative primitiveness established at time of species-splitting remains characteristic of groups throughout their history; and that primitive groups remain at or near their places of origin. These concepts are all oversimplified, in part illogical, not consistent with real situations that are common in nature, and of no practical use in systematics or biogeography. Brundin (1966) accepts and further oversimplifies Hennig's concepts and applies them uncritically in classification of southern chironomid midges and antarctic biogeography. His supposed history of antarctic land connections, beginning in the Jurassic, is based on application of Hennig's erroneous secondary concepts, on an imaginary parallelism between chironomids and birds, and on an arbitrary decision that chironomids cannot cross water gaps although they occur in aereal plankton. His conclusions are probably wrong as to dating, as to directions of dispersal, and as to existence of continuous land connections. Existing chironomids may really have dispersed during or not long before the Tertiary, along the edges of Antarctica, and across water gaps between the southern tips of the continents and Antarctica.
10.2307/2412025|Our modern, Northern Hemisphere boreal faunas apparently had a dual origin. In Paleocene-Eocene times, one cold-temperate evolutionary center probably became established in the Arctic Basin. Then, as the climate grew colder, another center south of the Bering Land Bridge began its development. During the Oligocene, boreal species were able to move out of the Arctic Basin into the North Atlantic and, in the Pacific, southward from the Bering Sea. By the late Miocene, when a seaway first became established through the Bering Strait, the movement of species was predominantly northward into the Arctic Ocean and thence to the North Atlantic. The second opening of the seaway in the late Pliocene had an even more striking result, transforming the character of the North Atlantic fauna yet scarcely affecting that of the North Pacific. In the contemporary North Atlantic, such characteristic features as a depauperate shore fauna; species with broad latitudinal ranges; the complete lack of an endemic, boreal pelagic group; and the very low rate of endemism at the oceanic islands; present a decided contrast to conditions in the North Pacific. These facts together with good evidence of Pleistocene faunal replacements, latitudinal shifts, and extinctions reveal that the North Atlantic has provided for its marine fauna a more rigorous environment than the North Pacific. It seems clear that alteration in temperature, the one evident variable, was the primary cause. It is concluded that the geographic setting of the North Atlantic with its open exposure to the Arctic Ocean and its relatively small size are the main factors responsible for its history of varied surface temperature. The most severe drops in temperature probably took place during the ice ages of the Pleistocene and these appear to have averaged about 3
10.2307/2412276|Examination of a simple evolutionary model shows that the deficiencies of a phenogram, as an estimate of an historical cladogram, are not as great as sometimes imagined. In reality, there are grounds for a fair degree of confidence, particularly in relationships between taxa of higher rank. It can be shown, for instance, that uniformity in rates of evolution is not critical. What is required is, roughly, that later stocks should not evolve for substantial periods at rates much greater than in earlier stocks and/or that sister-species should diverge appreciably before undergoing further splitting. Likewise, the convergent elements of resemblance need not be small, or even uniform: simply, and roughly, later lines should not converge upon each other less than upon earlier lines. The latter holds also for "phylogenetic" reconstructions, based on what are believed to be resemblances in derived attributes only. There seem to be reasonable grounds for believing that such conditions are often met in Nature, and that a phenogram therefore supplies a reasonable phylogenetic hypothesis, for testing against further characters and taxa (but not methods) as they become available. This analysis does not conflict with the pragmatic aspects of classification, and can supply some criteria for choice of a numerical method: for instance, there are grounds for favouring "average linkage" as a clustering strategy.
10.2307/2412277|This paper studies some of the algebraic properties of Throckmorton's (1968) indices of predictivity and efficiency Certain interpretations of predictivity comparisons are considered, and the relevance for evolutionary taxonomy of measures of correlation between similarity indices is discussed.
10.2307/2412275|Patterns of morphological variation of three taxa of orioles, Icterus galbula (Baltimore oriole), I. bullockii (Bullock oriole) and I. abeillei (black-backed oriole) (Icteridae; Aves) are discussed. Baltimore orioles breed in eastern North America, Bullock orioles in the western half of that Continent, and black-backed orioles on the Mexican Plateau. Distributional overlap is minimal. In most parts of their ranges individuals of either sex can be easily identified as to type by any of an array of features of size, color pattern, or vocalization. However, where the distributions of the morphs appear to abut, considerable phenetic variation is manifest. Special attention is here given to one such region of apparent abutment, the central Great Plains, where there is an abrupt east-to-west transition of Baltimore-morph to Bullock-morph and where some populations consist of orioles that are obviously phenetically intermediate. It has been suggested that the two forms are incipient bio-species, hybridizing in a geographically narrow region where secondary contacts have recently occurred. It is pointed out that step-clines of the sort manifest among Plains populations of orioles can arise by means other than secondary contact, and in the present context it seems unnecessarily speculative to postulate such rejunctions. On the basis of logical, distributional, and historical evidence, there is no reason to believe that the human activities of the past 150 years have had any fundamental effect on the distribution of the orioles in the Plains, and neither the meidence of phenetically intermediate individuals nor the width of the zone that essentially describes their distribution seems to be increasing. Rather, all evidence suggests that there is considerable stability among these populations, such that the patterns of distribution of the various morphs are coincident with some of those of the climatic environment. Doubtless many agencies of selection are acting in concert to dynamically maintain the "steps" in the oriole morph-clines in the Plams. Among these, the demonstrable difference between Baltimore and Bullock orioles high temperature tolerance must be of considerable significance. Also, the differences between the Baltimore- and Bullockmorphs are so great that birds that disperse across the "hybrid zone" are probably selected against as being "unrecognizable" or as "odd birds." It is impossible, within the described limits of non-phenetic concepts of the species, to designate as separate species or not these groups of orioles without relying upon a priori assumptions that are untenable or teleological, or without inviting a posteriori circularity. I have preferred nomenclatural separation for the groups for the sake of convenience, but such a decision is arbitrary
10.2307/2412279|Algorithms are presented for automatic contour mapping of characters and displaying of the composite differential of several characters by computer. An example is given using morphological and chemical characters from Juniperus pinchotii Sudw. (Cupressaceae). Several attributes of contour mapping of geographic variation are discussed. Differential systematics is shown to be of considerable interest in delimiting areas of speciation and/or ecotypic differentiation.
10.2307/2412448|This work provides a means by which it is possible to determine whether two groups of related proteins have a common ancestor or are of independent origin. A set of 16 random amino acid sequences were shown to be unrelated by this method. A set of 16 real but presumably unrelated proteins gave a similar result. A set of 24 model proteins which was composed of two independently evolving groups, converging toward the same chemical goal, was correctly shown to be convergently related, with the probability that the result was due to chance being <10
10.2307/2412449|Hybrid index analysis of two natural hybrids between the parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus sonorae and the bisexual C. tigris demonstrates that the hybrids more strongly resemble the maternal parent. Karyotypic analysis reveals that the hybrids are tetraploids having received three genomes from the maternal (triploid) species and one genome from the paternal (diploid) species. Examination of testicular material shows the formation of chromosomal bivalents and polyvalents, including quadrivalents. Karyotypic variation involving centric fission occurs in the maternal parent C. sonorae. The origin of various levels of polyploidy in the genus Cnemidophorus appears to be rather different from that occurring most frequently in plants.
10.2307/2412450|On the basis of chromosome data, the large and complex genus Cnemidophorus of the New World lizard family Teiidae is divided into five species groups (the deppei, lemniscatus, sexlineatus, tigris, and tesselatus groups). These species groups are, in the main, congruent with those customarily recognized on the basis of external morphology. The hyperythrus species group, however, is placed in the deppei group: (1) all species examined from these two groups have identical karyotypes which differ from those of all other species examined in the genus, and (2) the two groups were formerly distinguished primarily on the basis of a single variable morphological character. The tesselatus group contains two species (tesselatus and neomexicanus), each parthenogenetic and derived through intergroup hybridization. Both of these parthenospecies originated through hybridization between the same two species groups, but different parental species combinations were involved in the production of each of them. The karyotype of the deppei species group appears to be the most primitive among the extant species groups of the genus Cnemidophorus, and the karyotypes of the other species groups are readily derived from it primarily by means of Robertsonian centric fusions and unequal pericentric inversions. The phylogeny of the genus based on the observed pattern of karyotypic evolution is consistant with the overall ecologic and biogeographic distributions of the species.
2412452|Principles abstracted from Hennig (1966) are used as axioms to form a quantitative analog of phylogenetic systematics. A close connection is demonstrated between phylogenetics and most parsimonious trees. The compatibility of some existing clustering methods with the principles is discussed. and a new clustering technique, the Weighted Invariant Step Strategy (WISS) is described. Generalization of the axioms to the case where direction of evolution is not assumed is examined, and it is shown that the Wagner Method for estimating evolutionary trees is consistent with the generalized phylogenetic axioms.
10.2307/2412451|There is a possible common ground between conventional and numerical taxonomy involving computer analysis of many characters. It would utilize evolutionary concepts whenever possible to modify an otherwise phenetic classification. New algorithms are described for character analysis and for cluster analysis. Many combinations of computer analysis were tested on four sets of taxonomic data. Results were judged by the effectiveness in showing greater similarity between individuals of the same group as defined by reliable evidence not included in the data sets. Statistically significant improvements were obtained by inclusion of computer procedures for adjusting correlated characters and for weighting characters. A variety of numerical procedures are discussed.
10.2307/2412206|The aims and justification of taxonomy are discussed, followed by an examination of the foundations of ordination and classification. The Adansonian or phenetic philosophy is critically examined and it is concluded that its claims of objectivity and precision are ill-founded, since subjective or arbitrary choices and definitions are necessary concerning acceptable or relevant attributes, homologies and correspondences, measures and commensurabilities of attributes, and measures of similarity. Phylogeny, represented topologically as a temporal branching sequence, is held to be the nearest approach to a firm basis of reference in nature for biological classification. The charge that phylogenetic reconstruction involves viciously circular reasoning is discussed and rejected, though some positive feedback is admitted. The theory and application of numerical taxonomy are discussed in general and the potential value of numerical phyletics is stressed. The possibility of using DNA base matching as a solid foundation is briefly examined. It is shown that, while phenetic classifications are infinitely variable, topological phyletic reconstructions do not themselves supply the kind of taxonomy that is usually demanded, since they do not adequately express significant evolutionary changes in patterns of organisation. No optimal classification can be defined, but improvement is possible up to a point of inherent instability. While the underlying facts and processes can be scientifically studied as part of systematics, classification itself remains largely a disclipined art, which is not convertible to an exact science by any form of arbitrary quantification. The necessity for compromise and continued synthesis is stressed. The suggested replacement of the Linnaean hierarchy by "numericlature" is mentioned but held to be premature and to have serious disadvantages. Mathematical concepts are discussed wherever relevant to the foundations of the subject.
10.2307/2412211|Phenetic affinities of the 93 species of skuas, gulls, terns, and skimmers in the suborder Lari (Charadriiformes: Aves) are described in detail. Methods and materials, as well as the results of principal components analyses, were given in Part I (Schnell, 1970). In this paper the 18 phenograms resulting from the use of different character suites (51 skeletal, 72 external, and both combined), transformations, and clustering methods are presented and analyzed. A classification of these resulting classifications (clustering basic similarity matrices or cophenetic values on the basis of correlations between classifications) is used to indicate which methods and character suites give similar results. The phenograms have also been compared with the classifications of Peters (1934) and Moynihan (1959) for the Lari. For analyses that included suites of highly correlated characters, correlation matrices were found to be relatively more robust than distances, being affected less by transformations or the use of different character suites. Also, when particularly divergent classifications occurred, this was partly due to divergent basic similarity matrices, but the clustering procedures added additional differences. The placing (or forcing) of OTUs into a hierarchical system of clusters (rather than just analyzing basic similarity matrices) resulted in an indication of relationships between OTUs more in accord with the opinions of previous workers, who also represented relationships in a hierarchy. The determination of the "best" overall phenetic classification, for use when one is in need of a single measure of similarity, is discussed and a set of guides is suggested to aid in the selection of such a classification. Some cladistic speculations are given and the relative positioning and stability of clusters is discussed. When analyzing data with high correlations between characters, the use of adaptive hierarchical clustering schemes that take into account possible trends in variation found within clusters is strongly recommended, and the value of multiple classifications to represent affinities is stressed. Principal component models, where no assumption is made that OTUs must fall into clusters, were particularly useful in representing relationships. The analysis of external characters resulted in phenograms that showed some similarity to those based on skeletal measurements. However, there were significant differences, indicating support for only a weak version of the nonspecificity hypothesis. A morphological description, using numerous characters, should be particularly valuable to current and future workers conducting various types of comparative studies (e.g., behavioral, ecological) within this taxon. It seems obvious that accurate and detailed morphometric description at the interspecific level is as important in the sound development of evolutionary theory as quantitative studies of intraspecific (e.g., geographic) variation.
10.2307/2412210|A new numerical method is given which is of value to taxonomists. It enables further species to be added to a previous principal coordinates analysis in order to find their phenetic relationships with the original set of species.
10.2307/2412207|Biological classifications are judged by assessing their predictive value against the co-variance of character-states in organisms not previously studied or against the classification of some character-states not previously studied in the organisms classified. As a corollary, taxonomists, judging by their published work, aim to produce that classification which maximises the concordance of the classifications of single characters or, put another equivalent way, which maximises the character correlations of the organisms being classified. Such classifications are then assumed to be inductive and, therefore, predictive and this predictive content is tested. It is argued that the sole operational aim of taxonomy is the production of maximally concordant, and so predictive, classifications which can be explained by the fact of evolution. The reversal of this explanatory role wherein it is claimed that phylogenies can be studied by erecting such classifications has obscured rather than clarified discussion of classification. It is further argued that because all the characters in a given organism are not correlated some weighting of characters is inevitable in producing general classifications and that the taximetric approach has obscured the discussion of classification by erecting a series of axioms which make the testing of any classification depend upon the method by which it was constructed rather than upon the form of the classification itself.
10.2307/2412209|An open nomenclature is proposed for intermediate forms, especially those situated between two successive species, which indicates both between what species said intermediate forms are found and their sequence in the evolutionary line. This makes unnecessary the creation of waagenons or successional subspecies in continuous phyletic lineages.
10.2307/2412864|The allodapine bees constitute a part of the tribe Ceratinini. The immature stages have evolved a variety of adaptations to life in a common burrow instead of each isolated in its separate cell. This is a unique environment for bee larvae. These adaptations, which result in greater morphological diversity among allodapine larvae than among all other bee larvae together, involve often nonhomologous structures and behavior which serve for supporting the young in the nest burrow and for manipulating larval food masses, as well as various structures which appear to be sensory in nature, and are presumably related to the frequent interactions among individuals. In contrast, most adult allodapines are monotonously similar; most of the exceptions are social parasites which live in the nests of related nonparasitic species. Larvae of the parasites closely resemble those of their nonparasitic relatives; in this case it is the adults which have diverged sharply, the various species or groups of parasites having independently entered an environment that is unusual for adult bees. They rarely or never visit flowers and in effect replace the egg laying female (queen) of the host with which they live. A cladogram was developed; then four mutually exclusive sets of variables (larval, pupal, external adult, and male genitalic) were superimposed on the cladogram. These sets included all of the known and readily codified variables, a total of 269, not merely the few useful in preparing the cladogram. Presumably because of the very different and independent environmental factors impinging upon these sets of variables, phenetic classifications based on them would be exceedingly different. Other sets of variables (biochemical, internal structure, etc.) may well convey equally different information about resemblances. A phenetic classification, based of necessity only on known sets of variables, is always likely to be altered when new sets become accessible. A cladistic hypothesis should be more stable. To base a classification on a cladogram alone, however, seems undesirable. In the allodapines it would result either in lumping very dissimilar forms or in placement of very similar forms in different taxa; these procedures are contrary to usefulness and convenience as well as to our biological knowledge other than the sequence of cladistic branching points.
10.2307/2412863|The Passeriformes and related avian orders (here termed "perching birds") have presented almost insurmountable problems in resolving phylogenetic relationships. New evidence from the morphology of the avian stapes (columella) permits a reassessment of the phylogenetic relationships of the advanced perching birds. Though the stapes represents but a single character, the primitive condition for the element can be established beyond reasonable doubt as that condition found in the reptilian ancestors of birds and present in the vast majority of living birds. Therefore, where unique, derived morphologies of the stapes occur, they may be of great importance in establishing evolutionary relationships within these groups, as no other characters are presently available for which primitive-derived sequences can be established beyond doubt. A cladistic approach to stapedial morphology permits a number of probable evolutionary statements concerning the "perching birds" as follows: 1) New and Old World suboscines are a monophyletic assemblage, and this group, now termed the Tyranniformes, includes the previously classified subocines of Madagascar, but not those of Australia (the lyrebirds and allies, and the New Zealand Wrens), which are shown to be oscines; 2) the wood-hoopoes and hoopoes are monophyletic and possess a unique "anvil" stapes; 3) the bee-eaters, motmots, kingfishers, and todies possess a common derived stapedial morphology and almost certainly represent a monophyletic assemblage; 4) trogons possess a stapedial morphology identical to that of the above assemblage (in 3) and are probably derived from that particular group, all of which are now termed the Alcediniformes; 5) the oscines and suboscines could not have shared a common ancestor because suboscines show a myriad of primitive characters with respect to the oscines, are relictually distributed, and yet possess a derived stapedial morphology, while the otherwise structurally advanced oscines possess the primitive condition of the stapes; for that reason the order Passeriformes is restricted to include only the oscines; 6) the Tyranniformes (suboscines) and Alcediniformes may have shared a common ancestor; both groups possess derived morphologies of the stapes that share many common features, but establishing beyond all doubt that the morphologies are strictly homologous is difficult. New evidence from the fossil record (particularly from the Western Hemisphere) provides a new basis for a paleobiogeographic analysis of "perching birds." This new evidence indicates that: 1) The Eocene of North America was a period during which structurally primitive piciform birds were the predominant, if not the only, perching birds. Eight species are now known from the Lower and Middle Eocene of North America, including one previously thought to represent a passerine. 2) The piciforms are probably New World in origin, and could have dispersed into the Old World via Beringia or across the North Atlantic. 3) The alcediniform birds are almost certainly Old World in origin; trogons, motmots, and perhaps todies crossed over into the New World using the Beringia route; alcediniforms were probably predominant during the Oligocene. 4) Suboscines are probably a Southern Continent group, and probably did not arrive into North America until relatively late, perhaps late Pliocene or early Pleistocene, when a Central American land bridge became established. 5) The Bering route probably served as a corridor for the arrival of oscines in the New World that gave rise to the New World nine-primaried oscine radiations. Apparently North America did not reciprocate to any significant degree. Oscines probably did not become established firmly in North America until the Miocene and are late arrivals into Central and South America; they probably entered these regions as late as late Pliocene or early Pleistocene when the Central American land bridge became established.
10.2307/2412866|Protein evolution is primarily a divergent process, proceeding independently of organismal or morphological evolution (Wilson et al., 1974). This makes proteins ideal tools for detecting cases of convergent anatomical evolution. A probable instance of convergent evolution, involving the monotypic genus Anotheca, was detected by comparative studies of serum albumin. On the one hand, Anotheca albumin is shown to be as similar to the albumins of several North American Hyla as the albumins of the North American Hyla are to one another. On the other hand, Anotheca albumin is very different from the albumins of the marsupial tree frogs, as different as are those of Hyla. Phylogenetic analysis of the albumin data indicates that Anotheca is phyletically a member of the subfamily Hylinae. Thus, its placement in the Amphignathodontinae was due to convergent morphological evolution in Anotheca to resemble the other genera of marsupial tree frogs.
10.2307/2412865|Chromosomal divergence within the family Anniellidae is extensive. Diploid chromosome numbers in somatic tissue range from 36 in Anniella geronimensis to 22 in northern and 20 in southern A. pulchra. One to four testicular supernumerary microchromosomes occur in A. p. pulchra populations in northern Baja California. There is a lack of congruency between the chromosomal and morphological races of A. pulchra. Within the infraorder Anguimorpha, anniellids have chromosomal similarities to both the diploglossans (Anguidae) and the platynotans (Varanidae). The genetic distances between the four populations of Anniella analysed electrophoretically correspond well with their currently recognized hierarchical relationships: D
10.2307/2412867|Methods suggested by LeQuesne for eladistic analysis under Dollo's Law in the sense of Crowson are shown to be inappropriate, as they may lead to clustering by symplesiomorphy. The use of most parsimonious trees in phylogenetic analysis under the Dollo model is justified as a statistical inference method.
10.2307/2412861|Three concepts of ancestry are distinguished, the individual organism as ancestor, the population or species as ancestor, and the supraspecific taxon as ancestor. Of these, only the first two can be objectively applied, the third is a taxonomic artifact. Of the first two, only the population or species as ancestor is used extensively in phylogeny reconstruction. We adopt the view that empirical or objective statements must be potentially falsifiable. The introduction of initial assumptions concerning the historical interpretation of empirical relationships can make phylogeny objective in this sense. We suggest that our outlook precludes identification of ancestors as self-evident. But, does it preclude hypotheses of ancestry? The strongest case for incorporating hypotheses of populational or species ancestors into phylogenetic reconstructions rests on the conclusion that the incorporation of such hypotheses seems to add to the information content of a purely "cladistic" statement. On morphological grounds, a statement of ancestor-descendant relationships would seem falsifiable if the hypothesis can be refuted by finding autapomorphies and can be corroborated by finding plesiomorphies in the supposed ancestor. We explore the nature of phylogenetic testing to assess this conjecture. In testing the relationships of a limited group of organisms, conflicts between alternate phylogenetic hypotheses may be resolved without introducing bias if those sets of characters which provide valid tests (the apomorphies) can be sorted out from those sets of characters which do not (the non-homologies and plesiomorphies). The weighting of characters as apomorphous, plesiomorphous, or non-homologous is an appeal to parsimony which represents an effort to sort out which set of characters provide tests of relationship within the problem at hand, given a higher level phylogeny. The resultant estimate will be the most parsimonious of the alternatives within the context of the higher level phylogeny. This estimate may or may not prove most parsimonious in an unweighted character analysis of the problem at hand carried out in isolation from the higher level phylogeny. It is the adoption of the higher level phylogeny which allows the investigator to objectively assess a problem of realistic proportions without ignoring relevant information. Plesiomorphies can not be used to test phylogenetic hypotheses because they are ad hoc statements required by the acceptance of the most parsimonious solution. Therefore, they can not provide corroboration for ancestor-descendant relationships. Autapomorphies are identified because they supposedly differ from the hypothetical ancestor. But, the ancestral morphotype is not a scientific statement, rather, it is a simple summary of characters derived from a cladistic hypothesis. An autapomorphy can only be identified by rejecting the alternate character as synapomorphous. We conclude that autapomorphies can not refute ancestor-descendant relationships. Therefore, given our initial assumptions, ancestor-descendant relationships based on morphology are not objective statements when applied to fossil populations or species. With the additional assumption that a particular cladistic relationship is true, ancestor-descendant relationships might be testable, but, this would render the cladistic relationships untestable. Another argument states that when fossil samples are close in time and space, it is more parsimonious to postulate that the ancestor is represented in the lower stratigraphic sample than to postulate it is missing. The apparent success of this argument rests on the requirement that the investigator answer a question that can not be answered objectively because its structure limits the alternate answers to non-objective statements.
10.2307/2412862|It is argued that the practice of expressing all phylogenetic relationships as cladistic relationships (i.e. splittings, those expressed only in the form of dichotomous sister group relationships) gives an incomplete and therefore potentially misleading view of evolutionary history. Consequently such schemes tend to supply hypotheses that fail to mirror evolutionary descent. Application of shared derived characters to set up phylogenetic hypotheses is a mere consequence of establishing morphocline polarities. Therefore, the test of a phylogenetic hypothesis lies in the soundness of biological (developmental, functional, etc.) investigations of character clines. The challenging issue then is the testability of morphocline polarity hypotheses, rather than competing phylogenetic schemes. Age of any phenon is one of its attributes, its fourth dimension. In addition to those same considerations as are employed in dealing with sister group hypotheses (shared-derived characters), ancestor-descendant hypotheses may also be tested by the temporal position of the taxon. According to the Popperian view of scientific criteria, postulated ancestor-descendant relationships may be falsified by biostratigraphic evidence, and therefore such hypotheses are as "scientific" as those of a sister-group nature. Phylogenetic trees are preferred over cladograms because the former always contain more information since they can express both ancestor-descendant relationships (anagenesis) as well as sister group relationships (cladogenesis). A brief synopsis is offered for the procedure to establish historical relationships of taxa.
10.2307/2412796|A cladistic analysis of the marsupial order Marsupicarnivora is made in an attempt to clarify borhyaenid-thylacinid affinity. This analysis is made in consideration of importance of weights for homologous character states as recognized by Hecht (1976), and Hecht and Edwards (1976). Apomorphies in borhyaenids which separate them from thylacinids include presence of a nasal-laerimal contact, a solid palate, and reduction or loss of the transverse canal. Apomorphies in thylacinids which separate them from borhyaenids include reduction in size of dP4 and presence of an epitympanic squamosal sinus. The "dog-like" marsupials of Australia (thylacinids) and South America (borhyaenids) appear to represent a classic example of parallelism in evolution; thylacinids having evolved from a common ancestor shared with Australian dasyuroids, and borhyaenoids having evolved from a common ancestor shared with didelphoids. Reduction or loss of the metaconid and stylar shelf, loss of ossified epipubic bones, and reduction of incisors to 4/3 apparently occurred independently and in parallel in borhyaenids and thylacinids.
10.2307/2412797|Samples of 13 nominal species of the more than 50 recorded from New Guinea were collected at eight localities. Comparative data from nine proteins studied in all species indicate wide biochemical divergence among species, in concordance with morphological evidence, and suggest the presence of two distinct lineages. Biochemical evidence supports the recognition of two previously described pairs of sibling species and suggests that a third cryptic species may exist in one of these pairs. Litoria infrafrenata, a series for which no morphological variation of consequence in New Guinea has been recorded, shows population differentiation in proteins. Parameters of genetic variation in the species were estimated as: A = 1.62, P = 0.50, H = 0.073. In contrast, L. iris, a species with marked color pattern polymorphism, shows little variation in proteins.
10.2307/2412795|Techniques of numerical taxonomy were applied in combination to morphometric data based on 111 characters from 61 OTUs, representing 61 species of the feather mite family Eustathiidae. Smaller subsets of taxa were analyzed to clarify the relationships and status of certain species. A statisfactory classification was obtained, complementing a monographic revision of the family in press. Supraspecific taxa were indicated by the placement of species on minimum spanning trees superimposed upon ordination diagrams. The latter were obtained by nonmetric multidimensional scaling applied to taxonomic distances. An initial configuration for multidimensional scaling was taken from a principal component analysis of character correlations. In every case except one the placement of species into genera by numerical methods matched our impressions of generic entities obtained by traditional approaches, although between- and within-generic relationships were clarified. The combination of Q- and R-mode analysis, including the use of nonmetric multidimensional scaling, provided an effective approach to the analysis of taxonomic structure. Multidimensional scaling is strongly recommended for similar studies as a technique to improve the accurate visual representation of taxonomic relationships. Only moderately strong host-parasite relationships occur within the Eustathiidae, although the group as a whole is restricted to the Apodi. No member of the Eustathiidae occurs on the other suborder of the Apodiformes, the Trochili. This emphasizes the distinction between Apodi and Trochili, and points again toward the question of whether or not these taxa of birds should be placed together. Host-parasite relationships within the Eustathiidae may be associated with resource tracking, but further data on feeding habits and life histories of the mites are needed to answer this question. Finally, this study represents a collaborative approach to the solution of a taxonomic problem. We feel that the collaborative approach has considerable potential in the resolution of difficult relationships within the Acari and other groups of organisms.
10.2307/2412794|The concept that historical interrelationships can be demonstrated only by the presence of shared innovations is fundamental to the fields of textual and linguistic, as well as phylogenetic, reconstruction. All three fields utilize analogous procedures in which data are organized into transformation series of homologous character states, the polarity of these transformation series is determined by out-group comparison, and shared innovations are used to construct internested series of three-taxon statements that operate at a level of generality above that of specific ancestor-descendant hypotheses. The acceptance of these methods as the standard operational tools in separate fields suggests that cladistic analysis is a general comparative method applicable to all studies of historical interrelationships based on ancestor-descendant sequences, and that biologists concerned with such questions can ill afford to ignore cladistic theory and methods.
10.2307/2412793|Paleozoogeographic patterns of Late Paleozoic through Triassic marine and freshwater malacostracans, interpreted in light of Croizat's vicariance model of biogeography, lend significant insights into the distribution of living malacostracans, as well as events in the Late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic radiation of these crustaceans. The Hoplocarida and Eumalacostraca had a tropical Laurentian range which became well established by Late Carboniferous time. With the suturing of the supercontinent Pangaea in the Permian, the former Laurentian marine crustaceans appear to have spread into the nearshore and freshwater habitats of Gondwana and Angara. By the late Permian and Early Triassic a decapod eumalacostracan fauna became established in tropical and subtropical regions of Pangaean marine habitats, while the Late Paleozoic hoplocaridan and eumalacostracan fauna became extinct or was restricted to geographic and ecologic refugia (which in contemporary terms is largely expressed as a Gondwana and deep-sea distribution).
10.2307/2412839|Although osteological features are utilized frequently in comprehensive systematic reviews of anuran taxa, no serious attempt has been made to quantify the data and assess its variation other than in a descriptive context. Such assessments first must be made at the population level; thus, 119 osteological measurements were made on a series of adult males and females of the Neotropical frog Hyla lanciformis (Anura: Hylidae). The results of this study show that nearly 50% of these characters demonstrate relatively low levels of variation in both sexes within the population. This suggests that osteological features can be quantified, and selected characters can be utilized to generate an osteological profile of a taxon to be used in concert with other numerical data for subsequent analyses.
10.2307/2412837|Brachyuran crabs are important predators of molluscs, influencing both the distribution and characteristics of their prey. Crab master-claw strength, as inferred from morphological measurements, decreases in a general way from a peak in the tropical Indo-West-Pacific to progressively lower values in the Eastern Pacific, Western Atlantic, and Eastern Atlantic, with temperate crabs having the smallest claws. Many genera of large-clawed crabs found in the tropical Pacific and Indian Oceans are poorly represented or missing in the tropical Atlantic, especially West Africa. Metabolic limitations and competition are likely to be important determinants of claw size in crabs.
10.2307/2412840|Karl Popper maintains that the laws of science are not, in principle, verifiable but only falsifiable because they are formulated in strictly universal statements which refer to an unlimited number of instances. Several taxonomists have apparently concluded that the knowledge of systematic zoology is expressed in these strictly universal statements. It is argued in this paper that the knowledge claims of systematic zoology are formulated in what Popper has called numerically universal statements which are equivalent to conjunctions of a finite number of singular statements and that they are, therefore, in principle, both verifiable and falsifiable.
10.2307/2412841|Previously proposed definitions of the terms monophyletic, paraphyletic, and polyphyletic are examined. The definitions provided by Hennig and Ashlock are internally flawed because they do not prevent a single group from being simultaneously paraphyletic and polyphyletic. The definitions provided by Nelson are internally consistent but have undesirable consequences by either precluding the existence of monotypic genera or allowing coordinate taxa to both correspond and not correspond to monophyletic groups. The definitions provided by Farris are internally consistent and lack the drawbacks of Nelson's views; it is suggested that they are successful because they identify necessary relationships between the concepts of polyphyly and parallelism and the concepts of paraphyly and character reversal.
10.2307/2412838|Genetic similarities among twenty-two populations of Polycelis coronata and one population of Dugesia tigrina (Planaria) were determined from electrophoretically obtained protein data. Similarity values between populations of Polycelis were lower than expected, being significantly below values reported for many vertebrate and invertebrate species. This difference is partially explained by various ecological and behavioral isolating mechanisms. Lack of morphological variation between populations which does not correspond with the biochemical divergence may imply different rates of evolution at these two levels. Evolutionary divergence times based on the protein data are used as possible indices of the migratory pattern of Polycelis in the Pacific Northwest and correlate with the theory of land bridges between North America and Asia.
10.2307/2412842|This paper focuses on the estimation of parameters in the bivariate linear model, especially in the context of bivariate size-shape relationships or allometry. Existing estimation procedures (regression, major axis, reduced major axis) all depend on a priori assumptions on the ratio of the residuals, usually called "errors," in both variables. These assumptions are reviewed and evaluated. The Bartlett method is not independent of assumptions on the residuals as has been often claimed. A method which does not require assumptions on the ratio of residuals, providing data from a third variable are available, is given. All of the methods discussed are illustrated with data measured on planktonic Foraminifera.
10.2307/2412678|A total of 11-15 genetic loci encoding enzymes and other proteins has been assayed in populations belonging to 20 taxa of the North American sunfish in the family Centrarchidae. Four stages of evolutionary divergence are recognized among these taxa by systematists. We have determined mean levels of genetic differentiation, D, between populations at each of these stages: geographic populations, D = 0.024  0.003; subspecies, D = 0.171  0.004; species, D = 0.626  0.028; genera, D = 1.340  0.064. D estimates the number of electrophoretically detectable codon substitutions per locus accumulated since populations separated from a common ancestor. Mean genetic distance among centrarchids increases dramatically through the various stages of evolutionary divergence. Different subspecies of Lepomis macrochirus exhibit about an 8-fold increase in genetic distance over geographic populations belonging to a subspecies. Species of the genus Lepomis are completely distinct in allelic composition at nearly 50 percent of loci, on the average, despite their ability to produce viable and sometimes fertile hybrids. Species belonging to different centrarchid genera have accumulated more than one allelic substitution per locus, on the average. Among the centrarchids prezygotic reproductive isolating barriers may have preceded the development of significant postzygotic isolating mechanisms. Nonetheless, mean levels of genetic divergence between centrarchid taxa are similar to those other animal taxa of corresponding rank characterized by different modes of reproductive isolation. Amounts and patterns of genetic divergence are employed to infer probable evolutionary relationships among the Centrarchidae. A great deal of evolutionary information is contained within even a relatively small number of genes.
10.2307/2412677|Comparisons of the karyotypes of the species of Vampyressa suggest two modes of chromosomal rearrangements in the derivation of the Vampyressa karyotypes: pericentric inversions in V. brocki, V. nymphaea, and V. bidens; and translocations (fusions) in V. melissa and the variants of V. pusilla. This Vampyressa phylogenetic model was used to evaluate the possible derivations of the chromosomal patterns of the 97 species of phyllostomid bats whose karyotypes are known. Sufficient variation to indicate probable evolutionary patterns, in addition to that outlined for Vampyressa, was found at the species level for Micronycteris and Tonatia, and at the generic level for the Glossophaginae, Carolliinae, and Stenoderminae. The analysis supports the points of view presented herein that (1) the common (often considered the ancestral) 2n = 32, FN = 60 configuration was independently acquired by three or more evolutionary lineages and, therefore, must be considered to be derived; (2) the primitive phyllostomid karyotype had a high diploid number (near 40, but possibly as high as 46) and a low fundamental number (near minimum); (3) there was a general trend toward reduction in diploid numbers concomitant with maximization of fundamental numbers; and (4) totally biarmed autosomal configurations, which characterize the majority of the Phyllostomidae, are comparatively more stable than those karyotypes in which half or more of the autosomes are uniarmed. Fourteen karyotypes are reported here for the first time, including that of Vampyressa melissa, which has the lowest diploid number known in the Chiroptera (2n = 14).
10.2307/2412675|Cladistic interrelationships of plagiorchioid genera found in anuran intestines and of species of the genus Glypthelmins are analyzed to determine patterns of dispersal and vicariance. The first analysis reveals three generic lineages, each characterized by one genus whose species are distributed on four or more continents or subcontinents in addition to related genera restricted in number of species and found on a single continent or two adjacent continents. Examination of the distribution of the three characteristic genera, Mesocoelium, Opisthioglyphe, and Glypthelmins, suggests similar but not congruent dispersal-tracks and shows different centers of form-making for each. In the second analysis, cladistic (genealogical) relationships of species of Glypthelmins in the Old World and of species in Central and North America can be accounted for on the basis of vicariance from widely-distributed ancestral taxa. Vicariance of the South American species corresponds with the phylogeny of their hosts as proposed by Lynch (1973). This, the first study using cladistical methodology for deducing the evolutionary history of a group of parasitic helminths, demonstrates the feasibility and applicability of that methodology.
10.2307/2412673|Three modes of allopatric speciation can be distinguished, depending on whether the isolating geographic barrier is within a single land mass ("continental speciation"), between islands of the same archipelago, or between different archipelagoes ("insular speciation"). The contributions of these three modes to speciation in Pacific land birds are analyzed. Continental speciation in birds has occurred in no Pacific land mass smaller than Australia, New Guinea, and possibly New Zealand; intra-archipelagal speciation has occurred only on six of the most remote archipelagoes; and inter-archipelagal speciation has produced most of the sympatric bird species pairs from the Bismarcks to Samoa. The frequency of each mode depends on area and isolation of the island, and on mobility and perhaps population density of the taxa involved. What is an "island" to some taxa may be a "continent" to others. For example, New Caledonia behaves as a continent to higher plants, insects, and lizards, but not to birds or ferns.
10.2307/2412676|Problems of ascertaining affinities of fossil taxa are explored utilizing the European Miocene primate Pliopithecus vindobonensis as an example. Traditionally, Pliopithecus has been regarded as an ancestral gibbon, yet aspects of its postcranial anatomy contradict this. Current studies provide strong evidence that the forelimb complex of the extant Hominoidea represents a synapomorphic character complex. The shoulder joint of Pliopithecus was therefore compared with 17 species of anthropoid primates using 10 measurements emphasizing the glenohumeral articulation. Multivariate analysis indicates that Pliopithecus conforms in every way with the symplesiomorphic morphopattern shown by extant cercopithecoids and platyrrhine primates but contrasts markedly with extant hominoids, especially the gibbon. It is therefore unlikely that Pliopithecus and Hylobates are directly related. The great similarity of Pliopithecus to the African Miocene primate, Dendropithecus, also sheds doubt on its current hylobatine classification.
10.2307/2412679|Fourier analysis in closed form provides a highly efficient method for measuring overall morphological similarity and identifying specific types of morphological variation. In shape analysis of ostracode outlines, continuous variation representing phylogenetically induced changes as well as shape families reflecting taxonomic categories can be recognized. Two-dimensional shape is described by a series of terms in a Fourier expansion of periphery radius as a function of polar angle for members of the ostracode genus Rabilimis and for six genera of Hemicytheridae. Raw data, consisting of Cartesian coordinates of the two-dimensional outline are converted to polar coordinates using the center of gravity of the form as a reference point. Coefficients of each term in the expansion represent the contribution of a fundamental harmonic form to the total shape description. When morphological variability is partitioned across the harmonic amplitude spectrum so that individual coefficients represent separate sources of morphological variation, removal of specific harmonics allows comparison of variation resulting from genetic vs. nongenetic factors.
10.2307/2412674|A natural concept of agreement among characters is defined in a phylogenetic context. A method for estimating phylogenetic relationships using this concept is described. This method is used to choose among the characters given by Blackith and Blackith those that agree. These characters are then used to construct an estimate of phylogenetic relationships among the Orthopteroid taxa discussed by these authors. This estimate is compared with the conventional one, and with one determined by the method of Camin & Sokal.
10.2307/2413134|Methods that use outgroups in the reconstruction of phylogeny are described and evaluated by the criterion of parsimony. By considering the character states and relationships of outgroups, one can estimate the states ancestral for a study group or ingroup, even when several character states are found among the outgroups. Algorithms and rules are presented that find the most parsimonious estimates of ancestral states for binary and multistate characters when outgroup relationships are well resolved. Other rules indicate the extent to which uncertainty about outgroup relationships leads to uncertainty about the ancestral states. The algorithms and rules are based on "simple parsimony" in that convergences and reversals are counted equally. After parsimony is measured locally among the outgroups to estimate ancestral states, parsimony is measured locally within the ingroup, given the ancestral states, to find the ingroup cladogram. This two-step procedure is shown to find the ingroup cladograms that are most parsimonious globally; that is, most parsimonious when parsimony is measured simultaneously over the ingroup and outgroups. However, the two-step procedure is guaranteed to achieve global parsimony only when: (a) outgroup relationships are sufficiently resolved beforehand; (b) outgroup analysis is taken to indicate the state not in the most recent common ancestor of the ingroup, but in a more distant ancestor; and (c) ancestral states are considered while the ingroup is being resolved, not merely added afterward to root an unrooted network. The criterion of global parsimony is then applied to evaluate procedures used when outgroup relationships are poorly resolved. The procedure that chooses as ancestral the state occurring most commonly among the outgroups can sometimes yield cladograms that are not globally parsimonious. By the criterion of global parsimony, the best procedure is one that simultaneously resolves the outgroups and ingroup with the data at hand. Finally, simple parsimony can choose among competing hypotheses, but it often fails to indicate how much confidence can be placed in that choice.
10.2307/2413131|Methods, such as the distance Wagner procedure, that construct phylogenetic trees by fitting branch lengths to genetic distance matrices result in ancestral taxa that cannot exist in allele frequency space and in loss of information on the distribution of particular alleles among terminal and ancestral taxa. A new minimum evolution procedure is described which constrains ancestors to exist in allele frequency space, estimates the frequency of each allele in each ancestor, and optimizes the branch lengths of the tree by positioning the ancestors so that total tree length is minimized. The optimal positions for the ancestors are determined by a technique, the hyperboloid approximation procedure (HAP), borrowed from industrial engineering. Three different methods of deriving tree topologies-the distance Wagner algorithm, UPCMA clustering, and a new procedure described here-are compared.
10.2307/2413129|Multiple discriminant analysis and bivariate correlations of logarithms of progression indices are applied to volumetric data on 11 major brain regions of 139 species of Insectivora, Chiroptera, and Primates. The pattern of projections of the coordinate axes of original variates on the first two discriminant functions appears to correspond to MacLean's (1970) division of the brain into the neomammalian, paleomammalian and protoreptilian regions. However, the peculiar position of the neocortex may be somewhat exaggerated by collinearity. The brain components which undergo the greatest relative volumetric increase from basal Insectivora to higher Primates are, by order of decreasing importance, the neocortex, cerebellum, striatum, and diencephalon. The bulbus olfactorius and paleocortex are strongly correlated in Insectivora and prosimians, but this correlation drops abruptly in Chiroptera and in simians, where olfaction has regressed markedly while the paleocortex remained relatively stable, presumably by developing its non-olfactory functions. The neocortex, bulbus olfactorius, septum, schizocortex, and hippocampus are positively correlated in Chiroptera, apparently because they are large relative to body weight in Megachiroptera and frugivorous Microchiroptera but small in insectivorous Microchiroptera. The neocortex may be more useful in frugivorous and nectarivorous bats-for environment recognition based on visual and olfactory stimuli-and relatively less useful in insectivorous bats, which often must react rapidly to echolocative signals. The negative correlations of the medulla oblongata with the bulbus olfactorius and paleocortex, in progressive Insectivora, appear to reflect the evolutionary regression of olfaction and the compensatory progression of the tactile trigeminal system (vibrissae) in aquatic Insectivora.
10.2307/2413132|If a taxon G is associated with a set g of characteristic attributes, knowledge that O belongs in G allows us to predict, with varying success, that O exhibits the attributes in g. An index of predictivity (C
10.2307/2413128|The methodology of scientific research programs developed by 1. Lakatos is discussed and applied to the current debate concerning method and theory in historical biogeography. Of the three recognized approaches-centers-of-origin/dispersalist, vicariance biogeography, and Croizat's panbiogeography-only the latter two are progressive scientific research programs sensu Lakatos. Croizat's panbiogeography is considered to be a progressive research program because it has predicted numerous novel facts about geology. Croizat's novel predictions concerning the geology of the circum-Pacific continents and island groups are reviewed and discussed in relation to the latest geological findings which corroborate his work.
10.2307/2413130|The concept of the predictive value of biological classifications is reviewed and two indices are introduced which can be used to evaluate and compare the goodness of classifications (with regard to their predictive value) constructed using different classification methods. These indices incorporate the unique relationship between hierarchical classifications and the expectations of prediction success for character states. The predictive value of a classification is the degree to which states of characters are constant within and restricted to taxa in the classification. Previous studies used phenetic correlations, taxonomic congruence, parsimony, and partitions of the taxa to measure predictive value. These approaches are reviewed and found deficient. To have high predictive value for new characters or new taxa, a classification must be constructed to have maximal predictive value "fit" for the characters initially used to construct it. It is concluded that predictions made with regard to the observation of new characters versus new taxa are the same, in contradiction to previous discussions.
10.2307/2413133|Evolutionary theory predicts that population divergence should be correlated with both geographic distance and environmental difference. This prediction was tested using 25 populations of Goniobasis proxima (Say), a snail restricted to small creeks in the piedmont and mountains of the southern Appalachians. Geographic distance was measured both over land and through water. Genetic difference was measured in three ways: an analysis of allozyme frequencies at seven polymorphic enzyme loci using gel electrophoresis, and two measures based on different variance components from 23 specially-screened morphological variables. Three measures of environmental difference were also calculated: one based on 11 water chemical variables; a second based on standardized water chemical variables plus four physical and biological variables; and a third based on diatom floral similarity. The correlations between all pairs of the resulting eight symmetric matrices were examined by calculating K
10.2307/2413090|Consensus methods for dendrograms representing numerically stratified hierarchic nested classifications are discussed. An algorithm for computing the consensus n-trees which result from Neumann's (1983) generalized intersection methods is given. This algorithm involves operations on the matrices of cophenetic values representing the original n-trees. An approach for extending known intersection consensus methods for n-trees (e.g., Adams, cardinality intersection, strict) to consensus methods for dendrograms is proposed.
10.2307/2413089|To evaluate the potential of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) analysis for avian systematics, we have assayed mtDNA differences among 13 species of waterfowl in the genera Anas and Aythya (Anseriformes: Anatidae). Purified mtDNA was digested with each of 15 different type II restriction endonucleases which cleave at five- or six-base recognition sequences. Side-by-side comparisons of digestion profiles permitted the estimation of levels of fragment homology and nucleotide sequence divergence (p). Among nine Anas species, mean sequence divergence (p) was 0.062 (range 0.004-0.088); among four Aythya species, 0.034 (0.025-0.043); between selected species belonging to separate genera, 0.109. Phylogenetic trees and dendrograms were constructed from qualitative and quantitative data bases by a variety of procedures including undirected parsimony (Penny and Wagner algorithms), undirected compatibility (Estabrook algorithms), and phenetic clustering. These trees were highly concordant with one another, and with traditional phylogenies derived from independent sources of information. Previously published evidence from mammals has suggested a "saturation effect" on level of mtDNA differentiation: for p less than 0.15-0.20, mtDNA distances are reportedly linearly related to time since common ancestry, but for larger p values the relationship becomes curvilinear as differentiation approaches an observed plateau at a p of approximately 0.30. Our estimates of mtDNA sequence divergence among congeneric waterfowl fall in a broad range well within the expected linear portion of the curve. This observation, coupled with the general concordance of mtDNA-generated trees with those derived from independent information, demonstrates that the restriction fragment approach to mtDNA analysis should provide an important new molecular technique for studying evolutionary relationships among lower taxonomic levels in Aves.
10.2307/2413092|Morphometric variation in samples of common mynas from 11 localities in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Hawaii was analyzed with principal component analysis. We attempt to avoid two shortcomings in many previous applications of principal component analysis in morphometrics by analyzing separately variation within and among populations, and by applying the jackknife procedure to reduce subjectivity in interpretation of the principal components. Within populations, only principal component I appears to have a stable orientation and this orientation is common to all localities. Component II may be a simple vector, differing across localities, but similarity in the second and third eigenvalues warns that the associated components could be largely arbitrary. The variance along component I does differ across localities. Among populations, again only the first component displays convincing stability, although component II may be a stable but extremely simple vector. Both within and among populations, component I appears to be a general factor representing size and size-related shape variation. The apparently simple patterns of covariation displayed by the introduced populations may be attributable to bottlenecks in small founding populations and the short time since the introductions were made. Future studies should incorporate some form of testing to confirm putative patterns of character covariation, and doing so probably will require sample sizes much larger than has been the custom.
10.2307/2413088|Claws of the front legs of Culicidae (Aedes, five species; Culex, one species; Anopheles, one species), altogether 118 claws, were characterized by 10 variables selected from land-marks on a Cartesian coordinate system. The 118 x 10 data matrix was analyzed by the SIMCA (Simple Modelling of Class Analogy) pattern recognition method (Wold et al., 1983). Regularities in multivariate data were found by construction of a "training set" from a known origin according to the SIMCA method. As a training set, Aedes excrucians Walker "narrow" was used. This material was subsequently compared with unidentified specimens and classes were constructed progressively. The analysis included eight classes, one species being present in two forms (excrucians "narrow" and "wide"). For these two forms, very subtle differences in shape were discriminated by the SIMCA method. The results for different class separations showed that the addition of three more variables might be sufficient for complete characterization of shape in these culicid claws. The applicability of the SIMCA method to other zoological data dealing with shape characterization or description is discussed.
10.2307/2413091|Tests of OTU stability were carried out by random selection of subsets of OTUs from the Recent Caminalcules. From these samples we computed UPGMA phenograms and estimated cladograms based on Wagner parsimony and compatibility analysis. These were compared with pruned versions of the trees based on 29 OTUs representing: (1) their standards; and (2) the true cladogram known for this artificial data set. A similar analysis was carried out for a complete sampling of sets of OTUs from a data set based on the Leptopodomorpha (Hemiptera). Only the first type of comparison could be carried out for this data set. In the Caminalcules, when classifications based on samples of OTUs are compared with their own standards (classifications based on all OTUs)-which would be the typical situation in real organisms where true cladogenies are not known-stability seems to be a function of OTU sample size. For low OTU numbers, stability is higher in classifications based on estimated cladograms, but for high OTU numbers it is greater in classifications based on phenograms. While there is a trend towards increasing stability in the phenograms as OTU sample size increases, no such trend is evident in estimated cladograms of the standards or of the true cladogram. By contrast, estimated cladograms have a higher consensus with the true cladogram than do UPGMA phenograms regardless of number of OTUs employed. In the Leptopodomorpha, classifications based on UPGMA and Wagner parsimony methods are about equally stable with a suggestion of slightly better performance for Wagner parsimony at low OTU numbers and a reversal of this trend for higher OTU numbers. There is no evidence of marked superiority of Wagner parsimony as had been claimed in an earlier study of this group. The outcome of studies of both character and OTU stability is shown to be approximately related to the ratio n/(2t - 3), where n is the number of characters and t is the number of OTUs. When this ratio is low, phenograms are more stable than estimated cladograms; when it is high the reverse relation holds. Also, when the ratio is low, phenograms are better estimates of the true cladogeny than are estimated cladograms. The reverse relation holds for high values of the ratio. To confirm these conclusions, we carried out combined studies of character and of OTU stability applied to both data sets. As character number decreased, or OTU number increased, classifications based on phenograms became more stable than those based on estimated cladograms, and became better for reconstructing the true cladogeny than estimated cladograms in the Caminalcules. Character stability and OTU stability may in fact be two separate aspects of the same phenomenon-taxonomic stability. The merits of various designs suitable for testing OTU stability in numerical taxonomy are discussed. All are based on the results of sampling subsets of OTUs for the entire taxon.
10.2307/2413021|Protein variation was analyzed at 38 presumptive genetic loci in 214 specimens of 12 species of Empidonax and 3 species of the related genus Contopus. These tyrannid flycatchers are noted for their great morphologic uniformity, species-specific songs, and distinctive nesting ecology. Intraspecific genetic variability was substantial and comparable to that shown in other recent avian studies. The average Nei's genetic distance among species of Empidonax, exclusive of euleri, was 0.070, a value somewhat higher than the average of 0.044 shown by other birds. Because euleri differs from all other species of Empidonax at large genetic distances, 0.348 to 0.465, we conclude that it should be removed from the genus; euleri is probably best placed in Cnemotriccus. Eight of the 12 species of Empidonax possessed unique alleles, ranging from 1 autapomorphy in atriceps to 10 in euleri. Within Contopus, only sordidulus had unique alleles and these were uncommon. A locus by locus comparison of alleles revealed many subsets of species which share particular alleles, but no clear groupings of taxa are evident. Distance Wagner trees and Fitch-Margoliash trees, as well as UPGMA and WPGMA phenograms, were constructed from the matrix of Rogers' genetic distances, showing that: (1) euleri is very distinct from all other species of Empidonax and Contopus; (2) the three species of Contopus are closely related; and (3) E. traillii-E. alnorum and C. sordidulus-C. virens are species pairs. Two of the three branching diagrams also suggest the close affinity of E. difficilis and E. flavescens, and of E. hammondii and E. atriceps. The latter relationship was unexpected because, on morphologic and vocal evidence, E. hammondii had been considered to be a close relative of E. minimus. The latter species and E. virescens seem to be rather strongly differentiated within the genus. Except for the component allospecies of superspecies (E. traillii-E. alnorum, E. difficilis-E. flavescens, and C. sordidulus-C. virens), which are relatively recently derived, the protein evidence suggests that the radiation of species of Empidonax occurred over a rather narrow span of time, perhaps in the late Pliocene or early Pleistocene. The phylogenetic picture is not one of a prolonged evolution of species via a dichotomous sequence of cladogenetic events. Therefore, the great similarity of sibling species in Empidonax and in Contopus is not evidence for their recent origin. Rather, it is a consequence of a very conservative evolution of plumage and morphology that has not kept pace with evolutionary rates for allozymes, vocalizations, and features of nesting biology.
10.2307/2413018|A new species of bat from the genus Rhogeessa is described, which would not have been recognized as distinct if the karyotypes had not been available. The discovery of this species clearly documents that it is possible for two sympatric species of mammals to be so similar in external and cranial morphology that without chromosomal, genic, or some other data, a researcher would never realize a local sample contained more than a single biological species.
10.2307/2413015|Phenetic and cladistic approaches were used to assess relationships among 22 species representing 17 genera of batagurine turtles, and 2 species representing 2 genera of emydine turtles. Phenograms and cladograms were constructed from a total of 90 variable enzyme products (electromorphs) of 14 gene loci. Phenograms were generated by UPGMA clustering using genetic similarity, identity, and distance matrices, and a Wagner tree was constructed from a binary-coded character matrix. A qualitative locus-by-locus cladistic approach was also attempted, and in this as well as in our application of the Wagner algorithm, a species of the sister group family Testudinidae was used as the outgroup taxon. Results of the three approaches are evaluated relative to each other, and relative to relationships that have previously been proposed with other lines of evidence. Some of the clades generated by one or more of the approaches used in this study are particularly strongly corroborated by chromosomal and osteological data sets. High genetic distances between some taxa, and high levels of inferred homoplasy suggest that divergence among many species approaches the limits of electrophoretic resolution and, as a result, several cladistic hypotheses are presented for some taxa. Where results are inconclusive, however, they are useful to the extent that they draw attention to contradictory data sets and alternative hypotheses of intergeneric relationships.
10.2307/2413017|A method is proposed for identifying the phylogenetically reliable information in homoplastic characters and using it to derive phylogenetic trees by character compatibility analysis. The sister groups identified on the primary tree are used as outgroups for possible recoding of rejected characters. The recoded characters are then used in secondary analyses to resolve relationships on smaller and smaller branches of the tree. The method combines the suggestions of Watrous and Wheeler (1981) with compatibility analysis and bases lower-level resolution on polarity decisions made at higher levels. Farris's (1982) criticisms of the method of Watrous and Wheeler are found to be irrelevant in studies that use estimates of character polarity and ancestral states for deriving phylogenetic trees. An application of the method using real data is provided.
10.2307/2413020|Morphometric and allozymic data were collected for eight populations of a palaemonid prawn, Macrobrachium rosenbergii (de Man), throughout Asia, north Australia, and parts of the western Pacific. For each data set, Fitch-Margoliash networks were constructed to estimate the patristric and cladistic relationships among these populations. Two measures of taxonomic congruence were calculated for the networks with varying results which are traced to inherent differences in the methods. Both measures indicated that the networks agreed in the divergence of the species into eastern and western subspecific groups along Wallace's Line, a zoogeographic discontinuity in Asia. These networks were correlated with paleogeologic and paleoclimatic theory to infer the species' expansion and evolution. The same paleotectonic factors resulting in the formation of Wallace's Line are thought to have caused the species' subspecific divergence. Climatic differences may promote selective forces which at different levels maintain Wallace's Line and the prawn's subspecific divergence.
10.2307/2413022| The islands of Aruba, Bonaire and Curaao are Cerion's geographic outlier, inhabited by the single species C. uva. I studied geographic variation in C. uva as recorded in 135 samples of 20 snails each, based on 19 measures selected to show covariance in patterns of ontogenetic allometry. The four regions of eastern Curaao, western Curaao, Bonaire and Aruba are clearly distinguished by consistent differences displayed in covariance sets. Snails from western Curaao reach a constrained final size with few large whorls, those from Aruba with more and smaller whorls. Each mode of growth entails, through its covariance set, a host of subsidiary consequences for the shell's basic form. Snails from Bonaire grow their apertures with more intense allometry. Nonadaptation must be an important theme in this variation; for even if the basic regional differences have an adaptive trigger (which is, in itself, far from demonstrated), the large set of allometric consequences, forming most of the noted and measured differences, must follow as automatic sequelae, not as selected traits. Covariance sets therefore offer a way of studying nonadaptation with positive evidence. Although each region can be distinguished by covariance sets, all regions display large and probably ecophenotypic differences in shell size as a response to moisture and vegetation of immediate habitats. This large variation in size within each region conceals the subtler but consistent differences among regions and has prevented their proper identification in past studies. An allometric and multivariate approach must be used to identify regional variation. 
10.2307/2413019|Three new karyotypic races of common shrew have been found in Britain: the "Aberdeen" race (northeastern Scotland); the "Oxford" race (central and northern Britain); and the "Hermitage" race (southeastern England). The karyotypes of all these races include metacentrics hi, jl and gm. Their karyotypes differ in metacentrics composed of chromosome arms k, n, o, p, q, r (Aberdeen: ko, np, qr; Oxford: kq, no, pr; Hermitage: ko only). The relationship of all 12 known karyotypic races of the common shrew has been examined by cladistic analysis. The results, supported by the geographic distribution of the races, suggest that there are three phylogenetic groups of common shrew (the "West European," "East European" and "Siberian" phylogenetic groups) to which 10 of the 12 karyotypic races can be ascribed (the British races belong to the West European phylogenetic group). Of the remaining two races, the Kuusijoki race in northern Scandinavia has characteristics of both the West European and East European phylogenetic groups and may have originated through hybridization, while the Valais race in Switzerland shows no close relationship to the other races. I propose that the European range of the common shrew was restricted to southern parts during the last glacial maximum and that the West European phylogenetic group spread over an area extending from southeastern to northwestern Europe at the end of the ice age.
10.2307/2413016|We have examined the behavior of the "treeness" test for evolutionary independence (Cavalli-Sforza and Piazza, 1975) using "evolutionary histories" from simulated and real data. For each set of characters, we have evaluated the treeness statistic (T) for the 945 topologies possible with six populations, or a random sample of them, and have analyzed the resulting distributions. All the distributions studied show common features: (1) Generally, a small fraction (less than 6%) of all topologies gave T values compatible with the phylogenetic hypothesis. (2) This fraction became smaller as the number of characters increased. (3) The T values obtained for the simulated and reconstructed trees are always found at the far left tail of the distribution.
10.2307/2413075|The history of chelonian systematics reflects the underlying theme of biologic systematics: the search for natural groups characterized by an inter-nesting pattern of features. Eighteenth century turtle systematics was dominated by the discovery of new species followed by the subdivision of Linnaeus' single genus, Testudo, into many genera. Higher category classifications were first based on habitat-related features; but as more morphologic information became available and was seen to be inconsistent with these classifications, new higher taxa (e.g., cryptodires and pleurodires) were recognized and tested successfully. The advent of process hypotheses in the form of evolutionism had a deleterious effect on turtle systematics due to the erection of supposedly ancestral and adaptational taxa. Phylogenetic systematics may be considered as the most recent phase in chelonian systematics but instead of being a new methodology, it is a more precise and objective technique of discovering and testing natural groups of the sort systematists have been seeking for centuries. A new classification and cladogram of turtles utilize these principles.
10.2307/2413073|Parallel evolution, as exemplified by data on opisthobranch mollusks (a group in which snails have repeatedly evolved into slugs), often exceeds divergent evolution. A similar level of parallelism has been described in an array of other organisms. This fact presents a serious challenge to those systematists who claim that a cladogram with a minimal number of steps represents a most parsimonious and most likely scenario of genealogical relationship. When rampant parallelism is present, pattern cladism or other congruence networks which rely solely on ingroup comparison of characters are unsuccessful in resolving the problem. We suggest that emphasis on unique innovation and divergent apomorphy presents a fruitful and scientifically consistent alternative to this dilemma. We contend that cladists have drastically altered the meaning of several terms-including "parallel evolution," "parsimony," and "a priori"-to suit their own methodological and philosophical paradigm. These modifications reduce the testability of their hypotheses and, therefore, the scientific credibility of their methods. The construction of a genealogy based on shared-derived features, which is independent of a theoretical basis, represents a resurfacing of typological thinking which has little value in explaining or even depicting the patterns of diversity of life.
10.2307/2413074|One reason radiolarian species are difficult to define is because the reproductive biology and ecology of living radiolarians are not well understood. Asexual reproduction has been documented, but sexual reproduction is only suggested by the presence of flagellated swarmer cells. The evidence for dimorphism and hybridization found in the fossil record has not been correlated with that from living radiolarians. The depth at which the organisms are found has been suggested as important with respect to skeletal shape, but this idea in part has recently been disproved. Characters used to define radiolarian species many not accurately reflect reproductive modes or living environments. Ideally, the determination of a radiolarian species, as with all other types of species, should incorporate data on their reproductive biology, ecology, and paleontology. Radiolarians, like other protozoans, probably do not develop in any one evolutionary mode (owing to different reproductive strategies). New evidence for alternation of generations and hybridization is given. One should not assume that the methods used to determine species for larger-sized organisms are applicable to radiolarian species.
10.2307/2413076|Outlines of wings from 127 species of North American mosquitoes were digitized. Comparisons were made among several different methods of reducing the information in the resulting coordinates to a series of descriptors that could be used in multivariate analysis. Methods included Fourier analysis of both radii and tangent angle change functions. In addition, the relatively new method of elliptic Fourier analysis was tried. Cluster and ordination analyses based on the various sets of descriptors summarized well the pattern of similarities and differences in wing shapes, but clusters of similar wings do not agree well with traditional taxonomic groupings. The use of elliptic Fourier descriptors appears to be especially promising for future work.
10.2307/2412693|To explore the relationship between organismal and protein evolution, a comparative study was made of the serum albumins of tree frogs (Hylidae). Attention was centered on those Holarctic hylines whose anatomy and way of life have been intensively studied, namely species of Acris, Hyla, and Pseudacris. An albumin phylogeny was constructed from immunological distance data obtained with rabbit antisera to the purified albumins of 12 hyline species by means of the micro-complement fixation test. An analogous study with antisera to purified hemoglobin from 4 of these species was in approximate agreement with the albumin phylogeny. The albumin phylogeny revealed an apparent case of convergent morphological evolution involving H. wrightorum and H. regilla. These two species are similar enough in external morphology to have been classified in the same species by some recent authors. Yet their albumins differ as much from each other immunologically as from Acris albumin. This case is discussed more fully elsewhere (Maxson & Wilson, 1974). Discrepancies between organismal resemblance and albumin resemblance can also arise because of unequal rates of organismal divergence. Acris provides an example of this. The albumin phylogeny, supported by hemoglobin evidence, shows that the Acris lineage falls cladistically within the North American assemblage of Hyla lineages. Acris is more similar at the protein level to some Hyla species than the latter are to other Hyla species. Yet Acris is very different from Hyla in anatomy and way of life. The Acris lineage evidently underwent unusually rapid organismal evolution. However, there is no indication of accelerated albumin evolution in this lineage. Limnaoedus and Pseudacris provide additional examples of this sort. We infer that organismal and protein evolution can proceed at independent rates. This provides taxonomists with a dilemma: Should classifications be revised on the basis of protein data? The albumin results are consistent with recent ideas about the historical biogeography of hyline tree frogs. By assuming that albumin behaves as an evolutionary clock, which evolves at the rate of 1.7 immunological distance units per million years, it is calculated that a) Australian hylines diverged from New World hylines about 75 million years ago, b) North American hylines diverged from South American hylines 65 million years ago, and c) Eurasian hylines diverged from North American hylines about 40 million years ago. These estimated times are in approximate agreement with non-molecular evidence concerning the times when land connections existed between these continents. The assumed rate of albumin evolution is similar to that estimated elsewhere for such diverse organisms as mammals, iguanid lizards, crocodilians and ranoid frogs. The inference that albumin behaves approximately as an evolutionary clock is thus extended to include tree frogs.
10.2307/2412701|Mitotic chromosomes were analyzed from 74 specimens representing three subspecies of Peromyscus maniculatus from Oklahoma and Texas. Two distinct chromosomal forms were found. One form, occurring predominantly north of the Red River in Oklahoma and representing P. m. ozarkiarum, had 11 pairs of subtelocentric, six pairs of metacentric or submetacentric and six pairs of acrocentric autosomes. A second form, occurring south of the Red River in Texas and representing P. m. pallescens, had ten pairs of subtelocentric, eight pairs of metacentric or submetacentric, and five pairs of acrocentric autosomes. Both karyological types were found in the same habitat at two localities in north-central Texas, but no chromosomal hybrids were found in this area. Meiotic analysis of hybrids from laboratory crosses between the two types indicated partial sterility. A morphological analysis revealed that gene flow is restricted in eastern Oklahoma, west-central Texas, and eastern Texas. The most plausible explanation for the observed variation is the existence of circular overlap.
10.2307/2412696|The Oldman Formation (Campanian) of Alberta includes in its dinosaurian fauna 3 genera and 12 species of closely related lambeosaurine hadrosaurs. A biometric study of 36 skulls that ranged in size by a factor of three was undertaken; the data were fitted to the allometric equation. Bivariate plots reveal the validity of two genera, Corythosaurus and Lambeosaurus, with one species of the former, C. casuarius, and two of the latter, L. lambei and L. magnicristatus (quite rare), being accepted. Sexual dimorphism is recognized in each. Procheneosaurus includes juvenile individuals of each genus. Although 48 cranial characters were measured, only 5 or 6, confined to the crest, had any discriminatory value. The analogy between cassowaries and hadrosaurs in growth of the crest is observed. The sex ratio and maximum size of each sex is about equal for both common species.
10.2307/2412699|The concept of two biotic assemblages in mediterranean seas is developed. The two assemblages correspond to the two extreme glacial situations which recur periodically. Present changes in these seas, natural or manmade, either enhance or inhibit these two elements. The Lessepsian migrants represent the glacial assemblage of the Red Sea, and in the Mediterranean, they play the opposite role of the interglacial assemblage. They will expand or withdraw in their new environment according to the future improvement or deterioration of the world climate.
10.2307/2412700|Interspecific and subspecific variation in cranial morphology of the big-eared ground squirrels (Spermophilus) was described and found to be related to patterns of chromosomal variation. The first discriminant function (DF) and first principal component (PC) were found to correspond roughly to the latitudinal location of the species. In this study, looking at the scatter plots of individuals on PC's would not have helped one to find groups. Differences considered to be biologically meaningful were found between pairs: Spermophilus r. richardsonii and Spermophilus richardsonii aureus; Spermophilus columbianus columbianus and Spermophilus undulatus; and Spermophilus parryii kennicottii and Spermophilus parryii leucostictus. The S. richardsonii subspecies group was reorganized so the S. richardsonii is now a species distinct from the three subspecies S. elegans elegans, S. elegans aureus and S. elegans nevadensis. S. p. leucostictus and S. p. kennicottii, if only cranial morphology were considered, could be regarded as different species.
10.2307/2412702|A critical evaluation of the characters on which the Protostomia-Deuterostomia theory is based shows that this theory rests on shaky ground. In an attempt to test this superphyletic classification, I investigated the phylogenetic relationship between Echinodermata, Mollusca and Vertebrata on the basis of various biochemical, physiological, and histological characters. The outcome is that Mollusca and Vertebrata have many more characters in common than have the Vertebrata and Echinodermata. Therefore, unless the use of non-morphological characters is excluded a priori, it follows that Mollusca and Vertebrata have ancestors in common that were not ancestors to Echinodermata, and that the Protostomia-Deuterostomia classification is falsified.
10.2307/2412698|Multiple-diseriminant analysis with aid of the Mahalanobis D
10.2307/2412694|Analysis of mating calls of two cognate species of Pseudacris reveals divergence in two components, pulse rate and pulse number, which in at least one species seems best interpreted as reproductive character displacement. Pulse rate is apparently the critical parameter upon which female discrimination of mating call is based, but pulse number appears to be involved too.
10.2307/2412695|Potential reproductive isolating mechanisms between sympatric Calopteryx maculata (Beauvois) and C. aequabilis Say are examined and evidence is presented for the reinforcement of species discrimination during pair formation and for a selective basis for changes in female wing pigmentation in the context of reproductive isolation between these species. The species are sympatric across the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada. In the area of sympatry C. aequabilis shows nearly complete ecological and temporal overlap with C. maculata. Mechanical barriers to interspecific copulations are apparently absent and no hybrids are known despite several observed interspecific copulations. Visual discrimination based on female wing pigmentation is identified as a major component in the reproductive isolation between C. maculata and C. aequabilis. C. maculata males discriminate between their females and C. aequabilis females by responding to the females with the darker of two alternative wing colors. Differences in wing pigmentation between sexes and among Calopteryx species are accentuated and displayed during pair formation and courtship. There is experimental evidence for the reinforcement of C. maculata male species discrimination ability in the area of sympatry with C. aequabilis. Experiments also indicate a selective disadvantage against dark winged sympatric C. aequabilis females. Coupled with the fact that sympatric C. aequabilis females have more lightly pigmented wings than allopatric ones, this finding provides a potential example of character displacement in the context of reproductive isolation between these species.
10.2307/2412697|Graphing on probability paper of radius and tibia lengths (N = 17, 16) of Moropus from the Agate Spring Quarries, Nebraska, shows a bimodal population with approximately equal numbers in each size group. These results, along with the generally uniform morphology, suggest that a single sexually dimorphic species, Moropus elatus, is represented. Accounts of size bimodality in other chalicotheriids are consistent with widespread sexual dimorphism in species of this family, despite the fact that numbers of collected individuals in the two size groups are not equal in every case.
10.2307/2412905|Caribbean biogeography is reviewed to illustrate within a particular geographic framework how evidence of plant and animal distribution may be interpreted without commitment to special assumptions other than allopatric speciation (vicariance). The distributional data are examined with respect to whether or not they form recognizable patterns within the Caribbean region. Four main patterns and one lesser pattern are identified. The patterns or generalized distributional tracks are regions or geographical features (e.g., islands, coastlines, oceanic and continental regions) in which the distributions of monophyletic groups of diverse organisms are coincident. The generalized tracks are compared with geophysical theories of Caribbean history. The one geophysical theory which is strongly consistent with the distributional evidence (generalized tracks) specifies that Antillean land was originally or had its origin as part of an early lower Central American archipelago that was later replaced by the tectonically and topographically similar, presentday, lower Central American land. The postulated events associated with this replacement involve continental drift, the main effect of which would have been to intrude a portion of the eastern Pacific sea floor into the tropical western Atlantic, carrying the early lower Central American archipelago with it. The hypothesized intruded sea floor, now forming the Caribbean Sea, is bounded on the north and east by a transposed, original archipelago, the Antilles, and on the west by a new archipelago, now represented by the continuous land of present-day lower Central America. The separate parts of each generalized track are interpreted as the remnants of an ancestral biota that underwent geographical fragmentation followed by allopatric speciation (vicariance). This vicariance model of Caribbean biogeography specifies where dispersal, rather than vicariance, is the most parsimonious interpretation of a particular individual distribution, and contrasts strongly with other biogeographic interpretations in which dispersal is assumed aprioristically to be the sole, or single most important, feature of Caribbean biotic history. The vicariance model is also shown to predict, and therefore to be tested by, phylogenies (cladograms) of geographically included taxa.
10.2307/2412904|All biogeographical studies seem to pass through three main phases: an empirical or descriptive phase, a narrative phase, and an analytical phase, the last two being the true subject matter of explanatory historical biogeography. Narrative explanations are more or less inductively based and differ from the usual covering law models of explanation in that it is the particular circumstances in the form of an historical narrative that bear the explanatory load. Much biogeographical thinking is of this nature and the hypotheses so formulated stiffer from their lack of predictive power and their basic untestability--usually they cannot be falsified and a preference between competing narrative hypotheses cannot be established on logical grounds. Examples of such hypotheses are given. The best biogeographical hypotheses are those that follow the hypothetico-deductive model and an example of how this may be done is provided. A phylogenetic systematic background is essential. Rigorously formulated hypotheses must have explanatory power, internal consistency, predictive power, and potential for falsification. Our aim should be to make our biogeographical hypotheses fit these requirements for only then will we begin to understand the history underlying modern distribution patterns.
10.2307/2412906|Minute genera, whose shell measures less than 100 mm, form 60.0% of the Pacific land snail fauna. In contrast to this, the minute class only represents 27.1% of the continental fauna. The mean generic size in the Pacific fauna is correspondingly lower: 11.9 mm vs. 20.6. The difference between the 2 groups is statistically highly significant. Similarly to the Pacific, the eastern Pacific and eastern Atlantic insular land snail faunas and the wide-spread fauna also are dominated by the minute genera. From these observations it is concluded that minute body size is advantageous for long distance dispersal, both overseas and overland, in the land snails. This in turn indicates that the mechanism involved must be aerial, since only in this type of dispersal are small size and light weight advantageous. The minute species also are, as a rule, more abundant than the large ones, which constitutes a further advantage. Support to the hypothesis is provided by the facts that land snarls have been recovered from the plumage of birds; that recently formed volcanic islands have been colonized predominantly by minute land snails, and that mineral particles considerably larger and heavier than the minute land snails have been collected at high altitudes by airplanes. Alternative hypotheses are considered and rejected on the grounds that their tenets are unproven, unnecessary or erroneous; however, it is emphasized that the relationship between body size and area size needs further analysis. The characteristics of insular land snail faunas are summarized as follows: predominance of minute genera; high frequency of primitive, orthurethran genera and families; resemblance to the fauna of the nearest continent; low degree of enclemism on the family level, increasingly higher, on the genus and species level, relatively recent origin, through aerial immigration.
10.2307/2412752|A total of 191 specimens of Peters' tent-making bat, Uroderma bilobatum, were collected from the zone where two chromosomal races, representing two subspecies, meet. Eighty-eight specimens had 2n = 38, four had 2n = 39, one had 2n = 40, one had 2n = 41, one had 2n = 42, 14 had 2n = 43, and 82 had 2n = 44. This chromosomal variation is best explained as resulting from hybridization between two cytotypes with the 2n = 38 and the 2n = 44 being the parental (pure) types, the 2n = 41 individual being of the F
10.2307/2412753|The genetic structure of 52 natural populations of four species (P. attwateri, P. boylii, P. pectoralis, and P. polius) of the Peromyscus boylii species group was analyzed through application of chromosomal and electrophoretic techniques. Only slight or no chromosomal variation was observed in three species (attwateri, pectoralis, and polius), but considerable chromosomal variation occurred among populations of P. boylii. Chromosomal evidence indicated that gene flow occurred between two of the chromosomal forms of P. boylii (spicilegus and rowleyi). Analysis of electrophoretic variation in proteins encoded by 17 structural loci of populations of P. boylii, consisting of eight chromosomal forms, indicated that these forms of P. boylii form a conspecific unit. Populations of P. attwateri were genetically distinct from other members of this group, thus supporting the specific status of this form. Examination of specific loci for allelic homology indicated that P. attwateri probably arose from P. boylii. A sample of P. polius suggested that the affinities of this species are with the boylii group. Populations of P. pectoralis demonstrated very low levels of genetic similarity with other members of this species group suggesting that the affinities of P. pectoralis may lie with other forms of Peromyscus.
10.2307/2412756|A multivariate component analysis with an oblique factor solution was performed on 18 (15 osteometric and 3 external metric) traits in male and female randombred house mice of 3 different ages (1-month, 3-months, and 5-months). Approximately 77% of the total variance was explained by 4 factors in the 1-month mice, and by 5 factors in the 3-month and 5-month individuals. Skull, limb, pelvic girdle, and width factors (listed in order of importance) were identified for the 1-month age group, the external measures mostly associating with the skull factor. In the 3-month and 5-month age groups, girdle, skull length, limb, skull width, and tail factors were evident. There were considerable differences between the sexes throughout the age groups in the delineation of specific variables (especially the external ones) into factors. Factor patterns were explained largely in terms of differential growth and general anatomical and functional considerations. The direct contributions of the factors to the specific variables most affected were taken to represent the effects of a combination of additive genetic and residual environmental influences. The totals of the residual direct contributions and the indirect contributions of the factors for each of the variables were found to be highly correlated with previous estimates of non-genetic maternal effects.
10.2307/2412754|Cytogenetic comparisons were made of northern red-backed voles of two subspecies, Clethrionomys rutilus dawsoni Merriam and C. r. albiventer Hall and Gilmore, as well as of intergrades of dawsoni x albiventer to the F
10.2307/2412757|A phenogram of relationships between members of the termitophilous subtribe Termitusina was derived by methods of numerical taxonomy. Discrepancies exist between the inferred phylogeny of the genera and the phenetic relations of the species. A method of association analysis was applied to the Termitusina, and the resulting phenogram is compared to that derived by numeric analysis using Slobodehikoff and Johnson's (1973) Index of Comparative Positional Analysis. While the congruence between phenograms is not perfect, there is a striking similarity. The advantage of association analysis is that the characters which produce the branchings of the phenogram are identified and can be evaluated for their evolutionary significance and used for constructing taxonomic keys.
10.2307/2412759|Dates for the primate phylogeny based on fossil evidence contradict those obtained from albumin as a "molecular clock." Consequently the theoretical basis for a "molecular clock" is reviewed to determine if the albumin "molecular clock" has been calibrated in accordance with that theory. The neutral mutation model and data relating amino acid differences to time of divergence of species based on fossil evidence suggest a reasonably linear relationship when the number of differences is corrected for multiple mutations at the same locus. This disagrees with the assumption of a linear relationship between time and number of differences that has been used for calibrating the albumin "clock." When corrected, the albumin "clock" yields dates that are contradicted by fossil evidence. It is then argued that the second assumption used for calibrating the "clock," of an exponential relationship between ID values and amino acid differences, inadequately fits experimental data. Two plausible equations for relating ID values and amino acid differences that fit the data better are given. Depending on the equation used and the time assigned to the hominoid-cercopithecoid divergence, time estimates for the pongid-hominid split ranging from 5 x 10
10.2307/2412758|A coordinate digitizer was used to record morphometric data from a set of operationally-homologous points defined on various regions of a set of illustrations. Similarities obtained from the data were compared with sets of similarities obtained by an intuitive approach, by conventional numerical taxonomy with definition of characters and manual recording of data, and by pseudo-optical scanning. All sets were highly correlated with each other, suggesting that data capture by the technique described could serve to expedite the handling of material for biological classification.
10.2307/2412755|Many species of voles and lemmings (Microtinae) possess specialized sebaceous glands on the skin arranged in pads which are known as skin glands. Microtus pennsylvanicus and M. longicaudus do not have these distinct skin glands, but their development can be induced by exogenous pharmacological dosages of testosterone. Since the positions of the microtine skin glands are generally considered to be of taxonomic significance, induction of glands on spccies not known to possess them seems to be an easy taxonomic tool. The results are discussed in terms of the phylogenetic relationships of the two species and the differential response of skin glands on animals in different populations of the same species.
10.2307/2412717|The roof rat (Rattus rattus Linnaeus) was initially introduced into the Galapagos Archipelago before Darwin's visit in 1835. The species is now known from seven of the 16 major islands and exhibits a wide range in both human and non-human associated habitat usages. Morphological distinctiveness of island populations was first noted by Heller in 1904, consisting of overall size and shape as well as pelage color differences. Analyses involving allozyme frequencies at 37 genetic loci, epigenetic cranial characters, and multivariate treatments of mensural characters confirm and extend these observations. The level of concordance between each analysis is extremely high; each delineates the same three groupings of islands based on overall similarity: (1) Isla Santiago-Bartolome; (2) Isla Floreana-Isabela-Pinzon-San Cristobal; and (3) Isla Santa Cruz-Baltra. An hypothesis of multiple origins best accounts for the similarity relationships between islands as each of the groupings fits a known separate period of human use activity. The initial introduction was most likely at Santiago in the late 1600's; the most recent on Baltra-Santa Cruz during World War II. Gene flow between the different island groups, past and present, is considered slight, but continual introduction of immigrants from outside source populations, particularly to Baltra, Santa Cruz, and San Cristobal, is highly probable. Genic variability as demonstrated by allozyme analysis is quite low (mean heterozygosity = 2.85 per cent) when compared to other rodent species. The pattern of variability, however, suggests that this low level does not result from a severe founder effect, but that it is a general characteristic of the species as a whole.
10.2307/2412718|The study of evolutionary phenomena such as reticulate evolution, gene transfer, convergence and mosaic evolution, and their differentiation from mistaken evolutionary homology (i.e., orthology), requires methods for detecting cladistic incompatibilities. Protein sequences are potentially valuable for such investigations, and for these two main strategies are proposed. Strategy (a) is to look for unexpected similarities between segments of the sequences using cross-association or similar methods. Strategy (b) (which assumes satisfactory prior alignment of the sequences) is to compare the sites in the sequence and test whether the observed co-occurrences would readily fit a single cladogram; for this Le Quesne's method of testing for cladistic incompatibilities has been adapted to protein sequences. Studies have been made on a number of cytochromes. Strategy (a) reveals unexpected high similarity among the N-terminal portions of some eukaryote and prokaryote cytochromes, and there appear to be several short segments that differ in their patterns of similarity. It is not yet clear whether functional requirements or gene transfer is the explanation. Strategy (b) has been tested on sequences where the evolutionary history appears straightforward and also on simulated disturbances of cladogeny and homologization. It seems to be a sensitive technique for such studies. Strategy (b) has also the advantage that it should permit the partitioning of characters into sets that may reflect different evolutionary behavior even when such sets cannot be distinguished by inspection. Preliminary trials suggest that such sets could be recovered by cluster analysis of character compatibility matrices.
10.2307/2412716|Allelic variation at fourteen loci coding for ten enzymes was studied in seventeen populations of Hyla regilla and in H. eximia, H. wrightorum, H. cadaverina, and H. euphorbiacea. Heterozygote deficiencies were found at several loci in several populations of H. regilla and possible reasons are suggested. The proportion of polymorphic loci and average individual heterozygosity were typical of other vertebrates with some exceptions: (1) the Lee's Camp, Oregon population; (2) the Santa Cruz Island population; (3) the three San Diego Co. populations; (4) the Sierra San Pedro Martyr population; and (5) the three populations in southern Baja California. Measures of genetic similarity (S) and genetic distance (D), as well as patterns of variation in allele frequencies at PGI and IDH-2, suggested three groups within Hyla regilla. These were: (1) the four Oregon populations; (2) the three central California populations; and (3) the ten southern California and Baja populations. The proportion of major alleles shared indicated Hyla eximia and H. wrightorum are very closely related and that H. wrightorum is not a subspecies of H. regilla; H. eximia and H. wrightorum are also closely related to H. euphorbiacea. Hyla regilla and H. cadaverina are more closely allied to each other than they are to the other three forms. A strong correlation (r = 0.93) between genetic relatedness as measured by immunological comparisons of albumin and that measured by electrophoretic studies of many proteins was found, although immunological techniques cannot be used to study taxa which are very closely related (D = 0.25 or less).
10.2307/2412719|Some of the problems associated with the taxonomic study of proboscis hook characteristics in the phylum Acanthocephala are discussed. The "Meristogram" method of graphical analysis is introduced and applied to the genera Echinorhynchus and Pomphorhynchus. This new method eliminates many of the problems associated with the study of morphological variability in the serially repeating proboscis hooks of these acanthocephalans. Suggestions are made concerning the application of the method to other groups possessing serially repeating structures such as Annelida, Arthropoda, Graptoloidea and Osteichthyes.
10.2307/2412720|A geometric model of the Conus shell has been developed in order to increase objectivity, quantification, and reproducibility in the use of attributes of gastropod shells as taxonomic characters. The model also permits determination of the position of Conus in the spectrum of geometrically possible gastropod shell forms. The parameters of the model comprise the smallest number of characters sufficient to describe the shell adequately. They include 1) shape of generating curve, 2) rate of whorl expansion, 3) rate of translation, 4) rate of spire translation, 5) relative whorl height, 6) convexity, 7) position of maximum diameter, and 8) relative diameter. Parameters 1-3 are adopted from Raup's generalized model of the coiled shell; 4-8 are necessitated by aspects of geometry specific to Conus. In addition, two sculptural parameters, number of tubercles and number of spiral striae on the last whorl, are utilized. Comparative analyses of the morphometric and sculptural parameters in five samples of shells belonging to three species indicate that nine of the ten are independent, i.e., not significantly correlated with others. Comparisons of samples from 3 geographically separated populations of C. miliaris from the southeastern Pacific indicate that specimens from Easter Island differ significantly from those from Managareva and Tahiti with respect to seven of nine independent characters. Objective analysis of shell color by reflectance spectrophotometry also distinguishes Easter Island specimens of C. miliaris from those from more central Indo-West Pacific localities. Specimens from Tahiti assigned to C. coronatus and C. aristophanes on the basis of one sculptural character were distinguished by only two of the remaining eight independent characters. Conus occupies a region of the hyperspace of geometrically possible shell forms bounded by the following approximate values of major parameters: shape of generating curve, 5.5-19; rate of whorl expansion, 1-2; rate of translation, 2.5-8; distance between generating curve and axis of coiling, 0.
10.2307/2412227|Push-up displays vary among several populations of the lizard genus Uta and allow new interpretations of the systematics and evolutionary history of the genus. Variation in the displays can be divided into seven geographic zones of push-up similarity; taxonomic recognition of the display variation may require revision of the infraspecific taxonomy of Uta stansburiana. The push-up display characteristic of Uta palmeri is probably primitive to that of other populations; probable evolutionary trends in the modification of the display are discussed. Some of these modifications probably have evolved within the last 12,000 years, and some may have resulted from hybridization or introgression between Uta populations. The push-up display is probably a communicative signal and is performed during intraspecific aggression and mating. Selective or other factors possibly regulating intrapopulation stereotypy and interpopulation divergence of the display are discussed.
10.2307/2412223|Most definitions of the term monophyly are ambiguous because they do not limit the common ancestor sufficiently. Simpson's (1961) definition does not define monophyly; rather, it attempts to define a nameable taxon. Hennig's (1966a) definition, which requires a group to contain all the descendants of the common ancestor, is precise and useful, but it is narrower than the classic concept of monophyly and is here renamed holophyly. One way to limit the common ancestor is to require that it be a member of the group of which it is the stem, but this would seem to require a macroevolutionary appearance of groups. A precise definition of monophyly may be formulated if the common ancestor need be only cladistically a member. If a group can be shown to have one or more unique evolutionary innovations, it may be inferred that the most recent common ancestor also had these innovations; and it is, then, cladistically a member of the group. The ancestor need not have reached the grade of, or phenetically be, a member of the group. Holophyly, with Hennig's contrasting term paraphyly, then become two aspects of monophyly, while polyphyly describes a group whose common ancestor is not cladistically a member of the group.
10.2307/2412222|The theory is developed that the antigenic distance between two lineages of organisms (i.e., average number of non-matching antigenic sites between proteins produced by homologous genes in the separate evolving lines) becomes larger the longer the two have been without a common ancestor. A set theoretical analysis of protein antigen comparisons between contemporary species in trefoil Ouchterlony plates shows that from networks of these immunodiffusion comparisons, developed by antisera to an homologous species and comparing homologous to heterologous and heterologous to heterologous species, the antigenic distances of the homologous to the various heterologous species in the comparison series can be calculated. Computer procedures are described for first estimating these taxonomic distance tables for a species collection with a number of homologuos species in it (i.e., species against which antisera were produced and used to gather Ouchterlony data) and for then generating from the antigenic distance measurements a cladogenetic tree of the species in the collection. On applying this set theory, computer approach to a large mass of Ouchterlony data gathered with monkey, rabbit, and chicken antisera to proteins of various catarrhine species, it is shown that the catarrhine primates are a monophyletic group which subdivide in accordance with the established taxonomic scheme into Cercopithecoidea and Hominoidea. Also the cercopithecoids further subdivide as traditionally represented into Colobinae and Cercopithecinae. However within the Hominoidea the classical Pongidae is found to be polyphyletic. A cladistic classification, based on immunodiffusion systematics, reduces Pongidae to the subfamily Ponginae, containing Pongo as its only living genus; Ponginae is placed in the Hominidae alongside of Homininae, the latter containing Pan, Homo, and Gorilla. The subfamily Hylobatinae containing Symphalangus and Hylobates belongs to Hylobatidae as the only other family of extant Hominoidea.
10.2307/2412221|The lizards Anolis trinitatis and Anolis aeneus probably were introduced onto Trinidad. They tend to be found in pure species enclaves, but populations do overlap. Where they overlap they hybridize. Hybrid males are normal in size, but hybrid females are "giants," exceeding the parental females in length and weight. Hybrids have greatly reduced reproductive fitness, and are presumed to be largely sterile. Intersex hybrids have been found. Spermatogenesis occurs in hybrid males but few sperm are produced because of impaired meiosis; spermatogenic failure is not due to hormonal deficiencies. Androgen production appears normal in hybrid males. Few eggs are produced among the hybrid females. Electrophoresis of blood proteins serves to describe the structure of the hybridizing population. Species specific albumins, hemoglobins, and transferrins were useful for recognition of hybrids. The distribution of protein variants throughout the population showed that backcrosses were rare if they occurred at all. There are no distinct behavioral or ecological isolating mechanisms between the two species and little character displacement has occurred. It is not obvious if either species has a competitive advantage. However, large adult aeneus males are slightly more robust than male trinitatis. This may confer an advantage on the aeneus in territorial interactions. Casual observations suggest that aeneus is replacing trinitatis. The pure enclaves may result from the "advantage of numbers": the less abundant species will fail to find conspecific mates, will produce sterile hybrids, and therefore will not become established.
10.2307/2412119|Multivariate statistical distance and computer mapping techniques are used to determine and display changes in the intensity of morphologic variation between populations of Ascaphus truei, the ribbed frog, in the northwestern United States. The resulting maps can be interpreted on the basis of ancient distribution patterns, avenues of gene flow, and environmental adaptations. Factor analysis is used to depict interrelationships among the measured morphologic characters.
10.2307/2412120|An analysis of information within characters and shared between characters is undertaken using data collected on a group of marine snakes (Hydrophiidae). Of the approaches considered, an information theory measure of variation is the most direct method of evaluating intra-character variation. Chi-square is useful for the evaluation of the association between characters. Arguments are presented that indicate character correlation is the true basis of most character weighting. An exploration of the relationships of the chi-square results with measures of variation based on information theory estimates and runs document the logical relationships between variation weighting and correlation weighting.
10.2307/2412115|Electrophoretically demonstrable genetic variation in 11 enzymes and six non-enzymatic proteins encoded by 18 loci was analyzed in 1208 specimens of 11 species of kangaroo rats (Dipodomys) from the western United States and in a related heteromyid, the pocket-mouse Perognathus hispidus. Most of the 17 proteins studied exhibit both polymorphic and interspecific variation, but protein-1 is invariable; and protein-2, protein-3, and hemoglobin are interspecifically variable although not polymorphic in any species. Except for Hb-1 (hemoglobin) and Trf-1 (transferrin), there is at each locus one allele which tends to predominate in all species of Dipodomys. The maximum number of alleles detected at a single locus in a population was three. Species of Dipodomys are, on the average, less variable genetically than other organisms for which estimates of levels of polymorphism and heterozygosity are available. An average of 7.9% of loci are polymorphic per population, and mean heterozygosity is 2.1%. Only four species are genetically as variable as rodents of the genera Mus and Peromyscus. Genic variability is uniform within species and is not correlated among species with extent of geographic range or degree of morphological "specialization." Possible relationships between degree of genetic variability and ecological amplitude or niche width are discussed. Significant regional heterogeneity in allele frequencies was demonstrated at most polymorphic loci in species that were relatively well sampled. Because geographic variation is limited, useful estimates of frequencies of the major alleles at loci in a species can be obtained from a small number of samples taken anywhere within the range. Coefficients of genetic similarity between conspecific populations invariably exceed 0.90. For interspecific comparisons, coefficients range from 0.31 to 0.89, with a mean of 0.61. On the average, species of Dipodomys are genetically more similar than are non-sibling species of Drosophila or Anolis. The pattern of relationships among species of Dipodomys indicated by genetic analysis differs significantly from those derived by Setzer, Lidicker, and others on morphological grounds but is similar to that provided by Stock's recent analysis of karyotypic variation in the genus.
10.2307/2412117|Two hundred and sixteen proteins were classified by comparing the frequency with which different amino acid doublets (nearest neighbour pairs) occurred in their amino acid sequences. The proteins classified into the usually recognised groups (e.g., the fibrinopeptides A & B, the insulins, the haemoglobins, etc.) The relationships within these groups mostly coincided with the assumed relationships of the organisms from which the proteins were obtained. The classification also suggested relationships between some proteins not normally thought to be related.
10.2307/2412118|The ever increasing demands on the time of the research taxonomist necessitate regularly a scrutiny of taxonomic and curatorial practices in order to permit elimination of obsolete rituals. Much time can be saved by eliminating unproductive practices and by establishing a clear sequence of priorities. What this should be depends on the group of which the taxonomist is a specialist.
10.2307/2412121|Both normal and lognormal statistics describe the distribution of vertebral numbers in local samples of lower vertebrates. When samples from populations possessing different means are compared, however, standard deviations of vertebral counts are correlated with mean counts, a relationship predicted by the lognormal, but not the normal distribution. Fit to the lognormal requires recognition in significance testing, necessitates log transformation of variables in studies of evolutionary rates, and predicts exponential rates of character divergence under constant selective pressure.
10.2307/2412116|A method is presented that is asserted to provide all hypothetical ancestral character states that are consistent with describing the descent of the present-day character states in a minimum number of changes of state using a predetermined phylogenetic relationship among the taxa represented. The character states used as examples are the four messenger RNA nucleotides encoding the amino acid sequences of proteins, but the method is general.
10.2307/2412055|Densitometric, micro-Ouchterlony immunodiffusion tests and turbidimetric precipitin tests were used to study relationships among species of bats in the family Phyllostomatidae. The immunodiffusion data were analyzed using two multivariate statistical programs in a GE 625 computer. The turbidimetric data were analyzed empirically. A distance dendrogram and a computer-drawn three-dimensional stereogram were derived. Immunologically the sturnirinines and the stenodermines are closely related as are the carollines and glossophagines. The immunologic distinctness of Choeronycteris from Glossophaga and the affinity of the former to species of the Phyllostomatinae suggest that the Glossophaginae are of polyphyletic origin. Desmodus (Desmodontidae) may possibly be a subfamily in the Phyllostomatidae. The Chilonycterinae may rank as a separate family
10.2307/2412052|Diversity and average generic age distributions for hermatypic corals show that while the Atlantic and Indo-Pacific faunas have evolved at different rates and in some respects have long been isolated systems, many responses to environment are the same. In each ocean, the diversity is highest north of the equator and in the western portion of the ocean. Positive anomalies in mean annual sea surface temperature are closely associated with maximum diversity and with minimum average generic age and a general relationship between both parameters and the area suitable for hermatypic coral growth is also evident. The data suggest that evolution of new genera is proceeding most rapidly in the regions of warmest water, but it is not possible to separate from the temperature relationship the affect of area of favorable bottom which cannot yet be quantified.
10.2307/2412053|Species density matrices and contour maps are presented for the amphibians and reptiles of the United States and Canada. Both classes show a regular southward increase in average density, and these patterns together with those of birds and mammals are analyzed to show the effects of topographic variability on species density. Some problems and theories about latitudinal gradients in diversity are discussed. A longitudinal complementarity between mammals and reptiles is demonstrated and some possible causes are discussed.
10.2307/2412058|Phenetic and phylogenetic classifications of 42 Tertiary and Recent species of the Family Lucinidae (Mollusca, Bivalvia) correspond reasonably well only at the lower taxonomic levels. On the basis of their evolutionary relationships, these species can be assigned to 28 subgenera and 7 genera. In the phenetic study, 45 multistate, mostly qualitative characters were used to calculate correlation and distance coefficients; both similarity measures were clustered by the weighted pair-group method. Small clusters which formed at high similarity levels in the two phenograms were usually composed of species of one subgenus or two or three closely related subgenera. Major clusters in each of the phenograms, however, differed considerably both from those of the other phenogram and from the principal phylogenetic lineages (genera). "Cophylogenetic coefficients," analogous to the cophenetic coefficients used in comparing phenograms, indicated that both phenograms poorly reflected inferred phylogeny and that they did not differ significantly with regard to their correspondence to the phylogenetic classification. Simple cluster analysis probably is adequate for finding phylogenetic groups at the subgeneric level but not for recognition of higher taxa. At the generic and higher levels, phenetic classifications are not more stable than phylogenetic ones. Phylogenetic classifications, being hypotheses about genealogy rather than static descriptions of morphological similarity, are more likely than phenetic ones to be productive of future investigations.
10.2307/2412057|Character correlations among 37 skin and skeletal characters within a statistically homogeneous sample of Brewer's black-birds (Euphagus cyanocephalus) were analyzed by component analysis and average linkage cluster analysis in order to isolate structural and/or functional character sets. Associations were assessed using productmoment correlation coefficients, partial correlations that corrected for a general size factor, and a subset of special partial correlations that corrected for a group factor defining high intercorrelations among limb bone length measurements. With ordinary correlations separate associations were identified for limb bone length, flight feather length, bill length, sternum size, bill width, and limb bone thickness. Some characters were predominantly independent. Partial correlations that corrected for covariation due to the group limb bone length factor indicated special associations among wing bones. An overall size factor is defined as that component which accounts for most of the covariation among all characters. Partial correlations correcting for this factor were analyzed and several size-independent associations emerged. The limb bone length assemblage is in part size-dependent. Size-independent associations include wing bone length, flight feather length, bill length, bill width, and limb bone thickness assemblages, and possibly a partial leg bone length set. Association of three sternal characters appears size-dependent, however a special size-independent association between sternum length and keel height was found. In addition, low-level, size-independent associations are found for pelvis width and bill height characters, as well as between the scapula and coracoid in the pectoral girdle. Results suggest the existence of selective factors that affect the development of functional complex as a whole. Comments are given concerning redundant characters in systematic studies and a temporary solution is offered concerning the problem of adequate sample size in studies of character correlations.
10.2307/2412059|The generic classification of the Luciliini was re-examined using the methodology of numerical taxonomy. Fifty-seven characteristics of the group were used to calculate a correlation coefficient matrix. The matrix was clustered by five techniques: unweighted and weighted pair group method using arithmetic averages, weighted pair group using Spearman's sum of variables, complete linkage, and single linkage. Examination of the five dendrograms reveals that, except for the cosmopolitan and island species, the Luciliini segregate well according to geographic groupings. The Hawaiian genus Dyscritomyia was arranged the same in all dendrograms. Seven species endemic to the Galapagos Islands, Cocos Islands, Micronesia, or the Philippine Islands were variously placed by the different clustering techniques. The ability of the various techniques to equally treat a presumedly monophyletic group, the genus Dyscritomyia, and the inconsistent treatment of other species groups, indicates that the methods of numerical taxonomy will not provide a better procedure for this tribe. These methods can be employed as part of the information for a taxonomic system, but not as the sole basis for classification.
10.2307/2412054|One hundred years has passed since one of the biggest biogeographical experiments started with the opening of the Suez Canal. The successful migration along the Canal of a great many Red Sea species into the Mediterranean is seen as a process to which most of these species were preadapted in the littoral environment of the Red Sea. The repeated transgressions of this sea into the basin of the Bitter Lakes and the existence-presently and in the past-of several slightly hypersaline lagoons along its shores, resulted in the creation of a special stock of species able to perform this migration. Progress through the Canal is either a step-by-step one, or a result of active swimming (or transport). Neither the role of planktonic spread by means of larvae and/or currents, nor the obstacles put by the salinity, should be overemphasized. The main factors in helping or hindering migration are considered to be the presence of suitable substrates and water transparencies in the Canal. The Levant Basin of the Mediterranean was also "preadapted" to receive the immigrants because of its high salinity and temperature and the resulting biological undersaturation with temperate fauna. Most probably this explains the one-way stream of the migrants into the Mediterranean. The distribution limits of the immigrants in the Mediterranean are most probably set by the increasing competitive capacities of the aboriginal species. The westward advance of the immigrants in the Mediterranean will probably become more pronounced after the damming of the Nile waters behind the newly erected Asswan dam.
10.2307/2412056|Albumin was purified from blood plasma and the H
10.2307/2412344|Two groups of workers from two universities assigned phenetic similarities, intuitively and numerically, to two sets of test objects (Caminalcules). The results of these studies were analyzed for correspondence and relative variability, and contrasted in various ways.
10.2307/2412343|The term `dendrogram topology' is defined as the branching pattern relationship among individuals in a dendrogram. An example developed in the text indicates that it is a useful concept in comparing classifications.
10.2307/2412340|Traditionally, all organisms have been assigned to the Plant and Animal Kingdoms. Higher members of these assemblages differ so clearly in so many ways that no confusion arises even in those cases in which members of one kingdom show some characteristic of the other, for example, insectivorous plants, or cellulose producing tunicates. Among primitive organisms, especially among flagellates and fungi, however, application of the ordinary criteria for differentiation of plants and animals leads only to confusion. Most biologists have ignored this problem, but for over a century a few have tried to resolve it by erecting additional kingdoms for these primitive organisms. While such systems have expressed a widespread professional malaise, they have not achieved general acceptance because of logical difficulties of these systems and the relative unfamiliarity of the key groups to most biologists. Recently, however, it has been shown that the bacteria and blue-green algae (procaryotes) contrast with all higher organisms (eucaryotes) so sharply in an extensive array of nuclear and cytoplasmic characteristics that the procaryotes must be regarded as a separate kingdom of life, the Kingdom Mychota. The major cytoplasmic organelles of eucaryotes, i.e., chloroplasts, flagella and other 9 + 2 organelles, and mitochondria, are all missing from procaryotes. A long series of observations, culminating in exact biochemical comparisons, indicates that these organelles originated as intracellular symbionts. Thus, the eucaryotes arose from a large, amoeboid, anaerobic procaryote given to ingestion of smaller procaryotes, some of which became established as intracellular symbionts. Aerobic symbionts were integrated into the host as mitochondria, while flagellate procaryotes with the 9 + 2 structure became flagella and a whole series of other 9 + 2 organelles. Mitosis and meiosis then evolved, and the eucaryote cell was complete. There is a nexus of relationships among the eucaryotes which makes it infeasible to separate the problematical groups of primitive eucaryotes into a kingdom apart. Thus, the present paper supports a basic taxonomy of three kingdoms Mychota, Animalia, and Plantae. The intergrades between the latter two are treated not as defects of the classification but rather as the inevitable result of common ancestry and separation by a process of evolution.
10.2307/2412345|Past studies of the evolution of the Brachyura (crabs, Crustacea: Decapoda) have, in general, provided conflicting and unsatisfactory results. This unfortunate situation stems in part from the objective reason that their evolution has been very complex, but, it is also due to the basic inadequacy of the methodological approaches used. Brachyuran evolution has been considered predominantly from only one point of view at a time (i.e., morphological, ontogenetic, etc.) without reference to a synthetic theory of evolution. The present paper attempts to initiate a synthetic approach to the study of crab evolution. The identity of the ancestors of the Brachyura remains uncertain. Nevertheless, it seems obvious that the Brachyura have reached the highest organizational level found among the decapod Crustacea. The genesis of the new organization-brachyurization-involves changes in shape and structure accompanied by maximal diversification or organs and of their functions. This new level of organization has led to great biological improvement as manifested by taxonomic diversity, wide distribution and the ability to leave the primary (littoral) environment. The brachyuran organization is very plastic and has undergone many secondary modifications in connection with further changes of habits and habitats.
10.2307/2412346|This paper combines criticism of some theoretical (especially numerical) taxonomy with detailed description of an actual example of good modern practical taxonomy. Proximate purposes of taxonomic work are diverse, but the ultimate purpose is to produce classifications that will be most useful for storing and retrieving information for all branches of modern organismic-evolutionary biology. Tests and judgments of taxonomic work are diverse, but the final test is use in practice. Biological species present difficulties which are handled in different ways by numerical and by modern practical taxonomists; some numerical taxonomists seem to be "slipping off into a kind of scientism which brings an appearance of precision by the abandonment of reality." New methods should be judged by their usefulness and cost, in time as well as money. Three usually unwritten rules of good practical taxonomy are to do only useful work, to do specific tasks with the available material in the available time, and to use appropriate and only appropriate procedures. The example of modern taxonomy chosen for discussion is Lindroth's "The ground-beetles (Carabidae) of Canada and Alaska." Details are given as to how the work was done (during a time span of twenty years), how it differs from earlier work (taking successive treatments of Bembidion as an example), and how it can be and is being used. A threshold exists in taxonomy below which taxonomists deal somewhat unrealistically with dead specimens and above which they deal with living populations in nature. Some resources, prerequisites, and procedures of modern practical taxonomy are listed and discussed. Type specimens continue to be essential in taxonomy; they or "voucher specimens" should be used by all organismic-evolutionary biologists, to assure that organisms being worked with can be known with certainty Practical taxonomy provides a "floor plan" for more detailed taxonomic, ecologic, zoogeographic, and evolutionary studies. Lindroth's taxonomy includes description of the wing dimorphism of many Carabidae; the dimorphically winged species have special uses in studies of evolution and zoogeography, including studies of Pleistocene history. The place of museums in modern taxonomy is discussed, taking Lindroth's use of the Museum of Comparative Zoology as an example; in this case (as in many others) the museum has made an essential contribution to the kind of taxonomy that is a prerequisite for modern ecology, zoogeography, and study of evolution in nature. The primary characteristic of good modern practical taxonomy is a return to reality, effected by continual comparisons with situations in nature.
10.2307/2412342|Two subspecies of Spermophilus richardsonii, occurring in the Madison River valley of southwestern Montana differ in chromosome number, S. r. aureus being 2n = 34, and S. r. richardsonii, 2n = 36. The zone of contact between them is 20-25 miles long; only one of 21 colonies investigated contained chromosomal hybrids (2n = 35). Cytological and morphological differences suggest that aureus and richardsonii passed through a period of divergence while isolated from one another, and that the present contact is secondary.
10.2307/2412339|The present shallow marme biogeographic pattern is geologically transitory and reflects in large part the present state of the geography of continents and of lithospheric plate margins. Provincial boundaries are formed by thermal barriers and by land and deep-sea barriers, all of which are related to or controlled by tectonic patterns. Continental patterns, which greatly affect climate, reflect the patterns of plate tectonic processes. Deep-sea barriers are formed by ocean ridges and transform fault zones, while major oceanic dispersal routes are formed by island arcs associated with subduction zones. Patterns of species diversity can be related to tectonic as well as climatic patterns, presumably because the stability of shallow marine environments varies with the influence of continentality, and this is under tectonic control. In particular it is the stability patterns of light and of nutrients (which directly affect the stability of trophic resource supplies) that correlate best with diversity patterns, and it is suggested that trophic resource stability is the fundamental regulator of species diversity within communities. Past changes in continental relations and sizes, in oceanic sizes, and in the patterns and extent of island-are chains have resulted from plate tectonic processes, and as these relations affect the trophic resource regime there have been corresponding alterations in patterns of both provinciality and diversity
10.2307/2412341|Sixteen of the nominal species in the genus Catostomus, predominantly in western North America, form a progressive morphological sequence in which adjacent forms are similar and perhaps not reproductively isolated. Several cladistic estimates indicate divergence in two primary lines or directions. The oldest cladistic furcation is phenetically trivial. Significant phenetic trends indicate evolution at several levels. The dominant trend involves osteological, oral, and hemoglobin characteristics leading to the mountain suckers. Secondary phenetic trends in body shape and in size of fins and scales have led to adaptations for life in large rivers in three separate lines. Two phenetic trends, involving meristic and serum protein characters, are involved in the adaptation of populations to local climatic conditions.
10.2307/2992299|A dynamic multi-level model of Darwinian evolutionary theory is presented. Darwinian evolutionary theory consists of interconnected sub-theories and theories at different levels of abstraction. The theory of natural selection is the generic core of the whole structure. Few or no predictions can be directly derived from the generic core. The theory of natural selection generates specific theories and theoretical models which can be empirically tested. Theorizing procceds through deductive and inductive inferences. The dynamic multi-level model assumes that Darwinian evolutionary theory consists of several competing research programmes and the importance of a pluralistic interpretation of Darwinism is emphasised.
10.2307/2992302|Geographic variation of variability profiles is studied based on stem mother, alate and gall characters of the aphid Pemphigus populicaulis. Significant differences among the coefficients of variation of the suite of characters in every locality were found by two methods-Bartlett's test for homogeneity of variances (using log-transformed data) and Friedman's nonparametric test for randomized blocks. Nine characters are highly variable and six are consistently low in variability. Coefficients of variation show significant heterogeneity among localities for every character by Bartlett's test, and for all but two characters using a modified Friedman's test. The variability profiles of the 66 localities were clustered into three groups based on both size and shape by the k-means algorithm. A mixture of two types of profiles occurs throughout the middle latitudes of the study area, while the third type is found in its northern and southern regions. This geographic pattern may in part be due to the year of collection. Attempts to relate the magnitude of the coefficients of variation to several ecological indices were unsuccessful.
10.2307/2992300|Hylobatid cranial similarities are examined using Cartesian coordinates describing morphological landmarks. While Symphalangus appears distinct from analysis of raw coordinates, it is less so when analytical procedures are included for controlling the influence of general size. This weakens arguments for maintaining siamangs as a distinct genus from Hylobates.
10.2307/2992298|Island integration is proposed as a possible mechanism in the formation of endemic biotas. Reconstructions of the Hawaiian-Emperor chain for -20, -40, -60 and -70 my are used to demonstrate the biogeographical importance of horizontal island movements, particularly the possible effects of the integration of islands/seamounts (formed SE of the Island of Hawaii) into the Hawaiian-Emperor chain. Necker Island and Wentworth Seamount, which appear to have originated south of the equator, probably close to the East Pacific Rise, are given as examples. The event of island integration could have resulted in the mixing of two different biotas: Hawaiian and non-Hawaiian. As a possible alternative to Founder Principle, island integration is offered as a mechanism in the formation of Hawaiian Island endemism.
10.2307/2992297|An operational rule for analyzing character polarity with out-group comparison is presented and a series of observations, including potential problems in applying the rule, are discussed. The "commonality principle" (="frequency of occurrence," "common equals primitive") for determining character polarity is reviewed and dismissed as a reliable alternative to out-group comparison. Based on the rule and observations, a general method for character analysis is synthesized.
10.2307/2992301|Phenetic and cladistic methods have been employed to estimate evolutionary relationships in Algansea, a small genus of Mexican cyprinid fishes. Cluster analyses and ordinations were prepared from various association, correlation, and distance matrices. Cladistic analyses were prepared in the form of a Wagner analysis (after Farris), compatibility analysis (after Estabrook), and a non-numerical phylogeny (after Hennig). All analyses utilized the same set of morphological and ecological characters to allow direct comparisons of estimatcs of relationships. Cluster analyses produced different views of the relationships between taxa. Ordinations produced generally similar arrays of OTU's in total character space which, of the phenetic methods, were closest to the identical solutions given by Wagner and compatibility analyses. A minimum spanning tree derived from taxonomic distances resulted in a network that also reflected the same relationships indicated by the cladistic methods. A reinvestigation of the relationships among the barbelled species of Algansea based in part on the distribution of shared apomorphies not included in the larger analysis confirmed the existence of a polyphyletic species. Possible solutions to this problem are discussed.
10.2307/2413054|Recent proposals to measure the degree to which given taxometric methods meet goals defined by the three current schools of classification have led to quantitative comparisons of the methods. To aid in understanding such comparisons, a flow chart of taxonomic procedures is presented. Optimality tests are reviewed for each type of procedure. Possibly desirable properties of classifications include: the fit of a summary representation to a similarity matrix, stability, general utility, fit to a known cladistic relationship, and optimality criteria of numerical phylogenetic methods. We examine how they relate to the professed goals of the taxonomic schools and whether they can be used for comparative evaluations between these schools. Previous attempts at comparing numerical classifications are reexamined. Such comparisons have largely been made improperly. Published comparative tests of taxonomic congruence are based on inappropriate comparisons or were improperly executed and cannot furnish evidence on relative stability of phenetic, evolutionary, and phylogenetic classifications. Reports which claim to show that numerical phylogenetic classifications result in better fits to original similarity matrices than phenetic methods and therefore retain distance information better than phenetic classifications are shown to be misleading. In the first such study, the comparison was not relevant to the question asked. In all of these studies the results were biased in favor of phylogenetic methods by retaining redundant information during the computation of matrix correlations for the phylogenetic methods. In two later studies based on ten taxonomic data sets, the comparisons for the phylogenetic methods were in terms of unrooted trees rather than hierarchic classifications. By limiting the reference OTU to OTU 1 in each data set, results were obtained in these studies, that tended to favor the phylogenetic methods considerably more than if some other reference OTUs had been employed. Only in a few cases is there a significant increase in fit with the phylogenetic methods. Interpreted as classifications, UPGMA clustering of the original dissimilarity matrix gives the best fit in the majority of cases when compared with rooted trees (minimum length and least squares fitted). For these data, there is no evidence that classifications by any "phylogenetic" technique yield better summaries of phenetic information than UPGMA. A recent study of predictivity, while correctly designed, yielded complex results with no clear preference for any one school of taxonomy. Thus there is no current acceptable evidence that numerical phylogenetic methods yield classifications which contain more information than either phenetic or evolutionary ones.
10.2307/2413053|The diagnostic and other features of the grasshoppers of the subfamily Morabinae are described, with special reference to the characteristically parapatric distributions of congeneric species and races. The concepts of allopatry, sympatry, parapatry, and geographical intergradation, and of species, race, subspecies, superspecies, and semispecies, are critically examined. Two categories of parapatry, ecological and hybridization parapatry, are distinguished and defined; the occurrence of hybridization parapatry in morabine and other grasshoppers, and in other groups of animal is indicated. Models of speciation are discussed, with special reference to those in which hybridization parapatry is implicated; it is suggested that the most generally applicable model may be the "alloparapatric" one of Endler; events in the parapatric "tension zone" are described. The meanings of "reproductive isolation" and "isolating mechanism" are discussed and their bearing on the taxonomist's problem of finding a satisfactory criterion for distinguishing between the categories "species" and "race." A definition of reproductive isolation is proposed. It is suggested that this be tested on various groups of animals to ascertain the effect it would have upon the ranking of taxa currently treated as species and as races, and hence upon the stability of zoological nomenclature.
10.2307/2413051|Jaera albifrons is a complex of five intertidal species of Crustacea that are abundant on the cold and temperate coasts of the North Atlantic. Two or three species of Jaera albifrons occur frequently on the same strand, partially isolated (approximately 50%) by ecological preferences. In zones of species overlap, hybrids remain scarce (0.6% average); sexual isolation is due to homogamic tendencies of male sexual choice, to specific male displays and especially to female reactivity. Most of the F<sub>2</sub> recombinations are inviable; hybrid fitness, estimated from demographic data, is about 0.15. Other isolating mechanisms (e.g. temporal, mechanical and gametic isolation) are missing. The study of variability of isolating mechanisms between pairs of species and populations and of incipient isolation within species allows formulating a plausible hypothesis on their origins. A geographical mode of speciation with establishment of sexual isolation and hybrid breakdown during geographic isolation is likely.
10.2307/2413052|One of us (Vermeij) recently proposed that relative strength of the master claw of shell-breaking crabs, indirectly measured by the ratio of chela height or thickness to carapace breadth, (1) within the tropics decreases in the order Indo-West Pacific > Eastern Pacific > Western Atlantic > Eastern Atlantic; (2) is greater in the tropics than in the temperate regions; and (3) increases as the number of co-occurring congeners or total number of brachyurans increases. These patterns were hypothesized to result from diffuse and intrageneric competition in the tropics and from metabolic limitations in the temperate zones. Here we reconsider the data and show that, because the ratio varies with body size, any comparisons depend more upon the size of the animals being compared than on their geographical origin. Crabs with similar ratios may differ significantly in claw dentition, musculature, and leverage properties; the ratios are therefore not good measures of claw strength. We also suggest that the crabs in the analysis do not represent a random sample of crabs from the regions being compared. Using the same data as Vermeij (1977), we are unable to reject the null hypotheses that there are no relationships between relative claw size and (1) geographical region, (2) number of co-occurring congeners, and (3) total number of brachyuran species. Tests of the hypotheses require actual measurements of crab claw strength.
10.2307/2992415|Reciprocal immunological distances were measured using antisera to the serum albumins of Rana sylvatica and representatives of five groups of Holarctic Rana (R. pipiens, R. catesbeiana, R. temporaria, R. lessonae, and R. muscosa or R. aurora or both). Scaled reciprocal values for three data sets (with R. muscosa, with R. aurora, or with both) were used to generate three sets of Fitch and Margoliash phenograms. The nine lowest percent standard deviations ranged from 6.18 to 8.44, 5.20 to 6.95, and 7.51 to 9.12, respectively. The interspecific distances in both the input and network matrices suggest that R. sylvatica is immunologically most like the eastern North American Rana. Probable cladograms place R. sylvatica either with the eastern North American Rana or in an independent lineage between the brown frogs and the water frogs. One-way comparisons with antigens representing 12 additional species were made using the first four antisera listed. The R. sylvatica antiserum distinguished two subgroups of eastern North American Rana while the R. temporaria antiserum did not, and the R. temporaria antiserum distinguished two subgroups of both Nearctic (Rana boylii group) and Palearctic brown frogs while the R. sylvatica antiserum did not. Our data support the monophyly of the Rana boylii group, the affinity of the Palearctic brown frogs to the R. boylii group, and a distant association between R. sylvatica and the eastern North American Rana.
10.2307/2992414|An evolutionary process, involving splitting of populations at random times and Brownian motion for independent characters at a constant rate, was simulated for the purpose of comparing methods of tree reconstruction and of evaluating errors. The number of errors (counted as the number of changes necessary to obtain the true tree structure starting from the reconstructed one) has a Poisson distribution; it and the dependent frequency of correctly inferred tree structures were used to measure the accuracy of tree reconstruction. The best methods, of those compared, were found to be average linkage, maximum likelihood and least squares. To choose among them, one must resort to other considerations. Maximum likelihood is the most demanding in terms of computer time, but is the only one estimating errors of evolutionary segment lengths. Least squares is easier and can supply estimates of segment lengths even if the evolutionary rate is not constant, but it does not supply a root of the tree. Average linkage is the simplest to use, but can give accurate estimates of segment lengths only in cases of constant evolutionary rate. None of the methods compared tests constancy of evolutionary rate or the overall goodness of fit of a tree; other techniques must be employed. In analyses of real data, a reasonable strategy is to start with average linkage and use other methods as appropriate and necessary for the rest of the analysis. The number of errors in reconstruction of tree form decreases as the square root of number of independent characters and increases almost linearly with the number of populations. Relatively conservative estimates indicate that a number of characters five times the number of populations tends to give less than one error every ten populations. There are, however, some factors-considered in the discussion-which make the number of actual characters difficult to compare with the number of independent characters in the simulation.
10.2307/2992412|Electrophoretic analysis of the protein products of 84 presumed gene loci for over 180 specimens reveals that two distinct species of bonefishes occur in Hawaiian waters. Both species are characterized by low levels of within-species variation (H = 0.005 and 0.022). However, the two species are well differentiated from each other; they possess fixed allelic differences at about 70% of the loci screened and have a calculated genetic distance of 1.16. There is no evidence that the two species hybridize although they co-occur on both a macro and a microgeographic scale. The magnitude of genetic differentiation between the two species suggests that they have been separate genetic units for approximately the last 20-30 million years. Although the two species of bonefishes in Hawaii are superficially very similar morphologically, there are a number of significant differences. The distributions of vertebral counts for the two species are completely non-overlapping, and the mean values for several meristic variables (including numbers of lateral-line scales, branchiostegal rays, and gill rakers) are significantly different in the two species. The single best field character for diagnosis is the shape of the lower jaw which is broadly rounded in one species and more angular and pointed in the other species. A number of traits associated with the head and feeding (lower jaw shape, number of gill rakers, shapes of tooth patches, and number of teeth) differ in the two species. Stepwise discriminant function analysis using 31 morphological characters demonstrates that the two species have distinctively different overall morphologies and that they can be distinguished with over 99% accuracy.
10.2307/2992413|Antillean land vertebrates came from North and South America sometime in the past, but the question of when and by what means continues to segregate zoogeographers. The recently advocated vicariance hypothesis of Caribbean biogeography assumes a "proto-Antillean" archipelago that contained the antecedents of the modern West Indian biota. This hypothesis, however, is contradicted by current knowledge of Caribbean tectonics, the composition of the fauna itself, and the fossil record of North and South America. The evidence is more accurately interpreted as indicating that the Antilles are oceanic in origin, and modern terrestrial vertebrates probably began arriving by over-water dispersal during the Oligocene and continued to do so through the Quaternary.
10.2307/2413250|Four species groups of the neotropical frog genus Leptodactylus are currently recognized on the bases of morphological and life history characteristics. The fuscus and pentadactylus groups are related as a monophyletic cluster, whereas the phylo-genetic relationships of the melanonotus and ocellatus groups remain unknown. Five species representing all four species groups occur in Costa Rica. This study examined protein variability among four Costa Rican species as ascertained by electrophoretic and histochemical techniques. The presumptive genetic data were analyzed cladistically with the Wagner method. This procedure constructed a cladogram for the Costa Rican species which was congruent with the phylogenetic relationships proposed for their species groups from morphological and life history characteristics. This congruence among phylogenetic inferences based on different character sets argues for the continued recognition of species group relationships as currently viewed within the genus.
10.2307/2413249|The geometry of canonical variate analysis is described as a two-stage orthogonal rotation. The first stage involves a principal component analysis of the original variables. The second stage involves a principal component analysis of the group means for the orthonormal variables from the first-stage eigenanalysis. The geometry of principal component analysis is also outlined. Algebraic aspects of canonical variate analysis are discussed and these are related to the geometrical description. Some practical implications of the geometrical approach for stability of the canonical vectors and variable selection are presented.
10.2307/2413247|A quantitative solution for Hennig's parasitological method is presented. Cladograms summarizing natural relationships among parasite taxa are converted into host-group characters by means of additive binary coding. Unrooted Wagner analysis followed by most parsimonious rooting produces a maximum information-content, representation of natural host-parasite relationships. Because host-parasite relationships result either from random colonization or from co-speciation, host relationships well corroborated by a multi-parasite analysis correspond to.host phylogeny. Poorly corroborated, host relationships indicate an ambiguous parasite message alerting a worker to possible host transfers. Thus, such analyses point out co-speciation and random colonization components of host-parasite systems. Single or multiple parasite taxa may be used. A host phylogeny based on non-parasite characters is neither necessary nor sufficient for studying phylogenetic aspects of coevolution, although such may be helpful in testing ambiguous aspects. Once a host-group cladogram based on .parasites has been established, phylogenetic interpretations for each observed host-parasite relationship may be made according to a listed set of necessary and sufficient criteria. Finally, evaluation of two models of coevolution, a "vicariance" model and the "resource-tracking" model, indicates that the latter cannot be extrapolated successfully to explain congruent phylogenetic differentiation of hosts and parasites and that the former model represents the general pattern of natural relationships among hosts and parasites.
10.2307/2413251|The diverse methods for analyzing size-free shape differences tend to be guided by computational expediency rather than geometric principles. We question the use of ratios and ad hoc combinations of spatially unrelated measures. Neither are linear discriminant functions or series of independent regressions helpful to the visualization of shape differences. A bridge is needed between traditional quantitative methods and the geometrical analysis of shape. In principle any measured transects between landmarks of a form can serve as characters in a morphometric analysis. Systematic studies use a highly non-random sample of these, particularly biased regarding geometrical information. We suggest defining size and shape in terms of factors--estimates of information common to a universe of measured distances. The model presented here calculates a linear combination of variables that quantifies shape differences among populations, independent of size. In analyses in which the first two principal components confound size and shape, size is removed from one axis with shear coefficients derived from regression of general size on principal components centered by group. The general size factor is estimated by the principal axis of the within-group covariance matrix of the log-transformed data. Residuals from the regression of general size on the transformed axes approximate a shape-discriminating factor that is uncorrelated with size within group and displays the interpopulation shape differences borne by the first two principal components. The results bear a direct and interpretable correspondence to biorthogonal analysis of shape difference.
10.2307/2413248|The influence of kinds of variables, data errors, standardizations similarity coefficients, and ordination techniques are judged in reference to a model involving hybridization and introgression in three species of sand verbenas, Abronia (Juss.). Various criteria indicate that principal component analysis performs best, but inaccurately, with variable standardization and the correlation matrix, and that nonlinear mapping consistently performs poorly. Excellent results were obtained from principal coordinate analysis with Gower's general similarity coefficient based upon quantitative and multistate variables; a 'diagnostic' character measured with known error; and detailed color evaluation. This and other principal coordinate analysis results were further improved by nonmetric multidimensional scaling. Performance of methods is consistent with the nonlinearity of Abronia data. It is assumed that nonlinearity is common in taxonomic data.
10.2307/2412263|The genus Blarina (Mammalia: Soricidae) is represented in Nebraska by two well-differentiated, geographically exclusive phena that generally have been regarded as subspecies. Field studies conducted along their zone of contact resulted in the collection of representatives of both phena at each of five localities. Cluster analysis of distance matrix readily separated reference samples of the phena as well as test samples from near the zone of contact. A three-dimensional projection of the specimens onto their first three principal components, together with a discriminant function analysis, served further to elucidate the degree of differentiation among the phena and to confirm that their characteristic differences are maintained even where they occur sympatrically. The latter technique also indicated that one specimen not singled out by other analyses might be a natural hybrid, but none of the analyses provided even the slightest evidence for panmictic intergradation. The possibility that the phena represent the ends of a circularly inter-grading species is considered, as is the possibility that the phena are distinct, biological species. Two means of speciation, one "classical" and the other involving formation of "stasipatric species," are discussed.
10.2307/2412259|Because of the nature of the speciation process we have to admit (1) that nature has created a system of its own that is in principle hierarchic, and (2) that the biological species and strictly monophyletic species groups have been the real units of evolution. Hence only a system expressing nature's hierarchy of sister groups can function adequately as a general biological reference system. Causal biogeography, whose main method is the investigation of geographical replacement within properly reconstructed sister-group systems, is indissolubly connected with the reconstruction of nature's hierarchy. In his criticism of Hennig-Brundin, Darlington (1970) has not considered these principles. He has also overlooked that dispersal, seen in the time perspective, is a multiple process including progression in space, evolutionary change (development of comparative apomorphy), and speciation. Hence his criticism is neither relevant nor progressive.
10.2307/2412257|Sixty characters were measured and used in multivariate statistical programs to study the systematics of 54 species of Caribbean and Hawaiian reef corals. Correlation and distance phenograms and a computer-generated, three-dimensional model were used to develop phenetic rankings of species groups at levels corresponding to the taxonomic categories of genus, family and suborders. The data generally supports the classification of Vaughan and Wells (1943) as opposed to the "classical" systematics (e.g., Hyman, 1940; Bourradaile, et al., 1963) of the order.
10.2307/2412261|The paper deals with a method of determination of the similarity of shapes of objects based on direct comparison of shape curves. Given that certain limiting conditions are fulfilled, shape curves may be interpreted numerically by this method and their mutual similarities determined. The method is more precise than the intuitive procedures commonly used to describe and compare shapes. Its use is illustrated with an example from the cave bears.
10.2307/2412258|Jardine's (1969) logical model of biotaxonomy suffers from the defect of being ostensibly applicable only to "basic taxa," groups of individuals already clustered by some different process that remains unanalysed. This defect can be removed by regarding individuals as "single-linkage" clusters of "appearances" in time (Colless, 1970). By this means, all classificatory procedures can be brought under Jardine's model. The necessity for any "basic taxa" then disappears, as do any grounds for argument about the "basic unit of classification."
10.2307/2412255|In 1898 H. C. Bumpus compared morphological measurements of House Sparrows which survived a severe storm and those which did not. He observed that the group of birds which survived had fewer extreme measurements than did those which died, and suggested that selection had eliminated extreme individuals. The data, given in full by Bumpus, have been analyzed statistically in the present study The results support the suggestion made by Bumpus. It is found that among females the survivors varied significantly less than did those which died, in four measurements; weight, length of humerus, length of tibiotarsus and length of sternum. There are no significant differences in variation in any measurement among the males. Females suffered proportionately heavier mortality than the males. It is not possible to identify the target of selection because the four dimensions involved are strongly correlated with each other. It is suggested that females suffered particularly heavy mortality because they were at least partly denied access to food by the socially dominant males. It is also suggested that the extreme individuals were selected against in the storm because the largest birds were unable to mobilize energy reserves rapidly enough, and because the smallest birds exhausted their energy reserves and were unable to replace them.
10.2307/2412254|A study of the phenetic relationships among 47 endemic species of Ptycta from the Hawaiian Islands was based on 79 adult morphological characters. Correlation and distance phenograms obtained were compared by the average absolute cophenetic value method and the cophenetic correlation coefficient. The effect of excluding a set of six genital characters and adding 15 extra-Hawaiian species into the analysis were investigated. Species groups were established on the basis of similarities existing between the correlation and distance phenograms.
10.2307/2412260|Forty-one characters from six OTU's representing the generic and species group levels of divergence were used to estimate the phylogenetic relationships within the Sternoptychidae. Numerical techniques included the weighting by an intra-OTU variability criterion, use of the Rootless Wagner Method, a criterion for measuring convergence, and methods for "testing" the stability of the proposed phylogeny. The results support the classical subdivision of the family into three divergent genera. The genus Polyipnus has diverged least from the presumed ancestral condition. Polyipnus and Argyropelecus have diverged less from each other than either has from the highly divergent genus Sternoptyx. It is likely that Argyropelecus and Sternoptyx share a common line of descent. Argyropelecus consists of three species groups of which the A. affinis group is most distinct and contains the highest number of primitive character states. The P. spinosus group exhibits the greatest divergence within that genus.
10.2307/2412262|The relation between climate and scale size was studied in the two northern groups of Sceloporus graciosus. In the western section, an area of intense summer drought, 84 percent of the geographic variation in the number of mid-dorsal scales was explained in a multiple regression model by August rainfall and annual pan evaporation. Desiccation is probably the relevant selective factor. In the eastern section where the summer drought is variably ameliorated by the summer Sonoran monsoon rains, especially in the south, winter maximum temperatures and August rainfall, in that order of importance, account for 83 percent of the geographic variation. It is hypothesized that scale size, by partially determining cutaneous surface area, is an important component of both thermoregulatory and water balance systems in this animal.
10.2307/2412253|Three anophelines (maculatus, stephensi and tessellatus) were crossed using induced copulation. The stephensi [female] x maculatus [male] cross was the only one to produce offspring, although 6 of 54 females produced embryonated eggs. Of 371 eggs 128 were embryonated and 48 hatched. 36 adult females (no males) emerged. None was fertile and all had reduced ovaries with no developing eggs. The stephensi [female] x tessellatus [male] cross produced about 45% embryonated eggs, of which only one hatched; this died in third instar. The tessellatus x maculatus cross produced no embryonated eggs in either direction. The crossing results indicate considerable genetic affinity between stephensi and maculatus but complete genetic isolation. Tessellatus appears to be closer genetically to stephensi than to maculatus. The hybridization results support the current classification within the subgenus Cellia.
10.2307/2412256|A numerical taxonomic analysis of the species of the chiropteran genus Myotis revealed the existence of three major phenetic groupings. These may correspond to three feeding-foraging modalities. Phenetic evidence suggests the Oriental Region as a center of origin for Myotis, and a Myotis goudoti-like bat as a likely myotine prototype.
10.2307/2412431|Data for the average generic age of assemblages of benthonic foraminifera at 104 stations have been examined for temperature correlation which was found to be pronounced. Using this set of data and various curve and surface fitting techniques, it was found possible because of the temperature correlation to locate the equator and the north pole with good precision. This kind of data is seemingly less distorted by poor sampling than is comparable diversity data and appears promising as a means of setting constraints which must be satisfied by continental drift models.
10.2307/2412432|A new problem in the science of classification is presented, along with its solution. The problem is to combine the information in several taxonomic trees into a single tree. The solution is a computational method for computing a tree which represents only that information shared by all the rival trees. Such a method, called the consensus method, can be used to "compare" several rival tree representations or to compute a more stable tree from slightly perturbed variants of the original data. A method is defined and demonstrated for each of two different types of trees: rooted, fully labelled trees, and rooted trees with unlabelled internal nodes.
10.2307/2412428|Five species of lizards in the undulatus species group of the genus Sceloporus have generally similar karyotypes with a diploid number of 22 chromosomes. Nevertheless, extensive variation occurs in centromere position on chromosome pair number 7 Comparisons of chromosomes in population samples from numerous localities across North America reveal considerably more variability and local differentiation than is expected on the basis of current taxonomy Intraspecific and intrasubspecific differences within the species S. undulatus often are greater than interspecific differences. Within most local populations, however, chromosome 7 occurs in a fixed (homozygous) state, as a metacentric, submetacentric, subtelocentric, or telocentric pair. Thus, individually recognizable chromosomes occurring in lizards in adjacent populations can serve as genetic markers to document interbreeding between distinctive "chromosome races" and improve our understanding of the evolution, systematics, and population genetics of these terrestrial vertebrates.
10.2307/2412430|The process of allometry often distorts numerical results, causing size-related effects in shape coefficients. The study of allometry has traditionally emphasized only aspects of detection and description, rather than correction, of allometric trends. A method of allometry correction is offered for the specific purpose of adjusting metrical data prior to quantitative taxonomic analysis.
10.2307/2412434|There is more chromosomal variation in the tent-making bat than has been reported for any other species of bat. This is true in the number of chromosomal races (three), the minimum number of chromosomal rearrangements required to produce the respective races from a common ancestor, and the number of individuals surviving with atypical karyotypes. Some of the atypical karyotypes may be the result of interbreeding of cytotypes. Univariate analysis of variance indicated different patterns of secondary sexual dimorphism among the races. U. b. molaris was dimorphic in eight measurements whereas the others were dimorphic in only two. Multivariate statistical analysis were used to examine phenetic differentiation among races. Based on morphometrics, U. b. davisi was least divergent from the geographically adjacent U. b. convexum. Chromosomally, U b. davisi was more similar to the geographically distant U. b. bilobatum and U. b. trinitatum. The Bayesian probability classification procedures indicated that at least 90% of all specimens were correctly classified (excepting U. b. bilobatum). The misclassified individuals appeared to represent a random geographic collection rather than clusters at potential zones of interbreeding.
10.2307/2412433|Differences between Wagner Networks and Wagner Trees, and, the general problems encountered in estimating ancestral character states are briefly reviewed. The relation between Wagner Network structure and probable ancestral state combinations is illustrated with a hypothetical case and a real case of seven species of bullhead catfishes (genus Ictalurus, subgenus Amiurus) The relation between Wagner Networks and paraphyletic classifications is also noted.
10.2307/2412429|Mayrian relationships are concepts that embody overall genetic and phenotypic similarity rather than kinship. Simpsonian relationships embody kinship partitioned into horizontal and vertical aspects, defined in relation to ancestors presumed to be empirically unknown (hypothetical) and empirically known (non-hypothetical), respectively Hennigian relationships correspond only to the horizontal relationships of Simpson, but are generally applicable-to fossil as well as recent species. Hennigian relationships are consistent with, and acceptable to, ichthyological usage. Phylogenetic classification in Hennig's sense is consistent with, and is a modern expression of, the Darwiman tradition. Recent work in systematic ichthyology indicates progress toward a phylogenetic classification in the Darwin-Hennig sense.
10.2307/2412286|The present paper is the first classification of the phylum Gnathostomulida, of which 18 genera and more than 80 species are known. Two orders are created, according to the absence (Filospermoidea) or presence (Bursovaginoidea) of a female bursa-vagina-system and paired sensory organs. The latter order is divided into two suborders: Scleroperalia (with a cuticularized bursa) and Conophoralia (with a soft bursa and giant sperm). Presently Filospermoidea comprise 2 families; and the Bursovaginoidea, 6 families. Gnathostomulid evolution, as suggested in this paper, can be characterized by the following trends: shortening of the body and rostrum proportions, differentiation of skin as well as epidermal inclusions and of paired sensory organs, concentration of pharynx musculature, lamellarization of jaws and row-like arrangement of teeth, differentiation of the basal plate, and a more permanent vagina. In the derived phylogeny, Haplognathia is the most primitive, and Austrognatharia the most advanced type. A hypothetical ancestral form is outlined and possible relationships briefly discussed. A complete and categorized bibliography is given.
10.2307/2412292|This paper presents a measure for characterizing a phenogram and measuring its usefulness.
10.2307/2412290|The literature of the Mesozoa is confused because of errors in taxonomy, both in names and dates. Faulty notions concerning the relations between hosts and parasites led to the erection of imaginary genera. Differences of opinion on the limits of generic concepts have resulted in suppression and restoration of generic names. The status of suprageneric categories is similarly confused. Families have been erected, e.g., Heterocyemidae van Beneden, 1882; Orthonectidae Hartmann, 1925; and Heteronectidae Hartmann, 1925, with names that are invalid since they are not based on type genera. The designations and dates given by Grasse in the Traite de Zoologie (1961) are sometimes in error or are otherwise indefinite. The family names Rhopaluridae and Pelmatosphaeridae proposed by Caullery (1961) had been established by Stunkard (1937), where other emendations were made. The Mesozoa, originally regarded as a subphylum intermediate between Protozoa and Metazoa, are secondarily simplified marine organisms derived from free-living progenitors, degraded as a result of parasitism. Their morphology and life cycles, still only partially elucidated, indicate platyhelminth affinities. The rhombozoans and digenetic trematodes are initially parasites of mollusks and the dicyemids arose and evolved with the cephalopods.
10.2307/2412285|This paper presents an attempt to compare the passerme and near-passerine bird faunas of the six faunal regions on a trophic basis. Indices of similarity are calculated using: a) the importance (percentage of total species) of families in the areas, and b) the importance of different trophic roles in the areas. The importance values for trophic roles were calculated by multiplying the importance values of the families by indices for the importance of applicable trophic roles for each family and summing the values for each trophic role in each region. The faunal regions showed much higher similarity indices when compared on a trophic rather than a taxonomic basis. Also, the geographic patterns of taxonomic similarity are different from that for trophic similarity High trophic similarity is related to the major ecological division "temperate" versus "tropical" rather than to the geographical proximity An examination of the individual trophic roles reveals several facts. While some, such as gleaning invertebrates from foliage, have little variation in importance from region to region, others such as nectivory show high degrees of difference. Other roles with intermediate variability show individual discrepancies, such as the paucity of ground-feeding insectivores in the Australian region. Possible reasons for some of these phenomena are suggested. The families of birds that are specialists in or major contributors to the different trophic roles are surveyed to provide a number of examples of "ecological equivalence" between taxonomically remote groups. This ecological equivalence is often reflected in convergent morphology and behavior patterns.
10.2307/2412288|An index (the weighted separation index) is described which uses qualitative variables to provide a measure of likeness to two known groups of individuals (D tryoni and D neohumeralis). An "identification rule" is presented by which this index may be employed to discriminate between the members of two populations. Where separation of two species is associated with a low probability of misidentification, the weighted separation index is also suited to the separation of a third or hybrid group whose members are intermediate with respect to the two known groups.
10.2307/2412289|The validity of phylogenetic speculations based on chromosome number and morphology alone is examined. Karyotypic attributes are examined by numerical phenetic methods in two groups of organisms where lineage relationships have been extensively studied by experimental methods. The results illustrate the inaccuracies of karyotypic data alone in inferring lineage relationships when intergenomic homologies are not available and the mechanisms of chromosomal change and direction of aneuploidy unknown.
10.2307/2412291|Biological nomenclature cannot be divorced from the taxonomy that it serves, although contradictions between the two have been increasingly recognised. The problem is here discussed in phylogenetic rather than phenetic terms. Taxonomy above and below the species level is governed by different rules, as also is its nomenclature. The species (the highest taxonomic category with a direct biological basis) forms the essential biological link between the two levels and is the focus of taxonomic contradictions. The species binomen, a frankly evolutionary statement, epitomises this link in nomenclatural terms: it still fulfills a useful role in taxonomic and systematic communication and is to be preferred to other linguistic or numerical `labeIs' The contradiction between nomenclature and taxonomy, like that between high and low-level taxonomy, is an inevitable dialogue whose resolution at one stage secures progress to new and higher modes of understanding.
10.2307/2412287|The mathematical relationships between generalized distances, Sokal's distances, distances based upon principal components, and Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord distances are discussed, and the biological consequences of these relationships in the case of nontrivial correlation matrices are pointed out. While none of the techniques discussed are wholly satisfactory, a practical solution to the problems encountered in their deployment is suggested which combines two of the techniques (generalized distances and principal components)
10.2307/2412170|Reported is an evaluation (using discriminant and principal component analyses) of the incidence of interbreeding occurring (1) between populations of eastern and western meadowlarks, Sturnella magna and S. neglecta, respectively, from the central and southern Great Plams, and (2) between neglecta and an isolated southwestern population of magna (S. m. lilianae) from the desert grassland of west Texas and eastern New Mexico. Individuals in reference samples taken out of sympatry could be segregated sufficiently to leave a distinct phenetic gap between groups. Evaluation of specimens taken in sympatry also revealed phenetic gaps separating both pairs of meadowlarks, indicating that their genetic integrity is being maintained in both areas of sympatry. Nonetheless, certain specimens from both areas of contact fell in phenetic positions highly intermediate to the reference specimens and were presumed to be of mixed ancestry There was an apparently higher incidence of intermediate females than males, and it is suggested that females of mixed ancestry have a greater probability of survival than males in the polygynous meadowlarks. The geographic distribution of 16 of the most intermediate specimens from the plains sympatry was such that incidence of intermediates from the Platte River drainage was two to three times higher than that for other drainage systems. Coincidentally, the flood plains of the Platte River system were the only ones examined along which magna was not more or less continuously distributed up to its westernmost point of occurrence. Along the Platte, magna was found only in several small and isolated colonies in which appropriate mate selection may have been rendered difficult by the low numbers of conspecifics and the presumed year to year instability of these colonies. Song was thought to play an important role in selection of conspecific mates. In both zones of sympatry the meadowlarks maintain interspecific territories, and song is important in territory establishment and maintenance. Yet, there has been no convergence toward a common song type in either of the zones of sympatry, despite a considerable information loss when songs are used in interspecific communication. Presumably strong selection opposing interspecific matings has maintained the remarkable differences in songs of these siblings in both areas of sympatry.
10.2307/2412166|A number of methods of selection of characters based on the uniquely derived character concept (LeQuesne, 1969) have been applied to published data on taxa of Orthopteroid insects and also to random data obtained by dealing cards. The latter has been used to verify the essential soundness of the statistical methods. The data on Orthopteroid insects show some uncertainty in the most likely phylogeny among the group, although verifying the existence of some already well-accepted groupings. It is shown that at least 54 out of 80 characters tested are not uniquely derived.
10.2307/2412169|Data for diversity and average ages of first occurrence of Recent and Miocene bivalve genera along the east coast of the United States show that tropical areas of high diversity are characterized by a fauna that is geologically younger than that of high latitude areas of low diversity. For Recent bivalves, average ages expressed as a modified survivorship curve indicate higher rates of evolution in the tropics than elsewhere. Diversity and average age of Miocene bivalve genera show a weaker gradient against latitude than modern ones and may reflect the fact that Miocene-Recent evolution in the tropics has not yet been distributed to higher latitudes.
10.2307/2412163|Information from distribution, ecology, behavior, and morphology indicates that Zeledon's Chlorospingus (Chlorospingus zeledoni Ridgway) is a grayish-green morph of the Sooty-capped Bush Tanager (Chlorospingus pileatus Salvin); the latter in typical form represents the yellow-green phase. Combined reflectance spectrophotometry and pigment biochemistry demonstrate that the two morphs differ in but one feature, the concentration of lutein pigment in the feathers of the breast band, flanks, and dorsum. A direct positive relationship exists between the concentration of pigment and degree of colorimetric purity Extraction of lutein from the breast plumage of an example of the yellow-green phase resulted in a bird visually identical with examples of the gray-green phase. Comments are offered on the relationship between the three attributes of color (dominant wave length, brightness, and purity) and the physical basis for colors in feathers (pigment type, pigment concentration and placement, and feather structure) as exemplified by certain tanagers. The local confinement of the gray-green morph to two high mountains in central Costa Rica, Volcanes Irazu and Turrialba, a region of historically active volcanism where the background of ash, vegetation, and fog provides an environment of pervasive grayness, suggests that the polymorphism is maintained there by the advantages of matching coloration, particularly after volcanic eruptions. Theories of heterozygote advantage and of apostatic selection do not seem appropriate in this instance to account for the polymorphism.
10.2307/2412165|This study reports on comparisons of Kruskal's nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis, principal components analysis, and Gower's principal coordinates analysis. Nine different sets of data were used. It was found that nonmetric scaling gave better results (as measured by the correlation between the distances in the k-dimensional configuration and the original distances). It was also found that principal coordinates analysis gave a better fit than principal components analysis when missing values were present.
10.2307/2412164|Allelic variation at 27 structural gene loci was studied electrophoretically in five populations of Thomomys bottae and one of T. umbrinus in Arizona. The status of eight individuals identified karyotypically as F
10.2307/2412168|Two computer-aided techniques, the clustering analysis of the Graph Theory Model and the CHARANAL program which finds a succession of characters best classifying the objects under study, were used to indicate phenotypic similarities existing within certain members of the genus Salmo. Eight characters from 104 objects consisting of 849 specimens from 44 collections representing 5 described species and unnamed forms of western North American trouts were analyzed. Results of the Graph Theory Model and CHARANAL program were almost identical, and the former clustered the same form of trout at high similarity levels. Considering only the computer-aided analyses, the Apache (unnamed), red-banded (unnamed) and Kern River (S. aguabonita gilberti) trouts seem to be a closely-linked group slightly distinct from the Gila trout (S. gilae). The California golden trout (S. a. aguabonita) joins the cutthroat trout (S. clarki) before any other group; the trouts of the "golden trout complex" are phenotypically more similar to cutthroat trout than to rainbow trout. The rainbow trout (S. gairdneri) is connected only to trout from the Rio Truchas, also a rainbow-like trout, before the lowest level of similarity. The Mexican golden trout (S. chrysogaster) is unique in that it joins the above trouts at the lowest level of similarity. Other taxonomic informations support these contentions. The taximetric analysis shows that the trout from the upper Little Kern River basin, named S. whitei, correctly should be considered a synonym of S. a. gilberti. This paper demonstrates the efficiency of the two computer programs as a method to facilitate data analysis for systematic investigation. It is, however, also an attempt to consider all the known divergent forms of endemic western trouts in a comparative study and is a step toward a sounder understanding of the phylogenies involved.
10.2307/2413305|Electromorphic and chromosomal variation is analyzed in 26 populations of Thomomys umbrinus sampled from throughout the range of the species. Interpopulation levels of genic differentiation are extreme, generally exceeding values measured between conspecific populations of most animals or plants. Two principal groups of T. umbrinus are recognized based on chromosomal evidence, one with 2n = 76 chromosomes and the other with 2n = 78. Further, the 2n = 78 group (but not the 2n = 76 group) is bisected into geographic subgroups with respect to chromosome morphology and heterochromatin position. The kind and degree of chromosomal differentiation observed suggests that the three groups may be reproductively incompatible. Allozymic evidence corroborates the above groupings, and an analysis of patterns of allele sharing suggests the absence of gene flow among the groups. A cladistic analysis of electromorphic data indicates that the two 2n = 78 groups may be independently derived from the 2n = 76 lineage. The combined evidence supports the hypothesis that T. umbrinus is actually a composite of at least three biological species and confirms the observation that speciation in the genus Thomomys is unrelated to the level of genic differentiation between populations.
10.2307/2413304|A quantitative approach to Croizat's panbiogeography is developed using graph theory. Croizat's main analytical tool, the "track" (a line on a map representing the distribution of one or more taxa), is equated with the graph-theoretic concept of the minimal-spanning tree. Tracks can be represented by two different matrices that enable incongruent tracks to be detected and shared elements (biogeographic homologies) to be identified. Tracks can be orientated using both phylogenetic and biogeographic criteria. "Nodes," which are regions where there are large numbers of tracks, are related to the concept of the connectivity of a point. The statistical significance of track concordance can be evaluated using permutation tests of association between matrices. Previous discussions of panbiogeography have often considered panbiogeography to be a phenetic technique similar to cluster analysis using matrices of biotic similarity, or a crude precursor of vicariance biogeography. This is rejected, and the relationship between vicariance biogeography and panbiogeography is discussed. Vicariance biogeography is shown to be a clique method based on the less amenable concept of the minimal Steiner tree.
10.2307/2413306|The biometrical consequences of measurement error, environmental effects caused by habitat quality, and effects of allometry transformation were studied in 22 morphometric traits of the skull of the muskrat, Ondatra zibethicus. Analyses were conducted at a regional level using four Finnish muskrat populations living 85-750 km apart, and at a local level using five subpopulations living 2-9 km apart in one Finnish lake. Only spring samples of animals born in the previous summer were used (n = 508), but sexes were pooled because they were not found to differ in variability. Reduced variability was found in traits connected with feeding. In larger variables the coefficient of variation (CV) was moderately negatively correlated with the mean, but in the smallest measurements the variability increased sharply. The dependence of the CV on the mean of the trait, thus, is hyperbolic. Corrected variabilities for each trait were calculated as the residuals from this function. Measurement error was estimated by repeated measurings of the same skulls, using two methods differing in accuracy. The proportion of measurement error in the CV varied from 3 to 23%, if measuring accuracy was 0.1 mm, and from 13 to 45%, if accuracy was only 0.5 mm (mean of the variables ranged from 4 to 63 mm). The proportion of measurement error in the CV increased with a decreasing mean value of the trait, but this cannot alone explain the great variability in the small traits. Environmental effects on variability were studied by grouping animals on the basis of their condition, classified by a growth index that measured body-weight gain per unit of molar wear. Improvement in animal condition decreased general morphological variability. We concluded that habitat quality, especially poor diet, was the main stress factor increasing variation, and specimens with the poorest condition were particularly exposed to this effect. In order to examine and compare allometric relationships on both a local and regional scale, each variable was divided by condylobasal length of the skull (CL; calculated by subtraction in log scale). If the corrected variability of a trait was lower or equal to that of CL, the transformation often induced a negative correlation with general size. In comparisons between local subpopulations, the effect of this bias was not serious: the allometric transformation reduced size differences that depend on habitat quality. If the correlation structure of the data was more heterogeneous, as in regional data, the transformation produced partly confusing results in univariate and principal component analyses, but discriminant function analysis was not seriously affected.
10.2307/2413307|Chronological clustering of morphotypes, based on five characters, detected morphological discontinuities in a stratigraphic sequence of the fossil stickleback Gasterosteus doryssus. Discontinuities that were not detected analyzing individual characters became apparent, and different discontinuities depend on changes in the frequencies of different sets of morphotypes. However, recognition of discontinuities between a group and neighboring groups of samples depended strongly on existing group structure. The results of this analysis generally were consistent with conclusions of a previous study using single characters, which indicated that patterns of chronological variation within the lineage are diverse. Care must be taken in interpreting the results of this chronological-clustering technique because the results depend strongly on criteria for formation of morphotypes, but the technique is useful to detect discontinuities of multicharacter change within biostratigraphic sequences.
10.2307/2413399|Protein products of 51 genetic loci were analyzed by gel electrophoresis using extracts of blood and tissue culture specimens from 12 of the 14 extant canid genera. Genetic distances were calculated and used to derive phenetic trees. The results suggest that the Canidae can be divided into several distinct groups. The wolf-like canids are a group that includes species in the genus Canis and Lycaon pictus (African wild dog). Speothos venaticus (Brazilian bush dog) is weakly associated with this group. Based on the calibration of a consensus tree with a fossil date, Canis mesomelas (black-backed jackal) and Speothos venaticus separated first, approximately 6 million years before present (MYBP). Lycaon pictus and C. latrans (coyote) separated from the line leading to C. lupus (grey wolf) and C. familiuris (domestic dog) approximately 3 MYBP. These results suggest that the blade-like trenchant heel on the carnassial tooth has evolved independently at least twice within the Canidae. Several distinct genetic stocks appear to have led to the extant South American canids. Chrysocyon brachyurus (maned wolf) is estimated to have diverged from Dusicyon vetulus (hoary fox) and Cerdocyon thous (crab-eating fox) approximately 6 MYBP. The divergence time of the last two genera is fairly recent (2-3 MYBP) and is coincident with the opening of the Panamanian land bridge. The remaining South American canid included in this survey, Speothos venaticus, is clustered with the wolf-like canids. The Vulpes-like canids are a distinct phenetic group that includes species in the genera Vulpes, Alopex and Fennecus. Their estimated time of divergence from all the other canids, approximately 9 MYBP, is among the oldest within the Canidae. Among the Vulpes-like canids we surveyed, Alopex lagopus (arctic fox) and Vulpes macrotis (kit fox) appear genetically most closely related. Finally, the biochemical data support the generic status of three canid genera: Urocyon, Nyctereutes, and Otocyon. These taxa are not closely related to any of the surveyed canid species.
10.2307/2413400|The "shear" method of Humphries et al. (1981) is based on a path model intended to explain differences in form by multiple factors: one for size and one or more for shape differences. Its adaptation for "removing" the effects of a within-population size-factor from between-group morphometric analyses is presented in compact matrix form, simplified, and compared to the method of orthogonal projection proposed by Burnaby (1966). While the size-correction methods give similar results for most real data sets, Burnaby's procedure with k = 1 (i.e., using a single composite size variable) is recommended for this purpose owing to its geometrical and computational simplicity. An example based on artificial data demonstrates that sheared principal components are not necessarily uncorrelated with size. Path modeling of size and shape together is a different purpose than size-correction, and is better served by a different procedure.
10.2307/2413402|The total numbers of published synonymous species and genus names were counted for all species of bdelloid rotifers (which are exclusively parthenogenic) and monogonont rotifers (which occasionally reproduce sexually). Synonymous genus names are about equally frequent in both groups, but synonymous species names are less frequent in bdelloids than in monogononts. The difference is not a secondary effect of differences in time since first publication of species, effort or competence of systematists, size of genera, or taxonomic complexity of species. These results suggest that bdelloid species are more consistently recognized than monogonont species, contrary to predictions derived from aspects of the biological species concept and the punctuated equilibrium model of evolution.
10.2307/2413401|This study describes a procedure for constructing and evaluating developmental models by using confirmatory factor analysis which predicts covariation among morphological measures. The principal advantage of confirmatory factor analysis lies in its ability to reject poorly fitting hypotheses in favor of those better able to reconstruct observed variance-covariance structure. Conflicting causal hypotheses of increasing complexity are applied to osteometric measures taken on a sample of one-day-old laboratory rats, then evaluated for their relative ability to reconstruct observed covariance. Models derived from competing hypotheses could not be distinguished. When models are constructed after measurements are chosen, then discrimination between alternatives may require indirect comparisons. In contrast, when hypotheses of integration vary in their predictions and the models differ significantly in fit, then confirmatory factor analysis can be used to decide between conflicting hypotheses.
10.2307/2413403|Megistolotis is a monotypic Australian genus included in the leptodactyloid subfamily Limnodynastinae. In some aspects of its morphology, Megistolotis resembles burrowing frogs of the genus Heleioporus, whereas in others it resembles terrestrial and aquatic frogs assigned to the genus Limnodynastes. Accordingly workers have differed regarding which of the two genera includes the closest relatives of Megistolotis. Studies of albumin evolution using the quantitative immunological technique of micro-complement fixation have shown that Megistolotis shares most recent common ancestry with Limnodynastes convexiusculus, a member of the L. tasmaniensis species group. This finding has implications regarding the parallel evolution of morphological features within limnodynastine frogs. In addition, the albumin data imply that Limnodynastes is a paraphyletic taxon, and illustrate the problem confronting systematists faced with differing tempos of morphological and molecular evolution.
10.2307/2413264|Numerical phylogenetic analyses of G-banded karyotypes were carried out for 22 species of arvicolids belonging to eight genera with diploid numbers among the species ranging from 18 to 64. Interspecific karyotypic comparisons indicate that 38 homologous autosomes or autosomal arms are shared by two or more species. The additional presence of 33 unique elements and 141 euchromatic rearrangements account for the extensive interspecific karyotypic variability. Ten different types of rearrangements were documented with centric fusion (27.0%), tandem fusion (14.2%) and pericentric inversion (12.8%) being the most abundant. Chromosomes and chromosomal rearrangements were quantitatively coded as present, absent, or missing in the karyotype of each species and the resulting data matrix (22 species by 214 karyotypic characters) subjected to cladistic analyses (with Peromyscus as an outgroup). Six analyses were executed where chromosomal rearrangements were weighted equal to or less than the weights assigned to entire chromosomes. Families of equally parsimonious trees were obtained and subsequently distilled into Adams-2 consensus estimates. Consistency indices ranged from 0.75 to 0.84 with reversals accounting for 2-30% of all homoplastic events. Systematically, Clethrionomys, Lemmus, Synaptomys, Lagurus, Neofiber, and six species of Microtus share generally primitive autosomal complements; however, four derived characters suggest a relationship between M. ochrogaster and M. pinetorum. Six other species of Microtus (townsendii, pennsylvanicus, breweri, montanus, canicaudus and the more distant oregoni) share a number of derived characters. Dicrostonyx, Phenacomys, M. longicaudus, and M. oeconomus each possess a series of uniquely derived characters that tend to isolate these lineages. Chromosomal collocations support those derived from paleontology, comparative morphology, and protein electrophoresis in certain respects but not in others. Comparisons of zoogeographic distributions among four pairs of chromosomal sister taxa are interpreted to support an allopatric rather than a stasipatric (chromosomal) means of speciation in all cases except one.
10.2307/2413267|The attempt to calculate a null probability for a given degree of matching among a set of phylogenetic area cladograms (or between a cladogram representing a geographic hypothesis and a set of phylogenetic area cladograms) is a key advance in historical biogeography. It leads to strong inferences about the means by which different groups achieved their current ranges. However, the appropriate procedure for calculating the probability has yet to be determined. For sets of small cladograms the underlying considerations of probability seem straight-forward if two cladograms are scored as either matching completely or failing to match. If two large cladograms are not identical but seem similar, it would seem perverse to score them as "not matching." A possible null hypothesis would be that the degree of matching is no greater than would be expected for independently derived cladograms. For large cladograms, it is not at all obvious from visual inspection whether two cladograms share an improbably high number of features. Large systematic cladograms are likely to have errors and/or to be incomplete. Even though it is currently impossible to assign probabilities to particular construction errors, probabilities of cladogram matching can still be calculated if one posits some conventions.
10.2307/2413265|We conducted cladistic analyses of isozyme tissue expression patterns in representatives of 13 avian genera from two orders (Charadriiformes and Passeriformes) to assess utility of those characters for reconstructing phylogenies. Presence or absence of expression in each of 12 different tissues was determined by means of starch-gel electrophoresis for 30 presumptive gene loci and heteropolymers. Most parsimonious trees were examined for "correct" segregation of the two orders and unification of members of two disparate families (Recurvirostridae and Emberizidae). We found high levels of homoplasy in isozyme expression patterns in the study taxa, with most containing little phylogenetic information. However, some isozyme expression patterns of malic enzyme, aspartate aminotransferase, and aconitate hydratase yielded cladograms approximating the three taxonomic distinctions mentioned above. Reanalysis of isozyme expression characters under the assumption of homologous gains being impossible (Dollo parsimony) resulted in longer (less parsimonious) and less "accurate" trees. S-Acon-A and S-Aat-A showed significantly greater restriction of tissue expression in relatively primitive taxa, whereas Ldh-A, and, to a lesser degree, S-Me-A showed increased restriction of tissue expression in advanced taxa. These opposite polarities in isozyme expression restriction suggest independent evolutionary histories for various loci. The evolutionary trend of decreasing numbers of expressed LDH isozymes accompanying phyletic advance, as observed in fishes (Markert et al., 1975; Toledo and Ribiero, 1978), was not observed in avian systems. The findings of widespread homoplasy, opposite polarities and limited predictive capability for the isozyme tissue expression patterns suggest that most may be more useful in studies of gene regulation than in higher level taxonomy.
10.2307/2413263|Of all the many Definitions for para- and polyphyly, those proposed within the Farris 1974 Model have been adopted as fully acceptable by various phylogeneticists. Close examination of this model shows that it is not always consistent, identical groupings turn out to be paraphyletic in one case and polyphyletic in another. New definitions which circumvent these inconsistencies are proposed, from within a phylogenetic framework and by making reference to the notion of sister groups.
10.2307/2413266|Many descriptive models of chromosomal evolution have been formulated over the past two decades. We review the assumptions and predictions of these models and consider some pertinent evidence. One model of adaptive divergence, the canalization model, is difficult to test, and where predictions are explicitly stated, empirical data generally do not support the model. However, few adequate data sets are available to test this hypothesis, and it deserves further study. Several process-oriented models of chromosomal speciation are reviewed with respect to genetic isolating mechanisms, the fitness components of individual rearrangements, and the permissible population structures. From the last we attempt to estimate qualitatively the expected genetic correlates of each model to maximize its testability. Theoretical and empirical inadequacies are discussed and suggestions are made for improvement. Both phyletic and speciation models of chromosomal evolution have often been based on broad comparative studies of large taxonomic groups, but more precise testing will require multidisciplinary population-level studies of organisms hypothesized to be undergoing some form of chromosomally-mediated speciation or adaptive radiation.
10.2307/2413066|This paper examines four methods of representing multistate transformation series with a numerical code. The three that have the broadest applications are Additive Binary Coding, Redundant Linear Coding, and Nonredundant Linear Coding. The fourth method, internal rooting, has specialized applications for coding basally dichotomous series. The first three methods are capable of unambiguously representing multistate trees with or without specified nodal values. The Nonredundant Linear Coding method is recommended because it produces the most efficient code. The Redundant Linear Coding method can produce unjustified weighting of areas of a multistate tree. We examine coding procedures for working with multistate transformation series of intrinsic organic characters, and with parasite phylogenies as multistate characters of their hosts. Use of the inclusive ORing technique to code for the occurrence of more than one parasite taxon per host taxon can result in the distortion of phylogenetic information and the drawing of incorrect inferences of relationships.
10.2307/2413068|Most workers attempting to infer evolutionary trees from polymorphic data using established parsimony procedures either have ignored frequency information entirely or have tolerated "optimal" solutions that hypothesize ancestors that cannot possibly exist in the space of the original frequencies. We describe a new method for inferring evolutionary trees from gene frequency data that avoids these limitations by enforcing biologically reasonable constraints without discarding the frequency information. The necessity of working directly with frequencies rather than reducing the data by "presence/absence" coding is argued. Our approach appears to be free of logical difficulties affecting a variety of other parsimony methods that have been applied to frequency data.
10.2307/2413067|Patterns of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) variation were evaluated within and between six species in the five genera of the endemic African mole rats in the family Bathyergidae. A total of 493 distinct restriction fragments was produced by digestion of bathyergid mtDNAs with 15 restriction enzymes. Of these fragments, 126 provided phylogenetic information. The magnitude of mtDNA sequence divergence among the five genera of bathyergids indicates an ancient origin and agrees with levels of nuclear sequence divergence estimated from allozymes. Two sister groups, Georychus/Heliophobius and Cryptomys/Heterocephalus, are apparent based on phylogenetic analyses of the mtDNA data. Although the two species of Bathyergus are closely aligned, this genus is very divergent from the other four genera and is associated with either the Georychus/Heliophobius group or represents a more basal lineage. Two isolated populations of Georychus capensis are as divergent from one another as the genus Heliophobius is from Georychus. mtDNA, allozyme, and chromosomal variation among the three subspecies of Cryptomys hotten totus suggests that C. h. damarensis should be raised to specific rank. The phylogenetic relationships suggested by the mtDNA variation are used to evaluate two aspects of bathyergid evolution. First, the current distribution of bathyergids may be the result of range expansions and vicariant events related to increasing aridity along a corridor between east and southern Africa during past geological time. Second, the sister group relationship of Heterocephalus and Cryptomys suggests that the common ancestor of the eusocial species, Heterocephalus glaber was possibly colonial rather than solitary.
10.2307/2413065|The applicability of expert systems (a branch of artificial intelligence) to identification and classification in systematics is examined. Existing devices used for taxonomic identification (dichotomous, tabular, and computerized keys) are reviewed and compared to expert systems. Expert systems technology is briefly reviewed, and a prototype expert system (SYSTEX) for species identification in one species group of the genus Signiphora Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Signiphoridae) is presented. SYSTEX is a rule-based, backward chaining system with 114 rules. It was developed using a commercially available expert system shell. In building the identification system and in its use, we find the expert system approach to be in most ways superior to the dichotomous key and other identification devices in terms of efficiency and ease of use, tolerance of missing data, explanatory capability, and the ability to provide meaningful output when an unambiguous identification is not possible. The potential for incorporation of phylogenetic hypotheses into an identification device is discussed.
10.2307/2413063|Minimum length tree topology changed in an apparently anomalous, non-local way in response to a change in the data set in the example reported by Rohlf (1984). I define the conditions that such changes in the data must fulfil to cause the kind of change in tree topology observed (which gives an indication of the frequency with which such behavior may occur). The reasons for the sensitivity of minimum length trees to such changes, and the insensitivity of most phenetic clustering techniques, such as UPGMA, to the same changes, may then be characterized. By examining the character states at the intervening nodes in the tree, one can establish an equivalence between this sensitivity of Wagner tree topology and the out-group analysis procedure within traditional, non-numerical cladistics. The sensitivity of Wagner or minimum length tree topology to such changes in the data is demonstrated not to be a problem or "instability" but instead to be the sensitivity of the method to changes in the polarity of a character, and thus an appropriate sensitivity for a method for estimating phylogenies.
10.2307/2413064|Antitropical distributions of continental shelf, Indo-West Pacific species are probably not due to transgression of the tropics during the glacial periods, isothermic submergence, island integration, rising Neogene temperatures, or the Mesozoic dispersal of fragments from a Pacific continental mass. Characteristics of common antitropical patterns, plus information from systematic works on a variety of animal and plant groups, indicate that the long discarded "relict theory" of Theel (1885) appears to best fit the evidence, for it provides a mechanism whereby antitropical distributions may be brought about. The relict theory is compatible with the concept that the East Indies part of the Indo-West Pacific has been functioning as a center of evolutionary origin. It suggests that antitropical and associated disjunct patterns are produced as an older species, that has spread out to occupy a broad range, loses ground and gradually becomes supplanted by a younger species that had subsequently evolved in the East Indies. As this process goes on, the older species becomes restricted to a few isolated localities on the fringe of its original range. These isolates are often found to the north and south of the equatorial region but may include relict populations at the western edge of the Indian Ocean.
10.2307/2992433|Hollow curve distributions (HCDs) of taxonomic diversity are common in nature and are a result of assemblages being dominated by one or a few very diverse taxa. Models of random extinction and speciation can produce HCDs; however, the similarity between real and simulated HCDs has been examined previously only qualitatively. We compare quantitatively dominance observed in 85 real taxonomic assemblages to dominance predicted by five null models (1. Poisson; 2. Raup et al.'s [1973] simulation model; 3. Anderson and Anderson's [1975] simulation model; 4. simultaneous broken-stick; and 5. canonical lognormal distributions). Real assemblages were dominated to a significantly greater extent by one unit than predicted by all null models. This dominance is compounded as one proceeds down the taxonomic hierarchy. We demonstrate that overdominance is common whether phylogenetic or traditional classification schemes are used to assemble taxa. We propose that overdominance reflects real differences in the evolutionary success of units within an assemblage.
10.2307/2992434|Microcomplement fixation of albumin was used to probe evolutionary relationships among the macropodid marsupials. The data, analyzed by the Fitch-Margoliash method followed by jackknifing, support the recognition of at least three clades; one consists of the macropodine genera Macropus, Wallabia, Setonix, Onychogalea, Dorcopsis, Dorcopsulus, Lagorchestes, Dendrolagus, Petrogale, Peradorcas and Thylogale; a second of the potoroine genera Bettongia, Potorous and Aepyprymnus; and a third of the sthenurine Lagostrophus. Hypsiprymnodon either represents a fourth clade, or is allied with the Bettongia-Potorous-Aepyprymnus clade. Bettongia is a monophyletic genus but the phylogenetic relationships of Bettongia, Potorous and Aepyprymnus are not resolved. There is a strong association of Petrogale, Peradorcus and Thylogale along with, unexpectedly, Dendrolagus. Lagorchestes has no immediate relatives whereas Dorcopsulus and Dorcopsis form a clade. Macropus, Wallabia, Setonix and Onychogalea form a clade, within which Macropus may be paraphyletic. Albumin evolves in a clock-like fashion within the macropodines and within the potoroines but not between macropodines, sthenurines and potoroines. However, it is not possible to calibrate the clock for these groups.
10.2307/2992432|Character congruence, the principle of using all the relevant data, and character independence are important concepts in phylogenetic inference, because they relate directly to the evidence on which hypotheses are based. Taxonomic congruence, which is agreement among patterns of taxonomic relationships, is less important, because its connection to the underlying character evidence is indirect and often imperfect. Also, taxonomic congruence is difficult to justify, because of the arbitrariness involved in choosing a consensus method and index with which to estimate agreement. High levels of character congruence were observed among 89 biochemical and morphological synapomorphies scored on 10 species of Epicrates. Such agreement is consistent with the phylogenetic interpretation attached to the resulting hypothesis, which is a consensus of two equally parsimonious cladograms: (cenchria (angulifer (striatus ((chrysogaster, exsul) (inornatus, subflavus) (gracilis (fordii, monensis)))))). Relatively little (11.4%) of the character incongruence was due to the disparity between the biochemical and morphological data sets. Each of the clades in the consensus cladogram was confirmed by two or more unique and unreversed novelties, and six of the eight clades were corroborated by biochemical and morphological evidence. Such combinations of characters add confidence to the phylogenetic hypothesis, assuming the qualitatively different kinds of data are more likely to count as independent than are observations drawn from the same character system. Most of the incongruence occurred in the skeletal subset of characters, and much of that independent evolution seemed to be the result of paedomorphosis.
10.2307/2992431|The degree of underestimation of branch lengths by the maximum parsimony principle is studied. The expected number of nucleotide changes per site under the maximum parsimony principle is computed, and it is compared with the expected number of nucleotide substitutions. A tree topology with no hierarchical structure is considered for mathematical simplicity. It is shown that as long as the evolutionary distance is less than 0.2, the maximum parsimony principle gives good estimates of nucleotide substitutions. When the evolutionary distance is greater than 0.2, however, the method gives gross underestimates of nucleotide substitutions.
10.2307/2992400|The systematic relationships of genera in the artiodactyl tribe Bovini were evaluated using two sets of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences available for Bison, Bos, and Bubalus. One of these sets included 2,726 aligned positions from the two relatively conserved ribosomal RNA genes and three flanking transfer RNA genes; the other consisted of 247 base pairs from the rapidly evolving D-loop region. Most-parsimonious cladograms derived from the two data sets indicated that Bison and Bos are more closely related to each other than either is to Bubalus, as suggested from morphological, paleontological, and reproductive data. However, the traditional arrangement of the genus Bos is seriously challenged, as Bos grunniens groups first with Bison bison rather than with its congener Bos taurus. These results, when coupled with reproductive and other molecular data, strongly suggest that Bison should be treated as a congener of Bos rather than as a distinct genus in the tribe Bovini.
10.2307/2992401|There is an essential difference between convergence and parallelism, the former being due to analogous similarity, while the latter is based on a homologous relationship between characters. Careful application of the recognition criteria of homology and analogy may enable us to distinguish between convergence and true parallelism. Under the assumptions that one works in a genealogical domain wherein parallelism is rampant, and that parallel characters are homologues, derived parallelisms may successfully be used as indicators of propinquity of descent. Therefore, the principle of parsimony is considered a poor selection criterion in situations where parallel evolution is rampant. Character distributions concerning repeatedly evolved homologous structures have been described with a varying terminology: apomorphic tendencies, unique inside parallelism, underlying synapomorphy, nonuniversal derived character states. The paper illustrates the practical use and potential significance of such character state distributions for phylogenetic analysis by detailing several examples from marine triclads. These examples are grouped into cases with outside parallelism and with inside parallelism. In a case of outside parallelism the character state is also present in a more distantly related outgroup, while in cases of inside parallelism the parallelisms are restricted to the ingroup. A theoretical evaluation is given of the use of underlying synapomorphies in phylogenetic reconstruction, and in particular attention is paid to alternative explanations of the character state patterns, viz. convergence, secondary change, and retention of the primitive character state. The use of underlying synapomorphies is "Hennigian" in the most literal sense because Hennig himself used repeated derivations as indicators of genealogical relationship. Some of the practical rules for the application of underlying synapomorphy in phylogenetic inference are still fuzzy. Worthy of future theoretical discussions are questions on the frequency of the character states, cases of outside parallelism, and on falsification of presumed underlying synapomorphies. Repeated evolutionary derivation of structures may result from polyallelism, or from the retention of structural gene complexes and subsequent re-expression due to a change in regulatory mechanisms. For practical purposes, a fruitful synthesis may be achieved by combining a computerized parsimony analysis with the qualitative phylogenetic technique.
10.2307/2992399|Geographic variation trends are often quite complex and consist of variation at different spatial scales. In such cases an analysis of spatial structure by spatial autocorrelation analysis is confounded by this intermixing of different scales. Trend surface analysis (TSA) or canonical trend surface analysis (CTSA) offer ways of overcoming this problem. We subjected residuals from two types of data to spatial autocorrelation analysis: TSA residuals of simulated population-genetic data (isolation by distance with or without migration), and CTSA residuals of morphometric data. This approach was able, in the first case, to separate the effects of isolation by distance from migration, and to give an estimate of the scale at which each process occurred; in the second case, it furnished an estimate of the mean size of the local variation pattern as distinct from its long range pattern. In populations where different variables show structure at different spatial scales, these methods can separate out such effects even if the point-values for the different variables are not located at the same coordinates.
10.2307/2992396|A direct method for calculating expected data from an evolutionary model for two state characters is described. The method uses four vectors p, q, r and s. p and q are the probabilities of a character change on the 2n - 3 edges of a tree T (n is the number of taxa). r and s are properties of the data, are independent of any tree and have 2<sup>n-1</sup> entries. For a given tree T, and with specified probabilities (p or q), we determine r, then s, the expected probabilities of each of the 2<sup>n-1</sup> possible partitions of taxa. For any tree T the relationship can be inverted. This allows the probabilities of change on the tree, p and q, to be estimated directly from observed data (r or s). These relationships have been used to analyse the behaviour of tree building algorithms under conditions when there are sufficient data. (This is when the tree does not change as more data are collected, i.e., convergence to a single tree.) With equal rates of evolution (i.e., with a molecular clock), we show that for n = 4 taxa, parsimony will always converge to the correct tree, but we give examples with n = 5 where parsimony will converge on an incorrect tree, even for equal rates of evolution. A further example with n = 6 shows convergence to an incorrect tree with equal but arbitrarily small rates of change. We interpret a basic difficulty with parsimony as 'long edges attract.' If there are additional taxa that intersect long edges on the tree, then this effect can be reduced. Some distance methods may also converge to an incorrect tree.
10.2307/2992402|Recent critics of distance data have argued that a molecular clock is a necessary assumption for the use of distance data in phylogenetic reconstruction. In fact, several pairwise tree-construction algorithms have been developed that make no such assumptions. When distances are additive, these algorithms efficiently recover the correct tree in spite of any rate-disparity. Furthermore, the correct tree will be unique in exhibiting a perfect-fit to a matrix of additive distances. Finally, net amounts of shared derived change can then be identified if the tree includes an unambiguous outgroup.
10.2307/2992403|The areas where the rates of change of biological variables across space are particularly high may correspond to either steep ecological gradients or regions of limited admixture among demes. A method for detecting such biological boundaries was proposed by Womble (1951), who suggested averaging the absolute values of the derivatives of the functions describing biological variation in space at various locations. We present here algorithms that quantify both the mean magnitude and the mean direction of change in surfaces representing distributions of biological measures (such as gene frequencies, measures of quantitative traits, etc.). Inferences on the microevolutionary processes affecting the populations can be made by comparing the boundaries detected with the distribution of environmental characteristics, or with the location of factors that may have prevented population admixture. Examples of the application of this method to both simulated data and gene frequencies of two natural populations are given.
10.2307/2992398|Geophysical maps depicting continental movement have consistently shown India, as it moved northward, to be located far out in the Tethys Sea. India split off from the African east coast about 148 m.y.a. From that time onward, according to almost all geophysical accounts, India was isolated from all other continents until the early Miocene when it made contact with Eurasia. But the biological data, both fossil and Recent, indicate that this concept cannot be correct. If India had really existed as an isolated, oceanic continent for about 100 m.y., it should have developed a peculiar biota with many endemic genera and families in its terrestrial and shallow marine habitats. But there are virtually no remains of organisms indicating that India was isolated for any substantial time (millions of years). Instead, we find that almost all Indian taxa were possessed in common with other continents. As time went on, the northern relationships became stronger and the southern ones weaker. Most of the recent geophysical accounts show India not making contact with Eurasia until the early Miocene, but fossil materials show that this event must have taken place by the early Eocene. It has been postulated that, as India moved northward, it created a biogeographic barrier that separated marine fish populations and resulted in the east-west provinces that are now apparent in the Indian Ocean. At the same time, the barrier effect was supposed to have resulted in the formation of sister species that are now located far apart. Information currently available indicates that most living, tropical marine species are probably not over 3 m.y. old. Consequently, the northward movement of India, which took place primarily between 148 and 50 m.y.a., could have no bearing on the relationships of modern species.
10.2307/2992397|Cavender (1978) introduced a model of an evolutionary branching process on a sequence of characters, where the characters take either of two states with symmetric probabilities of change between them. From this model, with a given evolutionary tree T and a character change probability p<sub>e</sub> for each edge e of T, we show how to derive some properties of the resulting sequences and distance measures between pairs of taxa. These can be used to test the effectiveness of current algorithms for recovering T, such as parsimony or distance methods. The relationships are described in terms of two matrices of exponential order. Although the matrices involved are large, they have simple inverses, so the initial conditions of the model can be recovered from these predicted properties. Assuming that some observed data are good approximations to the theoretical data derived from Cavender's model on a tree T, we can use a least squares fit estimate to find T, together with the probabilities p<sub>e</sub>. We will refer to the inferred tree with the probabilities p<sub>i</sub>, as the "closest tree" for that data. This provides us with a new criterion for inferring evolutionary trees from sequence data, which has a simple algorithm for its computation and overcomes some of the drawbacks of some earlier criteria. These relationships are illustrated by examples of hypothetical and real data, showing how the calculations are performed in the case of n = 4 taxa.
10.2307/2992379|Under a simple model of DNA sequence dissociation, DNA-DNA hybridization dissimilarity measures are expected to behave like the complement of Gower's coefficient of similarity, calculated for each pair of taxonomic units (j, k) across i homologues (nucleotide positions) with four possible states, multiplied by a constant relating base-pair mismatch to the temperature of DNA dissociation. DNA dissimilarity measures that include information only from homologues, therefore, are expected to conform to the axioms of a metric. Empirically, we have found that measures of dissimilarity between single-copy nuclear genomes regularly conform to 3 of the 4 metric axioms: identity, distinctness, and the triangle inequality. However, reciprocal values frequently fail to conform to the fourth axiom, symmetry. For some measures dependent upon the percent of reassociation (e.g., delta T
10.2307/2992384|Phylogenetic relationships of Pseudophryne and Metacrinia (P. nichollsi) were studied by micro-complement fixation analyses of serum albumin. Metacrinia is not congeneric with Pseudophryne, but Metacrinia and Myobatrachus are sister groups, and the lineage formed by these two genera is the sister group of Pseudophryne. By probing relationships within Pseudophryne we found (1) the western species P. occidentalis and P. guentheri resulted from an early Pleistocene divergence, thus supporting the suppression of Kankanophryne, and (2) P. douglasi evolved earlier from the same western lineage. In the east, P. bibroni, P. australis and P. coriacea are closely related and diverged in the Pliocene; the other four eastern species appear to have evolved in the late Miocene. The eastern Australian radiation is thus coincident with the origin of the western Australian lineages. We see no need to invoke multiple Pleistocene invasions of Tasmania to account for species diversity in southeastern Australia as advocated by Littlejohn and colleagues for 20 years. We argue that the species of Pseudophryne probably evolved through allopatric speciation events.
10.2307/2992380|Horizontal starch gel electrophoresis was used to examine isozymes of L-lactate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.27) found in testicular extracts of 14 avian species. The distribution of the products of the testis-specific lactate dehydrogenase locus (Ldh-X) were systematically informative. This product was found in the Rock Dove (Columba livia) and, for the first time, is reported from doves of the genera Streptopelia and Zenaida. However, products of the Ldh-X gene could not be detected from testicular extracts of the remaining 10 species. Based on the results of this study and a literature review, it is suggested that the columbid Ldh-X, mammalian Ldh-C and piscine Ldh-C may not be orthologous. The use of this character as a synapomorphy uniting Aves and Mammalia is unwarranted. It is hypothesized that the presence of Ldh-X may serve as a synapomorphy uniting members of the family Columbidae and possibly the order Columbiformes.
10.2307/2992381|Although many biologists acknowledge a fundamental relationship between species concepts and the processes thought to give rise to species, there is less agreement on the extent and desirability of this relationship. While some advocate species concepts explicitly linked to particular mechanisms of speciation, others believe that concepts will function best when they are independent of particular notions of process. The existence of a diversity of interpretations of "process" has hampered a clear view of the concept-process link. Although there are general reciprocal constraints between concepts and processes, we suggest that it is profitable to maintain species concepts logically distinct from particular mechanisms of speciation. We analyze an example (from the work of Hugh Paterson) in which such a logical distinction between concept and process has not been maintained. Paterson makes the validity of the biological species concept contingent upon a particular process of speciation (reinforcement). However, such a link occurs only if biologists impose the requirement that a species criterion be a functional trait. We argue that what qualifies the members or parts of evolving populations as different species is not a function of the particular mechanism that drives the divergence.
10.2307/2992383|The bootstrap method developed by Efron allows the estimation of measures of statistical accuracy, such as the standard errors and confidence limits, in cases where the underlying distribution is unknown or where sample sizes are small. This is frequently the case for statistics and data sets of systematic interest, especially in paleontology. The utility of the bootstrap is demonstrated for the reduced major axis (RMA) method for fitting the allometric equation. The results are in good agreement with statistical properties determined by available analytical methods and are superior to many of these methods in capturing the detailed distribution of the parameters. The bootstrap also allows the simultaneous comparison of slope and intercept estimates between taxa. Bootstrap methods should be a valuable tool in morphometrics.
10.2307/2992382|Comparison of allozymes and restriction endonuclease cleavage maps of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was used to infer phylogenetic relationships among four species of minnows in the cyprinid genus Notropis. Statistical analysis of the allozyme data supported the monophyly of N. chrysocephalus and N. cornutus (subgenus Luxilus) relative to N. photogenis and N. rubellus (subgenera Notropis and Hydrophlox, respectively). In contrast, statistical analysis of the mtDNA cleavage site data provided no resolution for these relationships. Given the rapid rate of vertebrate mtDNA evolution, mtDNA data were expected to provide greater taxonomic resolution than allozyme data. Four possible reasons for this discrepancy were considered; two of these, rate heterogeneity between genes and lineages and introgressive hybridization, were analyzed in detail. Comparison of sequence divergence estimates among genetically different regions of the same mtDNA and among mtDNAs of different species revealed significant variation in the relative rates of change. This variation can lead to intramolecular and interspecific differences in levels of convergence, and, thus, to a loss of phylogenetic resolution. Because of the propensity for these species to hybridize and the possibility of mtDNA introgression, the potential impact of hybridization and introgression was also considered. Given the internal factors affecting the evolution of mtDNA and the population genetic processes affecting its transmission, assumptions of rate homogeneity and of strict vertical inheritance should be closely scrutinized when constructing phylogenies with mtDNA data.
10.2307/2992282|Although comparisons of variation patterns with theoretical expectations and across species are playing an increasingly important role in systematics, there has been a lack of appropriate procedures for statistically testing the proposed hypotheses. We present a series of statistical tests for hypotheses of morphological integration and for interspecific comparison, along with examples of their application. These tests are based on various randomization and resampling procedures, such as Mantel's test with its recent extensions and bootstrapping. They have the advantage of avoiding the specific and strict distributional assumptions invoked by analytically-based statistics. The statistical procedures described include one for testing the fit of observed correlation matrices to hypotheses of morphological integration and a related test for significant differences in the fit of two alternative hypotheses of morphological integration to the observed correlation structure. Tests for significant similarity in the patterns and magnitudes of variance and correlation among species are also provided.
10.2307/2992286|Comparative systematic studies may use different sets of data or different sets of taxa to evaluate the quality of phylogenetic data and phylogenetic hypotheses based on levels of homoplasy as implied by the length of minimum length trees. For comparisons involving diverse arrays of characters and taxa, an appropriate index is required to permit comparisons. Examination of the number of steps per character (NSC) on minimum length trees for 28 data sets revealed a highly significant positive correlation between NSC and the number of taxa and, concomitantly, a highly significant negative correlation between the consistency index (CI) of Kluge and Farris (1969) and the number of taxa. Theoretical expectations from a study of the number of steps on random and minimum length trees (Archie and Felsenstein, 1989) agree with this finding. Computer simulations using randomly selected subsets of taxa and characters from the Drosophila data set of Throckmorton (1968) revealed a similar finding. The latter two studies also revealed a negative relationship between the CI and the number of characters in a study. These findings imply that the CI is not an appropriate index of homoplasy for comparative taxonomic studies. A new index, the homoplasy excess ratio (HER), is introduced that takes into account the expected increase in overall homoplasy levels with increasing numbers of taxa in systematic studies. The properties of HER are examined for the 28 data sets taken from the literature and, in conjunction with the simulations using the Drosophila data set, HER is shown to be more appropriate than CI in comparative taxonomic studies that wish to measure the average level of homoplasy in data sets involving different groups of taxa or different characters. Because HER is a computationally intensive statistic to calculate, two estimates are derived and examined. These estimates, the random expected homoplasy excess ratio (REHER) and the homoplasy excess ratio minimum (HERM), can be easily calculated from the formulas of Archie and Felsenstein (1989) and from intrinsic properties of the data matrix, respectively. HERM is shown to be a better estimator of HER and a linear regression equation is derived to estimate HER from HERM.
10.2307/2992284|A new classification of the higher taxonomic levels within the New World bat family Phyllostomidae is presented which designates evolutionary relationships, provides a phylogenetic framework upon which modifications can be made as new comparative data are produced, and resolves certain obvious unnatural taxa that exist in the traditional classification. This new classification is a synthesis of classical morphological, chromosomal, and biochemical data. Within the family three subfamilies, the Desmodontinae, Phyllostominae, and Vampyrinae are recognized. The Desmodontinae includes the three genera of vampires, the Vampyrinae includes Vampyrum, Trachops, and Chrotopterus, and the Phyllostominae contains three tribes, the Phyllostomini (including Phyllostomus, Tonatia, Mimon, Lonchorhina, and Macrophyllum), the Glossophagini (including genera of the previously recognized Glossophaginae and Brachyphyllinae), and Stenodermatini (including genera of the previously recognized Stenodermatinae and Carolliinae). Two genera (Macrotus and Micronycteris), do not share synapomorphies with any of these subfamilies, but have retained a large number of plesiomorphic features and are placed as incertae sedis.
2992285|A randomization procedure is proposed to determine if sets of data used for phylogenetic analysis contain phylogenetically nonrandom information. The method compares the observed number of steps on a minimum length tree with the mean number of steps on minimum length trees derived from the same data set after character state assignments have been randomly permuted within each character. Such randomized data sets will exhibit exactly the same character state distributions as the original data but no phylogenetic information. In tests of 28 separate data sets using this procedure, the minimum lengths of each data set differed significantly from that expected for phylogenetically non-informative data in spite of the fact that observed consistency indices from the original data were as low as 0.230. The high correlation between number of steps per character on minimum length trees and number of taxa among the 28 original data sets is consistent with that expected if a more or less constant frequency of homoplasy occurs per character per taxon. This correlation implies that the consistency index may be an inappropriate, comparative measure of homoplasy among data sets. The observed pattern of increasing homoplasy with increasing numbers of taxa for the original data sets is curvilinear (when forced to pass through a fixed point for all data sets). This is qualitatively different from that expected for random data. Possible uses of the randomization techniques are suggested in cladistic studies using either compatibility analysis or parsimony.
10.2307/2992283|Although phylogenetic analysis based on synapomorphies is said to comply better with the hypothetico-deductive methodology advocated by Popper and other philosophers of science than other approaches to phylogenetic reconstruction, the role of parsimony in cladistic analysis is not consistent with that of the hypothetico-deductive method. Parsimony evaluates the form of a hypothesis but cannot decide on the relative support for hypotheses. Cladistic analysis is not a hypothetico-deductive procedure for testing hypotheses; it is an inductive procedure that summarizes the information from character analysis (the synapomorphies) and not a separate level in the hierarchy of deductively testable hypotheses of phylogenetic analysis. Synapomorphies are not hypothetico-deductive tests of cladistic hypotheses. In contrast, the testing of hypotheses of synapomorphy during character analysis appears to conform to hypothetico-deductive principles. Thus, hypotheses of relationship can be tested deductively only during character analysis. The use of parsimony to inductively generate cladograms is justified but it is unclear which of various procedures based on parsimony is the most appropriate. Because incongruence among synapomorphies can be resolved only by character analysis, emphasis should be placed on the most testable characters as in Neff's (1986) a priori method of character weighting that is based on testing and corroboration.
10.2307/2413219|Eleutherodactylus bransfordii (Cope, 1886) is a highly polymorphic species of frog with a complex and interesting taxonomic history. This taxon was originally divided into multiple species which were later synonymized because the morphological data did not support any unique and defining characters. The present study evaluates the current taxonomic status of E. bransfordii based on an electrophoretic comparison of six Costa Rican localities. The allozyme data were analyzed cladistically and geographically for patterns of relationship and genetic differentiation. These samples could be clustered into three distinct geographic components representing separate evolutionary lineages. The geographic and electrophoretic data suggest that at least two of these components constitute separate species reflecting different biogeographic regions. One form sampled in the Golfo Dulcean region is therefore resurrected as Eleutherodactylus stejnegerianus (Cope, 1893), and the taxon E. bransfordii is restricted to populations represented by Cahuita, Cascajal, La Selva, and Monteverde. Formal taxonomic recognition of a second sympatric form found in the Golfo Dulcean region awaits further study.
10.2307/2413215|The genetic interaction between clinally varying populations of pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae) along the eastern flank of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains in Colorado and New Mexico is examined by comparative karyology, electromorphic analysis of proteins, and colorimetric and morphometric analyses of morphology. Diploid number varies clinally along the transected populations from 76 in the south to 88 in the north. The karyotypic change is unaccompanied by electromorphic divergence as all populations studied share greater than 95% similarity, although similar clines in pelage brightness and mean morphometric coefficient of variation are evident. Individuals with intermediate diploid numbers suffer no apparent fitness deficit. The patterns of genetic interaction at the Sangre de Cristo contact are compared with four other T. bottae "contact zones" previously investigated. These five situations include differentiated parental forms which span the range of known genetic (karyological and electromorphic) divergence in the T. bottae species group, and involve both instances of reproductive isolation and extensive introgressive hybridization. Cline widths for T. bottae zones vary from approximately 1 km to 200 km, with the nature of the environmental setting at a contact being more predictive of cline width than gross measures of genetic differentiation (e.g., electromorphic distance values and chromosome numbers).
10.2307/2413218|Reasons for the lack of consistency in recognition of taxa at the ordinal and higher levels are of two types: disagreement on limits (and ranking) and on the actual names to be used. Agreement on delimitation and ranking is unlikely since these are subjectively determined, but agreement on the correct names for particular taxa is possible. A set of principles to be followed in applying names to animal taxa at the levels above superfamily is formulated, involving the concept of taxonomic group levels, the inappropriateness of typification, the necessity for recognition of priority, rejection of homonymy, recommendations on the form and meanings of names, changes of rank, publication and the establishment of starting points. In order to avoid excessive changes in names, these principles can only be applied prospectively.
10.2307/2413216|Systematists and geneticists often wish to compare two pair-wise distance or similarity matrices based on different characters. Conventional correlation tests are not appropriate in such situations because of dependencies among the entries in each matrix. A broad class of permutation tests for association between distance matrices is described. Specific members of the class are discussed and compared using real and simulated data. Statistics resembling Kendall's tau and Spearman's rho are found to have desirable power and invariance properties.
10.2307/2413217|To maintain that the names of biological species are purely denotative proper names which cannot be defined is to maintain, in effect, that a biological species is confined to the actual world which is to maintain, in turn, that every property of a species is essential to it. The consequence of such a view is to render impossible the explanation of the origin and coherence of named chunks of the genealogical nexus.
10.2307/2413220|Morphological and allozymic variation in the stichaeid fish Anoplarchus purpurescens was compared among samples collected from open-coast localities from Alaska to California and from inner-coastal localities in Washington. We evaluated the possibility that fish from southern California (Monterey Bay southward) are genetically distinct from fish from more northern areas, which has bearing on the relevance of allozymic data from southern California fish in interpreting patterns of allozymic variation in A. purpurescens elsewhere in its geographical range. Examination of three morphological characters and 12 enzyme loci indicated the lack of genetic distinctiveness of southern California populations from more northern ones, which is consistent with the suggestion that current-mediated transport of the planktonic larvae promotes genetic dispersal and/or mixing among populations. The lack of genetic distinctiveness argues against the validity of a separate southern California subspecies (A. p. archolepis; Hubbs, 1927), but more importantly allows us to use the geographical pattern of muscle lactate dehydrogenase (LDH-A) variation in California to refute the hypothesis that the A' allele is directly favored by elevated environmental temperature. Allelic frequencies in Alaska populations provide a second test of, and similarly refute, the hypothesis that elevated temperature per se selectively favors individuals with the A' allele. Although several alternative hypotheses on the evolutionary significance of LDH-A variation in A. purpurescens can be envisioned, presently a plausible one is that heterozygosity at the LDH-A locus is selectively favored by increased environmental thermal variation. This hypothesis is consistent not only with the geographical pattern of variation within Washington innercoastal waters (Johnson, 1971), but also with observed changes in allelic frequencies along the outer coast both to the south (California) and to the north (Alaska). We found no significant correlation between the amount of allozymic variation (at the LDH-A and PGM loci) and morphological variation present within localities, and heterozygous fish were no more variable for meristic traits than were homozygous fish. There was no clear and consistent pattern of association between particular genotypes and morphological characters. The lack of a significant relationship between enzyme and morphological traits probably is due to appreciable environmental (non-genetic) influences on the morphological characters examined, which may obscure whatever enzyme-morphological covariation exists.
10.2307/2413166|Specimen locality data, an essential resource of systematic collections, is often recorded in inaccurate, poorly reproducible, and nonuniform ways that sharply limit the value of specimens, such as citing the nearest town, giving distance and direction from a landmark, or describing a locality in terms of geographic features. In contrast, coordinate grid systems can provide accurate, reproducible, and uniform locality data, and also greatly simplify distribution mapping. Three grid systems are available on large-scale government quadrangle maps in North America. The U.S. land survey grids, while useful locally, do not apply to most areas and are too irregular to use for mapping. The Universal Transverse Mercator Grid, with separate plane grids for adjacent narrow zones, has ample coverage, accuracy, and reproducibility, but relocating and mapping coordinates can be very complex. The decimal geographic grid proposed here, using latitude/longitude with decimal parts of degrees instead of minutes and seconds, seems best for use in North America. Decimal geographic coordinates of any desired accuracy are easy to determine, use, and map. Accuracy of 0.001
10.2307/2413164|We detected hybrids between the bull trout (Salvelinus confluentus) and the brook trout (S. fontinalis) in three samples from the Upper Columbia River drainage in Montana using 10 isozyme loci that differentiate these species. The occurrence of only first generation, male hybrids indicates that these hybrids are almost certainly sterile. We counted 10 meristic characters from all of the bull trout, brook trout, and their hybrids in the sample from the South Fork of Lolo Creek. Univariate and multivariate analyses of the meristic data conclusively indicated that the hybrids are not meristically intermediate to the parental species. The hybrids had counts higher than either of the parental species or counts similar to the parental species with the higher count. The consistent tendency for the hybrids to have high meristic counts is suggested to be due to reduced developmental rate caused by genetic incompatibility between the parental genomes.
10.2307/2413167|G- and C-banded chromosomes of Holochilus brasiliensis, Nectomys squamipes, Neacomys guianae, Sigmodon hispidus, and 11 species of Oryzomys are compared and cladistically analyzed to document direction, type, and magnitude of chromosomal evolution in these species. Direction of chromosomal evolution was determined from the proposed primitive G-band sequences for cricetid rodents. Numbers and types of chromosomal rearrangements identified in the largest 12 chromosomes of Oryzomys were 13 Robertsonian translocations (9 of which are polymorphic), 21 other translocations, 8 pericentric inversions, 1 paracentric inversion, and 12 rearrangements whose nature could not be identified from banding sequences. In 11 species of Oryzomys there are about 2.5 times as many euchromatic rearrangements as found in 18 species of Peromyscus. It is concluded that: (1) The early radiation of the peromyscine-neotomine-oryzomyine lineages was accompanied by little chromosomal evolution. (2) Chromosomal evolution in cricetine rodents does not appear to fit the predictions of the canalization model. (3) None of the currently accepted broadly-based models of chromosomal evolution appears adequate to explain the pattern of variation observed in the cricetines (especially the variation within and between Oryzomys and Peromyscus). (4) Nondifferentially stained chromosomes generally will not be a useful predictor of phylogenetic relationships. (5) For some clades, G-banded sequences provide synapomorphies for the development of systematic hypotheses; however, several branching events cannot be resolved with the quality of G-bands available to us. Some of the phylogenetic hypotheses are: (1) that of the five genera of South American cricetids examined, Oryzomys and Holochilus appear to be the most closely related (based on morphology, Holochilus was thought to be more closely related to Sigmodon); (2) that Neacomys, Holochilus, and species of Oryzomys examined shared a common ancestry after diverging from the Nectomys lineage; and (3) chromosomal characters identified by us failed to document that Sigmodon is more closely related to the other South American genera (Oryzomys, Holochilus, Neacomys, and Nectomys) than it is to the North American cricetids (for example, Neotoma and Peromyscus). One example of lack of congruence documents convergence in chromosomal rearrangements.
10.2307/2413168|The complex arrays of lipids secreted from the exocrine Dufour's glands of short-tongued bees (Colletidae, Halictidae, Oxaeidae, Andrenidae, Melittidae) reflect both (1) occasional evolutionary origins of novel chemical structures, and (2) frequent re-orchestrations of suites of ancestrally derived components. Despite the rarity of unique lipid constituents, cladistic analyses of the combinations of these diverse esters, aldehydes, lactones, hydrocarbons and carboxylic acids yield rooted phylogenies that are often either congruent with well-defined taxa or decisive for otherwise ambiguous taxonomic relationships. The short-tongued bees are chemosystematically divisable by their Dufour's gland lipids into two lineages: the "lactone-producing" bees (Colletidae, Oxaeidae, Halictinae, Nomiinae) and an andrenid-melittid-dufoureine group. Bee taxa that are soundly defined by morphological criteria-such as Perdita, Melitta, Protandrena, and the Calliopsis-Nomadopsis-Hypomacrotera group ("paraffin bees")-also appear to be monophyletic using the lipid characters. The Dufour's gland lipid products of previously unrepresented genera of the Panurginae (16 spp.), Dasypodinae (1 sp.), and Melittinae (1 sp.) are described, as are a new representative each of Andrena, Dufourea, and Melitta.
10.2307/2413163|The relationship between genic and chromosomal distance was examined for 11 sets of mammalian taxa using a matrix regression procedure. Nine of the 11 comparisons were statistically significant, indicating a lack of independence between genic and chromosomal evolution, but not necessarily a causal relationship. The covariation of genic and chromosomal distance may be related to population structure. Genic and chromosomal evolution would be affected in a similar way by a population structure that is sensitive to the influence of genetic drift and inbreeding.
10.2307/2413161|The number and percentage of pages devoted to various topics in Systematic Zoology are traced from the inception of the journal to the present. The categories used include papers that: (a) are largely descriptive; (b) argue for or against a particular taxonomic philosophy; (c) apply the methods of a particular taxonomic philosophy; (d) are primarily quantitative; (e) discuss nomenclatural problems, and are either theoretical or applied papers in (f) evolutionary theory, (g) phylogeny reconstruction, or (h) biogeography. Changes in proportions of contributions in these categories are mapped onto changes in editorship of the journal to see what effects such changes have had on the sorts of papers published. The changes in Editor of primary concern involve the move from the American Museum of Natural History to the University of Kansas in 1963 and the return to the American Museum 10 years later in 1973.
10.2307/2413162|Holomorphological similarities can be based on synapomorphies, symplesiomorphies, convergences, diffuse parallelisms through parallel selection, and underlying synapomorphies (i.e., close parallelism as a result of inherited factors within a monophyletic group causing incomplete synapomorphy). Two sets of minimum criteria for asserting synapomorphies are given; one does not allow for outside parallelism and secondary reductions, reversals or change, while the other allows for reductions in apomorphic part taxa (subgroups) and outside parallelism in groups which cannot be sister groups. A theoretical scheme of argumentation (cladogram) secured through synapomorphies satisfying the strictest criteria is drawn. Three modifications of synapomorphies satisfying the second set of criteria are discussed and exemplified. The remaining six hypothetical trends can be explained as underlying synapomorphies, as diffuse parallel selections (including convergence) or as secondary reductions (and reversals). Hypothetical phylogenetic trees with the distribution of character alternatives for each taxon including hypothetical ancestors are given for each alternate explanation, discussed and exemplified from chironomid morphology. When the monophyly of every taxon is established, underlying synapomorphy may assert monophyly for the collective taxon. As the underlying synapomorphy consists in the capacity to develop synapomorphy, loss of this capacity can be regarded, under certain circumstances, as a new synapomorphy. There appears to be analogy between species genetics (pleiotropy, polygenes, suppressive genes) and supraspecific phylogenetics. The canalized evolutionary potential exemplified through underlying synapomorphies corresponds to the potential information classes of Wiley and Brooks (1982).
10.2307/2413165|A set of 33 descriptions of Vorticella species were selected to represent the range of outline forms observed within the genus. These forms were assigned to one of five groups, quantified and then analyzed by a number of methods including standardization, multivariate analysis, angular measurement and Fourier transformation. All methods were able to resolve the shapes to some degree. The variation in shape seemed to be greater within each of the nominal groups than between the groups.
10.2307/2413279|The Caminalcules are a group of "organisms" generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. A reanalysis of an earlier data matrix of the Caminalcules revealed some inconsistencies and errors which necessitated recoding of some characters. The resulting differences with earlier results are minor. The images of all 77 Caminalcules are featured, those of the 48 fossil species for the first time. The characters of the Caminalcules are defined and a data matrix is furnished for all Recent and fossil species. A new phenetic standard is proposed for the Caminalcules which divides them into five "genera." The true cladogram is revealed for the first time. Recent Caminalcules have evolved over 19 time periods. Five branches correspond to the phenetic genera but originate at greatly differing time periods. Four lines terminate in fossils. A series of measures for quantifying evolutionary change is defined, including measures for homoplasy, parallelism, and reversal. A survey is made of these measures and of other statistics of relevance to systematics for 19 data sets from the numerical taxonomic literature. The Caminalcules turn out to be compatible to data sets on real organisms with respect to all these measures, as well as with respect to evolutionary rates and species longevities. Thus, questions raised by an analysis of the Caminalcules should be of interest to systematists concerned with the analysis of data sets on real organisms.
10.2307/2413278|An attempt was made to repeal computations reported in two previous studies of taxonomic congruence, which concluded that the Wagner method yielded much more stable classifications than did phenetic clustering methods. Two of the nine data sets used in the previous studies could not be reconstructed from the cited sources. None of the values for the consensus index could be confirmed, one reason being that an inappropriate method for computing consensus trees was used which was dependent upon an arbitrary and unspecified system of labelling the internal nodes of the trees being compared (i.e., Adams-1 consensus trees were used rather than Adams-2 trees). In the majority of the data sets, our trees were shorter than those reported in the previous studies. For many of the data sets, a number of distinct tree topologies had the same minimum length. In such cases the congruence between two data sets was estimated both by comparing all possible pairs of trees between two data sets and by computing the strict consensuses of trees found within a data set. Strict consensus trees were used in the comparisons, since Adams-2 trees too often contain sets that are not consistent with either of the two original trees. Since the CI<sub>M</sub> consensus index has been shown to have the undesirable property of being very sensitive to the symmetry of the trees being compared, other indices (CI<sub>C</sub> and CI<sub>R1</sub>) were computed. Contrary to the results of the previous studies, we found that classifications based on minimum length trees were about as stable as those based upon the UPGMA clustering method. The results varied greatly from data set to data set, but the averages for the two methods were very similar (and both were very poor). The implications of these results are discussed.
10.2307/2413276|The stability (measured using matrix correlations) of phenetic classifications based on partitions of continuous morphometric data (skeletal measurements from three groups of birds) was compared for analyses involving two transformations: removal of size and removal of the common part (an estimate of the taxon of the study group). Linear regression was used in both transformations to remove that portion of the variance accounted for by the estimate of either size or the common part. The size estimate was a composite variable computed as the mean of three bone lengths. The estimate of the common part was the set of measurements used to form the data set to be analyzed but taken on a similar species outside the study group. Results derived from three similarity measures (product-moment correlations, average taxonomic distances and Manhattan distances) were also compared. In all cases distance measures produced significantly higher average congruence between classifications than did correlations. For two data sets the transformation to remove the common part resulted in significantly higher mean congruence (for distances) than did the transformation to remove size; for the third data set there was no significant difference. The common-part-removed transformation is suggested for use in phenetic studies of continuous morphometric data.
10.2307/2413275|The Eleutherodactylus rugulosus group of Savage (1975) contains 11 nominal species of frogs distributed throughout Mexico and Central America. Three subgroups are currently recognized from morphological data. The E. fleischmanni subgroup includes E. angelicus, E. escoces, E. fleischmanni, and E. punctariolus, whereas the E. rugulosus subgroup contains E. azueroensis, E. berkenbuschii, E. brocchi, E. rugulosus, E. taurus, and E. vocalis. These two subgroups form a monophyletic component related to the monotypic subgroup, E. merendonensis. A major purpose of the present study is to emphasize that phylogenetic relationships must be constructed with all available information subjected to cladistic methods. The tendency to emphasize one's own data to the complete or partial exclusion of others must be avoided in favor of synthetic approaches. Recently, the morphological data of Savage (1975) have been supplemented with allozyme and karyological characteristics. This recent availability of additional data provides the opportunity to evaluate the relationships of the E. rugulosus group based on a phylogenetic synthesis of multiple character sets. A general cladogram of the E. rugulosus group is constructed from a phylogenetic synthesis of allozyme, morphological, and karyological information. The allozyme, morphological, and karyological data are analyzed separately with the transformation series analysis procedure and the three sets of transformed results are combined into one character set. The combined data matrix is subjected to Wagner analysis and the most parsimonious tree is retained as the general cladogram. The hypotheses (phylogeny and classification) of Savage (1975) are evaluated and modified against the general cladogram. The phylogenetic relationships of the general cladogram do not support the hypotheses (phylogeny and classification) of Savage (1975). Eleutherodactylus azueroensis (the E. azueroensis subgroup) and E. vocalis (the E. vocalis subgroup) constitute separate lineages of a trichotomy originating from the root of the cladogram. All other species belong to the third lineage (the E. punctariolus subgroup) divided into two major components. These components include: (1) E. fleischmanni and the two sister species, E. angelicus and E. escoces (the E. fleischmanni infragroup); and (2) E. berkenbuschii, E. brocchi, E. merendonensis, E. punctariolus, E. rugulosus, and E. taurus (the E. punctariolus infragroup). Eleutherodactylus taurus and the two sister species, E. merendonensis and E. punctariolus, form a distinct cluster related to E. brocchi, E. berkenbuschii, and E. rugulosus in that order.
10.2307/2413280|The ability of numerical methods to estimate the true cladogram is examined, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Estimated cladograms obtained by numerical methods are only moderately good estimates of the true cladogeny. Of the various models applied in numerical cladistics, the closeness of approximation to the true cladogeny is in the following order: best-Wagner parsimony and Camin-Sokal parsimony; second-polymorphism parsimony; third-character compatibility and Fitch's nonsequential method; fourth-UPGMA phenograms; worst-Dollo parsimony. Since the data matrix contains NC (no comparison) states, numerical cladistic algorithms that take account of these states give better results than those that do not. For distance Wagner algorithms, there is little difference in the outcome between midpoint rooting and rooting with a zero vector or with the true ancestor. By separate permutations of the order of the OTUs that are input to the numerical algorithm, trees of varying length were obtained from which the shortest could be chosen. Shortest trees, computed globally over all OTUs or separately for each Caminalcule genus, are not necessarily those that best estimate the true cladogeny. Numerical cladistic estimates separately computed for genera are poorer than those based on the entire taxon. The effects of homoplasy and divergence on the results of phenetic and cladistic algorithms are investigated in general and employed to explain in detail the differences among the true cladogram, the phenogram, and the estimated cladogram. The agreements observed are all in cases where given taxa diverge greatly from ancestral stems. Discrepancies are due to (A) parallelisms in the cladogeny affecting phenetic similarities and (B) divergence of cladistically close relatives increasing the relative phenetic similarity of cladistically more distant relatives. These two cases are about equally frequent.
10.2307/2413277|The phylogeny of the Rana pipiens complex as supported by cladistic analysis of the enzymatic products of 50 gene loci is presented. Two broadly sympatric groups within the complex are identified and named the Alpha and Beta divisions. Within both of these divisions, a dichotomy exists between North American and Middle American species. The two groups in the Alpha division are recognized as the R. montezumae species group and the R. areolata species group; the two in the Beta division are referred to the R. pipiens species group and the R. berlandieri species group. Most of the species within a species group are distributed parapatrically; some hybridization may take place within narrow zones of sympatry. Limited hybridization also occurs in the two narrow zones of sympatry that exist between members of different species groups in the same division. However, although sympatry between Alpha division species and Beta division species is extensive, interdivisional hybridization is relatively rare.
10.2307/2413443|Morphometric variation was studied among samples of fox sparrows taken in 1926-1927 and 1978-1980 at seven sites in California. Samples of males were taken at two of the seven sites in both 1978 and 1979, and five samples of males were measured a second time to assess measurement error. Thus, 21 groups of males (14 "main" samples, 2 samples one year apart, and 5 remeasured samples) and 14 groups of females were used in this study. Thirty-one measurements of skeletal characters were taken on 317 males and 142 females, plus on the 101 males that were remeasured. The main objective was to determine if phenotypic change had occurred over a half century, and to quantify the extent of such temporal change relative to levels and patterns of geographic variation. In the temporal samples, an average of 2.2 (7.1%) significant character differences per site was observed. Hence, most characters showed no significant differences over 50 years. Character differences between remeasured, temporal, and geographic samples were quantified by computing average percentage differences between character means. Taxonomic distances were computed between all pairs of samples (sexes separate). Ten characters were excluded from analyses due to relatively high levels of measurement error. Percentage differences for the remaining 21 character means for remeasured samples averaged 0.33  SD of 0.31% and resulted in an average taxonomic distance between replicates of 0.25. Average percentage differences in character means over 50 years (0.98  0.79%) were similar to geographic differences (1.14  0.88%) among samples taken during the same time period. Average taxonomic distance between samples taken 50 years apart (0.71  0.21) was somewhat less than that between temporally comparable samples from different sites (0.84  0.16). However, samples taken 50 years apart at a site can be as different as those from sites 100 to 200 km apart and assigned to different subspecies. Multivariate analysis of variance revealed that temporal samples at two (of seven) sites differed significantly, and generalized discriminant analysis obtained significant differences between temporal samples at two additional sites. Temporal phenotypic stability was evident in that the same two groupings of samples were obtained in analyses of both old and new samples. However, patterns of variation in the two time periods, within these two main groupings of samples, are not concordant because of phenotypic change over time. That is, temporal change altered geographic patterns. Males and females showed different patterns of variation. No clear temporal trends in morphological change were identified, either in individual characters across sites, or in suites of characters within population samples. Characters with the largest relative differences over 50 years did not tend to show large geographic differences. The average taxonomic distance among old samples did not differ from that computed between recent samples; therefore, the populations at these sites are not diverging phenetically. Although the genetic basis of the phenotypic variation measured here is unknown, temporal variation could be adaptive either through phenotypic response to environmental change or by maintaining a store of morphological variability.
10.2307/2413446|The taxonomic congruence of phenetic and cladistic classifications is tested, as is the closeness of estimated cladograms to the true cladogram as a function of the number of characters employed, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Congruence was tested by random bipartitions of character suites. Results show the stability of phenetic classifications as very much higher than that of cladistic estimates. The consensus of cladistic classifications based on bipartitions is higher with the true cladogram than between cladistic classifications based on complementary bipartitions. But phenetic classifications based on these same bipartitions have an even higher consensus with a phenetic standard classification based on all characters, and a moderately higher consensus with the true cladogram. The following three cladistic estimation methods did not produce materially differing results: distance Wagner procedure with midpoint rooting; the same procedure with rooting at the true ancestor; Wagner parsimony based on additive binary coding, analysis of characters with no comparison states, and rooting at the true ancestor. Estimated cladograms based on all 85 characters are closer to the true cladogeny than phenograms computed for these characters. When estimated cladograms are based on fewer characters, they tend to become less close to the true cladogram than are phenograms based on the identical subsuites of characters. The exact relationships differ with the consensus measure employed. Estimates based on shortest Wagner trees are frequently not as close to the true cladogram as longer trees based on the same characters. The implications of the above findings for systematic theory and practice are discussed.
10.2307/2413445|The consequences of introducing fossil species into a numerical taxonomic data set are examined, using the Caminalcules as an example. This group of "organisms" was generated artificially according to principles believed to resemble those operating in real organisms. Inclusion of fossils into the phenetic classification introduces some nonconvex taxa at higher phenetic levels, but unites phenetically homogeneous groups of mixed Recent and fossil composition. There is good correspondence of phenetics with phylogenetic sequences. The taxonomic relationships of the phenetic classification of Recent plus fossil forms can be explained by the amount of evolutionary change known to have occurred in given internodes. All but one of the mutually closest pairs in the phenogram are ancestor-descendant pairs. Gingerich's stratophenetic method yields a reasonably good estimated cladogram, but is misled by the occurrence of homoplasy in portions of the tree. Adding fossils improves estimates of the true cladogram based on the distance Wagner method but not estimates based on the Wagner parsimony algorithm. Estimated cladograms approach the true cladogram more closely than phenograms do, yet even the best estimate including the fossils has a strict consensus index no higher than 0.667. There are 10 characters that define genera. Their removal from the data base affects phenetic classifications slightly, cladistic classifications somewhat more. A cladistic classification of the Recent Caminalcules unnecessarily raises the ranks of some taxa. The less speciose and more symmetrical taxa emerge at lower taxonomic ranks than more speciose and asymmetrical taxa. Adding fossils to the Caminalcules requires a greater number of ranks for a cladistic than for a phenetic classification.
10.2307/2413444|Hyperclust is a new clustering method with which we search for hierarchical structure in binary data. These hierarchical trees have the following properties. Any two objects (branches), that are joined at a node, share common characters in a manner consistent with a random allocation model. This model uses a character pool which is explicitly defined for every node. The test statistic (number of characters shared) follows a hypergeometric probability distribution. Furthermore alternative random allocation models can be tested by using different character pools. Finally by constructing alternative trees incorporating overlapping subsets of objects, we can test whether the local structure within those subsets can be adequately described by a hierarchical model.
10.2307/2412812|Multivariate discriminant and canonical analysis techniques were applied to suites of six (A) and eight (B) morphometric characters, respectively, in two separate inbred populations of C57BL/6 house mice. Each population consisted of six classes of male mice which differed only in the particular allele present at the agouti locus. The six genotypes (aa, a<sup>t</sup>a, a<sup>t</sup>a<sup>t</sup>, Aa, A<sup>vy</sup>a, A<sup>y</sup>a) were previously found to exert significant pleiotropic effects on most of the characters, the dominant alleles in general causing a decrease from the standard aa genotype. Among the A characters, the width of the first upper molar was the most powerful genotype discriminator, whereas interorbital width was most important among the B characters. Contributions of the characters to the canonical variates generally reflected known correlation patterns as seen from the results of principal component analyses. Discrimination plots and phenograms of the six genotypes consistently showed the a<sup>t</sup>a<sup>t</sup> and A<sup>y</sup>a genotypes as distinctive. The percentage of correct classification in the discriminant analysis classification matrices was similar (55% and 60%) for both sets of characters. The implications of the results for topics of interest to systematists (pleiotropy, subspeciation, natural selection) are discussed.
10.2307/2412809|The concept of species (as taxa) adopted by an investigator will influence his perception of the processes by which species originate. The concept adopted should have as universal applicability as current knowledge permits. Simpson's definition of a species is modified to state: a species is a lineage of ancestral descendant populations which maintains its identity from other such lineages and which has its own evolutionary tendencies and historical fate. This definition is defended as that which has widest applicability given current knowledge of evolutionary processes. Four corollaries are deduced and discussed relative to other species concepts: (1) all organisms, past and present, belong to some evolutionary species; (2) reproductive isolation must be effective enough to permit maintenance of identity from other contemporary lineages; (3) morphological distinctiveness is not necessary; and (4) no presumed (hypothesized) single lineage may be subdivided into a series of ancestral-descendant "species." The application of the evolutionary species concept to allopatric demes and to asexual species is discussed and it is concluded that the lack of evolutionary divergence forms the basis for grouping such populations into single species. It is suggested that some ecological species definitions lead to under-estimations of the rate of extinction due to interspecific competition because their logical framework excludes unsuccessful species from being species. Finally, the implications of accepting an evolutionary species concept to the field of phylogeny reconstruction are discussed.
10.2307/2412811|The 24 forms of kangaroo rats (Dipodomys) that have been recognized as species by one or more recent authors were studied using phenetic techniques. A total of 41 morphometric characters (4 skin, 16 skull, and 21 post-cranial) were measured for up to 10 males and 10 females of each species. The standardized average measurements were analyzed and then measurements were divided by principal component 1 projections based on unstandardized data to reduce the influence of overall size. Phenograms and three-dimensional principal component models were produced and the results compared with the findings of previous authors, including those from allozyme analyses. Several species pairs and groups involving a few species were stable throughout our studies and consistent with groups identified in phylogenetic, specialization, or other classificatory schemes. These include: compactus and ordii; elephantinus and venustus; agilis, paralius, peninsularis, and antiquarius; nitratoides and merriami; and ornatus and phillipsii. However, marked morphologic gaps (other than those based on size) are not present between many of the species groups and attempts to place species into such groups in classifications probably result in an indication of distinctness that goes beyond what is found in nature. In terms of interspecific comparisons, there was no association between phenetic groups based on morphologic data and those constructed using allozyme findings. When comparisons were made among previous classifications and our results, the allozyme data produced the most divergent classifications. Overall, the associations between our morphologic results and previous classifications were relatively weak, reflecting by and large the variance in arrangements of species groups, rather than major differences within groups. Given the relative indistinctness of morphologic groups, it seems unlikely that any one classification can accurately represent interspecific phenetic, cladistic, and/or phylogenetic affinities within the genus.
10.2307/2412808|Historical explanations of biotic distribution fall into two classes, dispersal explanations and vicariance explanations. Dispersal models explain disjunctions by dispersal across pre-existing barriers, vicariance models by the appearance of barriers fragmenting the ranges of ancestral species. Distributional data seem insufficient to resolve decisively either dispersal or vicariance as the cause of particular allopatric distribution patterns. When faced with such a pattern our first question should therefore be directed not to its cause, but to whether or not it conforms to a general pattern of relationships shown by taxa endemic to the areas occupied. Two-taxon statements are always compatible with a general pattern; three-taxon statements are therefore the most basic possible units of biogeographic (as well as phylogenetic) analysis. Analysis of three-taxon statements involves converting a hypothesis about the interrelationships of taxa (a cladogram indicating relative recency of common ancestry) to one concerning the interrelationships of areas (a cladogram indicating relative recency of common ancestral biotas). The generality of the area hypothesis may be tested by comparison with other groups endemic to the relevant areas. If the area hypothesis is corroborated as general, a statement of the relative recency of interconnections among areas is obtained, and evidence from historical geology may allow us to specify the nature of those interconnections and thereby the cause of those distributions that conform to the general pattern. Analysis of four-taxon statements indicates that the availability of structurally different patterns and of groups that can serve as adequate tests of the generality of those patterns increases with the addition of taxa to the hypothesis, and that neither extinction nor the failure of some groups to respond (by speciating) to given dispersal or vicariance events interferes with the analysis.
10.2307/2412810|A simple method of counting the number of possible evolutionary trees is presented. The trees are assumed to be rooted, with labelled tips but unlabelled root and unlabelled interior nodes. The method allows multifurcations as well as bifurcations. It makes use of a simple recurrence relation for T(n,m), the number of trees with n labelled tips and m unlabelled interior nodes. A table of the total number of trees is presented up to n = 22. There are 282,137,824 different trees having 10 tip species, and over 8.87 x 10<sup>23</sup> different trees having 20 tip species. The method is extended to count trees some of whose interior nodes may be labelled. The principal uses of these numbers will be to double-check algorithms and notation systems, and to frighten taxonomists.
10.2307/2412926|Variation in 26 loci coding for the production of protein products is analyzed in three populations of Plethodon welleri and in 26 populations of Plethodon dorsalis. Protein variation patterns are not consistent with the variation of morphological characters upon which the taxonomic status of these populations has been evaluated. The taxonomic division of P. welleri into subspecies is inconsistent with the electrophoretic data. P. dorsalis includes two groups of populations whose electrophoretic divergence is greater than that observed in any species previously studied. They do not correspond with previously recognized subspecies. Measures of genetic identity (Nei's I) and of population subdivision (Wright's F
10.2307/2412923|For some simple three- and four-species cases involving a character with two states, it is determined under what conditions several methods of phylogenetic inference will fail to converge to the true phylogeny as more and more data are accumulated. The methods are the Camin-Sokal parsimony method, the compatibility method, and Farris's unrooted Wagner tree parsimony method. In all cases the conditions for this failure (which is the failure to be statistically consistent) are essentially that parallel changes exceed informative, nonparallel changes. It is possible for these methods to be inconsistent even when change is improbable a priori, provided that evolutionary rates in different lineages are sufficiently unequal. It is by extension of this approach that we may provide a sound methodology for evaluating methods of phylogenetic inference.
10.2307/2412922|We can represent with a tree structure the dispersion matrix of a group of populations defined by a set of characters. The "treeness" test, T = c log R, where R is the ratio between the determinants of the observed and the estimated expected dispersion matrix and c is the number of characters, evaluates the validity of such a representation for a specific dispersion matrix. The test is based on a model of independent evolution: from an initial population a set of independent populations originates by successive splits. The treeness tends to a 
10.2307/2412927|G- and C-banding analyses were used to determine chromosome homology from representatives of bat families Mormoopidae, Noctilionidae and Phyllostomatidae, subfamily Phyllostomatinae. The karyotype of Macrotus waterhousii 2n = 46, FN = 60 is proposed as primitive for the Phyllostomatoidea. The major strategy involved in karyotypic evolution of taxa analyzed appears to have been reduction of the number of autosomal linkage groups by Robertsonian fusion from the 22 of Macrotus waterhousii to near 15 for the majority of taxa. Chromosome arms were found to be highly conserved. The X chromosomes of all taxa did not vary and were similar to the pattern thought to be characteristic of the primitive X of mammals. Two systematic groups appear recognizable within the Phyllostomatoidea above the family level (Phyllostomatidae in one group and the Noctilionidae and Mormoopidae in the other), whereas three systematic groups are discernible within the Phyllostomatinae. The three groups within the Phyllostomatinae include Macrotus waterhousii in the Macrotus-group, Tonatia minuta, Mimon crenulatum, Phyllostomus discolor and P. hastatus in the Tonatia-Mimon-Phyllostomus-group, and Micronycteris nicefori, M. brachyotis, and M. minuta in the Micronycteris-group. Tonatia bidens and Micronycteris megalotis were karyotypically so divergent that based solely on chromosomal data they could not be placed with any grouping. Examples are shown where extensive chromosomal evolution has been accompanied by little morphological evolution and where extensive morphological evolution has been accompanied by little chromosomal evolution. Such examples are the basis for questioning the hypothesis that chromosomal changes altering the position of regulator genes are a primary mechanism in the evolution of the large magnitude of morphological differentiation in the class Mammalia.
10.2307/2412925|Data from North American terrestrial vertebrates are used to test hypotheses of randomness in several aspects of allopatric speciation (vicariance). The data do not lead to rejection of the following: the initial parapatry of vicariance tends toward randomness as time passes; barriers are random as to affected species (the congruence of barriers is unusual); ranges of geminate species (a pair formed by vicariance) and subspecies (in species with only two) are random in size. The data lead to modification of the following: barriers that lead to subspecific differentiation arise at random places.
10.2307/2412924|Winter distribution and abundance patterns were generated for 65 species of fringillid songbirds, using results of 2,732 Christmas bird counts grouped into 59 latitude-longitude blocks. Similarity coefficients were computed among the blocks, based upon the species occurring in each block and their abundances. Similarity matrices were subjected to cluster and principal components analyses. Results showed four major biogeographic regions: the north, mid-latitudes (with some east-west separations), the southeast, and the southwest. With analyses of abundance, areas of high similarity were those in which the same fringillids were the commonest species in the blocks; in more traditional analyses of presence-absence data, similar areas were those which shared large numbers of species regardless of their relative abundances. Because of these differences, abundance data showed the northern and southeastern regions as larger and more distinctive, while presence-absence data emphasized the extent and patchiness of the southwestern region. Eastern and western latitude-longitude blocks were regularly and increasingly dissimilar with decreasing latitude, a result best shown by principal components analysis of abundance data. This east-west division occurred along the 100th meridian, and the southernmost block along this boundary (southern Texas) had a highly distinctive winter fringillid avifauna.
10.2307/2412969|The congruence (similarity in groupings) between classifications of the same organisms based on different characters measures the stability of classification as new sources of information are considered. Pheneticists have claimed taxonomic stability for their approach and instability for the cladistic system, but have not compared the stability of the results of phenetic and phylogenetic methods. The stability of five phenetic and three numerical phylogenetic methods was assessed using nine pairs of data sets. A phylogenetic method resulted in statistically demonstrable higher stability. All phenetic methods have essentially the same instability behavior. Of the phylogenetic methods, that of Wagner shows consistently greatest stability. The stability of phenetic methods is demonstrably more sensitive to the amount of homoplasious evolution than the Wagner method. Yet, the number of characters has no effect on stability either for the phenetic methods or the Wagner method. Since phylogenetic methodology is more stable than phenetic clustering, the cladistic system should be used as a general reference system for biology.
10.2307/2412970|Geographic coincidence of animal and plant distributions to form recognizable patterns suggests that the separate components of the patterns are historically connected with each other and with geographic history. To seek evidence of these historical connections, cladograms of geographic areas, representing sequences of disruptive geologic, climatic, or geographic events, may be compared with biological cladograms, representing sequences of allopatric speciation events in relation to those geographic areas. Such comparisons, when they meet the minimum requirements of being among dichotomized three-taxon cladograms, can resolve similar or dissimilar historical factors; two-taxon statements do not distinguish between groups with different histories. Congruence of biological and geological area-cladograms at a high confidence level (such as congruence of a five-taxon cladogram or four three-taxon cladograms with a geological cladogram, where the confidence level can be shown in cladistic theory to be 99%) means that specified events of paleogeography can be adopted as an explanation of the biological patterns. In such a cause and effect relationship, where the earth and its life are assumed to have evolved together, paleogeography is taken by logical necessity to be the independent variable and biological history, the dependent variable. Drawing a mathematical simile, the biological cladogram y (dependent variable), is a function of the geological cladogram x (independent variable), as in a simple regression of effect y on cause x where we are given no free choice as to which is the independent variable. Such a view implies that any specified sequence in earth history must coincide with some discoverable biological patterns; it does not imply a necessary converse that each biological pattern must coincide with some discoverable paleogeographic pattern, because some biological distributions might have resulted from stochastic processes (chance dispersal). Determining that all discoverable biological patterns conflict with a given corroborated or observed sequence of geologic, climatic, or geographic change (i.e., that y is not a function of x), in theory, therefore should falsify vicariance biogeography. Because dispersal biogeography presupposes stochastic processes, and any failure to meet the expectation of a postulated dispersal is explained by an additional dispersal, dispersal biogeography is immune to falsification. Without resort to paleontology or earth history, whether a given historical relationship implied by congruence of biological area-cladograms is the result of dispersal or vicariance can also be thought of in terms which minimize the number of necessary assumptions: did the sedentary organisms disperse with the vagile ones or did the vagile organisms vicariate with the sedentary ones? Cladistic congruence of a group of sedentary organisms with a group of vagile ones rejects dispersal for both. Hence, distributions of sedentary organisms have the potential to falsify dispersal theories as applied to vagile organisms, but distributions of vagile organisms cannot falsify vicariance theories as applied to sedentary ones. The problems that arise in various kinds of historical explanation are exemplified by several specific distributions of fishes and other organisms in North and Middle America and in the larger context of Pangaean history, and are discussed in relation to current species concepts.
10.2307/2412971|A distinctive property of polyploids, the loss of duplicate gene expression over time, allows phylogenetic inferences to be drawn from multilocus isozyme data. Once the "loss" of a duplicate gene expression has begun, soon after polyploidization, primitive and derived character states are clearly defined, though not immune to errors in coding. Even with a relatively small number of characters, cladistic, and phenetic trees may be constructed which are similar to each other and to those based on morphology. The Wagner method is shown to be a particularly appropriate method of analysis for handling gene duplication data. Comparison of patristic and phenetic distances has revealed little homoplasy for species in closely related genera of catostomid fishes, but increasing homoplasy for comparisons between more divergent taxa. With increasing employment of isozyme technology, and the concomitant increase in the number of characters it should be possible to analyze many other polyploid taxa with this cladistic technique.
10.2307/2412881|Few supraspecific groups have been defined in North American ranids and the informal groupings which are recognized are often poorly characterized. Two biochemical methods, starch gel electrophoresis and microcomplement fixation, have been used in an examination of the evolutionary relationships among western North American frogs of the genus Rana. Both the electrophoretic and albumin comparisons indicate that the Rana boylii species group presently includes two very different evolutionary lineages. Rana aurora, R. boylii, R. cascadae, R. muscosa, and R. pretiosa are all members of one lineage allied to R. temporaria of Europe. A Mexican species traditionally included in this group, R. tarahumarae, is most closely related to other members of the genus that occur in Mexico and is part of a larger lineage that also includes R. pipiens. Frogs found in eastern North America diverged from western European frogs in mid-Eocene; estimates of divergence time are consistent with the hypothesis that separation of these lineages coincided with the end of a land connection between Europe and North America. The catesbeiana, pipiens, and tarahumarae groups diverged from each other in the Oligocene. Western North American Rana diverged from a Eurasian ancestor in the Oligocene and radiated in this area to form the five members of the boylii group.
10.2307/2412882|Based on a framework of cladistic (genealogical) relationships, the morphological, zoo-geographical, and host relationships of the genera comprising the cestode order Proteocephalidea parasitic in fish, amphibians, and reptilians are examined. The new supra-specific classification scheme proposed differs only slightly from previous classifications. Zoogeographically, the proteocephalideans consist of one family endemic to South America and another exhibiting intercontinental patterns of vicariance. The dispersal-tracks of the second family are consistent with those of ostariophysan fishes, primary hosts for proteocephalideans. Most proteocephalidean genera, including the most primitive and the most specialized, occur in South America. The greatest concentration of species belonging to the most primitive genus occurs in the Northern Hemisphere where the fewest proteocephalidean genera occur. Proteocephalideans are postulated to have originated in South America. In the Southern Hemisphere, all but four piscine hosts are siluriforms, while in the Northern Hemisphere a great diversification of hosts has occurred. An hypothesis of the evolution of the host-parasite relationships of non-piscine proteocephalideans is proposed to explain observed patterns of host relationships. Zoogeographical and host relationships do not contradict the phylogenetic model based on characters of adult morphology. Additional support for the hypothesis that the cestode order Cyclophyllidea is di- or polyphyletic and derived from proteocephalidean ancestors is presented.
10.2307/2412883|The biogenetic law is restated in a falsifiable form; given an ontogenetic character transformation, from a character observed to be more general to a character observed to be less general, the more general character is primitive and the less general advanced. The law, as restated, may be generally valid. In any case, the ontogenetic argument is a valid direct technique of character phylogeny; the anatomical argument ("outgroup comparison") is an indirect technique, the paleontological argument is of uncertain status. Falsification of all three types of arguments is explored in an analysis of L. Agassiz's concept of "threefold parallelism." Neoteny is a falsifier not of the biogenetic law, but of character phylogeny-of all three arguments. Phylogenetic reconstruction in its entirety appears to be an extrapolation of the orderliness of development.
10.2307/2412880|In many groups of animals of restricted vagility very closely related species not only differ in karyotype, but exhibit very extensive differences, due to the establishment of "chains" of several or many structural chromosomal changes. These cases, which until recently appeared anomalous or inexplicable, can now be used to interpret a basic feature of the "stasipatric" mode of speciation (parapatric speciation of some authors). It is suggested that an important reason for the establishment of these chromosomal rearrangements is their role in protecting coadapted gene complexes ("area effects") from disruption by introgression from neighboring populations. A model, based on the mouse (Mus musculus) populations of Italy and Switzerland studied by E. Capanna, A. Gropp, and their collaborators, is proposed; it relies on sequential establishment of chromosomal rearrangements, each within the range of the previous one. By this means the genetic isolation of the area population is progressively reinforced.
10.2307/2412879|The assumption of uniqueness of evolutionary origin of chromosome inversion types is shown not to be adequate to determine phylogenetic reconstructions, but it can be combined with other principles to yield a method of phylogenetic inference. A model is proposed under which the most likely phylogenetic hypothesis given a set of chromosome inversion data can be identified as the most parsimonious tree for those data, a unique origin of each inversion type being assumed. When applied in this way, the method of parsimony can provide information on the ancestral types of inversions. Phylogenetic inferences based on chromosome inversions are thus seen to rest on just the same logical basis as do those from other types of characters.
10.2307/2412374|The bat faunas of the six zoogeographic regions are compared using taxonomic and trophic analyses. Similarity indices are calculated using the percent of total species per area for each genus and the importance of various trophic roles in the areas. Trophic role values were calculated by multiplying generic importance values by indices for the importance of applicable trophic roles for each genus and summing the values for every genus in a given region. Faunal regions are much more similar trophically than taxonomically. Although geographic patterns are discernable from taxonomic approaches, climatic patterns are more important trophically. All of the trophic roles are highly variable from region to region, but foliage gleaning is the least variable. The most important trophic role in all regions is that of the aerial insectivores, followed in order of decreasing importance by frugivory, foliage gleaning, nectarivory, piscivory, carnivory and sanguinivory.
10.2307/2412381|The amino acid compositions of cytochrome c isolated from honeybees, bumblebees, leaf-cutting bees, and yellow jackets have been determined. The composition of the honeybee protein is less related to that of the other insects than is expected from the accepted phylogeny and constant rates of cytochrome c evolution. This suggests that cytochrome c may have evolved faster in the lineage leading to honeybees than in the lineage leading to other insects.
10.2307/2412379|Phylogenetic (evolutionary) taxonomists have often been wrongly accused of circular reasoning. An example is the alleged circularity involved in definitions of "homology" in terms of common ancestry. The gap between phylogeneticism and pheneticism is not as wide as many assume. Phylogeneticists are justified in maintaining that nonphenetic evidence may play an essential role in taxonomy (systematics). Pheneticists should allow such evidence to play a role at least in providing phylogenetic interpretations. The possibility remains that terms like "phenetic" will come to be used in so wide a sense that prevailing controversies are dissolved. This illustrates that part of the disagreements are linguistic in nature.
10.2307/2412375|Karyotypic data indicate that C. ceralbensis, an insular species, is a member of the deppei species group, and that it has the most derived karyotype in that group. The karyotype contains 16 Set II subtelocentric chromosomes, instead of the primitive all-acrocentric condition found in peninsular populations of its close relative C. hyperythrus. In addition to the eight pericentric inversions, ceralbensis is easily separated from hyperythrus on the basis of morphological criteria. The karyotype of whiptail lizards from Isla Espiritu Santo (C. h. hyperythrus) differs from the adjacent peninsular populations by three pericentric inversions, but morphologically they are indistinguishable. The only observable mechanism of chromosomal evolution that has occurred in these two insular lizard populations is pericentric inversion. Karyotypic, geological, and biogeographical data suggest that C. hyperythrus was derived from a population similar to C. lineatissimus in the southern Cape region of Baja California after that portion of the peninsula separated from the mainland approximately 4-5 million years ago. Subsequent to this initial isolation and differentiation, hyperythrus probably radiated northward into the more arid communities of the peninsula and became isolated on several of the newly formed Gulf islands. Several levels of speciation, which correspond to the different geological histories and the variable environments encountered by these lizards, have accompanied the dispersal of this species, the most notable of which is the evolution of the Ceralvo Island whiptail lizard, C. ceralbensis.
10.2307/2412378|A hierarchic clustering, or tree, of several objects can be described by an object x object matrix, whose elements are the number of nodes of the tree lying on the path connecting a pair of objects. It has been suggested that two trees for the same objects might be compared by calculating a coefficient of similarity or difference between the corresponding matrices. This approach has the drawbacks that heterogeneities in the degree of disagreement of the trees with respect to individual clusters cannot be taken into account and that the bounds of the similarity/difference coefficient are difficult to calculate. To avoid these difficulties, a new method, the cluster distortion method, is introduced. This method operates by counting the number of fragments into which the clusters of one tree are broken on another tree, and permits the user considerable flexibility in summarizing the extent and nature of the disagreement between two trees.
10.2307/2412380|The suggestion that caves are habitat islands was investigated by analyzing species diversity and endemism in a set of 48 caves from Tessin, southern Switzerland, using stepwise multiple regression. Measures of environmental diversity (development, representing area; water content; and the presence or absence of bats, representing the presence of guano) and of isolation (altitude, geographical coordinates, clustering of caves) were expected to contribute to the regulation of species diversity and of numbers of endemic taxa. From 50% to 58% of the variance in numbers of species and of endemics can be accounted for with five independent variables in the regression equations. The Tessin caves can be considered insular insofar as an area affect is demonstrated for the total number of species and for the number of endemics, and as a measure of isolation (altitude) helps in accounting for endemism. Deviation from the insular biogeography theory stems from the lack of isolation or distance effects for the numbers of species (whether troglobitic or not), and from the lack of area effect for the troglophiles and troglobites. The number of species of troglophiles and troglobites is correlated with the water scale, and since the latter is correlated with development one can argue that water scale represents an improved measure of habitat diversity over area. The water scale may be an indirect measure of (i) the food input, or (ii) the rigor of the caves in terms of flooding, or else (iii) dispersal. The lack of isolation or distance effect may be attributed to the geographical nearness of the Tessin caves, which can be likened to islands equidistant from the mainland or source region.
10.2307/2412376|A phenetic analysis by numerical techniques was performed on the penis morphology of 28 species of New Guinea murid rodents. A total of 64 traits were scored on each penis. The results were compared to a phylogenetic hypothesis published previously and based on the same data. By this means, the results of the two approaches could be compared, the effectiveness of utilizing a single complex organ in taxonomic studies could be further examined, and the performance of various clustering procedures could be studied in a mammalian group varying in diversity from the subfamily level to that of closely related species. Taxonomic distance similarity coefficients were calulated among all OTU's, and four clustering procedures were used. In two cases, the number of traits analyzed was reduced to those 29 judged to carry the most information on genetic relationships. A diversity of phenograms was generated; the one giving the closest match to the existing phylogenetic hypothesis was based on the subjectively restricted list of traits and complete linkage clustering. It was concluded that: phenograms are easily manipulated to give quite diverse results; it is preferable to select traits for phylogenetic significance and to avoid redundancies; and the use of single character complexes in taxonomy should be avoided, especially with numerical approaches.
10.2307/2412377|Relative weights given to characters are estimated by the amount each must be changed to minimally permit each classical taxonomic decision. An example of the application is followed by a discussion of the classical taxonomic method.
10.2307/2412373|Since morphological analysis of living and fossil material has provided little information on taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships among species in the frog family Ranidae, an attempt was made to obtain such information by comparing their serum albumins. Rabbit antisera were prepared against the purified serum albumins of seven ranid species and tested by the microcomplement fixation method for reactivity with the albumins of 36 ranid species. This method provides a measure of the degree of amino acid sequence difference between albumins. The taxonomic and phylogenetic schemes we have derived from the albumin comparisons are generally in agreement with nonmolecular evidence. In some cases, they go beyond it, permitting demarcations among taxa that were previously unresolved. For example, it is proposed that the North American species of Rana are divisible into at least two major subgroups; an eastern subgroup, which includes R. pipiens and R. catesbeiana, and a western cluster, which includes R. aurora. The nearest relatives of the western cluster appear from albumin comparisons to be the R. temporaria cluster of the Palearctic region. The albumin results also permitted the construction of a phylogenetic tree with a very low percent standard deviation. With the aid of this tree and the molecular clock hypothesis we have estimated the approximate divergence times of various groups, subgroups and clusters of Holarctic ranid species. The molecular differences among Rana species are at least as large as those usually found within orders of placental mammals. This raises an important question regarding the ranking of taxonomic categories. If the genus Rana is equivalent in terms of genetic dispersion to an order of mammals, should one elevate the rank of Rana to the ordinal level? We believe that the molecular findings provide taxonomists with a dilemma.
10.2307/2412952|Physical principles of differentiation play an important part in the morphogeny of complex structures such as shell ornamentations, ammonite septa, and tooth striations. Since they require a relatively small amount of genetic information, resulting patterns may occur in unrelated taxonomic groups and functions as well as in accidental or functionally neutral situations.
10.2307/2412948|When he analyzes an existing biological form, the taxonomist seldom considers alternative forms that might have existed in its stead. Consequently, he does not benefit from the lesson learned by the architect-whose business it is to consider alternative forms-that physical organization is largely determined by the properties of space. A few examples suffice to show that space also imposes order on the development of biological form.
10.2307/2412945|The primary objective of biological classification is to provide the foundation of all comparative studies in biology. These studies require consideration of two factors, namely: (a) the degree of genetic similarity between organisms; and (b) the phylogenetic sequence of events in their history. Classical evolutionary classification provides the best approach to classification, based on Popper's criterion of content, because it attempts to maximize simultaneously both of these semi-independent variables. Evolutionary classification is based on the evolution of organisms, not just their phylogeny. Application of the Popperian philosophy of the demarcation and methodology of science to classification suggests that a major task is the development of severe tests of falsification by which classifications can be tried. Although phenetic methods appear to be the best means of recognizing taxa and deducing classifications, cladistic methods appear to provide the best tests in attempts to disprove these statements of relationships. The best approach to definitions in this historical science is a theoretical one in which the defining criteria and the recognizing criteria may differ. Comparisons, which are closely akin to definitions, must be based on evolutionary theory. Homology is the primary principle in comparative biology with the possibility that all other principles of comparison are reducible to homology. The defining criterion of homology is phylogeny and the only recognizing criterion of homology is similarities of all sorts between features. Any approach to classification that excludes homology and its recognizing criterion of similarity as a primary step in deducing relationships is invalid. Use of falsifying tests suggests that relative weighting of characters may have greatly reduced importance in taxonomic methods. Lastly, the formal classification and the phylogenetic diagram of a group of organisms are not different, but redundant images of each other. Both are essential parts of the conclusions of any study of biological relationships.
2412954|The unicellular eukaryotes are used as an example of extensive adaptive radiation, which in a few evolutionary lines led to the origin of more complex multicellular organisms. The particular kinds of multicellular organisms which were the descendants of a given group of unicellular eukaryotes, whether algae, fungi, metazoa, or slime molds, depended upon particular characteristics which their unicellular ancestors acquired in association with their adaptive radiation. The most significant determining characteristics were autotrophy vs. heterotrophy, presence vs. loss of cellular polarization, rigid vs. flexible cell wall or membrane, and the size and shape of the cell. The most continuously successful groups, the multicellular plants, metazoa and fungi, retained cellular polarity, but their ancestors differed from each other with respect to the remaining characteristics. Based upon this review, the author recognizes three kinds of evolutionary success: narrow success, broad but terminal success, and continuing or progressive success. Hypotheses are suggested about the kinds of characteristics which contribute to each of these kinds of evolutionary success.
10.2307/2412960|Cytochromes c are very widely distributed in bacteria, and many organisms produce several different types of protein,The bacterial cytochromes c vary very greatly in size, in number of hemes, in spectrum, in oxidation reduction potential,and in function,and these differences are reflected in great differences in amino acid sequence.In this paper,the present knowledge of the structure of bacterial cytochromes c is reviewed, and some new preliminary results presented. Sequence variation within classes of bacterial cytochromes c and relationships between cytochrome c classes are considered.The use of amino acid sequence results for the investigation of pre-Cambrian evolution is discussed, and pessimistic conclusions reached.
2412944|Four common, current species concepts are described and their strengths and weaknesses discussed. It is proposed that a review of population biology at the species level will lead to inferences regarding speciational mechanisms, which in turn may lead to a new synthesis of the species concept. Major advances in the study of variation in populations have come through multivariate methodology and biochemical techniques. The relation between genetic, phenetic, and allozymic variation is still unclear. Attention is drawn to the spatial structure of local populations which must play an important role in breeding patterns. Comparisons of patterns in phenetic hyperspace should yield clues to similarities of speciational patterns in sexually reproducing and apomictic populations. There is probably less reproductive connectedness between local population samples of putative species than is commonly assumed. Large-scale population structure will affect geographic variation patterns and reproductive connectedness among populations and needs to be analyzed by various techniques, among them graph theoretical methods. Any theory of species must take into account well-established facts at several levels of biological organization. The great diversity of kinds of species and patterns of species and patterns of speciation is stressed. In In addition to the classical theories of speciation, it is suggested that much local variation is due to the molding forces of local selection, little influenced by gene flow Attention is directed to evidence from patterns of geographic variation of a single species examined over a series of localities, and from phenetic patterns of sympatric species.
10.2307/2412957|Evolutionary trees requiring in toto the fewest nucleotide replacements between ancestors and descendants were constructed from the amino acid sequences of heme-binding globin chains of 22 primates and a wide range of other multicellular organisms. These trees, which maximized the codon indentities due to common inheritance and minimized those due to parallel and backmutations, allowed an evolutionary dimension to be given to the knowledge on structure-function parameters inheme-binding globins. In the gene lineage specifying the monomeric globins out of whichtetrameric hemoglobin evolved, a gene duplication produced the ancestral separation between the myoglobins and hemoglobins in jawed vertebrates. It then appears that at thestage of primitive fish in a common ancestor of teleosts and tetrapods a duplication in agene coding for a ~t4 type hemoglobin produced the separate a and ~t loci. By the time of basal amniotes sophisticated a2/9~ type hemoglobins had evolved. The 7 divergence fromtypicalchains can be traced to a gene duplication in basal therian mammals and the separation of type chains from /gs to later duplications in proto-catarrhines and proto-platyrrhines. From the mutational changes in the lineages emerging from these and other duplications, it was concluded that rates of molecular evolution increased with gene duplication and decreased after selection discovered useful specializations in the products of geneswhich had previously been silent and thus freer to accept mutations. Comparisons of mutational lengths of residue positions with strong functional roles to those without evident functional roles also suggested that the speed of molecular evolution decreases with the intensity of selection. The kinds of nucleotide replacements observed in the descent of theglobin RNA messengers further pointed to the restrictive effects of natural selection by high-lighting the fact that during protein evolution interchanges of amino acids with similarphysical chemical properties were much more readily tolerated than dissimilar interchanges.Evidence was provided by the globin phylogenies for the hominoid affinities of the gibbon and the close phyletic relationship of the African apes to man. Moreover while rates of globin evolution were rapid in the early eutherian radiation, they were extremely slow in the later hominoid radiation. This was related to a more complicated internal organization evolving in human ancestors, thus increasing the possibility that mutations in structural genes would be harmful.
10.2307/2412965|This paper on mangrove-associated molluscs is designed to provide comparative data on physiognomy, diversity, geographic distribution of species, and similarities and differences between parallel assemblages in various geographic regions. In Singapore, both the absolute range and the upper limit of the range of maximum adult size and three other parameters of shell shape are smaller in the littoral-fringe tree-associated gastropod assemblage than in either the intertidal tree-associated or sediment-associated groups. Shells in three of the four families in the littoral-fringe exhibit either internal whorl resorption or apical decollation, possibly resulting from acidic conditions during an aerobic respiration while the animals are exposed to air. Intertidal tree-associated gastropods are morphologically diverse, but there is a tendency toward squatness related to the need for maintaining gravitational stability on hard substrata. In soft sediments, this requirement is obviated, and the diversity of form is even greater.Aside from a number of taxonomic differences between the mangrove assemblages in different provinces, most within-habitat differences in physiognomy and width of geographic distribution are related to species richness. The absolute range, upper limit of the range, and number of categories for all parameters are greater in assemblages of many species than in those with few species. Maximum adult size exhibits a similar correlation with species richness. Physiognomic diversity within a habitat or region is largely independent of taxonomic composition. The high proportion of narrowly distributed species among Singapore littoral-fringe molluscs and the rapid decrease in maximum adult size and number of species in this habitat from Singapore to more peripheral parts of the Indo-West-Pacific suggest that regional differences among littoral-fringe assemblages are greater than those of other mangrove habitats.
10.2307/2412955|Rates of adaptive radiation and taxonomic turnover are much higher for mammals than for bivalve mollusks, largely because characteristic intensity of competition between species indifferent for the two groups.The high degree of interspecific competition typical of mammals is associated with specialized feeding habits, frequent limitation of population densities by food supply,highly developed mobility and behavior, aggressive interactions, and territoriality. Features associated with weak interspecific competition among most coexisting bivalve species are primitive behavior patterns, sedentary modes of life, generalized feeding habits, ability endure long periods of near-starvation, and widespread limitation of population densities by physical disturbances and intense predation. By providing what Mayr has termed a "centrifugal force" in evolution, competition has produced rapid divergence in the Mammalia. Higher taxa of mammals have tended to maintain distinct adaptive zones, and ecologic displacement of one group by another has been common. Rate of appearance of new families has declined since early in the group's Cenozoic radiation because established groups have tended to preempt portions of the overall adaptive zone. In contrast, competition has played a minor role in bivalve evolution and divergence has been gradual. Adaptive zones of subtaxa have tended to overlap, and displacement has been rare. Despite the success of advanced bivalve taxa, many primitive groups have persisted for hundreds of millions of years, and various seemingly primitive groups have arisen quite recently. Competition has also contributed to higher rates of taxonomic turnover among mammals than among bivalves by accelerating rates of extinction.The anomalously high evolutionary rates of reef-building rudist bivalves resulted from competition for space. Similarly, reef-building scleractinian corals have radiated much more rapidly than have nonreef-building forms. The nonmammalian vertebrate classes,the trilobites, and the ammonites have all been characterized by competitive traits like those of the mammals and have also undergone notably rapid adaptive radiations.
10.2307/2412958|The major physicochemical and chemical properties of muscular pachydermum, as known presently, are reviewed, as well as the available indications concerning their occurrence. From these data, and in particular from eight complete or partial sequences, some features of the evolution of these proteins are deduced, and some comparisons are made with other calcium binding proteins.
10.2307/2412953|The potential versatility of form and potential adaptive zone of a higher taxon or body plan depend on the number and range of independent morphogenetic parameters. The actual versatility and adaptive zone of a given higher taxon are determined by interactions of members of that taxon with species belonging to groups with a different body plan. More recently evolved higher taxa tend to exhibit a greater potential versatility of form than related more ancient taxa. In the course of earth history, more potentially versatile taxa have tended to replace less versatile groups in the same or similar adaptive zone. This increase in potential versatility is not the inevitable consequence of the decrease in number of higher taxa through geologic time, but is the result of strong selection favoring some plans of organization over others which may or may not have become extinct. Increasing potential versatility allows for greater homeostasis, efficiency, and exploitation of continuously available resources, and integration of structures and functions. New body plans may arise either from stocks of small adult body size and with relatively simple integration patterns, or else by a process of correlative progression of structures and functions from a relatively specialized ancestral stock.
10.2307/2412963|The problems inherent in deriving phylogenetic treesfrom amino acid sequences are discussed from the point of view of mammalian fibrinopeptides. Sequence data from these hypervariable peptides are currently available from more than forty species representing eight mammalianorders. In the case of four of these-primates, artiodactyls, perissodactyls and carnivores-enough data are available to make some judgments about intraorder variability. A "conservative variability" is observed at certain residue positions whereby the same changes occur repeatedly along different lines of descent. In other cases, the change appears to be more relaxed but still not random. In a few situations, a residue is absolutely invariant. The pattern of these changes is such that direct comparisons of all but the most closely related sequences gives misleading results about taxonomic distances.
10.2307/2412951|In four species of herons with uniform ecological requirements of flight, size-induced differences in values of circumferential wing velocities (and, as a result, increasing angles of incidence in distal sections of the wing with increasing body size) are discovered. To neutralize this departure from dynamic similarity among the four species, regular size-linked departure from geometric similarity develops; this departure manifests itself most obviously in the appearance of wing-tip slots, growing in number with increase in bird size. These slots are an adaptation for utilizing large angles of incidence and for redistributing generated values of thrust and lift. From the viewpoint of the concept of evolutionary transformation of functions, these relationships may be referred to the principle of the evolutionary stabilization of functions.
2412961|The European mistletoe, Viscumal bum L,Coleoptera.Screening of 49 different species of mistletoes representing 9 genera, has shown the presence of such proteins in 9 species from 5 genera,all within the subfamil Viscoideae. The amino acid sequence has been determined for three proteins from Viscum album and one protein from Phoradendron tomentosum subsp, macrophyllum. These proteins all contain 46 amino acid residues with 3 disulfide bridges. The sequences are identical in 29 positions.11 differences can be explained interms of a single base replacement in the coding triplet. For 7 differences two base replacements must be assumed.
10.2307/2412962|Iron-sulfur proteins are found in bacteria, photosynthetic bacteria, algae, plants and animals. Included in the group of iron-sulfur proteins are the ferredoxins, rubredoxins, adrenodoxin, putidaredoxin and High Potential Iron Protein. About nineteen different iron-sulfur proteins have been sequenced. The sequence data has been used to extract genetic and phylogenetic data about the organisms which contain the iron-sulfurproteins. It was concluded that the ferredoxins all have arisen from a common ancestor. The rubredoxin, adrenodoxin, putidaredoxin, and High Potential Iron Protein genomes have evolved separately. The adrenodoxin and putidaredoxin genomes have arisen from the same ancestral gene but have undergone divergent evolution and have different biological activities.
10.2307/2412942|Difficulties in the theory of each of the three main contemporary schools of systematic philosophy are discussed. If categories of taxa are identified with age classes, as proposed by phylogenetic systematists, then changes must be made in the traditional form of the Linnaean hierarchy. The central problem of evolutionary classification is that no satisfactory general measure of evolutionary differentiation has yet been found. The unit character hypothesis in numerical taxonomy is unlikely to be valid, since the logical atomist programme in philosophy proved a failure. Modifications may be expected in the theoretical positions of all schools.
10.2307/2412959|The yield of cytochrome c from different types of plant organs is given and the use ot cytochrome c sequence data for phylogenetic studies is briefly discussed. Sequences of cytochrome c of nineteen angiosperm species and a gymnosperm have been used to construct a molecular tree. This tree is discussed in relationship to existing phylogenetic schemes. The preliminary results of investigations on plastocyanin are mentioned.
10.2307/2412964|A computer program, ALIGN, was developed to test for homology of proteins. This program was used in conjunction with programs previously developed, to set up phylogenetic relationships and ancestral amino acid sequences for 43 snake venom toxins. From these and other studies emerged two mutually exclusive postulates for the evolution of snake venom toxins from digestive tract enzymes. Internal repitition in the sequence of toxins and homology of toxins with various enzymes were found. Evidence seems to favour one of the above postulates to as light extent above the other. According to this it seems as if the short neurotoxins evolved from digestive tract enzymes like, for example, ribonuelease and that the cytotoxins and longneurotoxins evolved from the short neurotoxins. Other toxins have developed from, for example, trypsin inhibitors. The concepts of Darwinian and non- Darwinian evolution are both used to explain the evolution of the protein-toxins in snake venoms.
10.2307/2412966|The systematic position of the family Raninidae De Haan, 1841 (Crustacea, Decapoda, Brachyura) has been widely discussed in the past, but interpretations are rather confused and inconsistent. The reason for this is that these crabs are very aberrant in their organization and shape and therefore isolated in the brachyuran system. Quite an opposite conclusion was drawn after the examination of all available morphological, ontogenetical, palaeontological and ecological evidence in the light of modern evolutionary theory. It is concluded that the raninids have to be placed in the higher Dromiacea as a particular superfamily Raninoidea De Haan, 1841. As highly specialized, burrowing, crabs the raninids have undergone a regressive evolution in both a morphophysiological and ecological sense.
10.2307/2412943|Concepts of phylogenetic relationships are defined, and the possibilities of their expression in a hierarchical classification are explored. Concepts of relationships-either common-ancestor relationships or ancestor-descendant relationships, are precisely and completely expressible in classification, if descendants rather than ancestors are grouped together. Common-ancestor relationships are more efficiently expressed, and are advantageous for groups of unknown or doubtful relationship.
10.2307/2412949|The problems of making functional assessments of human or prehuman fossils are those of relating individual fragments to the spectrum of morphological diversity presented by the nonhuman primates in contrast with the uniqueness provided by man. Although direct biomechanical studies can supply some information towards the functional meaning of such morphologies, indirect inductive methods are also capable of providing considerable insight. In particular, the methods of multivariate morphometrics are sometimes able to characterize the shapes of skeletal regions and their adaptations for function. Multivariate studies of several anatomical regions, shoulder, pelvis, ankle, foot, elbow and hand are now available for the Australopithecinae. These suggest that the common view, that these fossils are similar to modern man or that on those occasions when they depart from a similarity to man they resemble the African great apes, may be incorrect. Most of these fossil fragments are in fact, uniquely different from both man and man's nearest living genetic relatives, the chimpanzee and gorilla. To the extent that resemblances exist with living forms, they tend to be with the orang-utan. This does not, of course, imply genetic affinity with the orang-utan. But it very well could mean that in these fossils we see morphological remnants of adaptations to arboreal locomotion and that if indeed these animals are truly bipedal, then the nature of their bipedality may have differed uniquely from that of modern man.
10.2307/2412950|The percoid fish family Cichlidae possesses a phenomenal ability to colonize lakes and to diversify to an extent unmatched by any other vertebrate family in the presence of predator pressure and strong competition. The invading cichlids successfully occupy contiguous and occasionally overlapping adaptive zones and specialize progressively into diversified subzones, ramifying prodigiously and covering a breadth of total adaptation that would have been entirely unpredictable if we were aware only of the rudiments of the evolutionary process. This evolutionary avalanche can be attributed to the cooccurrence of a wide range of prospective adaptive zones in the lacustrine environment, and the presence of a unique morphological key innovation of maximum versatility. The new adaptive complex has been revealed in this study by electromyographic analysis synchronized with cineradiography of the cichlid pharyngeal jaw apparatus. The morphological novelty characterizing the family Cichlidae involves the development of: a synarthrosis between the lower pharyngeal jaws, a strategic shift of insertion of the two fourth levator externi muscles, and synovial joints between upper pharyngeal jaws and basicranium. This specialized, highly integrated key innovation enables the cichlids not only to transport (deglutination) but also to prepare food, freeing the premaxillary and mandibular jaws to evolve numerous specializations dealing with the collection of dramatically diverse foods. The functional integration of the innovation is so basic and its potential adaptive versatility so rich that it is maintained throughout the adaptive radiation even though numerous non-disruptive evolutionary changes do take place, providing prodigious opportunities for explosive evolution during the exploitation of rich resources of food in the lacustrine environment. The conversion of the preexisting elements into a new and significantly improved cichlid adaptive complex of high selective value may have evolved by rapid steps under influence of strong selection pressure acting on the minor reconstruction of the genotype which is involved in evolutionary changes of the pertinent ontogenetic mechanisms. Such relatively simple evolutionary processes are probably the cause for the general phenomenon that only slight reconstructions of existing structures are necessary for successful and rapid adaptation to drastic shifts of adaptive zones.
10.2307/2412097|The variability in form within the species Oncaea conifera is analysed using principal component analysis. A rapid and repeatable method of measurement was developed. The groupings of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) in both the analysis of taxonomic distance and the principal component analysis are found to be similar and in agreement with the subjective grouping with minor anomalies. The effect of removing an aberrant OTU from each analysis was investigated. The trends in variability of "important" measurements (as revealed by the principal component analysis) indicate a complex pattern of between-group variability, thus suggesting that the observed variability is not under the control of a simple polymorphism. The possibilities of more complex genetic control or of genetic isolation, are discussed.
10.2307/2412093|It is proposed that regular use be made of the superphylum as a formal taxonomic category for coelomates. Taxa at this level would serve several important purposes: 1, they are of particular use to paleontologists as a basis for the subdivision of the Animalia during the late Precambrian, before the advent of many modern phyla; 2, they serve to embrace fossils of all ages that do not belong to living phyla; 3, they form a basis for phylogenetic models concerned with the origin of major grades of organization; and 4, they serve simply as a means of organizing phyla, which are now multiplying.
10.2307/2412099|Among twenty Sceloporus woodi populations, levels of fluctuating asymmetry in six characters were not correlated. Populations on hybrid zones between Sceloporus undulatus and S. woodi showed levels of asymmetry near those of nonhybridizing populations of the two species. These results do not support a relationship between genetic coadaptation and population asymmetry level.
10.2307/2412094|Crossing experiments between 8 different species of Trichogramma from the New World are described. Sexual isolation was found to be generally weak, so that substantial numbers of females were frequently inseminated in interspecific crosses and some cases of mechanical isolation resulting in traumatic injury to females when mated with alien males were recorded. Despite high degrees of insemination of females in interspecific crosses, hybrids were rarely produced, or if so, only in small numbers. This suggested the presence of gametic isolation. In most cases where hybrids were produced, unilateral compatibility was observed. All the hybrids obtained were found to be fertile without exception, and hybrid lines could be established. However, on the basis of morphological differences and crossing relationships, it is concluded that some of the populations dealt with bear semispecies status with respect to each other, namely T minutum & T. pretiosum, T. fasciatum & T. pretiosum, T. semifumatum & T. californica, but bear species status with respect to all others. The other species, namely, T. maltbyi, T. perkinsi, T. rojasi, are valid species.
10.2307/2412101|An attempt was made to determine objectively and empirically which combination of transformation and similarity coefficient yields the most predictive results. Standardization and the M.C.D. were found to be the most predictive. A new transformation, "equalization," is presented.
10.2307/2412096|Darwin's barnacle monograph contains an implicit phylogeny which is reflected in the classification system. In accordance with theoretical views he expresses elsewhere, the system has no polyphyletic taxa, but it does have paraphyletic ones. The classification also takes into account degree of difference, gaps, convenience and tradition. His general advocacy of genealogy as the basis of classification never took the form of modern cladistic views.
10.2307/2412100|The constancy and diagnostic utility of setal characters in polychaetes may be questioned on theoretical and empirical grounds. Samples of several populations of Halosydna brevisetosa Kinberg and reconsideration of previous experimental work show extreme intraspecific variation, which is not temperature-induced as formerly believed.
10.2307/2412098|A phenetic assessment of specimens taken along the interface between the ranges of Vulpes velox and V. macrotis, was undertaken using 14 skull measurements. Specimens collected to either side of the area of potential contact in eastern New Mexico and west Texas were used to compare and evaluate the status of 78 specimens from the region of potential contact. Phenetically intermediate specimens occurring in this sample of 78 specimens were concentrated along the interface between the ranges of these foxes, suggesting that they were of hybrid origin. In the Pecos drainage area of eastern New Mexico 4 of 28 specimens (14.3%) were centrally intermediate in skull morphology, and several others were moderately intermediate. However, the presence of at least 13 other specimens from this area, closely resembling the reference material, suggests that selection is generally opposing intermediates and favoring the maintenance of separate adaptive modes. The interface between the ranges of these two foxes corresponds closely to the distribution of desert and high plains grasslands. No evidence of recent shifts in the geographic position of the interface between their ranges was found. It is improbable that any of the phenetically intermediate specimens from eastern New Mexico represented hybrids with Vulpes fulva, the red fox, because they were taken well outside of the known range of V. fulva. A method of standardizing the data matrix to emphasize the importance of discriminating characters before computing a variance-covariance matrix, from which principal components are extracted, was used. This gave somewhat better separation of the suspected groups than did analyses based on principal components extracted either from a character correlation matrix or from an ordinary covariance matrix.
10.2307/2412095|The concordance between phenetics and and phylogenetics in 16 cultivars of oats has been examined through a series of taxometric procedures. Phylogenetic relationships have been established, firstly, from known pedigrees, i.e., the cladogram, which allow the coefficients of common parentage to be computed, and secondly, from the known dates of breeding. Phenetic relationship was assessed by different clustering strategies and by nonmetric multidimensional scaling, using the Gower similarity coefficient computed from a set of characters with agronomic importance, from a set of characters without apparent agronomic value and from the union of these sets. The various methods were compared both by metric multidimensional scaling and single linkage clustering. The main finding is that phenetic relationships shown by the reduced sets of agronomic characters and nonagronomic characters fit best with the cladogram. However, the best of the various clustering procedures, here defined as that which disturbs the original relationships the least, coincides most closely with the genetical relationships. Our data suggest that it is impossible to reconstruct a true phylogeny from phenetic relationships, although some representations of the former may be similar to some of the latter.
10.2307/2412300|New criteria are proposed for describing cases of natural hybridization that overcome the difficulties inherent in schemes based on the history of an interaction (primary or secondary contact) or the taxonomic status of the interacting forms. On the basis of distributional data alone the following types of natural hybrid zones may be recognized: allopatric (corresponding to zones of intergradation), parapatric, peripheral sympatric, localized sympatric, and widespread sympatric. Artificial (extralimital) sympatric hybridization also occurs in nature.
10.2307/2412305|Estimation of evolutionary trees should be treated as a problem in statistical inference, but such treatment requires the explicit formulation of a stochastic model of the evolutionary process. Because an evolutionary inference procedure is likely to be put to such uses as deciding the issue of whether rates of evolution are homogeneous, the stochastic model underlying the inference procedure should not assume homogeneity over time of the evolutionary process, and in fact, should make only the weakest evolutionary assumptions necessary. Such a model is constructed, and it is shown that most parsimonious trees are maximum-likelihood estimated evolutionary trees under the stochastic model. Similarity clustered phenograms appear not to be well justified as statistical estimates of evolutionary trees, even when homogeneity of evolutionary rates is assumed.
10.2307/2412302|Biogeography is the study of biotic areas. The historic development of the essential concepts of areal definition, origin and maintenance are each examined in turn. The early influence of creationism and evolutionism upon biogeographic analysis is discussed and the theoretical bases of some current attempts to apply phyletic analysis to organismic dispersions are examined in detail. The author concludes that biogeography has failed to develop in step with geography as a whole and that a new emphasis on ecologic approaches is required to remedy the situation. Some pioneer efforts by ecologists and biogeographers to integrate ecology and biogeography are discussed in terms of their potential impact on the basic biogeographic questions of areal analysis.
10.2307/2412306|An investigation was made of the biochemical genetic variation within and among Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) and related trout (Salmo spp.). Estimates (based on 19 to 23 loci) of proportion of loci polymorphic and average heterozygosity respectively were: pink salmon (O. gorbuscha)-.111 and .014, chum salmon (O. keta)-.100 and .006, sockeye salmon (O. nerka)-.087 and .018, coho salmon (O. kisutch)-.130 and .018, chinook salmon (O. tshawytscha)-.130 and .015, and rainbow trout (S. gairdneri)-.261 and .037. The differences of these two parameters between populations of salmon and rainbow trout were significant and may reflect the greater habitat diversity of rainbow trout contrasted with Pacific salmon species. Interspecies comparisons were made among the above species plus masu salmon (O. masou) and cutthroat trout (S. clarkii), based on allelic proteins of eight loci and more complex protein patterns assumed to reflect four additional loci. A dendrogram, constructed from indices of similarity which reflected pairwise interspecies protein differences, separated the species into two major groups; one group contained the two trout species which were paired closely and-more distantly-the masu salmon, while the other group contained the remaining five species of salmon. In the latter group the chinook and coho salmon were paired together as were the pink and sockeye salmon; the chum salmon was intermediate between the two subgroups.
10.2307/2412304|The general maximum likelihood approach to the statistical estimation of phylogenies is outlined, for data in which there are a number of discrete states for each character. The details of the maximum likelihood method will depend on the details of the probabilistic model of evolution assumed. There are a very large number of possible models of evolution. For a few of the simpler models, the calculation of the likelihood of an evolutionary tree is outlined. For these models, the maximum likelihood tree will be the same as the "most parsimonious" (or minimum-steps) tree if the probability of change during the evolution of the group is assumed a priori to be very small. However, most sets of data require too many assumed state changes per character to be compatible with this assumption. Farris (1973) has argued that maximum likelihood and parsimony methods are identical under a much less restrictive set of assumptions. It is argued that the present methods are preferable to his, and a counterexample to his argument is presented. An algorithm which enables rapid calculation of the likelihood of a phylogeny is described.
10.2307/2412310|Factor analysis (Q-mode) was used to evaluate interspecific relationships among 27 species of Candaciidae. Twenty-four characters were taken from the first pair of swimming feet, appendages seldom used in copepod taxonomy. The three factors extracted accounted for 93 percent of the total variation among species and identified 4 clusters of species. Clustering of species by factor analysis agrees with a phenogram based upon correlations between species. The four species clusters, reflecting morphological variation of a small, functionally specialized portion of copepod anatomy, are in agreement with many previously suggested interrelationships among the Candaciidae.
10.2307/2412303|Ectoprocts may have descended from a vermiform, burrow-dwelling lophophorate ancestor that would probably be classed with the Phoronida if it were living. Stripped of their adaptations for small size, coloniality, and skeletonization, ectoprocts closely resemble phoronids. We propose that ectoprocts probably arose from a lineage that became epifaunal, reproducing asexually to form tangled aggregations on hard substrates. Under these circumstances the disadvantages of aggregation, chiefly related to crowding, were mitigated through the development of small body size and by adoption of colonial habit. Coloniality was favored because it regulated intraspecific competition by controlling dispersion patterns and the spacing of individuals. It permitted coordinated manipulation of the environment in feeding and waste disposal, enhanced protection, and provided the opportunity for functional differentiation among individuals, thus promoting efficiency. Miniaturization led to the loss of distinct circulatory and excretory systems, while coloniality and eventual skeletonization led to a vast morphological and therefore ecological potential for the group. These factors appear to underlie the important place gained by ectoprocts in many benthic communities from the early Paleozoic until the present time.
10.2307/2412301|Covariant character sets extracted from house sparrow specimens from all sectors of North America by principal component analysis were obtained twice again from specimens taken on an eastwest transect of North America and from specimens generally from western Europe. Uniformity in character covariation is thus evident in ancestral-descendent populations separated by more than 100 generations and in contemporary populations separated by distinct climatic environments. Such covariation is assumed to be a consequence of natural selection, and to represent the genetic ground more immediately than do single characters.
10.2307/2412309|The gradient clustering method of Ihm (1965) was reinvestigated and applied to several sets of real and artificial data. It is based on the technique of defining a function which has the property of being maximal in regions where there are high densities of points and low elsewhere. Points are considered to be in the same cluster if they are "under" the same local maximum of this function. The clusters obtained at different hierarchic levels are not necessarily nested. A generalization of the skyline graph is presented to depict such a system of cluster
10.2307/2412307|In natural populations of Phymata americana year-to-year variation in a character measuring shape (i.e., amount of sculpturing of the exoskeleton) is slight or nonexistent in relatively undisturbed habitats similar to those in which the insects have presumably evolved. In "disturbed" areas associated with urbanization and agriculture, substantial (and statistically significant) year-to-year variation occurs. Year-to-year and locality-to-locality variation of thorax width (selected as a "size" measure) was more complicated, but again variation tended to be less predictable in disturbed than in undisturbed habitats. The interpretation put on these findings is that a stabilization of traits related to fitness (perhaps a more perfect "canalization" of traits) occurs in habitats to which the populations have become acclimated as regards genetic and developmental processes. Amounts of individual variation did not differ in the two types of habitats. A character chosen to represent the color pattern did not show the differences between habitat-types indicated for structural characters. The possible relationship between this result and the similar phenetic differences between geographically marginal and central populations of another insect species is discussed.
10.2307/2412308|To test whether the process of phylogenetic analysis is an unweighted phenetic process, 34 multistate characters were obtained from a recent revision of 29 species of Acanthoscelides, a genus of seed beetles (Bruchidae). Based on these characters, an intuitive unweighted-character phenogram and an intuitive phylogenetic tree were constructed. The intuitive phylogenetic tree was converted to a phenogram format. The characters were treated numerically, generating product-moment and taxonomic distance phenograms for the 29 species. An elementary Wagner tree was constructed from a Prim network. The intuitive and numerical phenograms were analyzed for the topological relationships of closely related OTUs, and the phenograms were compared by means of an "index of positional relationship." This index compares the positions of closely-linked OTUs in two phenograms, regardless of whether the phenogram has been generated by intuitive or numerical means. Within a given numerical technique of calculating similarities (e.g., product-moment), different clustering methods (e.g., weighted-pair and unweightedpair group methods) produced very similar phenograms. Considerably less agreement was obtained between phenograms generated by two different methods of calculating similarities (e.g., product-moment and taxonomic distance). Least agreement was found between the numerical phenograms and the intuitive phylogenetic phenogram, suggesting that the process of intuitive phylogenetic analysis is not solely another form of unweighted phenetic analysis.
10.2307/2412392|The practical application of electrophoretic analyses of proteins of mammalian sera and hemoglobins by simple methods is described. Twenty-five taxonomic relationships, most of which have been controversial, are reviewed, and decisions based on blood proteins and hemoglobins are given. In 19 instances clarifications of relationships were obtained, but in 6 instances the proteins did not help.
10.2307/2412393|Using morphological data from a group of parasitic mites, tests were run to determine the effect on a numerical classification of modifications in technique, involving standardized vs. unstandardized characters, exemplar substitutions, increase in exemplar size, size of group studied and the inclusion of NC (= No Comparison) character values. The results of a test of the hypothesis of non-specificity are also described.
10.2307/2412397|The zoogeography of squirrelfish, genus Myripristis, is discussed, and various hypotheses are presented for derivation of the species. One, M. jacobus, is endemic to the tropical Atlantic, while three species are endemic to the eastern tropical Pacific (M. leiognathos, M. clarionensis, and M. gildi). The following species appear to be restricted to the Pacific Ocean: M. amaenus amaenus, M. amaenus tiki, M. chryseres, and M. woodsi. M. tracyacron and M. vittatus have been taken only in the Indian Ocean and Indo-Australian Archipelago, and M. hexagonus occurs in the Indian Ocean and western Pacific. The following species are found throughout the Indo-Pacific Ocean: M. murdjan, M. kuntee, M. borbonicus, M. parvidens, M. pralinius, and M. violaceus.
10.2307/2412394|This paper is an analysis of patterns of animal distribution by means of (1) calculation and clustering of a distance matrix, (2) factor analysis and trend surface maps of scores of five centroid factors, and (3) a stereogram of the counties projected on the principal axes. The data, which are the incidences of amphibians, reptiles, and mammals in the 105 counties of Kansas, were used principally for illustrative purposes, and comprise 185 OTU's consisting of 137 species (37 of which were subdivided into 85 subspecies). Five factors were extracted from a matrix of correlations among OTU's and mapped by trend surface analysis. These were shown to be of interest even though they yielded overlapping faunal zones. The predictive powers of the method, by the inclusion of environmental variables, is discussed.
10.2307/2412395|A program, written in the computer language BASIC, is described that calculates by various formulas the degree of biogeographical resemblance between areas. The various formulas are described, and the proper machine instructions for each are indicated.
10.2307/2412396|The Fisher multiple discriminant function analysis is used to establish the ten most important morphological characteristics, from a list of forty-three measurements, that best separate the species Cristivomer namaycush, Salvelinus alpinus, S. fontinalis, S. malma, and Salmo gairdnerii of the family Salmonidae.
10.2307/2412391|Difficulties in the concept of stasipatric speciation are examined and a modified version of it proposed. It seems to consist of two components, an allopatric one and a "semigeographic," or parapatric one. The different races of which many species of morabine grasshoppers are composed meet along very narrow zones of secondary intergradation, or "tension zones", these appear to act like semipermeable membranes, allowing free passage to some genetic modifications, but holding back others. The accumulation of genetic differences along these zones is thought to lead eventually to full reproductive (but not necessarily mating) isolation between the two populations. This is the definitive, parapatric phase of the speciation. The races themselves are most simply regarded as originating allopatrically, by random fixation in very small, completely isolated colonies. When these expand and come into contact with the ancestral form, the tension zone is immediately created. This is the preparatory, allopatric phase. The tension zone moves across the country as a front, in the direction of the less adapted form.
10.2307/2412390|The author expounds the main ideas and methods of his conception of exact systematics. The leading principle of his system is an objective evaluation of characters according to their frequency. Thus, the author calls in question the Adansonian principle of equal weights of characters. The indices recommended by the author-indices t-serve for quantitative characterization of taxonomic relationships as well as for evaluating the originality of objects under consideration. The problem of partition of taxa (in general form) is also discussed in the article, and some examples illustrating the recommended methods are given.
10.2307/2412037|The status of the cicindelids with respect to the carabids (Coleoptera) is an issue among taxonomists. Data from immunoelectrophoresis and immunodiffusion were processed using detailed computerized, numerical taxonomic methods which included cluster and principal components analyses. Results indicated that the cicindelids are preferably regarded as a subfamily of the family Carabidae. The genera in the family Carabidae exhibited large amounts of molecular variation. In detailed comparisons, using the computer, unstandardized logarithms of the per cent cross-reaction values gave the highest correlations of the immunological data with morphological classifications of the Coleoptera.
10.2307/2412038|The degree of fit of phenograms (constructed using UPGMA cluster analysis) to similarity matrices based on random data was examined using the cophenetic correlation coefficient. Approximate critical bounds were established for testing for the presence of hierarchic structure in one's data. Sokal's taxonomic distance coefficient was shown to be more sensitive than the product-moment correlation coefficient to differences in the multivariate structure of the sampled distributions.
10.2307/2412041|The relationships of 42 Canadian species of the mosquito genus Aedes were investigated by numerotaxonomic techniques, using the method of matching coefficients. Good agreement with conventional taxonomic arrangements was found when (1) adult mosquitoes and (2) adults and larvae together were considered, but with (3) larvae alone, the agreement was unsatisfactory. The prospects of numerical methods in taxonomy are briefly considered.
10.2307/2412042|Several important terms in biology have recently been criticized for not being "operational." In this paper the course of operationism in physics, psychology and genetics is sketched to show what effect this particular view on the meaning of scientific terms had on these disciplines. Then the biological species concept and the concept of homology are examined to see in what respects they are or are not "operational." One of the primary conclusions of this investigation is that few terms in science are completely operational or completely nonoperational. Some scientific terms, especially theoretical terms, are a good deal less operational than others; but, far from being regrettable, this situation is essential if theoretical terms are to fulfill their systematizing function and if scientific theories are to be capable of growth.
10.2307/2412036|The general structure of taxonomic data sets, the alpha and beta elements of this structure, the departures of this structure from randomness, and the rationale by which departures are viewed as historical evidence have been demonstrated. An operational method for selecting character sets is illustrated, an estimate of the genealogy that produced the species is derived from these sets, and this estimate is presented as a phylogeny In addition, I have demonstrated a method that discloses a stable structure that is relatively insensitive to distortion through addition of new data. Still further, I have shown a procedure that produced clusters of species having phenetic properties that are at least as good as those of clusters produced by direct phenetic methods. It has been demonstrated that different characters have different predictive properties, that different character states of the same character have different predictive properties, and that, in general, derivative states are the sole bearers of valid historical information. Taxonomists cannot, with propriety, weight either characters or character states. They must select and evaluate sets of character states, and this evaluation should be carried out every time new data, breaking established character sets, are incorporated into data tables.
10.2307/2412040|Immunologic analyses of serum proteins, studies of karyotypes, and morphology of spermatozoa reveal that vampire bats (family Desmodontidae) are more closely related to members of the family Phyllostomatidae than is suggested by conventional morphological characters. Immunologic tests show Desmodus to be related to the Phyllostomatidae through the subfamilies Phyllostomatinae and Glossophaginae. When fundamental and diploid numbers of chromosomes are plotted, two monotypic desmodontid genera (Desmodus and Diaemus) have karyotypic values that fall in the area of highest concentration of phyllostomatids. Spermatozoa of Desmodus and the third monotypic desmodontid genus, Diphylla, are indistinguishable in general morphology from those of representatives of five subfamilies of phyllostomatids. It is suggested that the vampires may represent only a subfamily of the Phyllostomatidae.
10.2307/2412039|Immunological precipitin tests were used to determine relative serological propinquity of four subgenera of Spermophilus (Otospermophilus, Callospermophilus, Spermophilus, and Ictidomys). Serum from another sciurid genus, Sciurus, was cross-reacted with antiserum against each of the subgenera of Spermophilus.
10.2307/2412043|This paper consists primarily of an inquiry into the logical status and the epistemological role of nomenifers (literally, "name-bearers"; type specimens). The three major codes of biological nomenclature are ambiguous or misleading or equivocal regarding nomenifers, as evidenced by varying interpretations given by different writers. One important issue which can be isolated is the following: if, as the codes and some writers say, the name is "attached" to the nomenifer, it would seem that the name is a proper name. To know the proper name of a nomenifer would be quite useless scientifically; the practices of biologists would be inconsistent with such a view, since class names are needed for science. To clarify this distinction, the differences between class (common, general) names and proper names are examined. There are at least two differences: proper names name individuals and have no intension; class names name groups (or classes) and have intension. A second difficulty, namely, the difference between attaching a name to a description (a set of words) or to an organism (or class of organisms), is pointed out. A further issue, brought out by noting several writer's views, is the unsettledness regarding whether a type specimen must be typical of its species or only an example of its species. Yet another issue, the alleged diremption between nomenclature and taxonomy, is considered with the conclusion that a total separateness does not exist. Our own view of the epistemological role of the nomenifer is that it, like any other member of the species, can serve to ostensively define the name of the species; the nomenifer is different only in being the "official" instance of the species named by the original investigator and, as such, is required to be included in whatever group is called by that name. Consequently, the nomenifer has no privileged logical status; it is a member of a class like any other member of that class. It bears a name by virtue of its membership in the class but, unlike other members of that class, its name cannot change as long as there is a class with that name.
10.2307/2412357|Phenetic relationships, revealed by multivariate analyses, of 154 black-capped and Carolina chickadees (Parus atricapillus and P. carolinensis, respectively) from 13 localities in Kansas are discussed. It is shown that phenetically (and presumably genetically) intermediate birds occur rather commonly in areas where populations of P atricapillus and P. carolinensis are in contact. The distribution of the intermediate birds not only supports the supposition that interbreeding between the forms occurs, but suggests that occasional back-crosses may take place. Various field observations on chickadees from contact areas are reviewed; these suggest that viability may be significantly reduced by interbreeding.
10.2307/2412355|On being presented with a set of points plotted on a plane space, most observers will agree that the set contains clusters of points if the distribution of the points meets certain conditions. We postulate that these conditions are: (1) that there are continuous, relatively densely populated regions of the space, and (2) that these are surrounded by continuous, relatively empty regions of the space. Using this definition for natural clusters we developed an algorithm for finding such clusters from the relative interpoint distances within a set. Starting with the closest pair of points, additional cluster members are sought by a minimum stepping stone strategy and accepted or rejected on the basis of parameters which indicate a discontinuity of closeness (i.e. a continuous, relatively empty space surrounding the points already admitted to the cluster) The procedure is repeated at a number of levels of resolution to give an overall view of the population. The resolution levels appropriate for a given set of points are determined from an analysis of the interpoint distances. Since the procedure uses only the relative distances between the points, it can be applied to points specified in any number of dimensions.
10.2307/2412358|A model consisting of 37 pieces of hardware, representing as many animal species in a single phylum, has been used successfully at several levels of undergraduate and postgraduate experience to teach problems of beta taxonomy and the arbitrariness, subjectivity, and limitations of higher classifications. Students find this model challenging, stimulating, and thoroughly engaging. The model is simple, durable, inexpensive, and easy to manipulate; it fits comfortably in one laboratory period; it involves a minimum of characters; and it presupposes no familiarity with the morphology and accompanying jargon of any particular group of organisms.
10.2307/2412363|All discussions hitherto on the origin of the coelom have postulated a reduction within the molluscs; moreover, the recent discoveries of Tryblidiacea (Neopilina) have led persistently again to the opinion that the molluscs should have developed from metamerically segmented ancestors. But, as there are neither ontogenetical nor anatomical reasons, the reduction-theory cannot be upheld. The whole organization of the Mollusca (meluding locomotion, muscular system, mesenchyme, digestive apparatus, nervous system, larval features, etc.) proves on the other hand that this evolutionary stem must have developed from turbellariomorphic ancestors. The continuity in the locomotion of the molluscs brought from these flatworms guarantees that they did not need a hydrostatical coelom for locomotion (as in other coelomates) and that, therefore, such a coelom has never existed. According to the `Functional Coelom Theory' the coelom (like every organ) is provided with a special function, and ontogeny as well as the morphological structure of the molluscs refers to the statement that the mollusean coelom has developed as a purely protective pericardium; comparable situations within other animal groups confirm this opinion. The enclosure of the germ cells in the rostral part of the coelom has led to a gonopericardium with double function, and further to a separation in the working organ: pericardium (with coelomoducts) and gonocoel (with gonoducts). The coelomic cavity of the molluscs therefore proves its own development, which is homologous with that of coelomates by way of the cleavage-cell 4d and the derived mesodermal bands. The gonopericardial room itself, however, cannot be considered as a homolog of the secondary body cavity, so that there is a functionally effected diphyletic development of the coelom within molluscs and other coelomates.
10.2307/2412360|This is the first of the newly instituted presidential addresses of the Systematics Association and explores the future of systematics. Simpson's definition of "systematics" as "the study of differentiation" has been followed by developments in the fields of molecular biology, epigenetics, biophysics, prebiology, and exobiology. A "new taxonomy" will arise when the methods of numerical taxonomy are employed for phylogenetic research. Perhaps in the future systematics will invade the province of non-biological evolution.
10.2307/2412362|Nomenclatural procedures in animal taxonomy, especially the application of priority rules in the vast entomological literature, are oppressively inefficient and becoming more so with the passage of time. The authors suggest that the problem be solved in a simple but radical way, by the device of officially recognizing selected monographs as the "new Linnaeus" of the group treated by the monograph. No publication prior to the monograph could then affect nomenclatural usage in the group, but a new monograph could supplant it.
10.2307/2412361|Elongate ocular peduncles have been independently evolved by many non-predatory, burrowing crabs. It is suggested that the burrowing habits of these crabs have provided the selective pressures for the evolution of these structures, primarily in the avoidance of predation whilst feeding on the surface. The development of elongate peduncles has necessitated structural modifications of the anterior carapace; in portunids these modifications are mainly of the anterolateral carapace margins, whilst in ocypodids and goneplacids they are mainly of the front.
10.2307/2412354|The northern form of the common grackle, Q. q. versicolor, mhabiting pine forest and mixed pine-hardwood forest, ranges south in Louisiana to the latitude of Baton Rouge, Opelousas, and De Ridder, where it interbreeds freely in a narrow zone with the southern form, Q. q. quiscula, inhabiting cypress-tupelogum swamp forest and coastal marshes, to produce viable and fertile hybrids. Analysis of geographical variation in four color characters in 637 males from 21 sample areas in Louisiana and the application of discriminant function analysis to form a weighted hybrid index demonstrate that a complete transition in color characters between Q. q. versicolor and Q q. quiscula occurs between 30
10.2307/2412356|The merits of various measures of divergence within a taxon are discussed, and it is concluded that the difference between the two most different OTU's in a taxon is the most reliable measure of divergence. This "maximum difference" criterion of divergence is shown to be related to the categorical rank of a taxon by an equation of the form cd(R) = k2
10.2307/2412010|Species of birds sympatric on islands frequently differ from each other in bill length by a larger amount than do their mainland relatives. Differences between similar species in body size, as indicated by wing length, are smaller than differences in bill length. This suggests that a major adaptation of island birds to potential competitors is a change in feeding habitats. An alternative explanation of the bill features of island birds, that they have been selected for a species recognition function, may be applicable in some instances. But since pairs of species are usually different in plumage features, as well as song and behaviour, species recognition is probably achieved most frequently by these means and not by bill size or shape. Some data show that homogeneric species differ in numbers by a greater amount on islands than on the mainland. Differences in numbers and bill characteristics support the suggestion that for sustained coexistence the requirement of mutual ecological independence of closely related species is often greater on islands than on a mainland. This results from the restricted variety of resources and area of islands.
10.2307/2412005|Ecologic characteristics of species of two genera of soil mites. Veigaia and Asca, were investigated. Among ten species of Veigaia, all collected from deciduous forests in central Maryland, there were considerable differences in vertical distribution: some species were restricted to leaf litter, some occurred mainly down in the A
10.2307/2412007|Although the biomass of the planktivorous fish in any lake is but a few per cent of that of the plant and animal plankton, these fish exert a potent influence upon the composition of these lower trophic levels. The vulnerability of the zooplankton to predation, together with the high degree of selectivity exercised by the planktivores in their choice of prey items are responsible for this pervasive effect. Freshwater planktivores appear to prefer large Cladocera, especially Daphnia. Trout and yellow perch, facultative planktivores, switch to non-planktonic food when large Daphnia are not available. Freshwater populations of the primarily marine genus Alosa are obligate planktivores, shifting to progressively smaller zooplankters as the larger, preferred items become scarce. Within each prey category there is strong preference for the largest items. In an experimental observation of Alosa sp. feeding on a small calanoid copepod, the survival time of each instar was inversely proportional to its mean body length. The strong preferences evinced by lacustrine planktivores can shift the competitive balance between the zooplanktonic herbivores, all of which exploit the same supply of particulate food. Whenever or wherever planktivores are absent, large zooplankters like Daphnia pulex are numerically dominant. When planktivory is more intense the large zooplankters are cropped sufficiently to allow smaller, hitherto suppressed, species to become numerous. The interest displayed by facultative planktivores toward decreasing sizes of prey is considered in relation to the shape-size polymorphism characteristic of most limnetic Daphnia.
10.2307/2412008|Collection and analysis of food samples permitted comparison of the diets of five species of terns that occur together on Christmas Island, Pacific Ocean. All the terns feed mainly while flying, catching fish and squid chased to the surface by predatory fish. Sterna fuscata and Anous stolidus, which are of equal size, catch prey of similar kinds and sizes, but S. fuscata can exploit feeding areas further from land, and is more numerous. Gygis alba and especially Anous tenuirostris are smaller and eat smaller prey. Gygis eats many fish and squid of kinds not important to A. tenuirostris, and may catch them at different times. Procelsterna cerulea, the smallest species, eats mainly fish larvae and tiny invertebrates. The three most closely related species. A. stolidus, A. tenuirostris, and Procelsterna, differ mainly in size. The ratios of their weights are 3.8 : 2.0 : 1, but the ratios of the mean volumes of the largest 2 per cent of their fish prey are 30. ca. 7. 1. The reasons for the discrepancy are discussed. The value of data on bill length, bill thickness, and body size in assessing the extent of competition for food among bird species is considered. It is argued that the phenomenon of ecological segregation need not indicate the operation of competitive exclusion, and it is suggested that many natural habitats cannot be assumed to contain the greatest number of related species that could coexist there indefinitely if the opportunity to establish themselves arose.
10.2307/2412001|The classical definition of a species used by most vertebrate systematists employs interbreeding as a primary criterion. For various reasons this definition is inapplicable and new approaches, defining different kinds of species or eliminating criteria dependent on breeding, are being explored. So far the systematic treatment of uniparental forms has employed the same criteria applied to bisexual species and, by analogy, has recognized them as species too. But in several instances the inability of the uniparental form to breed with morphologically similar and, hence, presumably related species has been used as a species criterion, even though crossbreeding between individuals of the unisexual species is impossible. In other instances supplementary criteria such as continuous range, or distinctive niche, augment the usual criteria. The use of the presumed degree of genetic dissimilarity between two taxa is a hazardous approach to species recognition, for a single gene difference propagated parthenogenetically in a clone might be more distinctive phenotypically than differences involving entire genomes. The best systematic approach to this species problem is still morphological and ecological and infers that the taxon under scrutiny is a lineage evolving separately from other lineages.
10.2307/2412003|A technique is described for summarizing the results of a numerical taxonomic study by a principal components analysis (with projecting the OTU's onto the first three principal components) The three-way scatter diagram which results can be constructed as a solid model, as perspective drawings, or stereo pairs. Data on the Hoplitis complex of bees is used as an illustrative example.
10.2307/2412624|Genetic differentiation and the evolutionary relationships among 30 populations, representing five subspecies of inland cutthroat tout, Salmo clarki (Richardson), were studied by examining geographic variation at 35 genetic loci assayed with starch gel electrophoresis. Analysis of population subdivision using Nei's (1973, 1975) H
10.2307/2412625|The geometric equivalence of loci on organisms is used as a basis for the operational definition of point homology. A mathematical and physical method of transforming the organism outline to a unit circle and of mapping the internal points are compared with reference to taxonomic problems in mesostigmatic mites.
10.2307/2412626|The distribution of sample estimates of the coefficient of variation is studied analytically and by Monte Carlo simulation. Derivations are given for the expected value of a coefficient of variation and for its standard error. Various proposed standard errors for coefficients of variation are evaluated. Standard errors are derived for differences between coefficients of variation for samples of independent and correlated characters. Methods are proposed for testing the homogeneity of sets of independent and correlated coefficients of variation. Tests of homogeneity of variability profiles as well as for parallelism of such profiles are furnished.
10.2307/2412623|A data set of 47 morphological characters derived from the literature and original observation is prepared for the Leptopodomorpha. An argument is presented for considering the Leptopodomorpha as a monophyletic group and the Nepomorpha as its sister group. The data set is analyzed by cladistic (Wagner) and phenetic (UPGMA) methods in an effort to arrive at a most natural classification. Predictivity and stability are measured by comparing classifications based on a complete and partial taxon set as well as a random bipartition of the character set. Cladistic analysis produces more stable and predictive classifications with greater consensus and component information. The minimum length Wagner tree has greater information content than the UPGMA phenogram by virtue of its higher cophenetic correlation coefficient and its more parsimonious description of the character data. The Wagner tree is compared with four existing classifications for the Leptopodomorpha in the form of networks and trees. One of the published schemes is represented by the same network as the most parsimonious tree, but contains additional homoplasies as a rooted tree. The remaining published schemes are represented by different networks and describe the data less accurately (in more steps) than the most parsimonious tree. Wagner, UPGMA, and published results are examined for congruence with available ecological and distributional data. The minimum length Wagner tree and a published scheme of Polhemus show maximum congruence. A classification isomorphic with the Wagner tree is proposed as the one which should be used for future studies in the Leptopodomorpha. Objective criteria for evaluating classifications and properties of cladistic and phenetic methods are discussed.
10.2307/2992340|Latent developmental or physiological responses to environment that can be evoked by laboratory manipulation provide an opportunity to reconstruct the history of latitudinal dispersal and invasion of stressful climates. Examples are given from the photoperiodic regulation of gonadal cycles in birds and from photoperiodic and temperature controls over diapause and polyphenism in butterflies.
10.2307/2992339|Differentiation at 20-21 protein-coding genes was examined by conventional techniques of starch-gel electrophoresis among twelve species and seven genera of North American sparrows and relatives, Emberizidae, subfamily Emberizinae. One species representing Fringillidac was also included. Data were summarized in a distance matrix which was subsequently used to infer phylogenetic trees by a variety of methods. Results were generally consistent with current classification. Two salient results were unanticipated: 1) the relatively close genetic similarity of Pipilo to group I Emberizinae; 2) the relatively large genetic distance of Calcarius from other Emberizinae. A search of the literature revealed that the distribution of a behavioral characteristic, "bilateral scratching," had led to a prediction of phylogenetic relationships for these genera fully consistent with the protein information. This result is significant because it lends support to proposals that some behavioral traits are extremely valuable phylogenetic markers. Levels of protein divergence in birds are compared to previous estimates for other vertebrate taxa. At corresponding levels of the taxonomic hierarchy, birds consistently exhibit far smaller genetic distances than do many fishes and other vertebrates.
10.2307/2412643|The evolutionary models of punctuated equilibria and species selection: 1. rely upon a model of species origin from peripheral isolates, and 2. interpret trends as the net result of selection among daughter species, whose morphologies are random with respect to the trend. The punctuational model asserts that gradual morphological change is less important than the sudden and rapid morphological change which occurs at speciation, and that morphological stasis is the rule through most of the duration of a species' history. Several considerations suggest limitations of these models. 1. Peripheral population model-Evolutionary biologists acknowledge a diversity of speciation models. The extinction-of-intermediates allopatric model and the parapatric model do not require peripheral isolates, and suggest that morphological differentiation may likely arise from typical within-species geographic variation. 2. Anagenesis versus speciation-The punctuated equilibria model, by establishing a dichotomy between evolution at speciation and evolution before and after speciation, obscures more about the tempo and mode of evolution than it clarifies. 3. Stasis-The nature of paleontological species level taxonomy requires the identification of species-specific characters which are invariant with time. This confounds the identification of stasis with species identification. Perhaps a comparison of within- versus among-species character variation might suggest whether within-species variation is the "stuff" of larger scale evolution. 4. Species selection-This requires that morphological characteristics of daughter species be random with respect to a long term trend. Ontogenetic and functional morphological interpretations of phylogeny suggest that trends within species are not necessarily random with respect to trends among species. We describe an example (scallops) where the range of possible daughter species is very restricted. We finally describe a test for the effect of average species duration on rate of anagenesis. Comparing species longevities does not adequately predict the extent of morphological divergence.
10.2307/2412642|Many cladistic systematists consider hypotheses of ancestor-descendant relationship untestable in fossils. Although fossil preservation is never complete enough to know which fossil population is actually ancestral, theoretically it is possible to sample the ancestral population. If all potentially ancestral populations were sampled, then some members of the actual ancestral population must be contained in the sample. Preservation of most vertebrate and macroinvertebrate fossils is notoriously spotty. However, marine microfossil sequences are the most complete available in the fossil record. Since most planktonic microorganisms have biogeographic distributions that closely correspond to the extent of major water masses, it is possible to sample each population by sampling the water masses. Lack of preservation due to non-deposition, erosion, or dissolution can generally be recognized. We can tell if absence of a form from an area is real or due to lack of preservation. Piston cores from the entire world ocean are available for all the water masses since the late Miocene. Their stratigraphy can be carefully worked out by at least three independent means of correlation, and in some cases these cores faithfully record events spaced only hundreds of years apart. Thus, in certain pelagic microfossils it is possible to sample all populations that have existed through millions of years, and be confident that no forms of interest remain unsampled. Therefore, the marine microfossil record can meet the criteria necessary to recognize ancestors. An example from the Radiolaria is discussed.
10.2307/2412644|Albumin immunological distance data obtained primarily from the literature are interpreted cladistically for representatives of virtually all recognized groups of eastern Caribbean Anolis. A classification is proposed that differs substantially from the classification of Williams (1976). We argue that our classification is highly concordant with the character states used by Williams to generate his genealogy, but his interpretation cannot be forced into compatibility with the albumin evidence. We make no assumptions about regularity of rates of the albumin molecule, but the null hypothesis that rates of albumin evolution are equivalent along each lineage cannot be falsified.
10.2307/2412661|Major recent challenges to the view that animal speciation is usually allopatric are reviewed, and are found unconvincing, either because of their theoretical implausibility or because of insufficient evidence. Special attention is given to the theory of stasipatric speciation, and to purported cases, especially in tephritid fruit flies, of sympatric speciation associated with a shift to a new host. Stasipatric speciation is unlikely under population genetic theory; moreover, chromosome rearrangements probably seldom facilitate speciation. In the tephritid genus Rhagoletis, the archetypal case of sympatric speciation, there is little or no evidence of genetic divergence or of sympatric speciation. The conditions under which host-associated sympatric speciation might occur are so exacting as to be met by very few species.
10.2307/2412662|Living and extinct species in Equus have not been reviewed for nearly a century. More than twenty morphological, mostly cranial characters of Equus and Dinohippus are here explained; synapomorphies uniting Equus and Dinohippus and autapomorphies within Equus are discussed. Significant outgroups compared are Dinohippus Quinn, Astrohippus Stirton, and Neohipparion Gidley. Cladistic analysis indicates that Equus is a monophyletic taxon closely related to Dinohippus, and that Equus can reasonably be divided into two (and only two) subgenera, Equus (Equus) and Equus (Asinus), each of which is characterized by a suite of autapomorphic features. The North American fossil record contains close relatives of every living species of equid except E. quagga. An examination of the zoogeographic implications of the cladistic hypothesis here presented indicates a complex pattern of migration from North America to Eurasia during Blancan through late Pleistocene time, and a strong zoogeographic relationship between Africa and North America demonstrated by the equids.
10.2307/2412660|G- and C-band data for seventy-eight species of bats from four families were subjected to a cladistic analysis to determine the number of chromosomal rearrangements required to convert the karyotype proposed as primitive for a family into the karyotype of extant species in that family. The number of rearrangements ranged from 0 to 36, and if the age of families is 60 million years, average rate of incorporation of rearrangements per million years ranged from 0 to 0.6. When chromosomal variation in congeneric species were subjected to a similar cladistic analysis, most (34 of 54) species had undergone no chromosomal rearrangements; however, some species had undergone from 14 to 20 rearrangements and the types of rearrangements that were incorporated in species having the largest amount of change were generally rearrangements that should produce considerable reduction in gamete fertility in individuals heterozygous for such rearrangements. Radically reorganized karyotypes appear not only in bats but in a wide variety of vertebrates. Factors related to demography, breeding structure, and speciation do not appear adequate to explain the occurrence of such radically reorganized genomes. Factors less related to demographic and vagility characteristics, such as mutation rate and mechanisms which reduce the meiotic constraints on the heterozygote, are phenomena which may be involved in evolving a radically reorganized karyotype.
10.2307/2412407|In the quantitative phyletic approach to evolutionary taxonomy, quantitative methods are used for inferring evolutionary relationships. The methods are chosen both for their operationism and for their connection to evolutionary theory and the goals of evolutionary taxonomy As an example of this approach, a detailed analysis of a set of anuran characters is presented and taxonomic conclusions based on those characters are drawn. The methods and conclusions of the quantitative phyletic analysis are compared and contrasted with the methods of previous workers in the field of anuran classification.
10.2307/2412409|Certain confusions about the nature of biological classification and the logical difficulties arising from these confusions are discussed. A simple set-theoretic model for hierarchic classification is proposed. It is shown how the model enables us to define the terms commonly used in describing hierarchic classifications, and how theorems may be derived which correspond to the established rules of usage for such classifications. The ways in which the model can be developed to provide an underlying logic for numerical methods of classification are indicated.
10.2307/2412412|Speculation about the phylogenetic position of the archiannelids is reviewed. The Families Polygordiidae, Protodrilidae, Dinophilidae, Saccocirridae and Nerillidae should form the order Archiannelida within the class Polychaeta. A number of comparisons between each of these families and other polychaetes have been made without demonstrating closer relationships than exist among the archiannelids themselves. It has not been proven that the archiannelids are polyphyletic. The archiannelids should not be assigned to any of the recognized orders of polychaetes. To call the archiannelids either secondarily reduced or primitively simple presupposes that the origin of the annelids is known, which is not the case. The characters which originally were applied to set the archiannelids apart as primitive annelids can now be recognized as more truly representing adaptations for interstitial life. It would therefore be best to refer to the archiannelids as an order of polychaetes, primarily adapted for interstitial life.
10.2307/2412408|The effect of random errors in homology on the results of a numerical taxonomic study was investigated. The correlation coefficient was found to be much more sensitive to the effects of these errors than the distance coefficient. These analyses suggest that in a study composed of around 74 characters one could tolerate confusions about homologies in as many as 6 characters, but not very many more.
10.2307/2412411|I have presented an analysis of the species density of the breeding birds of continental Canada, the United States (excluding Hawaii) and Mexico following the method of Simpson (1964) in his analysis of North American mammals; seabirds were not analysed. A map of species density was constructed using a 153 mile square-quadrant grid system super-imposed upon the range data of each species. Many of the same trends that Simpson found for mammals-latitudinal gradient, topographic effect, east-west gradient, peninsula effect-were also displayed in the avian species density pattern. There appeared to be a greater decrease in species density in southeastern United States in birds, and it is suggested that this may reflect historical factors in the form of repeated glaciation. A family density map and a species/family ratio map were also constructed, and shown to reflect trends similar to the species density map. Species density maps were constructed for the seven largest families of birds; these were the Anatidae, Accipitridae, Scolopacidae, Trochilidae, Tyrannidae, Parulidae, and Fringillidae. The characteristic pattern of each family is discussed in relation to historical factors and present ecological conditions.
10.2307/2412410|Frequency distributions of body scale counts show a positive skewness. Plots of sample standard deviations against sample means confirm the log-normal nature (i.e., the variance proportional to the mean) of scale count distributions. Moreover, variation is conservative. so that related species tend to possess similar coefficients of variation for homologous counts. If certain conditions are fulfilled (approximation to linear relationship, origin intercept, and proportionality of scatter to standard deviation), the mean coefficient of variation not only serves as a short-cut method of obtaining a least squares regression estimate of variation, but simultaneously serves as an index of variability uneffected by changes in the mean scale count.
10.2307/2412183|Anolis lizard species have solitary populations on certain West Indian islands. These populations have a narrow range in mean body size, very different for the two sexes, though they inhabit islands varying greatly in area and environmental diversity. Smallsized exceptions to this uniformity are northerly Sizes of males for solitary forms are collectively significantly larger than sizes of males on the richest islands. With increasing species diversity from island to island, species size distributions for males irregularly decrease in median but increase in range and skewness. On the three richest islands, smaller species are significantly more often restricted in geographic range. From simple assumptions about competition for resources, a relation is derived which holds that snout-vent length or some power thereof for a given species is equal to some multiple of the reciprocal of the number of closely related species on its island plus some constant. This relation is shown to better describe data than two alternatives. The ratio of the length of the principal trophic structure (the head) to the entire body length of a given species is sometimes but not always predictable from the number of congeneric species on its island.
10.2307/2412184|An n x t table, recording the results of n different tests or observations on each of t items, contains information which may be used to classify the items (OTU's) according to their similarities and differences. We equate similarity with relative closeness, and difference with relative distance. Relative closeness and relative distance may be thought of as complementary measures of proximity. The process of converting an n \times t table of test results into a t \times t table of proximities between the pairs of items is called proximity analysis. The process of finding any isolated subsets of similar items is called cluster analysis. Taxometric methods are viewed as approaches to compressing the information in an n \times t table into a graphic, best-fit model for the display of proximity and cluster relations among OTU's. Three general approaches are followed. 1) compression before proximity analysis, 2) compression as an intermediate step between proximity and cluster analysis, and 3) compression after cluster analysis. The utility of these approaches is compared. Taxometric maps are introduced as a means to display proximity and cluster relations. A procedure is given for preparing taxometric maps from cluster analysis results, and two examples are presented for illustration. An appendix on similarity and proximity equates three independently derived similarity coefficients, which are shown to be derivable from a city-block metric proximity measure.
10.2307/2412181|In red-winged blackbirds from central North America, geographic variation in wing length is a good indicator of geographic variation in body size. Multiple regression analysis is used to consider the relationship between geographic variation and eight geographic and climatic factors. Variation in males appears inversely related to two factors, latitude and July wet-bulb temperature, while variation in females is inversely related to only wet-bulb temperature. The statistical associations may indicate natural selection in terms of thermoregulatory efficiency.
10.2307/2412185|Immunological measurements of structural differences among the various carnivore albumins were made in order to develop a quantitative phylogeny of the major pinniped taxa. It is shown that the pinnipeds are definitely of monophyletic origin and that the walrus (Odobenus) is of recent derivation from an otariid stock.
10.2307/2412182|Characters that are reliable for cladistic inference are those that are consistent with the true phyletic relationships, that is, those that have little homoplasy. A set of cladistically reliable characters are correlated with each other in a particular non-linear fashion here referred to as hierarchic correlation. Cladistically unreliable characters can be hierarchically correlated only by chance. A technique that infers cladistic relationships by successively weighting characters according to apparent cladistic reliability is suggested, and computer simulation tests of the technique are described. Results indicate that the successive weighting procedure can be highly successful, even when cladistically reliable characters are heavily outnumbered by unreliable ones.
2412187|A preliminary study of a group of parasitic nematodes tested the usefulness of numerical taxonomy in the recognition of overall similarities and groupings. Two approaches were followed, a 7-OTU study involving average character values, and a 27-OTU study using character values taken from individual replicates. Qualitative and quantitative characters were used, with measurements expressed as percentages of total body length. Distance and correlation coefficients were structured by graphic and cluster analysis, and the various groupings obtained in the two studies were compared.
10.2307/2412604|A method of selecting from a data matrix the characters most likely to lead to valid phylogenetic conclusions is put forward, based on the concept of a uniquely derived character and its logical consequences. A coefficient of character-state randomness is defined which gives a measure of how far the distribution of character-states is random between the different characters. These principles are illustrated by application to published data on the seven species of Argodrepana.
10.2307/2412603|Cerion uva (L.) and Tudora megacheilos (Potiez and Michaud) are the dominant land snails of Aruba, Bonaire and Curacao; both display the high degree of intraspecific character variation so often noted in terrestrial gastropods. This study correlates patterns of morphologic diversity with geographic and environmental distribution. Projected upon factor axes, the samples of each species fall into four groups corresponding to degrees of geographic isolation: Aruba, Bonaire, eastern and western Curacao. Factor axes represent the major trends of variation in shell size and shape. Subgrouping within geographic clusters is influenced by environmental parameters. In Cerion, for example, shells collected from volcanic rocks tend to be larger than those from limestone. In all geographic regions, these volcanic samples are distinguished by their higher projection on an axis representing increased size and concomitant changes of shape. Pulmonates usually favor limestone, but the anomaly of Cerion's smaller size is related to the unfavorable climatic conditions associated with limestone areas in the Dutch West Indies (dry, windy, and poorly vegetated). If the morphologic differences among geographic regions are similar to ecologically-induced variation within regions, then interregional differences are probably adaptive, and not a fortuitous result of geographic isolation, as many have claimed. Cerion is small and Tudora large in eastern Curacao; Tudora is small and Cerion large in western Curacac. This interregional relationship is parallelled by significant negative correlations between sizes of the two species for samples within regions. Diversity patterns did not change significantly during 16 years separating the studies of Baker and Hummelinck. Baker's data show the same distinction of four geographic areas and similar patterns of distribution within areas; significant positive correlation exists between measures made by Baker and Hummelinck on samples collected from the same localities. Fossil samples from cave phosphates do not conform to modern distributions. The basic character diversity pattern-good (presumably genetic) distinction among regions and ecologically induced variation within regions-requires a revision of Baker's classification. Separate names for the four regions are warranted, but the cumbersome nomenclature for intraregional diversity should be dropped.
10.2307/2412601|The general aspects of planktonic foraminiferal radiation during the Cenozoic are shown by the distributional patterns of several morphotypic groups. There were two major radiations, one occurring during the Paleogene, the other during the Neogene. The radiations followed severe reductions in diversity which occurred at the close of the Cretaceous and again during the mid-Tertiary. Distributional patterns are iterative, and the Neogene radiation is essentially a repetition of what occurred during the Paleogene. According to the present interpretation, the iterative patterns reflect major changes in the dynamic structure of surface waters. By analogy with the distribution of the modern fauna, it is suggested that thermal barriers were degraded during times of reduction and the oceans were uniformly cool. During the radiations thermal gradients were restored and the structure of the surface waters was essentially as it is today.
10.2307/2412602|Protein extracts of pupae from eight populations of the Rhagoletis pomonella complex (Diptera, Tephritidae) reared on apple, Crataegus, Vaccinium and Gaylussacia were compared serologically using both quantitative (Boyden method) and qualitative (immunodiffusion and immunoelectrophoresis) techniques. Those populations feeding on apples and Crataegus were indistinguishable but were differentiated in all tests from those forms developed on Vaccinium and Gaylussacia, supporting the recognition of two entities, R. pomonella and R. mendax, within the complex. The serological identity of the apple and Crataegus forms substantiates the hypothesis that the apple form may have evolved from a Crataegus-feeding population.
10.2307/2412605|The phenetics of European sparrows, Passer domesticus, P hispaniolensis, and their hybrids, are here examined by univariate and multivariate statistics to determine the nature and direction of phenetic variation and the possible adaptive significance of this variation. There seems to be a close relationship of dimensional and color characters with climatic and other environmental variables; most instances of character variation are strictly clinal, with longer individuals occuring in southerly localities and shorter individuals at northerly localities. Thicknesses of bony elements tend not to vary geographically, so longer-limbed individuals are relatively thinner. Regression analyses suggest a persistent positive relationship between summer temperature and bone lengths, such as is subsumed by Allen's "ecogeographic rule." There is sexual dimorphism in the size of wing and sternal elements, but not of other dimensional characters, meaning that females are proportionally larger in the head and legs than males. Probable causes for this complex dimorphism lie in (1) selection for large body size in males as advantageous in display and fighting, (2) selection for small body size in females for thermoregulatory advantage in closed nests, and (3) common use by both sexes of a single food resource. Results of multivariate cluster analyses are such that specimen localities show regularity in clustering occurrence when grouped by 33 male specimen characters, by 27 female specimen characters, or by 37 mean monthly climatic characters. Such coincidence suggests that at least part of the character variation used to construct infraspecific classifications of these sparrows is elaborated by finely-graded climatic differences.
10.2307/2412330|A number of cases of specific names of animals of various groups, formed with an incorrect genitive ending, or without a genitive ending when one might better have been used, are cited; correct forms are given, and the whole subject is discussed. An addition to the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature is recommended and a plea made for more care in forming names.
10.2307/2412328|Some numerical methods for group-forming are discussed in relation to the important informational requirements of classification. Departures from these requirements are termed informational distortions. Such distortions seem to be almost absent for Relative Heterogeneity and Homogeneity Functions, which are described in detail. However, they may reach serious proportions in the product-moment correlation coefficient, Jaccard's and Czekanowski's similarity coefficients, and mean Euclidean distance. Care is needed to avoid the informational distortions of scatter diagrams and models. Further distortions and losses of information are pointed out for the clustering systems using single, median and group average linkage. Such difficulties are avoided with average member linkage, which is suitable for sets derived from poor sampling (open arrays) where a `looser', space-conserved classification is needed. Probably minimal space-conservation is given with group homogeneity as the test for clustering. This is suited to sets where the sampling has been effectively complete (closed arrays) A criticism of some aspects of principal components analysis, and some notes on interpreting dendrograms are included.
10.2307/2412329|An analysis of morphologic measurements from geographically separated samples of the American lobster, Homarus americanus, was made. The centour concept, which involved inferring an individual's group membership from multivariate data, was used. The study involved identification of inshore and offshore groups of lobsters by means of small shape differences based on simultaneous consideration of linear measurements from 16 body parts. The results of the study showed that definite profile differences existed between inshore and offshore groups when matched by size and sex. The observed differences were greater between inshore and offshore groups than those occurring within geographically separated samples of both inshore and offshore lobsters. The results of the study suggested that relatively little overlap was discernible between the inshore and offshore areas in the characters measured. These studies support inferences made from tagging studies to date.
10.2307/2412324|Some algebraic properties of the cophenetic correlation coefficient (CPCC) are derived. Conditions under which the CPCC is maximized for a phenogram are calculated, and a strategy for finding a phenogram with largest CPCC is described. The desirability of the CPCC as an optimality criterion for classifications is discussed.
10.2307/2412327|The effects of constraints-external conditions imposed on but not inherent in the data-are subtle, and they are as yet insufficiently understood. In line constraint arises when the character states of each Operational Taxonomical Unit are made to add up to some constant, as might be the case with percentage data. A simple transform is indicated. Cross constraint on a classification of OTUs would arise as a result of operations like row standardization. It shows up as a tendency for correlations to go negative, and such standardizations are best avoided if possible.
10.2307/2412323|The authors discuss the problems of describing geographic variation data and develop statistical methods for categorizing sets of populations sampled from different localities. The general approach of the simultaneous test procedures, available with a variety of statistical tests and for continuous as well as for categorical data, is employed with these techniques. Geographical regions are defined as sets of connected localities, with connectedness being defined geometrically. Maximal acceptable connected sets of localities (defined as regions) or coarsest acceptable connected partitions of the entire set of localities are found by these procedures. These are illustrated with several examples.
10.2307/2412326|Inferences about the evolutionary history of a group based upon studies of its living members can only be made utilizing assumptions about evolutionary rates. One such assumption current among biochemists and serologists is that biochemical evolution has been steady and the same in all lineages. If this were so, cladistic relationships could easily be inferred from phenetics. The assumption of strict time-dependency may be interpreted either as a deterministic or as a stochastic statement. In the former case, the form of phenetic groups is logically determined in ways incompatible with the results of serological studies; this is illustrated by examples from the comparative serology of marsupials. A simple computer model for the evolution of a group of hypothetical taxa of known phylogeny, operating according to the rules of a stochastic interpretation of time-dependency, generates data about those taxa very like empirical data on marsupials. However, the inferred cladistics of the hypothetical group are incorrect in many details, and this is indicated by the incompatibility of phenograms representing the affinities of the taxa with their known cladistics. It is not claimed that the model reproduces the conditions of antigen evolution, but that it does indicate that such evolution, if time-dependent, must be so in a stochastic rather than a deterministic sense; and further, that having introduced chance as a factor in the evolution of biochemical characters, one has only a probability of inferring the correct phylogeny of a group from the resulting data about the similarities of contemporaneous taxa.
10.2307/2412325|Data resulting from an immunological study of relationships among fissiped and pinniped albumins show that albumin evolution has occurred in a regular fashion in these taxa. This finding allows the conclusion that the pinnipeds share much more recent common ancestry with the canoids than either group does with the feloids. It is pointed out that it now appears possible to develop an internally consistent quantitative phylogeny for a group of species through the immunological study of a single protein found in that group.
10.2307/2412777|This paper gives a method for obtaining subgroups of objects related by a dendrogram. After showing the relationship between spanning trees and dendrograms, the proposal is made to use the former to obtain a subset of all possible partitions. To decide which of the subsets is best, it is necessary to use a measure of clustering; the desirable attributes of such a measure lead to one which is based on a comparison between an object in its original disposition and on its conjectured group membership. The minimization of this measure, called a loss function, is proposed as the criterion for choosing the "best" groups. A small example illustrates the method.
10.2307/2412776|Species densities of Texas amphibians and reptiles are highly correlated with several components of the physical environment. Multiple regression and partial correlation analyses of these relationships lead to several conclusions: 1) species densities of salamanders, frogs, turtles, lizards, and snakes increase significantly with increasing topographic relief, probably because of the greater number of habitat types that occur in uneven terrain versus flat terrain; 2) altitude, per se, has a negative effect upon species densities of all five groups, especially lizards and snakes; 3) species densities of salamanders and turtles increase with increasing mean annual precipitation, either because of increasing productivity or increasing numbers of aquatic habitats; 4) mean annual temperature and growing season have significant effects on species densities only for salamanders, temperature having a positive effect and growing season a negative effect; 5) with a few exceptions, seasonality and year-to-year variability of climatic factors are not correlated with species densities; and 6) species densities of snakes and, to a lesser degree, lizards increase with increasing species density of small mammals. The mean number of species per genus in each of the five groups of Texas amphibians and reptiles also exhibits considerable geographical variation. Much of this variation is caused by variation in species densities, since species per genus and species density are strongly positively correlated. However, even after this correlation is statistically removed there is extensive geographical variation of numbers of species per genus. Some of this variation can be accounted for by environmental influences: 1) species per genus of frogs and snakes increase significantly with increasing mean annual precipitation, possibly due to increasing uniformity of habitats and 2) species per genus of frogs and, to a smaller degree, snakes increase with increasing altitude. This may be related to decreasing productivity of food resources with increasing altitude.
10.2307/2412774|The following hypotheses are developed by cladistic methodology, using only synapomorphic characters to assess phylogenetic relationships. The sister group of perissodactyls is formed by phenacodont condylarths, as evidenced in both groups by reduction (or absence) of metapodials and reduction (or absence) of the paraconid-paralophid complex on the lower cheek teeth. The taxon Perissodactyla is monophyletic, as defined by the presence of a saddle-shaped, or concave, navicular facet on the astragalus. Within perissodactyls, Hyracotherium and other equids form a monophyletic group, distinct from all non-equid perissodactyls, as evidenced by confluence of the foramen ovale and middle lacerate foramen in the ventral basicranium, and by the optic foramen that has migrated close to, or has become confluent with, a group of posteroventral foramina; anterior lacerate, rotundum, and anterior opening of the alisphenoid canal. The "Palaeotheriidae" are included in the Equidae at a lesser taxonomic rank. Within equids, Orohippus has apomorphic dental characters (greater degree of molarization of the premolars) relative to Hyracotherium. Orohippus and Haplohippus are morphologically similar. The premolars of Epihippus have a degree of molarization greater than those of Orohippus and Haplohippus. The subfamily "Hyracotheriinae" is a paraphyletic taxon and should be abandoned.
10.2307/2412775|Genetic variation at 21 loci as determined by isozyme electrophoresis was examined from 218 specimens of Macrotus representing two species and including both mainland and island populations. Karyotypic and electrophoretic data suggest that specimens from the Antillean population (Macrotus waterhousii) are conspecific with populations of the southern mainland taxa. This high degree of similarity between Antillean and the southern mainland taxa and the tendency for the average heterozygosity of populations to be higher in peripheral populations than at the zone of contact between the two mainland species are best explained by the classical allopatric model of speciation and the data do not support the centrifugal model of speciation in this genus. A reduced degree of average heterozygosity per individual as is thought to be characteristic of island populations was not found for specimens of Macrotus from Jamaica. A decrease in variation is indicated, however, by a reduced number of loci that are polymorphic with most of the heterozygosity of the Jamaican population being in the esterase loci. The high degree of exomorphological similarity in Macrotus is not reflected in genic similarities. Macrotus display the lowest range of interspecific similarities reported for mammalian sibling species and are comparable in protein identities to sibling species of Drosophila.
10.2307/2412779|Anolis lizards of the northern Lesser Antilles were studied with starch gel electrophoresis. A total of 22 genetic loci was analyzed for 15 populations. These data were used to estimate genetic distance between populations, and genetic variation within populations. Genetic distance estimates between populations are considerably lower than the estimates for the ecologically equivalent Anolis roquet species group of the southern Lesser Antilles. The relative proximity of islands in the northern part of the archipelago increases the probability of multiple colonizations, hence introgression, and a relatively slower rate of genetic divergence. The data also suggest that the northern bimaculatus group is evolutionarily younger than the roquet group, hence has had less time for genetic divergence. There is a geographic pattern discernible in the genetic distance data. One very tight cluster involves the southernmost populations studied from Dominica, Guadeloupe, Marie Gallante, and Montserrat; a second cluster includes more northern forms from Redonda, Saba, and St. Martin. Variability is lowest on the three smallest islands, but beyond that, there is no correlation between island size and heterozygosity. Relative degree of heterozygosity may be related to colonization history. Source populations tend to have higher variability than derived populations. The degree of genetic differentiation as estimated electrophoretically is very poorly correlated with differentiation for morphological characters such as body size, color, or pattern.
10.2307/2412778|Lateral plate polymorphism and asymmetry, gill raker number and asymmetry, body size and certain other traits were compared in 25 Gasterosteus aculeatus populations. Fluctuating asymmetry and mean number of lateral plates as well as body size and proportions were correlated with the presence of predatory fish. In the absence of other fish species, gill raker number was correlated with lake area. Fluctuating asymmetry of the lateral plates and gill rakers did not appear to decrease with age; in three populations the converse occurred. Directional asymmetry was present in six populations. Fluctuating asymmetry in these populations does not seem to conform well to current concepts concerning developmental stability and asymmetry.
10.2307/2412510|The known sirenians of the North Pacific comprise one halitheriine species, which became extinct about 12 million years ago, and an unbranching lineage (the Hydrodamalinae) of two genera and possibly six species, ending in Steller's sea cow (Hydrodamalis gigas). On the basis of the temporal and spatial distribution of these forms, their functional morphology, and several basic generalizations about the biology of sirenians and their food, the causal factors in North Pacific sirenian evolution may be reconstructed. Late Tertiary climatic cooling and marine regression on the west coast of North America restricted and changed the character of food resources and habitat, intensifying competition between sirenians and desmostylians and leading the hydrodamalines toward evolution of novel morphological adaptations in a new adaptive zone. Explanation of the latter event, to which the term "quantum evolution" may be applicable, does not seem to require recourse to the concept of "punctuated equilibria."
10.2307/2412509|Advances in our knowledge of fossil sirenians over the past four decades are reviewed and a cladistic phylogeny of the order presented. Salient features of the recently re-prepared type skull of the most primitive known sirenian, Prorastomus (middle Eocene, Jamaica), are summarised.
10.2307/2412511|Classical studies in comparative anatomy in the last century led to the recognition of a tripartite subdivision of the living Carnivora, modified in this century into a bipartite subdivision formalized in most classifications at superfamily rank (Canoidea and Feloidea). Osteological characters, particularly those of the cranium, support the sister-group relationship of the Canoidea and Feloidea and permit their recognition into early Oligocene time. Analysis of the Canoidea further supports the sister-group relationship of the Canidae (Cynoidea) with the Ursidae-Procyonidae-Mustelidae (Arctoidea) as classically perceived. These groups are also recognizable on osteological criteria in the Oligocene. Recent studies in the comparative anatomy, paleontology and immunology of the pinnipeds have reinforced their phylogenetic affinity with the Arctoidea. Paleontology and comparative anatomy in particular have presented a convincing case of sister-group relationship of the Ursidae (especially the Amphicynodontinae) with the Otarioidea (including the extinct Enaliaretinae). A major gap in the early history of the Phocidae limits paleontological contribution to the question of their precise sister-group within the Arctoidea. The early Miocene aquatic arctoid Potamotherium fulfills many of the morphological criteria deduced for a phocid sister-group when autapomorphous characters of the living and fossil phocids are removed. Posteranial resemblances are particularly strong reflecting the reliance of Potamotherium on body flexion in swimming as in the phocids. Potamotherium retains a differentiated dentition and cranial characters which can be compared with other arctoids and these agree most unequivocably with those of the mustelids suggesting a specific sister-group relationship of the Mustelidae with the seals and Potamotherium. Thus the osteological evidence supports a specific sister-group relationship of the otariids with the ursids and of the phocids (including Potamotherium and its close relative Semantor) with the mustelids within the Arctoidea. By contrast immunological comparisons provided to date suggest a sister-group relationship of the pinnipeds as a whole with the remaining Arctoidea. A cladogram (Fig. 5) summarizes the criteria for recognition of the sister-groups within the Canoidea and suggests a new classification which would express the phylogenetic conclusions of this paper.
10.2307/2412508|Geologic formations on the west coast of North America from Baja California, Mexico to central California, U.S.A., provide fossil evidence for a succession of Tertiary cetacean assemblages. Formations representing time periods of stage magnitude from early Miocene to Pleistocene age produce diverse aggregates of Cetacea containing fewer species than can now be found in latitudes corresponding to the Californian Province in the Pacific Ocean. Most fossil assemblages include a sperm whale, several dolphin-like taxa, and 3 or 4 baleen whales, although taxonomy is unstable, and many specimens cannot be assigned to named genera and species. New records of the earliest North Pacific occurrence of the families Balaenidae, Ziphiidae, Monodontidae, Phocoenidae, and Delphinidae (sensu stricto) date from the Miocene, and of the Eschrichtiidae from the Pleistocene. Squalodontidae are notable by their rarity. Early Miocene assemblages are dominated by Eurhinodelphidae, and late Tertiary ones by Stenodelphininae and primitive Balaenopteridae. On the generic level, there is a high degree of endemism among small Odontoceti, and a low degree among Physeteridae and Mysticeti. Collecting biases and deficiencies prevent recognition of antitropical distributions of fossil taxa, and paleoclimatology can not yet be inferred from the fossils.
10.2307/2412507|Early in the Oligocene Epoch, Cetacea of the primitive suborder Archaeoceti had already declined sharply from their apparent abundance in Eocene seas. By the beginning of the Miocene, archaeocetes are known to have survived only in the northeast Atlantic and southwest Pacific Oceans. Concurrently with this decline, the first members of the suborders Odontoceti and Mysticeti appeared. They are known from only a few specimens, mostly in upper Oligocene deposits, on both coasts of North America, in Germany, Austria, Italy, the Caucasus, Azerbaijan, Australia, and New Zealand. Two important odontocete genera, Agorophius and Xenorophus, come from beds that are probably no older than late Oligocene and that are certainly not as old as Eocene, where these genera have previously been placed. The wide distribution of known Oligocene Cetacea, especially their presence in Australia and New Zealand, indicates the probable existence of a cosmopolitan cetacean fauna by the end of Oligocene time. The Oligocene Odontoceti are represented by Agorophius and related forms and by the Squalodontidae. Several types of skull telescoping are shown by contemporary members of these groups. Recently collected squalodont skulls from the Oligocene of South Carolina show differences in the pattern of eranial bones that may be ontogenetic. Some toothed whales have morphologic features that have led to their being assigned variously to Archaeoceti and Mysticeti because they are regarded as representing a transitional stage between the two suborders. These forms are all of late Oligocene age; they cannot be mysticete ancestors because true Mysticeti are known from middle Oligocene deposits.
10.2307/2412514|The recently discovered fossil seals from the Middle Sarmatian deposits of South Dobrogea provide a basis for clarifying the taxonomic and evolutionary problems of the Paratethyan seals. Few of the named fossil species are satisfactorily known and the lack of stratigraphic controls on these fossils makes interpretation of their evolutionary history difficult. Study of the South Dobrogea fossil seal fauna, representing mainly Phoca pontica, and re-examination of Simionescu's and Macarovici and Oescu's classic collections enables the recognition of specific variability in Phoca pontica which was widely dispersed in Eastern Paratethys. In addition, it enables preliminary characterization of the imperfectly known Phoca sarmatica and Phoca bessarabica which provides a basis for interpreting the evolution of the Paratethyan seals.
10.2307/2412513|Phocid distribution suggests origin in and primary radiation from the North Atlantic-Paratethyan region. Phocines and monachines are equally old groups, known first from the lower middle Miocene Calvert Formation. Phocines dominated Paratethys in semi-isolation. Both groups dispersed freely around the margins of the North Atlantic in Miocene and Pliocene time. Phocines entered the North Pacific, probably from the north, in Pliocene time, and have modernized and radiated in latest Cenozoic time, exclusively in the cold waters of the northern hemisphere. Monachine distribution receded southward in the North Atlantic during latest Cenozoie time, and in the Pliocene they spread into both the southern hemisphere, where they radiated in the empty Antarctic, and into the Pacific via the middle American seaway.
10.2307/2412512|The order Otarioidea includes two living and two extinct families. Of these four, the extinct Enaliarctidae were ancestral to the others and were derived from canoid fissiped carnivores. This family, which was most diverse from 22 to 16 million years ago, rapidly developed the locomotor, cerebral, and olfactory adaptations to marine life. The extinct Desmatophocidae and the extant Odobenidae (walruses) and Otariidae (sea lions) evolved from the Enaliarctidae at different times and in the order in which they have been mentioned. Each of these three went through their period of greatest diversity in the same order; the Otariidae of today represent the period of greatest diversity of this family. Each of these three independently developed similar dental, vascular, and social adaptations to marine existence but in different ways. All families were native to the North Pacific. The odobenids alone entered the North Atlantic through the Central American Seaway about 8 million years ago, and the otariids alone invaded the southern hemisphere by 5 million years ago.
2412515|Although fossil remains of marine mammals were reported from western Oregon as early as 1849, collections and knowledge of them have grown slowly and haltingly until recently. Milestones have been discovery and description of the specimens on which are based the pinnipeds Pontolis magnus (True) 1905 and Desmatophoca oregonensis Condon 1906, the desmostylian Desmostylus cymatius Hannibal 1922, and the cetaceans Cophocetus oregonensis Packard and Kellogg 1934 and Aetiocetus cotylalveus Emlong 1966. Beginning in 1956 and continuing to the present Douglas Emlong of Lincoln City, Oregon, has amassed an unparalleled collection of fossil marine mammals, including approximately 1000 specimens from coastal Oregon, of which some 85 are desmostylians, 360 are pinnipeds, 3 are fissipeds, and the remainder cetaceans. Specimens are known from the Oligocene to the lower Pleistocene; from the Alsea, Yaquina, Nye, Astoria, Empire, Port Orford, and Elk River Formations. As specimens continue to be prepared and studied the Emlong Collection will yield many of the answers to problems of origin, evolution, and interrelationships of many lineages of marine mammals, and will contribute significantly toward establishment of fossil marine mammals as a powerful tool in geologic correlation over long distances.
10.2307/2412739|Tests were made to ascertain the effect upon computed phenetic distance values of using different character-sets. Random selection of various sized subsets of the total character-list were made in order to simulate the differences which occur due to mixed, missing data. The phenetic distances were computed from sub-sets of characters which were selected from lists of characters for bromels, milkweeds, and legumes. Distances are treated as new variates. Means and standard deviations were found for the OTU x OTU distance matrices computed with less than and more than 50% of the total character-set. While significant differences were revealed between means computed with character-sets of 13 and 30% of the total, matrical summary statistics did not differ significantly when the number of characters represented 50% or more of the total set. Some evolutionary connotations are discussed. Tests showed little evidence of heterogeneity of variance. The results support the use of summary statistics of phenetic distance matrices to express intra-group variation, but with the caution that the biologist should be aware of the actual number of characters being used to compute the phenetic distances.
10.2307/2412736|The isopod families Eurycopidae and Ilyarachnidae constitute an important component in deepsea macrofaunal communities. They have been treated as distinct but closely related families by previous workers. We discuss two little known taxa from the deep sea which completely blur the distinction between the families. The condition of these taxa clearly documents the evolutionary origin of the Ilyarachnidae in the Eurycopidae and permits us to discuss major evolutionary events at the intrafamilial level.
10.2307/2412737|New species of opisthobranch mollusks often have been erected on numerical differences of the radular teeth. Regression analyses of radular counts of Discodoris evelinae (comprising also the synonymized species, D. hedgpethi) indicate intraspecific variation is ontogenetic. Predictions are given regarding the occurrence of this phenomenon among opisthobranchs, and suggestions are made for the use of radular characteristics in opisthobranch systematics.
10.2307/2412743|Linnaean nomenclature in its present form cannot represent phylogenies unambiguously when fossil species are included. It is possible to avoid this difficulty by discontinuing the classification of taxa into Linnaean categories. The features of the resulting unclassified hierarchy and the way in which newly discovered taxa may be inserted in it are explained. Taxa may be classified in different ways, for instance into age classes or into evolutionary grades. The Linnaean category names, with their essentialist connotations, are inappropriate in either case. The international codes of nomenclature should be concerned primarily with the rules for naming taxa and should not prescribe how classes (categories) should be named and used. The prescription of suffices to indicate categorical rank conflicts with the stated aim of the codes to promote stability of nomenclature, and should be discontinued. While binomial nomenclature will surely be retained, a difference of logical status between the forenames of Quaternary and earlier species will need to be recognized.
10.2307/2412738|The striking year-to-year color variation in natural populations of Phymata americana Melin is strongly correlated with an environmental variable, average April temperature, i.e., temperature during the egg stage. Amount of dark pigment in the color pattern (as measured by the character Ca) was strongly negatively correlated (-0.42 to -0.89) with April temperature in nine out of ten populations monitored over a period of six to eight years. Comparisons of color variation in P. americana are made with that of some other insects whose adaptive strategies require a more stringent control of year-to-year color variation.
10.2307/2412744|The processes which contribute to the evolution of biological species take place at a variety of levels of organization; e.g., genes give rise to other genes, organisms give rise to other organisms, and species give rise to other species. All of these processes require continuity through descent. If species are to be units of evolution, they need not be composed of similar organisms; instead they must be made up of organisms related by descent. Taxonomists do not impose this requirement on the phenomena; rather it follows from the nature of the evolutionary process itself. In addition to spatiotemporal continuity, species must also possess a certain degree of unity to function as units of evolution. Gene exchange is one means by which such unity can be promoted. The mechanisms by which asexual species maintain a similar unity are problematic; higher taxa pose an even more serious problem. However, if species are chunks of the genealogical nexus, they cannot be viewed as classes. Instead they possess all the characteristics of individuals-that is, if organisms are taken to be paradigm individuals. The major difference between organisms and species as individuals is that organisms possess a largely fixed genetic makeup which constrains their development, whereas species do not. If species are individuals, then their names are most naturally viewed as proper names, names which denote particular individuals but do not possess any intensional meaning.
10.2307/2412740|Results are presented of an empirical analysis on the statistical consequences of compounding ratios of continuous variables. Three commonly employed relationships among the ratio variables Y and Z were examined including 1) Y = X
10.2307/2412735|It is suggested that the role of ballooning as a mechanism of intercontinental dispersal in spiders has been greatly overemphasized, at least for medium-sized and large ground-dwelling species; that most intercontinental distribution patterns in spiders are the result of vicariance in response to changing geography rather than chance dispersal; and that hypotheses based on vicariance, unlike those involving ballooning, are testable (by correlation with known geological events) and have predictive value. An analysis of the vicariance patterns of the genera of the spider subfamily Laroniinae and the species of the genus Callilepis is presented, and is tested by correlation with the geological events involved in the breakup of Pangaea according to current theories of continental drift; this analysis was successfully used to predict the occurrence of Eilica in India before any Asian specimens of that genus were known.
10.2307/2412742|Speciation phenomena are discussed with special consideration of those taxa that are near the species-level borderline. Such forms, when judged to represent full species, have been termed "allospecies," and are designated by use of brackets (Amadon, 1966). There is a need to designate and treat the complementary phenomenon, namely those well-marked forms approaching the level of species, but nonetheless judged to be conspecific. To fill this void we suggest employment of parentheses to designate these latter forms, and we offer "megasubspecies" as a term for them. For example, one can treat the Savannah Sparrow, Passerculus (sandwichensis) sandwichensis, citing its various minor subspecies in the usual way, and, as a megasubspecies, the "Ipwich Sparrow," Passerculus (sandwichensis) princeps, a distinctive isolate that often is considered a separate species. Other examples are provided to illustrate the use of parentheses for megasubspecies as an adjunct to the use of brackets for designating allospecies of superspecies. It is hoped that the use of parentheses for megasubspecies will prove as useful in preparing checklists, in zoogeographical analyses, and in other ways as are brackets for designating allospecies.
10.2307/2412495|Several aspects of present classificatory theory lead to logical weaknesses in phylogenetic classification and practical difficulties in classifying fossil forms. Modifications of classificatory methods are proposed to resolve these problems. The use of monotypic taxa has no logical basis and should be abandoned. (Species and genera must be exempted from this rule for reasons of nomenclature.) In consequence, sister groups may not be required to have the same rank. Phylogenetic classification can nonetheless properly represent sister group relationships. Categorical rank may not be determined by age of origin. Age of differentiation may be used to assign rank, as may temporal span: the elapsed time between the differentiation of a monophyletic group and the extinction of the group's last species (or the present, for living groups). Category names should be generated by a systematic rule, to avoid confusion if many ranks are required. Categorical ranks may not be analogized formally to integers, but should be regarded as rational numbers.
10.2307/2412488|A "center of origin" explanation for the distribution and diversity patterns of the organisms comprising the principal shallow-water habitats in the tropics-hermatypic corals, mangroves, and sea-grasses-is highly unlikely, based on fossil data and the dispersal capabilities of the organisms. Instead, these biogeographic patterns are better explained by the existence of a previously widely-distributed biota which has since been modified by tectonic events, speciation, and extinction, in accordance with modern geological and biogeographical theory.
10.2307/2412489|A conceptual model for the evolution of phenotypic diversity of the threespine stickleback on the Pacific coast of North America is presented. This model takes into account biological characteristics of the three-spine stickleback and climatic changes during Pleistocene times. Biological features considered include: (1) life history patterns in freshwater and anadromous populations; (2) distribution of freshwater and anadromous populations; (3) morphological variation in freshwater populations; (4) genetics of morphological features; (5) the characteristics of highly divergent populations and their distribution in time and space; (6) character displacement. Previous models for the evolution of phenotypic diversity and the interactions of selection and gene flow are considered. Hypotheses concerning protein evolution in Pacific coast sticklebacks are generated from the model. These hypotheses depend on recent evidence that protein evolution does not have a cause and effect relationship with phenotypic divergence and speciation. A causal relationship between the unusual mode of evolution in western North American Gasterosteus and their low haploid DNA content is tentatively suggested. If the model is correct, freshwater subspecies proposed by Miller and Hubbs (1969) for the nominal species Gasterosteus aculeatus are polyphyletic.
10.2307/2412491|A new approach to invertebrate taxonomic keys is presented in the form of identification manuals. These guides are written in a style useful for the professional systematic specialist, but at the same time allow the general biologist to easily and accurately identify invertebrates. The manuals incorporate the use of several distinct but complementary formats, enabling the user to approach identifications from different perspectives. Biramous pictorial keys of the type employed by the U. S. military forces for insect disease vectors during World War II offer inexperienced persons a vehicle for easy and accurate identifications of otherwise difficult and obscure groups. These are followed by the more traditional dichotomous keys which have been modified to include more detailed information than is possible with the pictorial keys. These, in turn, are followed by detailed tabular keys which present complete diagnoses at a glance. Full descriptive material and illustrations are included, the latter also arranged in "tabular" form so that similar aspects of related taxa are presented together. Complete, illustrated glossaries are provided which include corresponding terms employed by other authors; the French and German equivalents are also given where appropriate. It is hoped that this approach will make the primary literature more accessible to the general reader.
10.2307/2412494|In view of the growing concern that evolutionary information obtained from morphological data may differ in content from evolutionary information from molecular data, we have asked whether morphological data yield phyletic interpretations consistent with those inferred from allozymes. Minimum length Wagner trees were calculated from sets of morphometric and allozyme data on sixteen populations representing five nominal species of Menidia (Teleostei, Atherinidae). The two sets of characters yield nearly perfectly congruent evolutionary trees, despite the fact that phenetic analyses reveal very great disparity between the similarity structures of the morphometrics and the allozymes. A quantitative method for estimating convergence and parallelism was developed and revealed no significant differences in the proportions of these types of homoplasy for the two data sets. This cladistical method for estimating convergence is contrasted with partially phenetic methods used in the past; the later are shown to be incorrect. Mosaic evolution between morphometries and allozymes is demonstrated statistically, and shown to result from heterogeneous rates of apomorphy, rather than from a preponderance of plesiomorphy in one data set. This mosaicism is the probable source of the large phenetic disparity. We conclude that 1) cladistical, rather than phenetic, methods are required for the analysis of character evolution, and 2) that the ease of obtaining sufficient information, rather than presumed inherent differences between characters, should determine which characters are used for evolutionary taxonomic inference.
10.2307/2412490|Electrophoretic analysis of proteins encoded by polymorphic loci demonstrates that Etheostoma spectabile populations show greater differentiation in allelic frequencies in an area of sympatry with E. radiosum than in an area of allopatry. The data are more compatible with the assumption that degree of gene-flow rather than natural selection is the primary mechanism maintaining local differentiation. Increased heterogeneity in sympatry is attributed to exclusion of spectabile from downstream areas through competition with radiosum, thereby isolating spectabile in headwater areas and restricting gene flow between populations. In sympatry, spectabile showed greater differentiation than radiosum, presumably because of greater gene flow in the latter.
10.2307/2412492|Recent improvements in construction and use of tabular keys are described. These are (1) an increase in the cognitive value of codes for character variants by use of longer codes, (2) routine inclusion of up to 20 characters at each level, both in the tables, and also on the data cards, (3) introduction of cross-references of characters between different key groups in the tables, (4) the introduction of a standardized card for statements of characters, and (5) the adoption of a uniform system of numbering key groups to show their level in the key. Additional information is given on (1) how compound characters may be used to enhance clarity of statements of characters, (2) the coding of continuously varying characters, and (3) techniques for expediting the coding of characters. Preparation of diagnoses of species or other taxa from the tables or from the data cards is described. Advantages and disadvantages of computerization of tabular keys are discussed briefly with the balance being in favor of non-computerized keys.
10.2307/2412493|A set of intuitively obvious properties of a coefficient of similarity for binary data is established. Critical examination of the coefficients available from the literature shows that none of them satisfies all these properties, and a new coefficient is proposed to obviate this inconvenience. The distribution of the new coefficient is studied on very large, perfectly random samples of OTU's, and a table is constructed to show its critical values at different significance levels. A mathematical appendix is given to demonstrate the procedure used to construct perfectly random samples of different size.
10.2307/2413341|Previously developed phylogenetic hypotheses for Neotropical colubrids are used as a framework to interpret the biogeographic history of these lineages. The distributions of members of two lineages of xenodontines, which comprise most of the Neotropical colubrid fauna, are documented. One lineage, the Central American clade, has its greatest generic diversity throughout Central America and is poorly represented in North and South America. In contrast, the other major Neotropical xenodontine lineage shows its highest generic diversity in Amazonian and southern South America. Species richness patterns for each clade generally correspond with those shown at the generic level, with the exception that the Central American component has a high species richness in the Andes of Colombia and Ecuador due primarily to the presence of a large number of species of Atractus. Significant dispersal by Central American xenodontines into South America is inferred, but South American xenodontines are poorly represented outside South America. The major phyletic separation of Neotropical xenodontines into Central and South American clades is inferred to result from a late Cretaceous or early Tertiary vicariance or concordant dispersal event. This pattern corresponds to that shown by other components of the Neotropical biota. The relationships of the West Indian xenodontines do not conform to the commonest pattern predicted by general biogeographic models for the Caribbean; moreover, the suggested temporal framework for this radiation implicates dispersal as a plausible mechanism for its deployment. Xenodontines are suggested to be the oldest members of the Neotropical colubrid fauna, and probably date from the late Cretaceous or early Tertiary in that region. Their earlier history is uncertain, and may be with either northern taxa or with a Gondwanan-derived fauna in South America. Colubrines and natricines are much more recent components of the Neotropical fauna. For investigating mechanisms in historical biogeography, the desirability of deriving temporal estimates for the separation of major components of a biota independently of biogeographic considerations is emphasized.
10.2307/2413344|Some systematists, pattern cladists in particular, have recently argued that phylogenetic patterns are essentially a reflection of the "orderliness of ontogeny." In fact, these authors contend that information derived from the study of ontogenetic sequences is the most reliable source to determine character polarities. Heterochronic analysis, in spite of its emphasis on process over pattern, shares many of the same assumptions about ontogeny. This is because both systematic and heterochronic analyses belong to the comparative tradition of embryology. Essentially, ontogeny is viewed as a sequence of morphological stages that are assumed to be conserved. Furthermore, in spite of claims that the analyses are based on Von Baer's law, the approach is fundamentally Haeckelian, since its comparison of ontogenies (at least in the manner currently done in systematics and heterochrony) requires that embryonic stages be homologized with adult stages. Nelson's revised "biogenetic law" is used as an example to illustrate these points. The nature and informational value of ontogenetic sequences are examined and I conclude that, in contrast with strictly temporal sequences, the only "meaningful" sequences (in the sense that they will be conserved through phylogeny) are the causal ones, where the antecedent stage is required for the expression of the subsequent one. However, I present some examples of causal sequences where inductive relationships change through phylogeny. Therefore, there are no good arguments to assume a priori that ontogenetic sequences are conserved. A more fundamental problem is pointed out when I discuss that the methodology of comparison of ontogenetic sequences, used by systematists and heterochronists, is not compatible with the dynamic perspective of development endorsed by experimental and mechanistically-oriented embryologists. Examples are provided where, although the process can be arranged in a sequence of stages, these are effectively meaningless and useless in a systematic context. Two additional empirical cases are discussed where a heterochronic analysis is integrated within a dynamical framework of development. A paradox emerges, since the resultant morphology in the derived species is not represented in the primitive ("ancestral") ontogenetic sequence, in spite of the fact that it has been produced by a regulation in the timing and developmental rates of the ancestral ontogeny. I conclude that these problems result from the usage of a static and unrealistic view of ontogeny. A major challenge in systematics will be to incorporate the dynamic perspective of development into a methodological framework amenable to comparative analysis. I agree with Nelson and others in that development is ordered and that this internal order structures pattern. However, the information is not necessarily in the ontogenetic sequence.
10.2307/2413343|The hypothesis of monophyly of the avian family Tyrannidae is tested using outgroup comparison of traditional characters, as well as several characters examined in recent studies of the group. No characters support the original hypothesis, but possession of internal cartilages in the syrinx and an intrinsic syringeal muscle, M. obliquus ventralis, supports monophyly of a slightly larger group. A published phylogeny based on DNA-DNA hybridization data suggests a different view: that the Tyrannidae is not monophyletic; and that some traditional tyrannids are more closely related to members of the Cotingidae and Pipridae than to the rest of the family as currently recognized. The significance of the different results of these approaches is discussed.
10.2307/2413342|Cladistic analysis of restriction endonuclease cleavage map data, particularly from animal mitochondrial DNA, is considered within a maximum-likelihood framework. The required probability model of evolutionary change is developed from current empirical evidence, and is specific to mtDNA. A large asymmetry is shown to exist between the probabilities of gaining a new site and losing an existing site, with the loss of a site being the much more common event. Since Wagner parsimony assumes that the probabilities of forward and reverse changes are equal, it is a very inefficient estimator of relationships for these data. Dollo parsimony, on the other hand, assumes that the probability of a loss is much greater than that of a gain, an assumption of Dollo parsimony which fits restriction map data well. Dollo parsimony is shown to be a consistent and efficient estimator of phylogeny for mtDNA restriction map data.
10.2307/2413345|An image-analytic technique that automatically determines the outlines for simple silhouettes is described. These outlines are numerically characterized using elliptic Fourier decomposition. Since the resulting Fourier coefficients can be normalized so that they are invariant to changes in magnification and rotation as well as other such transformations of the original silhouette, they quantify shape per se, and can be used as variables in multivariate analysis of form. In an application, discriminant analysis distinguishes between electrophoretically distinct populations of the mussel Mytilus edulis. While the technique was able to demonstrate an association between genotype and morphology, it was not able to identify reliably the population from which each specimen was collected.
10.2307/2413203|The systematic relationships within the speciose genus Corydoras have been very difficult to elucidate due to similar body forms among species, lack of discrete morphological features, and uncertain homologies of pigmentation patterns. Most taxa have been described on the basis of pigmentation and of proportional differences in body measurements, which often are variable within and among conspecific populations. Multivariate comparisons of body form among species indicate that both meristic and mensural attributes are highly correlated with body size, thus displaying strong evolutionary allometry. Most ratios of measurements, including those often considered diagnostic among taxa, are as strongly dependent on body size as are untransformed measurements; however, some bivariate ratios reflect multivariate patterns of shape variation and, thus, may be useful in descriptive taxonomic studies. Size-independent variation in form seems to be continuous among species, with no apparent morphological gaps with which to distinguish "natural" species groups. Thus, changes in morphology in these fishes are highly conservative and result from subtle, perhaps heterochronic changes in relative growth rates among body structures.
10.2307/2413207|Forms of Levene's test for evaluating relative variation (univariate) are compared by simulation, along with the F-test of ratios of squared coefficients of variation, the F-test of ratios of variances of logarithms, and Bartlett's test on logarithms. Only the Levene's tests using the medians were always robust. These consisted of transforming each of a set of sample variates X<sub>i</sub> to Y<sub>i</sub> = |X<sub>i</sub> - Md(X<sub>i</sub>)|/Md(X<sub>i</sub>) or to Y<sub>i</sub> = |ln X<sub>i</sub> - Md(ln X<sub>i</sub>)| for comparison by ANOVA, where the Md's represent the medians. The use of medians with the log transformation was slightly more powerful when the underlying distributions were positively skewed, while the use of the untransformed ratio form of the test was slightly more powerful when the distributions were symmetrical or negatively skewed. Recommendations and some problems that remain are discussed.
10.2307/2413205|Allelic frequency data were used to identify familial limits within the avian superfamily Tyrannoidea. Several hypotheses were generated from this data set using distance-Wagner, Fitch-Margoliash, and cladistic analyses. In addition, a jackknifing procedure was employed to identify those portions of the phylogenetic hypotheses that were robust to such factors as the choice of taxa analyzed. The genus Sapayoa, previously considered to be a manakin (Pipridae), was found to be distant from all other taxa considered. The true affinities of this taxon, therefore, may lie outside of the Tyrannoidea. The electrophoretic data also indicated that the 12 cotinga species (Cotingidae) analyzed belong to five distinct lineages, each of unknown affinity within the superfamily. Finally, sister taxa were identified for the monogeneric families Oxyruncidae and Phytotomidae. The former was found to be closely related to tityras, becards, and flycatchers (as indicated by Myiarchus), while the latter family is closely related to the cotinga genera Ampelion, Doliornis, and Zaratornis. The improved ability to determine higher-level relationships within this assemblage was considered a consequence of the use of biochemical characters, the interpretation of which is greatly simplified because of the stochastic nature of molecular evolution. However, conflicts between this and a recent DNA-DNA hybridization study indicate that the extraction of phylogenetic information from biochemical data may not be as free from assumptions as we would like. Several explanations for this lack of concordance are discussed.
10.2307/2413204|Phylogenetic trees, derived from distance measures, may be of variable reliability due to variance in the quality of the data sets from which they are produced. Such trees, therefore, are of questionable value as a means of summarizing large data sets. To improve our confidence in these trees, a jackknife technique is presented that, in combination with existing consensus techniques, identifies those portions of evolutionary history that are poorly known due to inconsistencies in the data. Such trees more accurately represent the results of a study than do current tree-generating algorithms that obscure areas of uncertainty. The approach is a simple modification of existing tree-generating methods. As an illustration, a biochemical data set is analyzed using this technique.
10.2307/2413206|Phyletic, biogeographic, and ecologic relationships among relictual montane populations of least chipmunks (Eutamias minimus) from Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico were examined by analysis of pelage color, cranial and bacular morphology, protein electrophoresis, and habitat characteristics. Unlike previous investigations of geographic variation involving these populations, a pattern of relationship and differentiation corresponding to contemporary geographic discontinuities in the Southwest is demonstrated. Populations along the east and west sides of the Rio Grande Valley constitute distinct evolutionary lineages, with the most geographically isolated populations exhibiting the greatest amount of genetic divergence. This pattern of differentiation is consistent with the hypothesis that montane corridors present during the Pleistocene facilitated colonization by ancestral northern stocks in accordance with vicariant biogeographic theory. Microhabitat assessments demonstrate that least chipmunks inhabit a diverse spectrum of environmental regimes ranging in elevation from 2,400 to 3,900 m, and encompassing several habitat types. These results are consistent with observations on other populations of this species, yet contradict the hypothesis that least chipmunks in the Southwest have such restrictive ecologic requirements as to be predisposed to rapid extinction during interglacial episodes of the Pleistocene. The significance of this study to the most recent vicariant explanation of southwestern montane mammal biogeography is discussed.
10.2307/2413326|A method to measure how similar are two phylogenetic trees for the same collection of evolutionary units (EUs) is described. The measure does not change with changes in the direction of evolution in either of the two trees being compared, and thus it depends only on the convexity and proximity of the groups of EUs within the collection under study. It can also be used with only partially resolved phylogenetic trees. The measure is based on the idea that a group of four EUs is the smallest group for which there is more than one possible distinct undirected phylogenetic tree. For a given phylogenetic tree, the undirected subtree inherited by a group of four EUs is the tree that results when all the branches containing only EUs not in this group of four are removed. Every group of four EUs either inherits one of three distinct types of undirected phylogenetic trees, or is unresolved. Two phylogenetic trees can be compared on the basis of which groups of four EUs inherit the same type of undirected phylogenetic tree. The ideas can be extended to comparisons of three or more trees.
10.2307/2413321|Computer selection of random sets of real characters was used to elucidate the relationship between character number and the reliability of multivariate patterns of geographic variation. The simple pattern of geographic variation was a distinct pair of parapatric races (categorical or "stepped clinal" variation) in the grass snake (Natrix natrix) in Europe. The characters used were 71 significant characters of low within-group correlation drawn from six different character systems (e.g., scalation, color pattern and internal morphology). The pattern was assessed by principal coordinate analysis, and the congruence was taken as the absolute correlation between the "first" principal coordinates. The investigation was based on two procedural models: (A) the congruence between completely independent character sets using from 1 to 35 characters; and (B) the congruence between the analysis based on the total 71 characters and analyses based on from 1 to 65 characters. The relationship between congruence and character number is expressed by one of two mathematical models depending on the procedural model employed. Congruence is clearly asymptotic with respect to character number. This indicates the existence of a stable, overall pattern of racial variation that, once established, is unlikely to be influenced by the addition of further characters. The asymptotes are reached at an early stage and, between 8 to 10 characters, reveal the distinct patterns of racial variation with at least 90% confidence, depending upon whether one is characterizing patterns on the basis of a geographic transect or a scatter on the first two principal coordinates. It does not appear to be cost effective to use more than 18 significant characters, because each additional character increases the minimum congruence by very little beyond this point. Univariate characters, and those patterns based on too few characters, can misrepresent this stable pattern. The observed failure of univariate/conventional studies to reveal this pattern, or to agree with one another, is related to the low probability of selecting the appropriate individual characters, even though they occur.
10.2307/2413323|For three species in the presence of a molecular clock, it is possible to compute how many steps a phylogeny must have to be significantly worse than the most parsimonious phylogeny. This analysis extends the pioneering work of Cavender (1978, 1981) by taking advantage of the constraints imposed by the assumption of a molecular clock. The distribution of two statistics is obtained by direct enumeration of all possible outcomes in a worst-case phylogeny which has a trifurcation. The two statistics are the number of fewer steps in the best tree than in the next best tree, and the number of "phylogenetically informative" characters supporting the best tree. These two statistics prove to be approximately equivalent in statistical power, and tables of 95%-significance values are provided for each. The possible extension of these results to more than three species is discussed. The enumeration of all outcomes also allows us to compute exact tail probabilities for Templeton's (1983) test of one tree against another. His test is not exactly correct, but usually is conservative when used as a two-tailed test.
10.2307/2413324|Twelve taxonomic characters of the genera in the phylum of marine worms, Sipuncula, are examined and polarities assigned to the various states. A Hypothetical Ancestral Sipunculan is proposed and probable evolutionary pathways are presented. The PHYLIP "Cam-in-Sokal" and the PAUP "Wagner" parsimony programs are used, as well as Dice's similarity coefficient and UPGMA cluster analysis. These provided both cladistic and a hybrid phenetic/cladistic analyses. Only 5 of the 12 characters are clearly not homoplastic. While monophyly is not demonstrated in all cases, the 17 genera are now grouped into six families, four orders, and two classes as a result of using evolutionary, phenetic, and phylogenetic methodologies. The selective removal of homoplastic characters within the two classes did not significantly alter the composition of the orders or families. The evident congruence among these methods affirms the value of a synthetic approach.
10.2307/2413322|Patterns of taxonomic congruence were examined in 17 species of Rhytidoponera endemic to New Caledonia, using disparate data sets based on allozymes and morphology. These ants belong to four informal "species groups," one of which is monotypic. Both phenetic (UPGMA clustering) and cladistic (minimum-length tree estimation) methods were employed. Adams-2 and strict consensus trees were constructed for all pairs of equivalent rival trees. Since the rival trees were fully resolved or nearly so, the degree of resolution of the consensus trees was used to assess the amount of taxonomic congruence and was measured with the consensus indices of Colless (1980; Cl
10.2307/2413320|Electrophoretic examination of the products of 29 gene loci in the five species of Pholidobolus and three species of Proctoporus largely substantiates the taxonomic arrangement that was based on earlier morphological work. The electrophoretic data are used to construct a phylogeny of the species and the morphological data are reanalyzed for comparison; these data sets are largely consistent. The hypothesized phylogeny places Ph. affinis as the sister species to the other Pholidobolus, Ph. macbrydei as the sister species to the remaining taxa, and the two populations referred to Ph. prefrontalis as the sister species to Ph. montium plus Ph. annectens. Because of the small size of the genus Pholidobolus and the concomitant small number of possible phylogenetic hypotheses, comparisons among various methods of constructing phylogenetic trees from electrophoretic data are facilitated. All 105 possible bifurcating unrooted trees were examined for each of 13 goodness-of-fit statistics; three similar trees were consistently favored by all criteria. If outgroup rooting is used, the most favored of these trees is identical to the most parsimonious cladogram. However, with midpoint rooting, almost all phylogenetic information is lost and the resulting tree is identical to the UPGMA phenogram. The midpoint-rooting option of distance trees reinvokes an assumption (equal rates of change) that the distance methods are supposed to avoid. This assumption is clearly not met for the genus Pholidobolus. Biogeographic analysis of the species of Pholidobolus with respect to the hypothesized phylogeny of the genus reveals that no contact zones of this parapatric complex involve two sister species. This emphasizes the need for phylogenetic reconstruction as the first step in the examination of speciation mechanisms. This finding also suggests that competing species, rather than geographic barriers, may at times serve to isolate differentiating populations.
10.2307/2413325|In the panbiogeographic evolutionary synthesis, orthogenesis is referred to as a process which involves an inherent tendency to vary in certain directions, as ancestors vicariate or break apart into descendants. Orthogenesis has origins in the studies of form, but is given a biogeographic perspective in panbiogeography. The panbiogeographic use of orthogenesis is compatible with the origin of the term as presented by Haacke and Eimer. Misinterpretations of orthogenesis describing it as mystical, teleological and linear are invalid. The orthogenetic aspect of evolution was recognized by Darwin as "laws of growth," but was neglected in favor of natural selection. Although an internal component to evolution is recognized by contemporary biologists, it is often considered to be secondary to natural selection. Where recognition is given to an internal tendency for evolution to proceed without requiring the action of natural selection, terms such as "constraints," "bias," and "potential" may imply orthogenesis.
10.2307/2413150|Distance data have posed a number of problems for phylogenetic analysis. Among these are the loss of information about individual character states, and the frequent departures from metric properties of distance matrices derived by molecular techniques. The common degree-of-fit methods for the analysis of such data imply possibly unrealistic assumptions about these distances. As an alternative, a minimum-length criterion is considered. This has the appeal of requiring more conservative assumptions about distance data and represents the equivalent criterion to that for the analysis of character data by numerical cladistic techniques. Based upon its similarity to the character-Wagner algorithm, the distance-Wagner algorithm is suggested as a possible heuristic method for the approximation of most-parsimonious trees from distance data. Both the distance-Wagner algorithm and a recent modification have weaknesses in this role. Computer simulations demonstrate that the new algorithm developed in this study compares favorably with not only the distance-Wagner algorithm but also the character-Wagner algorithm in the approximation of most-parsimonious trees.
10.2307/2413147|Characteristics of organisms often vary widely across geographic space as a result of natural selection, migration and environmental heterogeneity. I present canonical trend surface analysis as an approach to the study of this variation. The method is based on the canonical correlations between sets of orthogonal axes in the space defined by the characteristics of the organism and in the space defined by the coordinates of the localities (and their squares and crossproducts). I apply this method to simulated data sets of trends and patches; the basic patterns are recovered. Next, 1 analyze two real data sets; the distribution of 21 HLA human blood types at 58 localities in Europe; and the distribution of 26 species of Foraminifera in 61 sediment core top samples from the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The derived patterns are similar to those developed by other investigators using different methods on these same data. However, canonical trend surface analysis is shown to be less sensitive to geographically unpatterned data than the methods used in these earlier studies of the same data. The canonical trend surface method extracts that part of the character variation that is most nearly coincident with the geographic information, and leaves unresolved the other covariances.
10.2307/2413148|In an attempt to clarify the relevance of ontogenetic transformations for systematics, the ontogenetic method for determining character polarity (the biogenetic law of Nelson, 1978) is analyzed from the perspective of phylogenetic systematics. In phylogenetic systematics, as defined here, the relationships sought are those of common ancestry and, thus, the concept of phylogeny is taken as an axiom from which systematic methods are deduced. This perspective has a number of consequences concerning the role of ontogenetic transformations in systematics, among which are the following: (1) Von Baer's second law, which states that less general characters are developed from the most general, is not universally true. (2) The validity of Nelson's biogenetic law (not to be confused with other concepts of similar name) does not depend on the validity of von Baer's law. (3) As a theory about the relationship between ontogeny and phylogeny, Nelson's biogenetic law can only be tested by known character phylogenies. However, outgroup, paleontological, and ontogenetic methods of polarity determination need not be interpreted as scientific theories; instead, they can be interpreted as theorems deduced from the axiom of phylogeny and certain auxiliary assumptions. (4) The usefulness of the ontogenetic method rests on an assumption of ancestral character retention. If ancestral characters are retained in descendant ontogenies, then ancestral characters will be more general than their phylogenetic derivatives. (5) The sequence of ontogenetic transformation is irrelevant to the usefulness of the ontogenetic method; generality is the critical factor. (6) An "ontogenetic" method based on generality may be useful for determining evolutionary polarity when characters are instantaneous morphologies, but ontogenetic transformations rather than instantaneous morphologies are more appropriately considered characters when attempting to determine phylogenetic relationships among organisms. When ontogenetic transformations are viewed as characters, there can be no ontogenetic method for determining evolutionary character polarity; however, the comparative phylogenetic method properly involves a comparison of ontogenetic transformations. (7) Ontogenetic polarities are different than phylogenetic polarities; the two have the relationship of part to whole, respectively. (8) For characters that exhibit ontogenetic transformation, homology is distinct from synapomorphy. (9) Finally, there is no threefold parallelism in phylogenetic systematics. Comparative anatomy, paleontology, and embryology are not three separate disciplines within systematics; rather, the three form a single comparative method unified in the organism by the concept of evolution.
10.2307/2413151|Five methods of coding character differences for meristic or continuous variables when variability within taxa exists are discussed: (1) scaling by among-group variability; (2) scaling by within-group variability; (3) simple gap-coding; (4) homogeneous-subset coding; and (5) generalized gap-coding. Scaling by among-group variability is ineffective as it does not use within-group variability for coding purposes. Scaling by within-group variability does not effectively alleviate computational and theoretical problems associated with within-group character variability. The implications of gap-coding for character differentiation are examined, and the relationship between increasing sample size and decreasing information content of gap-coded characters is reviewed. The technique of generalized gap-coding is proposed to eliminate the problems apparent with simple gap-coding. Homogeneous-subset coding is developed in more detail than previously and compared to generalized gap-coding. The two techniques differ only in the critical values used to establish homogeneous or discriminant groups. These differences are most pronounced with unequal sample sizes for taxa. For moderate to large sample sizes, homogeneous-subset coding will detect more differentiation than generalized gap-coding for most choices of critical gap size. Seven data sets, representing a range of number of taxa and characters, as well as types of taxonomic units, were coded following the three procedures (3, 4, and 5, above), and phylogenetic trees were constructed. The results are discussed with regard to the amount of useful information retained by the coding procedures, the number of minimum-length trees found, and character consistency of the characters on the constructed trees. Consistency levels for all the coding methods were low and inversely related to the number of taxa present in the study. Finally, character-coding methods for phylogenetic analysis are discussed with regard to implications from the Kluge-Kerfoot phenomenon.
10.2307/2413152|Methods are described for the automatic measurement of morphological features of mosquito wings (wing outline and venation) from TV images of specimens mounted on microscope slides. The digitized images were preprocessed to locate the "ridge points" in the gray-scale image surface and the digitized images were thinned so that veins could be represented by curves only a single pixel wide. The image was then segmented into the wing outline and the 10 longitudinal wing veins. Polynomial functions were fitted to each vein. The coordinates of the end points of each vein and the coefficients of the polynomials could then be used as descriptors of each wing for subsequent multivariate analyses. Comparisons are made with other algorithms and the results are shown.
10.2307/2413149|Inferring phylogenies from gene frequencies should be regarded as a statistical problem rather than treated in the framework of the hypothetico-deductive method. The approximations involved in a statistical treatment are discussed, as are the models of gene frequency change implicit in the use of statistical methods. In particular, the different genetic distance statistics have different assumptions. These are pointed out, and a Markov chain treatment of genetic drift in a small population is used to evaluate the behavior of a number of the most popular genetic distances. Distance measures that are standardized to correct for the effect of initial gene frequencies behave as expected, but only for moderate amounts of time and when initial gene frequencies are not extreme. The distance measures such as those by Balakrishnan and Sanghvi and by Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards, which are standardized for the effect of the initial gene frequencies, perform acceptably if the initial gene frequencies are not too extreme and the divergence time is not larger than twice the effective population size. A genetic distance based on discrete character coding of alleles according to their presence or absence shows quite unusual behavior. No genetic distance copes very well with extreme initial gene frequencies. The prospect of getting useable additional information from population samples of sequences is also discussed. Criticisms by J. S. Farris of an earlier paper that used statistical criteria to evaluate parsimony and compatibility methods are rebutted.
10.2307/2992220|The phylogenetic relationships of the osmeroid fishes are examined in the context of character congruence. The Osmeroidei is monophyletic, and its sister taxon is the monophyletic Argentinoidei. The division of osmeroids into Northern and Southern Hemisphere groups is largely corroborated. Two problematic taxa, the neotenic Salangidae and the monotypic Lepidogalaxias salamandroides, are hypothesized to be members of the Southern Hemisphere clade; in which reductive evolution has been common. The Northern Hemisphere clade includes the Osmeridae proper and the Japanese Plecoglossus altivelis. The utility of reductive characters in phylogeny reconstruction is discussed, with examples from the osmeroid fishes.
10.2307/2992222|Theoretical considerations and the results of computer simulations demonstrate that Swofford and Berlocher's (1987, Syst. Zool. 36:293-325) reason for preferring the Manhattan metric over Rogers's distance for inferring phylogenetic trees from allele frequencies under the principle of maximum parsimony is not necessarily valid. The theoretical considerations lead to the proposal of a new general criterion for choosing between cladograms or trees of equal length for qualitative characters as well-when two trees are of equal length, the one that is consistent with more possible transformation series of the characters under consideration is preferable. Rogers's genetic distance also is shown to be less sensitive to the overestimation of distance produced by heterozygous loci and finite sample size than the Manhattan metric, Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards's distances, or Hillis's (1984, Syst. Zool. 33:238-240) modified Nei's distance. Finally, Rogers's distance is preferable to Wright's (1978, Evolution and the genetics of populations, Volume 4, Univ. Chicago Press, Chicago) modified Rogers's distance for inferring phylogenetic trees because the latter distance results in unnecessary homoplasy on a minimum-length tree.
10.2307/2992223|A method for quantifying levels of observed homoplasy in cladistic analyses is proposed. The homoplasy slope is a function that describes the relationship between number of taxa in a cladistic analysis and the observed number of extra steps per character. The homoplasy slope ratio (HSR) relates the homoplasy slope of a cladistic analysis (real data) to that of an analysis based on random binary data sets of the same size. Tests show that HSR is not correlated with numbers of characters and taxa, and this quality makes the index particularly useful for comparing the levels of observed homoplasy among cladistic analyses based on data sets of different sizes. All of the other homoplasy indices currently available-including the consistency index (CI), retention index (RI), and homoplasy excess ratio (HER)-are correlated with number of characters and/or number of taxa.
10.2307/2992221|Simberloff et al. (1981, pages 40-63 in Vicariance biogeography: A critique [G. Nelson and D. E. Rosen, eds.], Columbia Univ. Press, New York) proposed three different sampling distributions of trees for testing cladistic biogeographic hypotheses. Two of these distributions involved sampling from a uniform distribution of cladograms (either labeled or unlabeled), whereas the third distribution was calculated by a simple Markovian model. This paper presents a proof that the third distribution of cladograms is identical to the uniform distribution of dendrograms (rooted trees with internal nodes ranked). Hence, all three sampling distributions are uniform distributions that differ solely in the kind of tree being sampled. The paper concludes by suggesting ways of constructing nonuniform tree distributions.
10.2307/2992218|We present a phylogenetic methodology to test hypotheses of adaptation and to discriminate adaptation from alternative causal explanations of character evolution. To constitute an adaptation, a character must be shown to provide current utility to the organism and to have been generated historically through the action of natural selection for its current biological role. The criterion of current utility is applied by comparing the performance of a derived trait to that of its phylogenetically antecedent state. If the performance of a trait exceeds that of its antecedent state, it constitutes an "aptation" for its observed biological role. Alternatively, if the performance of a trait equals or falls below that of its antecedent state, it constitutes a "nonaptation" or "disaptation," respectively. The criterion of historical genesis is applied using the concept of "selective regime," the aggregation of organismal and environmental factors that combine to determine the expected action of natural selection on actual and potential character variation. An aptation that arose on a lineage having the same selective regime as the focal taxon constitutes an "adaptation," whereas one that arose on a lineage having a different selective regime constitutes an "exaptation." For nonaptations and disaptations, the criterion of historical genesis serves to determine whether the nonaptive or disaptive status arose coincident with the trait itself or secondarily through a change of selective regime. We suggest that this phylogenetic approach will help to overcome general criticisms of adaptationist studies and will serve to bridge the gap between microevolutionary and macroevolutionary studies of adaptation.
10.2307/2992219|The problem of identifying all of the possible tree cross sections in a given slice of time for an observed change of the diversity is solved using the theory of branching processes and the multinomial theorem. The methods can be used in exploratory fashion to examine the ways in which the numbers of possible cross sections and their properties can differ with the starting and ending diversities, for instance. But, because tree cross sections can be stacked together, the methods can also be applied to answering certain statistical questions regarding complete phylogenetic trees. A phylogenetic tree for the Elephantidae (Mammalia) is tested for statistical significance using the methods developed. Because the focus is on examining the possible tree cross sections and complete trees for observed changes of diversity, the solution may be of particular value for testing hypotheses about phylogenetic trees that are constructed using data from paleontology.
10.2307/2992238|Methods of polarity determination are governed by both the basic assumptions of the analysis and particular auxiliary assumptions. Differences in basic assumptions between phylogenetic systematics and pattern cladistics result in different approaches to polarity determination. In phylogenetic systematics outgroup comparison, the ontogenetic method and the paleontological method are valid procedures for determining polarity because they can be derived from basic evolutionary axioms. The applicability of each method of polarization in particular instances depends on the veracity of auxiliary assumptions. Auxiliary assumptions entail necessary conditions implicit in the rationale of the method or the adequacy of available information. Each method has a unique combination of auxiliary assumptions and is not a special case of, or dependent on, other methods. Much of the recent debate regarding the overall relative applicability of the three methods suffers from the failure to properly consider auxiliary assumptions. Outgroup comparison has the broadest utility, but the applicability and utility of all methods should be considered in each instance.
10.2307/2992240|Computer-generated phylogenies were used to examine the relationship between the temporal position and completeness of additional taxa in a phylogenetic analysis and the rate of evolution or, equivalently, the temporal scope of the phylogenetic problem. In the simulations, four fossil taxa of varying temporal position and completeness were added to an analysis that included four living taxa. Additional taxa varied in completeness (25%, 50%, 75%, and 100% completeness) and in temporal position (0%, 33%, 66%, and 100% of the distance from the ancestor to the living time plane). Fifty trees were generated each for low, low intermediate, high intermediate, and high rates of evolution or temporal scope. Because additional taxa that are 100% complete and 100% of the distance to the living time plane are equivalent to the addition of living taxa, this study directly compares the effects of addition of living versus fossil taxa in phylogenetic analysis. The importance of fossil taxa varied depending on their completeness and temporal position and on the rate of evolution under which the phylogeny was generated. In general, high completeness and temporal position near the ancestor of a clade improved phylogenetic resolution as measured by the percentage of the tree-length distribution that contains the real tree. Furthermore, the conditions of completeness and temporal position under which fossil taxa improved phylogenetic resolution over living taxa became less restrictive as the rate of evolution or the temporal scope of the tree increased. A simple analytical model is proposed to explain these results.
10.2307/2992235|The comparative analysis of DNA molecules is a useful means for phylogenetic reconstruction, because different types of genetic elements yield resolution at different levels of taxonomic divergence. A single individual is usually characterized for each operational taxonomic unit (OTU), based on the premise that within-OTU variation can be safely ignored. Whereas that premise is expedient, it may not be generally valid. Sometimes variation within OTUs can affect the analysis. We develop a formal analytic treatment of variation in phylogenetic output as a consequence of intraspecific variation. Using restriction site data from the mitochondria of three species of cyprinid fishes to illustrate, we show that genetic variation within taxa impacts on tree topology. Genetic variation among populations is most important; that within populations is small. Genetic variation should be expected within any taxon, and it is generally useful to sample (replicate) one taxonomic level below that of interest.
10.2307/2992236|Multivariate methods for "size correction," such as shearing or multiple-group principal component analysis, assume that the groups under consideration share a common allometric growth pattern. However, this assumption has rarely been tested empirically. A variety of patterns of allometric growth in larvae of 17 species of marine fishes is revealed by principal component analysis. The bootstrap technique is used to assess statistical accuracy, and the hypothesis of one common growth pattern is clearly rejected. Even taxonomically related species are not always similar in their growth patterns. This indicates that techniques for "size correction" should not be applied without testing the assumption of a common growth pattern. To summarize the variation in allometric patterns, a recent approach, principal points, is used to find a small number of "typical" patterns. Flury (1990, Biometrika 77:33-41) defined the k principal points of a multivariate random vector X as those points that minimize the expected Euclidean distance of X from the nearest principal point. For our data set, four typical allometric patterns are thus characterized by means of principal points. Some common features of allometric patterns are possibly of functional importance, but combinations of different allometric patterns and initial morphologies can lead to a variety of body forms in fish larvae.
10.2307/2992241|An implementation is explored for standard assumptions (zero and one) for historical biogeographic analysis based on three-area statements specified by widespread taxa and nodes of taxon cladograms. Analysis of simple examples suggests that three-area statements permit a better measure of fit between an area cladogram and data on area relationship than do existing implementations of assumption zero, such as Brooks parsimony analysis, or existing implementations of assumption one, such as that of Nelson and Platnick (1981, Systematics and biogeography: Cladistics and vicariance, Columbia Univ. Press, New York, London), which proves defective in its oversensitivity to information specified by widespread taxa. Aspects of assumptions one and zero are adapted for evaluation of alternative assumption-two cladograms, first with data for nodes and then with data for widespread taxa.
10.2307/2992239|This study was undertaken to determine the range of consistency index (CI) values obtainable from random data sets. We generated multiple random data matrices for each of 49 different matrix sizes ranging from 5 taxa and 4 (binary) characters to 49 taxa and 124 characters. The CI of the minimum-length tree(s) was calculated for each. CIs decreased in a monotonic, nonlinear fashion with addition of either taxa or characters. The influence of addition of taxa was far greater than that of addition of characters, and an interaction effect was recognized. The general curvilinear relation we found between CIs and number of taxa is consistent with results obtained by other authors, but our random data CIs were lower than those of other studies. Mean random CIs varied from 0.70 for the smallest data sets to 0.072 for the largest. Maximum random CIs reached 0.80. A regression through means of random CIs against number of taxa was calculated with a 95% confidence interval. This CI<sub>random</sub> is the minimum value that real data sets should exceed to be considered to contain phylogenetic information. The CIs of real data sets can be adjusted with the CI<sub>random</sub>, and these values are found to meet current criteria for adequate measures of homoplasy. However, the homoplasy indices that are uncorrelated with taxa are also insensitive to internal data set structure, and no current index is adequate for comparison of homoplasy among data sets.
10.2307/2992237|Cleavage site variation of 18 restriction endonucleases in the transcribed portion of the ribosomal DNA gene complex was mapped from 42 genera of New World leaf-nosed bats (family Phyllostomidae). These data were used to test the higher taxonomic relationships of a traditionally recognized phylogeny against a recently revised phylogeny and classification for the family. Major conclusions from this study are that (1) support is provided for the theory that early phyllostomid radiation proceeded by the diversification of three or four lineages; (2) New World leaf-nosed bats, including vampire bats, compose a monophyletic group; and (3) the newly proposed classification and topology are supported. This study demonstrates that additional resolution can be obtained by testing new data for congruence with existing phylogenies.
10.2307/2992254|Historical biogeographic patterns of relationships among southern and northern South America, North America, and southern temperate areas were investigated by a cladistic biogeographic analysis of 17 taxon cladograms. Three techniques were applied: Wiley's biogeographic parsimony analysis, Nelson and Platnick's component analysis, and Humphries, Ladiges, Roos, and Zandee's quantification of component analysis. Biogeographic parsimony analysis yielded two general area cladograms (CI = 0.74). Under component analysis, six general area cladograms (two under Nelson and Platnick's assumption 1 and four under their assumption 2) were obtained through the intersection of a maximum of 10 sets of area cladograms. Quantification of component analysis produced nine cladograms (CI = 0.50) under assumption 1 and one (CI = 0.45) under assumption 2. The results support a hybrid origin of the South American biota. The northern South American biota is most closely related to that of North America, and southern South America constitutes a monophyletic group together with Australia, Tasmania, New Guinea, New Caledonia, and New Zealand, reflecting the existence of an ancient austral biota. Four conflicting hypotheses of area relationships concerning southern South America and the other austral areas are proposed, suggesting that southern South America may be a composite area in itself.
10.2307/2992253|Advocates and adversaries of single-copy DNA hybridization find both promise and pitfalls in the application of this technique to phylogenetic reconstruction. Measurement error, biased sampling of sequences, and homoplasy reduce the additivity of DNA hybridization data, although numerical corrections exist. If distortions of hybridization data can be rectified, pairwise tree construction algorithms should provide reliable estimates of phylogeny. We used single-copy DNA hybridization studies to elucidate interfamilial relationships within diprotodontian marsupials. Peroryctes longicauda, a peramelid, was included as an outgroup. To improve their additivity, data were corrected for nonreciprocity (the compression effect), reduced normalized percentages of hybridization, and homoplasy. Results of DNA hybridization experiments suggest an initial radiation of diprotodontian marsupials into three major lineages: (1) vombatiforms, (2) macropodids, and (3) phalangeroids plus petauroids. Subsequent diversification occurred first in the phalangeroid-petauroid group, second in vombatiforms, and last in macropodids. Within the phalangeroid-petauroid clade, phalangerids and burramyids form one monophyletic group whereas acrobatids, petaurids, and pseudocheirids form a second. This branching pattern obtains for both uncorrected and corrected data.
10.2307/2992252|We sequenced 2.7 kilobase pairs of contiguous coding mitochondrial DNA from Antilocapra americana (Antilocapridae), Capra hircus (Bovidae), and Tragulus napu (Tragulidae) and compared these to previously published orthologues for other ruminant species. Phylogenetic analysis of these sequences provided no robust patterns of relationship for the four families of pecoran ruminants studied. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that the pecoran families resulted from a rapid radiation in the Early Miocene to Late Oligocene. This hypothesis is supported by the short internal branch lengths of our most-parsimonious solutions and, more importantly, by the narrow range of interfamilial sequence divergence, suggesting that the radiation may have occurred over a period of 5 million years (about 23-28 million years ago). The importance of using large amounts of conservative sequence data for resolving relationships among members of a rapid radiation is discussed.
10.2307/2992255|Geographic variation in color pattern, body dimensions, and scalation of the low-altitude populations of the Tenerife gecko (Tarentola delalandii) is analyzed and depicted by multivariate ordination and contouring. Comparison with parallel geographic variation in other lizards on Tenerife and an adjacent island suggests an "ecogenetic" rather than "phylogenetic" cause (i.e., adaptation to current latitudinal habitat types with different climate and vegetation). Three quantitative procedures that may be of use in distinguishing between ecogenetically and phylogenetically caused geographic variation are used to test the geographic variation in the Tenerife gecko (i.e., investigating congruence by random resampling, anagenesis in putative phylogenetic trees, and partial correlation/Mantel tests). The latter two procedures appear to be the most useful; in particular, simultaneous Mantel tests indicate that scalation is significantly associated with latitudinal habitat types irrespective of the effects of spatial proximity.
10.2307/2992256|A recently described test for a consistent pattern of timing of cospeciation between host and parasite taxa uses the correlation between observed genetic distance matrices for the hosts and parasites. In this paper I argue that this method can be improved by comparing trees rather than distance matrices. In the special case of a molecular clock, the test compares cluster heights in dendrograms for the hosts and the parasites. Because tree topology alone can cause a significant correlation between the cluster heights, a randomization test is described that allows for this autocorrelation. The degree of autocorrelation is a function of tree topology, increasing as the trees become more unbalanced. Balanced trees offer more sensitive tests of hypotheses concerning timing of cospeciation.
10.2307/2992326|The jaw morphology of needlefishes (Beloniformes: Belomdae) passes through distinctive ontogenetic stages. When hatched, larvae have short jaws of equal length. The lower jaw first elongates to produce a "halfbeak" form, then the upper jaw elongates to produce the adult "needlenose" morphology. Onset and duration of the halfbeak stage vary among belonid species. We tested the hypothesis that heterochronic evolution produced this diversity in jaw morphology. First, a cladogram was developed for 27 belonid species. Ontogenetic trajectories for upper and lower jaw elongation were determined for 18 of these species. For upper and lower jaw elongation, trajectories of these 18 species were statistically compared to determine character transitions, which were then mapped onto the cladogram. The results showed that the growth trajectories of upper and lower jaws changed independently of each other, and that neoteny and acceleration occurred repeatedly during belonid evolution. Evidence suggests postdisplacement and predisplacement were also important mechanisms. The resulting morphological diversity may be interpreted as adaptations to food availability, because jaw morphology (halfbeak vs. needlenose) seems to be correlated with feeding modes (planktivory vs. piscivory). [Heterochrony; ontogenetic trajectory; Belonidae; jaw morphology; character coding; M-coding.]
10.2307/2992321|Computer simulations in which phylogenies were generated under various conditions were used to examine the relationship between the phylogenetic signal of a character data set, the skewness of the tree-length distribution, and the position of the real tree relative to the most parsimonious tree for a four-character-state system. Character data that are consistent with one phylogenetic hypothesis produce tree-length distributions that are highly skewed to the left, whereas character data consistent with many phylogenetic hypotheses produce more symmetrical tree-length distributions that cannot be distinguished from tree-length distributions produced by random character data. The relationship between the skewness of the tree-length distribution, as measured by the g
10.2307/2992325|The set of most-parsimonious trees for a data matrix may include several distinct classes (islands) of trees. An island is defined as a collection of trees, all less than a specified length, each tree connected to every other tree in the island through a series of trees, and each one differing from the next by a single rearrangement of branches. One advantage of this method of defining classes of trees is that islands are easily found by tree-searching programs. Multiple islands can be discovered by conducting many searches using a tree-searching program, each search beginning with a different tree. Among 37 data matrices examined, all 8 data matrices with two or more islands have retention indices less than 0.67. Trees are generally more similar within islands than among islands, as judged by analysis of partition metric distances between trees. As a consequence, trees in different islands may have different implications for character evolution, and for this reason should be sought.
10.2307/2992323|Extremely conflicting phylogenetic conclusions for the same taxa derived from different data sets are rare. When conflicts do occur, they may result from homoplasy as well as nonindependence of characters. We present an analysis of the phylogenetic relationships of the salamander family Ambystomatidae, based on variation at 26 allozyme loci. Our results conflict strongly with those derived from Kraus's (1988, Syst. Zool. 37:106-141) morphological analysis of the same taxa. The major conflict involves five species traditionally placed in the Ambystoma subgenus "Linguaelapsus." This group, and the clades within it, are each diagnosed by many morphological synapomorphies, providing unambiguous evidence for the monophyly of the subgenus. However, our allozyme data provide equally compelling evidence that "Linguaelapsus" is polyphyletic. We jackknifed and bootstrapped our allozyme data in a likelihood and a cladistic parsimony framework, respectively; all analyses point to the same conclusions. Subdividing the allozyme data into rapidly and slowly evolving loci, and analyzing each separately by maximum likelihood, does not change our conclusions. Our results demonstrate that even apparently "well-corroborated" nodes of a cladogram may be suspect if the assumption of character independence is violated.
10.2307/2992324|A direct algorithm is described to reconstruct on a phylogenetic tree the ancestral states of a continuous-valued character, using a parsimony criterion that minimizes the sum of squared changes along the branches. It is shown that when the squared changes are inversely weighted by the lengths of the branches, the squared-change parsimony reconstruction is that which has maximum posterior probability under a Brownian motion model of evolution. The squared-change parsimony estimates are also closely related to the contrasts in Felsenstein's test of character correlation.
10.2307/2992322|Studies of sexual dimorphism commonly focus on male morphology, often viewing males as divergent both evolutionarily and ontogenetically. For example, in continuously growing vertebrates such as lizards and fishes, it has been assumed that adult dimorphism arises from growth rate changes in male characters at the onset of maturity. However, there has been little explicit treatment of the ontogenetic origin of morphological sex differences. I present here a method for testing hypotheses of sex-specific allometric change, and offer an example of its application in four species of labrisomid blennies. I develop three hierarchical models to test for allometric divergence: (1) the null model, in which adult allometries of both sexes are simply an extension of the juvenile allometries (model A); (2) a model in which either adult males or females (but not both) diverge from the juvenile trajectory (model B); and (3) a model in which adults of both sexes diverge from the juvenile allometry (model C). Growth that fits either of the two latter models results in shape dimorphism. Although size dimorphism may occur in all three cases, it is not explicitly treated here. The models were tested with size-series of four species of fish (Paraclinus, Labrisomidae). To further explore overall shape similarity among males, females, and juveniles, a multivariate analysis of shape (independent of size) was applied. Analysis of 42 mensural characters showed that divergence from juvenile allometry occurred as frequently in female traits as in male traits. Multivariate analysis showed that in all four species, female shape diverges more from juvenile shape than does male shape. In addition, similarity among adult dimorphic character states often resulted from quite different growth patterns, suggesting that resemblance of adult characters among related species is insufficient evidence to conclude character homology. Interpretations of sexual dimorphism, currently emphasizing male morphology, may be biased and may underestimate the importance of selection on the female form as a cause of sexual dimorphism.
10.2307/2411501|Representative members of the fauna of Central Europe are discussed in relation to the present and probable past distribution of the groups to which they belong. The effects on this fauna of geological changes during the Tertiary and especially of Pleistocene glaciation are emphasized.
10.2307/2411503|A computer method for aid in biological classification based on graph theory is presented. The program not only defines hierarchical clusters but discovers intermediate forms and provides measures of internal affinity and external isolation for each cluster. The theoretical biological justification for this technique is given. A test of the method is presented, using 31 specimens selected from different genera of the subtribe Oncidiinae of the Orchidaceae.
10.2307/2411499|The occurrence of a special type of polymorphism in some leptodactylid frogs is reported. The polymorphism differs from normal polymorphism in crossing species lines and is termed tautomorphism. The polymorphic variants are named tautomorphs.
10.2307/2411498|The author proposes a system of identification, positional, and phyletic numbers for taxa that makes possible a significant relationship between numerical classification and phylogeny.
10.2307/2411497|Geographic variation of quantitative characters may be represented by a polynomial model and plotted automatically as a contour map with a digital computer. Linear, quadratic, and cubic surfaces are fitted to the variation patterns of two characters of the fathead minnow, Pimephales promelas, from 54 localities distributed over a large area of North America. The cubic surfaces describe the variation pattern quite well and account for as much as 90% of the variability among localities. Regional trends are simply represented by the contour plots, while local variability and breaks in the variation pattern may be analyzed by examination of the automatic plots of residuals.
10.2307/2411504|The Dusky Flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri Phillips) and the Gray Flycatcher (Empidonax wrightii Baird), sibling species which usually breed in allopatry in the western United States because of altitudinal separation of preferred habitats, occur in local sympatry along the western edge of the Great Basin. Here extensive populations of each species defend mutually exclusive territories where the vegetation forms a mosaic of habitats suitable to both. An analysis of bill size and shape of 774 specimens, comparing allopatric and sympatric populations, revealed no evidence for character displacement, implying that interspecific competition for food is lacking. Sexual dimorphism in the bill, varying geographically in extent, indicates intraspecific competition, probably between the members of a pair on their territory. Differential niche utilization, within and between the two species, is also suggested by differences in wing shape. Apparently these two species evolved distinct enough habitats and foraging spheres when in allopatry so as to preclude competition when in sympatry. Gene flow from extensive regions of allopatry may suppress divergence in bill dimensions of the sympatric individuals.
10.2307/2411500|Discrimmation of adults of the three closely related species of the Hoplopleura hesperomydis complex of lice (Anoplura) is discussed, including a standardized system for taking measurements, followed by various statistical analyses of the data. Certain measurements are shown to have taxonomic value in discriminating between species after analysis, and the method of a posteriori selection of such characters is described. The literature on statistical means of species differentiation is reviewed.
10.2307/2411502|A method is proposed whereby existing biological nomenclature might be stabilized without discarding the familiar binominal system.
10.2307/2411989|Many species of relict boreal insects reside along the postglacial border in central and eastern United States in scattered series of sphagnum bogs. The distributional patterns of these insects are often influenced to a considerable extent by climatic factors and may reflect past climatic conditions, especially if the species involved are restricted by specific microclimatic requirements and are themselves mcapable of active dispersal beyond these limits. Over 20 species of pselaphid beetles with boreal affinities are characteristic bog inhabitants. The range of each species is correlated with glacial processes and the contemporary distribution of bog plants. Included among the factors discussed affecting their distribution are glacial influences, ecological limits, and species dispersal potentials. None of the true bog pselaphids are known beyond the limits of Wisconsin glaciation, except for the Wisconsin driftless area and New Jersey breaches paralleled by bog plant distributions. The specificity of most species to these relict boreal habitats bespeaks their value as indicators of biotic displacement.
10.2307/2411984|Taxonomy and nomenclature cannot be separated. Taxonomic results can be expressed only through nomenclature, and therefore the system of nomenclature in use at any time constitutes a framework within which taxonomists must work. The existing system of zoological nomenclature cannot function simultaneously for traditional methods and for the quantitative methods that will be necessary in the near future. The rigid framework of a mandatory Code, and in particular its type-system are incompatible with quantitative methods based on a long series of specimens. The International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature should plan for a date, not too far ahead, after which all traditional taxonomy shall cease at the species-level and below. The Commission should give a lead in exploring the problems and possibilities of quantitative methods, and in devising an entirely new nomenclature appropriate to these. Above the species-level, traditional methods should continue, but the Code should cease to be mandatory, and names should be stabilised by usage.
10.2307/2411991|The obstacles which have prevented the haplosporidans from fitting into the classification prepared by the Committee on Taxonomy and Taxonomic Problems of the Society of Protozoologists have no objective basis but are essentially semantic in nature. The resemblance between the different kinds of filaments in spores is largely verbal. Therefore, the notion that the presence or absence of a "filament" is the essential character for segregating different groups of sporozoans into subphyla should be rejected. Then, if the subphylum names Sporozoa Leuckart, 1879, and Cnidospora Doflein, 1901, are replaced with the appropriate ones, Rhabdogena Delage and Herouard, 1896, and Amoebogena Delage and Herouard, 1896, all obstacles to putting the order Haplosporida Caullery and Mesnil, 1899, into a satisfactory position are removed. Likewise, it then becomes logically possible to put the order Paramyxida Chatton, 1911, into the classification. Accordingly, these two orders are placed in subphylum Amoebogena, in classes Microsporea Corliss and Levine, 1963, and Myxosporea Butschli, 1881, respectively. The latter class, having two groups of orders which are in sharp contrast to each other with respect to structural complexity, is here divided into two subclasses, Myxosporia Butschli, 1881, (with orders Myxosporida Butschli, 1881, and Actinomyxida Stolc, 1889) and Paramyxia (with orders Paramyxida Chatton, 1911, and Helicosporida Kudo, 1931). It is suggested that the older name Sporozoa Leuckart, 1879, be used (after appropriate change of ending) to replace the class name Telosporea Schaudinn, 1900, and that the latter be discarded.
10.2307/2411986|In an earlier paper, numerical techniques were developed and used to analyze distribution patterns of the native terrestrial mammals of North America. An error in method is here corrected, indicating that 35 provinces, 13 superprovinces, four subregions, and one region may be recognized. The methods used are relatively objective, quantitative, and suited to computerization.
10.2307/2411987|The small six-rayed sea stars on the rocky shore of San Juan Island, Washington, have been previously classified by different authors into at least two species: Leptasterias hexactis and Leptasterias aequalis. Examination of adult morphology reveals three morphologically distinct groups, among which two are L. hexactis and one is L. aequalis. However, a study of distribution and reproduction has shown that these three groups are not isolated ecologically or reproductively. They do not constitute separate populations, and they are capable of interbreeding. It is concluded, therefore, that all the six-rayed sea stars of this area belong to one biological species, L. hexactis. The morphological variations are discussed in terms of polymorphism and geographical races.
10.2307/2411988|Evidence is presented for the thesis that a taxometric analysis using haphazardly assembled, equally weighted characters results in a haphazard classification, at least in the Basidiomycetes. We consider that not all characters, in the currently accepted sense of that word, contain equal amounts of phylogenetic information, and that a proper taxonomic value can be placed on each character only if its degree of conservatism within the group is understood. So far, not only has it been impossible to instruct a computer to take conservatism into consideration, but also the limitations of the taxonomist's knowledge about homology and analogy in the fungi restrict his ability to designate characters in taxometric terms.
10.2307/2411985|The multituberculate mammals declined in numerical abundance from the late Cretaceous to their extinction in the late Eocene. Their maximal diversity, however, occurred in the late part of the middle Paleocene, suggesting an increase in specialization in the face of competition from placental mammals, which diversified very rapidly in the Paleocene. Various lines of evidence lead to the conclusion that first condylarths, then primates, and finally rodents contributed to the gradual extinction of multituberculates, at least in part by evolution in the same region of competing resource requirements. A phylogeny of the Cenozoic Multituberculata and their ancestors is given, the mammal faunas of the Paleocene are listed by more or less their absolute ages, and the fauna of Bear Creek is analyzed in detail. A theory of replacement of supraspecific taxa is presented and applied.
10.2307/2411628|The Linnaean hierarchy is a system of nested classes whose members are individual organisms. It will be the purpose of this paper to set out the logic of this system in a manner which is faithful to taxonomic theory and practice, which avoids certain paradoxes in previous attempts, and which is in terms that a biologist might reasonably be expected to understand.
10.2307/2411629|This paper proposes that not only do species arise and subsequently become extinct but may behave in fundamentally similar fashions between their times of origin and extinction. Four major steps in the species' life cycle are recognized, based on the relative success of the organism as reflected in such traits as relative abundance, extent of subspeciation, and characteristics of geographic distribution. The first stage, or neospecies, is characterized by increasing abundance and expanding range; representatives are found in many introduced forms, including the English sparrow and European starling. The second stage, or mesospecies, has stable range boundaries, a relatively great abundance, and extensive subspeciation, as illustrated by the song sparrow, gray wolf, house rat, and many others. In the third stage, or euspecies, the level of abundance is generally high and the range boundaries stable, but subspeciation is scant or absent. The final stage, or telospecies, is marked by reduction in range, absence of subspeciation, and a low level of abundance and is exemplified by the whooping crane and other forms nearing extinction.
10.2307/2411630|Some errors in systematic theory have arisen by attempts to define things instead of words. The abstract concept of the biological species definition is discussed, together with objections to it. The author shows that "homology" is a theoretical term and that phylogenetic definitions of it are not circular.
10.2307/2411634|Available data on the marine shore faunas of the old (apparently Pliocene or earlier) and well isolated oceanic islands (300 miles or more from nearest land) reveal a very interesting pattern of endemism. The endemic rate is very low in the north and middle Atlantic, markedly greater in the south Atlantic and Pacific, and exceedingly high in the Sub-Antarctic waters. It is suggested that this peculiar pattern of endemism may be correlated with the extent of the drop in sea surface temperature that occurred during the Pleistocene glaciations. Contrary to most of the literature on the subject, it seems that the effect of the ice ages on ocean temperature may have been quite different in various parts of the world. The islands that demonstrate the least amount of endemism were probably exposed to the greatest decline in surface temperature.
10.2307/2411631|A connection is established between matching coefficients and distance in n-dimensional space for a variety of character scoring procedures. Following this, geometric interpretations are given of some clustering methods used for matching coefficients, and the merits of the methods are considered. As a consequence, it is suggested the average coefficient method should be replaced by the centroid method.
10.2307/2411633|The evidence for race formation in the three major schistosome parasites of man is reviewed. Evidence comes from egg morphology, differences in number and placement of adult testes, length of adult worms, prepatent period, snail penetration studies, and virulence and pathology (egg distribution) in the definitive host. At least four races (Japanese, Chinese, Formosan and Philippine) are currently believed to exist in the Schistosoma japonicum complex, and five (Caribbean, Brazilian, Egyptian, Tanganyikan and South African) have been demonstrated for S. mansoni. Two races have been demonstrated for S. haematobium in Ghana. More work needs to be done on this species and on S. mansoni. S. japonicum has been most extensively studied. The importance of elucidating subspeciation in these parasites is discussed briefly from an evolutionary standpomt. On the basis of virulence, an origin of formation on Formosa is postulated for S. japonicum. No similar speculation can be made on the other parasites due to insufficient study.
10.2307/2411388|Many problems which involve organizing data into homogeneous groups can be approached by defining a function for measuring or evaluating the structure present in a given partition of the set of data, and then attempting to find that partition for which the function is optimized. In general, different functions are required for different types of problems. One possible measure of structure is presented here, together with a discussion of the types of problems to which it applies. Also described is a general hill-climbing algorithm which can be used with any measure of structure to attempt to climb to the optimum partition. The algorithm does not require a numerical measure, but only a decision as to which of two partitions is more highly structured, or more valuable. Areas of application include biological taxonomy; isolation of disease syndromes in medicine; information retrieval; business applications such as "types" of sales offices, TV audiences, etc., anthropology (categorization of civilizations), and sociology (categorization of tribes).
10.2307/2411391|Chromosomes from 14 species representing the six subgenera of the ground squirrel genus Spermophilus are evaluated as indicators of taxonomic relationships. The diploid number and karyotype of S. franklini (2n = 42), subgenus Poliocitellus, are described here for the first time, together with supplementary chromosomal characters from S. beecheyi (2n = 38) and S. variegatus (2n = 38), subgenus Otospermophilus, and S. lateralis (2n = 42), subgenus Callospermophilus. Chromosomal characters are diagnostic at the subgeneric level in Poliocitellus, Otospermorphilus, Xerospermophilus, Callospermophilus, and Ictidomys. The subgenus Spermophilus cannot be differentiated at this level because of a striking degree of interspecific variation (2n = 30-46). An evaluation of possible mechanisms for karyotype evolution within the genus Spermophilus provides additional taxonomic data. The subgenera Ictidomys and Poliocitellus appear to share an equally close chromosomal relationship to Spermophilus. Because more complex chromosomal rearrangements must be postulated to explain the differences observed between Callospermophilus, Otospermophilus, and Xerospermophilus greater evolutionary divergence may exist between these taxa than between Ictidomys, Spermophilus, and Poliocitellus.
10.2307/2411398|The concept of "superspecies," as applied to a monophyletic group of allopatric or nearly allopatric taxa that are known or believed to have evolved to the species level, was introduced to the literature by E. Mayr and by B. Rensch. The concept is of great utility in many studies of evolution and zoogeography. The use of superspecies has been somewhat retarded by the absence of any formalized notation for them in Linnaean nomenclature. It is here proposed that brackets (= square parentheses) enclose the first named species of a superspecies: thus, superspecies Bubo [bubo], or Bubo [bubo] virginianus to indicate that the species virginianus is a member of the superspecies Bubo [bubo]. The term "allospecies" is suggested for the species comprising a superspecies. The use of parentheses ( ) should be restricted to indicating "semispecies," that is, forms believed to be subspecies, but approaching, or possibly of, species status, e.g., Accipiter (gentilis) atricapillus.
10.2307/2411390|The division of pocket gophers (Geomyidae, Rodentia) into many subspecies has been criticized frequently in recent years. The history of the nomenclature and taxonomic practice in one complex of species of the genus Thomomys is analyzed, and continuous progress is apparent. Studies of Thomomys in Chihuahua, Mexico, are summarized. Thomomys baileyi is synonymized with Thomomys bottae. T. bottae is not conspecific with T. umbrinus. More field work is needed since inadequate material, rather than the concept of subspecies, has limited advances in knowledge of gopher classification and relationships.
10.2307/2411389|Small specimens can be stored safely in vials, tightly stoppered with cotton and placed upside down in a larger jar. Due to the unavailability of tight jars, methods used in several institutions to prevent alcohol loss have been tried out. Either plastic tape (3M no. 472) or dipping in plastic coating (Uniroyal Adhesive no. 6273) appreciably slows evaporation. Seventy to eighty per cent alcohol is the best preservative; 40-70% isopropyl alcohol seems an excellent substitute, and is easily obtained. Methods of reconditioning dried specimens are controversial. All locality labels should be typed or mimeographed or the labels can be photo-offset, or Xerox copied on good bond paper.
10.2307/2411397|Louis Agassiz was under the false impression that the shells of brachiopods were lateral in position and that the group was related to mollusks. N. S. Shaler considered the shells to be anterior and posterior in position. E. S. Morse proved that the shells are dorsal and ventral, and showed that brachiopods form a distinct group somewhat related to tubicolous annelids. Journal records of Morse give historical sidelights which illuminate his controversy with Agassiz. Morse's classification of Brachiopoda became one of his principal contributions to zoology.
10.2307/2411392|A number of philosophical arguments for taxonomic doctrines appear based upon misinterpretations of valid logical principles. Among these, definition of words is confused with identification of things, circularity of definition with circularity of argument, operational verifiability with the practicality of such verification, biological individuals with logical individuals, logical proof with convincing argument, logical derivation with historical derivation, the logically prior with the psychologically prior, the relation of similarity with the impression of similarity, hypotheses with questionable premises, and objective reality with the consistency of the subject's reasoning. A failure to grasp the distinction between induction by simple enumeration and the modern, hypothetico-deductive scientific method seems in part responsible for many of the errors, suggesting that the fundamental nature of science has been imperfectly understood.
10.2307/2411395|A rearrangement of Orders, Suborders, Families, and Subfamilies is essayed for those Sarcodina of the Superorder Lobida, as included in the Subclass Cyclia, Class Hydraulea, within a classification for the Sarcodina based on mechanisms of movement. The genera included are listed with the designation of each familial group; but the families are not given names. The problem of naming families, using those within the Lobida as examples, is discussed, with emphasis on the need to use logic, whether or not the International Rules of Nomenclature provide for or permit it. An example is given of the confusion sometimes occurring due to impedance of logic by the rigidity of rules. Some other difficulties are considered. It is concluded that the extension of the Rule of Priority to include names of family groups imposes a rigidity of mental behavior which is often counter to logic in the naming of families, especially new ones based on new approaches and/or new data. It is further concluded that the Rule of Priority cannot be supported by the authors for any familial group or higher taxon.
10.2307/2411519|This study of House Sparrows was undertaken to determine the nature and degree of differentiation in color and morphology along a 1000-mile transect of the Great Plams and montane Colorado, and to relate these patterns of variation to climatic gradients encountered along the transect. The study is based upon examination of 785 specimens collected at 12 different localities in Illinois, Kansas, and Colorado. The results confirm earlier reports that North American House Sparrows have undergone conspicuous adaptive differentiation in color and morphology. Interpopulational variation in tarsus length is clinal and conforms with Allen's ecogeographic rule. Wing length of House Sparrows varies geographically, but variation of this character is not a function of altitude or isophane. Interpopulational variation in bill length of House Sparrows is thought to reflect differences in wear consequent to differences in abrasive action of food at the respective localities. There seems to be no relation between bill length and annual precipitation or ambient temperature. Partitioning of the food niche has not occurred in North America. Color of cryptic plumages of adult and subadult male House Sparrows varies clinally in accord with Gloger's ecogeographic rule. Auricular display plumage of adult males also varies in color, but the clinal pattern is opposite to that which obtains in cryptic plumages. No such trend in coloration is apparent in auricular plumage of subadult males. Clinal variation in color in accord with Gloger's rule is manifest in adult female House Sparrows, but not in subadults. Local differentiation has occurred in no more than 90 years. Slow rates of evolution thought to obtain for birds cannot be attributed in every instance to rigid restraints upon the genetic system; in some cases barriers to dispersal or relative constancy of the environment over long periods of time must have dictated rates of differentiation.
10.2307/2411512|An examination of certain basic concepts employed in phenetic taxonomy provides a logical framework within which the taxonomic process may be operationally defined, with little or no violence to traditional views. There remain elements of apparently subjective choice for methods adopted in practice, but the "non-probabilistic" approach, based on the concept of "association," is conceptually simple and corresponds closely to traditional methods. There is available for such an approach a "general coefficient of association," which incorporates both qualitative and quantitative information.
10.2307/2411516|A bionumeric code, used by the BCF Exploratory Fishing Base in Pascagoula, Miss. is presented and discussed. The basic code consists of 9 digits divided into phylum-class, class-order, family, genus, and species categories. The code, a modification of one proposed by the FAO in 1960, has facilitated the handling of large quantities of faunal data from the southwestern North Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean Sea. Expansion capabilities are inherent in the code structure and are discussed. Comparisons are also made with several code systems previously suggested by other workers. The present need for bionumeric coding systems is emphasized and a suggestion is made for establishing a central agency wherein all taxonomic records would be maintained and coded.
10.2307/2411513|Coastal lowlands on the western side of the Americas are irregularly narrow and squeezed between the shoreline and adjacent montane country. The 407 species belonging to 189 genera (marine and insular forms excluded) that are recorded as living on this coastal strip are best arranged in sectors north to south as follows: in Nearctica, the Tundran (67
10.2307/2411514|Chromosome numbers are reported for 30 species representing eight families of anurans. These, together with previously published records, provide some evidence of trends in numbers of chromosomes at the family level. With the exception of two genera of leptodactylids, diploid numbers range from 20 to 36 and haploid numbers, from 10 to 18 in anurans studied to date.
10.2307/2411520|In female Tetraopes tetraophthalmus there is significant heterogeneity in allometric growth ratios of prothoracic tubercle size and prothorax width among different areas of the range. This suggests that different relative growth rates in the formation of the adult prothorax may have been selectively favored in different areas of the range. However, males do not show the effect. Furthermore, the relationship between individual and population allomorphosis is also strikingly different in the two sexes; estimates of growth ratios at these two levels are similar in females, very dissimilar in males.
10.2307/2411515|The meaning of "relationship" in taxonomy is discussed. An exact meaning of evolutionary relationship is derived, and operational methods for placing organisms according to evolutionary relationship are considered.
10.2307/2411517|Immunological comparisons of beetles involving 66 species from 24 families were made by photodensitometrically measuring the precipitin zones that developed in agar-gels. Comparisons at the intrageneric and intergeneric levels were most suitable for study using the photodensitometric technique, and results obtained at these levels agreed with predicted results based on morphological studies. Unusually high immunological correspondences of Melanotus (Family Elateridae) and Oryzaephilus (Family Cucujidae) to Tenebrio molitor suggested previously unsuspected relationships. The high degree of reciprocal correspondence between members of the families Cerambycidae and Chrysomelidae indicated that relegation of these families to subfamilial status would be reasonable. An interfamilial cluster analysis revealed systematically useful data.
10.2307/2412152|Qualitative identification and quantitative estimation both of aromatic biogenic amines and pharmacologically active polypeptides in the skin of amphibians appear to offer a valuable contribution to studies in taxonomy and evolution of this vertebrate class. Several examples of the accordance of the biochemical data herein reported with the data of traditional taxonomy are described for the neotropical family of frogs Leptodactylidae, but particular emphasis is laid on the striking correspondence between the systemic distribution of the spectra of biogenic amines and morphological taxonomy which is demonstrated by the species of the genus Leptodactylus.
2412149|Karyotype evolution apparently involving Robertsonian centric fusion of chromosomes in iguanid reptilian species (Sceloporus clarki and Sceloporus magister) is consistent with the recent evidence pertaining to the evolution of North American Desert species of animals and plants derived from tropical and subtropical communities of the Madro-Tertiary Geoflora during the evolution of the North American Desert.
10.2307/2412150|The relationships of adult butterflies were evaluated using the techniques of numerical taxonomy and various sets of characters. Using a total of 196 characters of the external and internal anatomy produced phenograms quite similar to the one arrived at by classical taxonomic techniques. There were, however, significant differences (e.g., relatively low similarity of the Papilionidae and Pieridae). Relationships based on most subsets of characters showed a "family resemblance" to one another and to the classical relationships. Relationships based on 96 internal and 100 external characters were compared by a randomization test. When evaluated by correlation coefficients the internal and external relationships were significantly different. When evaluated by distances they were not. Our results in general seem to support a "weak" version of the nonspecificity hypothesis-analysis of different large samples of characters ordinarily will yield positively correlated but non-identical patterns of relationship. This study has led to an appraisal of ideas of general classification and the utility of numerical taxonomy. Theoretical considerations make it seem unlikely that the idea of "overall similarity" has any validity. In any case it is clear that overall similarity cannot be dealt with operationally. All classifications are inherently special, and no one special classification is any more or less "correct" than any other. It is suggested that numerical taxonomy is a more sophisticated tool than is required for doing most routine taxonomic jobs. Numerical taxonomy, however, can be used in those situations where refined answers seem to be desirable, either where economic problems are involved or where light can be shed on general problems of population biology.
10.2307/2412151|Numbers of papers, subjects discussed and major workers on the Phylum Ectoprocta were compiled from the literature published from 1555 to 1963. The average yearly number of papers on ectoprocts increased greatly throughout the Nineteenth Century, stayed about constant from 1900 until after the second world war, and has been increasing modestly since then. Approximately 5500 papers have been written on ectoprocts, of which about 3600 deal with systematics and other biologic topics (excluding ecology), the remainder are on the use of ectoprocts in ecologic or stratigraphic studies. About 75 per cent of the literature is in English (50 per cent), French (15 per cent) and German (10 per cent). Since the limited catalogues published in 1900 and before, no catalogue of the literature on ectoprocts has been prepared. As a consequence, the literature on all aspects of the study of ectoprocts is poorly organized for modern workers. Probably more than any other single publication, a modern Catalogue of Ectoprocta, cross-indexed to taxonomic names and subjects, would lead to greatly increased interest and work on these animals. A journal devoted to all aspects of ectoprocts apparently has a large enough group of potential contributors (more than 100) to be viable.
10.2307/2411408|Molluscs had a common origin with the annelids, as shown by remarkable ontogenetic similarities. Their common ancestors were non-segmented (non-eumetameric), acoelomate animals. Molluscs developed from the common stock through incorporation of the distinguishing molluscan characters such as the shell, mantle, mantle cavity, radula and etenidium and annelids by the adoption of coelomic segmentation and of changes accompanying it. The assertion that molluscs hand ancestors with coelomic segmentation is contradicted by ontogenetic and anatomical facts as well as by theoretical considerations. The common molluscan-annelid stock most likely originated from ancestral flatworms; this is indicated by the developmental, and to a lesser extent, structural similarities between the flatworms, molluscs and annelids, and by the lower level of organization of the flatworms. The coelom is a phylogenetically new structure in the molluscs and annelids, and was acquired independently in the two phyla. Coelomic segmentation also is a phylogenetically new acquisition of the annelids; it came about through developmental changes affecting the growth of the mesoderm bands. These views are the corollaries of ontogenetic considerations.
10.2307/2411404|Shrew populations on the islands in the Bering Strait region (Sorex pribilofensis, S. jacksoni, S. hydrodromus) were regarded as related to Sorex arcticus of the Alaskan mamland. Our data indicate that S. pribilofensis and S. jacksoni are members of the S. (Otiosorex) cinereus group, which occurs both in Alaska and eastern Siberia. Sorex hydrodromus apparently does not exist on Unalaska Island, and is a synonym of S. pribilofensis. The Holarctic evolution of the S. cinereus and S. arcticus-S. araneus groups, and their occurrence on the Bering land connection in the late Pleistocene, is discussed.
10.2307/2411403|The effect of using only intercorrelated characters in a numerical taxonomic study was investigated using 74 external morphological characters of pupae in 45 species of North American mosquitoes. Correlation and distance coefficients were computed based upon standardized data. Cluster analyses and factor analyses were performed and compared. In addition, analyses were made of the correlation among the characters using centroid components analysis and multiple factor analysis with rotation to simple structure. The only effect of using correlated characters appears to be that it causes the generic clusters to appear very elongated in the n dimensional character space. Standard methods of cluster analysis have a tendency to make the OTU's at the ends of these clusters appear much more isolated than they "should be." Methods for correcting for this bias were discussed.
10.2307/2411407|A method of equalized scaling is proposed for taxonomic or classificatory systems, designed so that problems involving a mixed set of variables (some quantitative and others multistate qualitative) can be handled automatically and so that variables of neither class will unduly dominate the classifying process. The method is formulated in terms of Euclidean distance in n-dimensional space but is easily adapted to a system using similarity coefficients. Other advantages of the method are discussed.
10.2307/2411405|Karyotypic data are presented for members of the Lesser Antillean Anolis of the roquet group, and their geographic near neighbors. The roquet group is characterized by six pairs of metacentric macrochromosomes. The near neighbors to the south (A. chrysolepis) and west (A. lineatus) have seven pairs of macrochromosomes. The species to the north, A. oculatus, has a distinctly different karyotype, with no sharp distinction between macrochromosomes and microchromosomes, and shows male chromosomal heteromorphism. Within the roquet group, five forms have 12 pairs of microchromosomes, and three forms have 11 pairs. The latter is considered a specialized condition that only arose once within the group and is indicative of close taxonomic relationship.
2411406|A factor analysis with a Varimax rotation of the initial solution was applied to a system of 27 dental and cranial measurements in the house mouse. Five common "factors" were identified with respect to the 27 variables. These factors in decreasing order of their contribution to the total variation, were width, anterior length, posterior length, skuil and M3. The proportion of the total variance accounted for by the total communality was 73.99%.
10.2307/2412069|The relationships of 83 species of psocids of the family Peripsocidae (Insecta: Psocoptera) were analysed numerico-taxonomically, using alternative methods of processing. The results of using different sets of adult morphological characters and different combinations of them were compared. The effect of admitting a large number of species with incomplete data (known from one sex only) into the system was investigated. Certain modifications of the accepted classification of the family were suggested.
10.2307/2412068|The distributional data for the metabolic amino acid 3-hydroxy-L-kynurenine as a wing pigment in nymphalid butterflies would suggest taxonomic groupings essentially in contradiction with those resulting from more broad-scale morphological, breeding and behavioral studies; this indicates that the storage of this pigment is a taxonomically relatively unimportant unit character. The inherent danger of taxonomic misuse of single-compound chemical analysis is discussed, as is the significance of the use of the same chemical compound to achieve a given color by several divergent but mutually mimetic forms.
10.2307/2412066|A numerical taxonomic study of the acarine family Dermanyssidae comprised 17 OTUs, including the females of all described species of the genus Dermanyssus and one representative of the genus Liponyssoides (=Allodermanyssus). OTU distances and correlations were computed on the basis of 135 characters taken from all areas of the body, and these similarity values were structured by means of graphic analysis, cluster analysis, contour diagrams and centroid factor analysis. A technique developed for the identification of OTUs poorly placed in a phenogram also provided a method supplementary to the cophenetic correlation coefficient for the assessment of phenogram distortions. Several taxonomic changes are proposed as a result of the study.
10.2307/2412070|Use of the scientific method to achieve valid generalizations in biology rests on classifications. If a proposition is empirically known to be true of several organisms, it is normally postulated, as a hypothesis to be tested, that it is true of all members of the smallest taxon to which all the known instances belong. If possible, further instances testing the hypothesis, are sought among the organisms most distantly related to those already known while still within the taxon about which the generalization has been postulated.
10.2307/2412071|Random masks made from twenty-five IBM cards, each perforated with twenty-five randomly chosen holes, were placed over black and white drawings of twenty-nine "species" of Caminalcules and pupae of thirty-two species of Culicine mosquitoes. Black lines appearing through a hole were scored "1," and empty holes were scored "0." Similarity matrices were constructed on the basis of matching scores for corresponding masks and holes. The resulting phenograms agreed well with previous numerical taxonomic studies obtained by deliberately looking for and scoring characters. Complete scanning of the entire image also gave satisfactory results, but classifications were not necessarily better than by the random scanning method. Increasing the size of the apertures in the mask degraded the classification somewhat when compared with the complete scans, but it is not obvious that the overall classifications so obtained are worse than those from the complete scan. Some of the problems of scanning organisms for taxonomic analysis and the implications of such work for taxonomy are discussed.
10.2307/2412067|The purpose of the work described in this paper is to review several data centering techniques and to evaluate their effect on the outcome of component analysis. Data centering is defined as a translation of the co-ordinate origin to the centroid of the system. The conditions under which the R- and Q- techniques of component analysis are applicable as alternative strategies are discussed and the techniques are illustrated in a numerical example. A mathematical appendix is included.
10.2307/2413187|The analysis of the world distribution pattern of 38 inland fish families is undertaken. I present areography as an approach to assess area-interrelationships among these families. The spatial aspect of quantitative biogeography is studied with classification and ordination methods similar to those used in ecological biogeography, although my aim is not ecological determinism and, besides, the spatial and temporal limits characteristic of ecology are here exceeded. The evolutionary and time-dimensions are also considered, but the approach is historical and has not a strict phylogenetic background. First, cluster analysis is performed from the similarities between areas measured in terms of surface-overlap; then, the inverse approach is developed, namely, cluster analysis of arbitrarily defined geographical areas which are compared through the extent of their common family ranges. The derived pattern of fish distribution does not fit the traditional zoogeographical regions and reflects past geographical connections. Finally, principal coordinates analysis (PRA) from present biotic distances among the arbitrary geographical areas permits to verify statistically that a concordance exists between these biotic distances and past geography, and this shows the biogeographical projection of evolution. The parallelism between this approach and Croizat's method of generalized tracks is discussed, as well as the extension of the approach to other groups of organisms and to taxa of lower rank.
10.2307/2413188|This paper analyses the ecological concept of niche that Mayr (1982) adopts in his new, adjusted biological species definition. It is argued here that this concept is part of a typological paradigm still persisting in ecology and thus does not fit the remainder of Mayr's concepts of evolutionary processes based on population thinking. Consequently, adopting this concept in such a definition confuses matters more than it helps. In this analysis particular attention is given to the question of being able to measure niches and populations independently, together with chosing a spatio-temporal scale of variation. Some concepts central to the typological paradigm are also briefly mentioned, together with an alternative approach that could fit better Mayr's population thinking. This alternative approach does not rely on these concepts, nor on a particular choice of scale of variation and allows for the spatio-temporal dynamics of individual species resulting from environmental instability. Thus, it also allows for gradual speciation which the approach using the ecological typological paradigm cannot. Adopting the concept of niche within biological species definitions is not recommended.
10.2307/2413185|In the context of a numerical systematic analysis of dental occlusal morphology of extant hominoid Primates, consideration of alternative procedures for each of several analytic tasks revealed that: 1) ordination of sample means for hominoid primate molar occlusal landmark co-ordinates gave results similar to those of methodologically more rigorous canonical variate analyses (Hartman, 1986); 2) analysis of metric variables (e.g., group means) standardized by character may give biologically less meaningful results than use of variables not so standardized; 3) nonmetric multidimensional scaling may often give a superior two- or three-dimensional summary of phenetic relationships, compared to ordination techniques restricted to rigid transformation (e.g., principal component or co-ordinate analyses); 4) elimination of a latent "size" vector as an adjustment for intergroup size differences will often be inappropriate; and 5) under certain circumstances regression adjustments for the influence of size on shape (allometry) may be unsuitable.
10.2307/2413186|A characterization of Simpson's categories of relict species allows discrimination between relictual coevolved associations and associations due to a sequence of host-switching or colonization that coincidentally matches the host group phylogeny. Relictual groups are recognized by (a) highly speciose sister groups and (b) biogeographic distributions indicating great age. Numerical relicts are the relatively few surviving members of a once-speciose group, such as crocodilians. In the absence of a fossil record, past diversity can be inferred from the degree of ecological diversity among surviving members of the clade. Coevolved numerical relicts show spotty distribution among ecologically diverse members of an inclusive host clade. Phylogenetic relicts are "living fossils," members of old groups that have persisted relatively unchanged for a long period of time, such as horse-shoe crabs. Coevolved phylogenetic relicts are either restricted to host groups that are themselves phylogenetic relicts, or inhabit members of a non-relictual host group that share a common plesiomorphic ecology. Three examples drawn from flatworm parasites and their vertebrate hosts are discussed.
10.2307/2413189|A computer simulation suggests that, for large cladograms, it is impossible to intuit by visual examination whether an observed degree of similarity is non-random. Drift may hinder our ability to see that several large area cladograms reflect one underlying sequence of vicariant events. Natural selection, by contrast, may cause area cladograms to resemble one another even if they represent taxa that underwent very different sequences of vicariant events. In other words, drift and selection can both becloud phylogeny. But these hindrances do not prevent phylogenetic inferences altogether, and even apparently minor similarities between apparently dissimilar cladograms can be so highly non-random as to implicate a common sequence of vicariant events.
10.2307/2992196|The principle of the common cause and a background theory concerning the dependence-independence of the events responsible for allopatric lineage splitting are used to justify the concept of parsimony in the study of vicariance biogeography. A quantitative vicariance method is formulated, which in many respects is analogous to numerical cladistics. Syntaxon, the unit of evidence, is a composite of sister lineages which occupy two or more different areas of endemism. A new coding/weighting scheme also allows sympatric terminal taxa to be used in the analysis. Widespread terminal taxa and those missing from recognized areas of endemism are not considered relevant sources of evidence, and they are scored in a neutral manner. A Greater Antillean example illustrates the vicariance methodology. Five taxonomic sources of evidence, including boid snakes belonging to Epicrates, suggest the following biotic history: (mainland ((Cuba, Jamaica) (Hispaniola, Puerto Rico))).
10.2307/2992201|The spanning-tree approach to biogeography developed by Craw and Page offers results even when little or no cladistic information about taxonomic relationships is available. Because relationships are effectively resolved on the basis of present-day geographic proximity, however, those results may frequently be artifacts of the method.
10.2307/2992200|The relationships of the Antillean terrestrial arthropodan and onychophoran taxa are reviewed using track analysis, in which tracks are considered the connected areas of endemism of cladistically unresolved monophyletic groups. The West Indian fauna is shown to be of complex affinities, with elements related to Central and South America, North America, Africa, Asia, and Australia. Numerous taxa in a variety of insect orders exhibit Antillean-African relationships, suggesting that resolved cladistic analyses of such groups will allow testing of vicariance hypotheses of Antillean geohistory. Relationships among taxa on Cuba, Hispaniola and Puerto Rico support a geologic reconstruction in which proto-Hispaniola is composed of eastern Cuba, central and northern Hispaniola and Puerto Rico during the early Tertiary. Cladistic analysis of a clade within the carabid beetle genus Platynus is used to generate taxonarea cladograms. The clade is composed of 32 species, 8 from the mainland, 14 from Hispaniola, 4 from Jamaica, 4 from the northern Lesser Antilles, and 2 from Cuba. Fitch optimization is used to generate area transformation series from the taxon-area cladograms. Of the 39 equally parsimonious character cladograms generated in the cladistic analysis, two taxon-area cladograms most parsimoniously account for the area relationships of the Platynus species. These are compared to two contrasting geologic hypotheses of area relationships: a mobilist geologic hypothesis and a stabilist geology/taxon dispersal hypothesis. Using component analysis and a graphical representation of the area transformation series, called closed biogeographic graphs, the mobilist geologic hypothesis is shown to better account for the area relationships of the Platynus clade. These area relationsips include: 1) a relatively earlier association of portions of the northern Lesser Antilles with the Greater Antilles; 2) a hybrid origin for Hispaniola, with the central and northern cordilleras related to eastern Cuba, and the southern Haitian peninsula related to Jamaica; 3) a relatively later relationship of Jamaica and northern Central America. The techniques of biogeographic graph analysis are compared to recent attempts at track analysis and to the methods of cladistic biogeography. The biogeographic graphs are shown to be a useful adjunct to component analysis, but suffer from a loss of directed component information.
10.2307/2992197|The North American freshwater fish fauna exhibits considerable species diversity and patterns of endemism. The fauna has enormous potential for use in investigations and tests of biogeographic and evolutionary theories. Many of these studies are presently impossible to execute, however, because of our impoverished knowledge of native fish species relationships. Fish communities of the Central Highland Regions of eastern North America are exceptions to this observation. The fauna is diverse and contains patterns of endemism identifiable as generalized biogeographic tracts. This ichthyofauna is reviewed and employed as a case study in applications of phylogenetic relationships of organisms in vicariance biogeography. In this new method species relationships and distributions are coded in a binary and multistate data matrix and analyzed using a parsimony algorithm to elucidate the age, origin, and biogeographic history of the fauna. Rivers inhabited by species are analogous to taxa; relationships between species and their distributions are analogous to characters possessed by each of the taxa (Rivers). From seven fish clades, 33 equally parsimonious cladograms are obtained for the Central Highland drainages. The resulting strict consensus cladogram is consistent with the known pre-Pleistocene geological history of eastern North American rivers and supports the hypothesis of an ancient ichthyofauna. With this group of fish clades the Mobile Basin forms the sister group to all rivers of the Mississippi River Basin. Among the Mississippi River tributaries, a clade inclusive of the Tennessee, Duck, Cumberland, and Green rivers forms the sister group with the Salt River in Kentucky. This clade is sister to a large Teays-Mississippi clade. Within the latter group, a sister-group relationship is obtained between tributaries of the upper Ohio River, formerly of the Teays River, and a clade inclusive of rivers across the glaciated Central Lowlands and into the Interior Highlands. These relationships may be predicted from pre-glacial drainage patterns, but not by present-day drainage connections. Concordance between the known preglacial drainage history and the drainage cladogram supports the existence of a diverse and widespread pre-Pleistocene Central Highlands ichthyofauna.
10.2307/2992199|Insects comprise approximately 79% of all described animals, probably form an even greater percentage of the animal component of terrestrial biotas and are excellent subjects for biogeographic studies. This paper applies vicariance biogeography methods to samples of insects from Canada, the United States and Mexico. Analysis of the reduced area cladograms of 22 genera representing 11 families and 6 orders shows that North America (Canada and continental United States) and Mexico have ten zones of disjunction which separate allopatric sister taxa. The predominant pattern among the cladograms is for the various pairs of sister areas to each have a different outgroup area. The general lack of compatibility among reduced area cladograms is apparently due to four factors. (1) Some groups of insects have probably dispersed across barriers. (2) Barriers within at least 6 of the zones of disjunction have been cyclic in occurrence, alternating between being present and then temporarily subsiding; these cycles have offered opportunities for cyclic dispersal and cyclic vicariance. (3) The geographical ranges of many insect groups have apparently changed greatly in the past, thereby obscuring any orderly vicariance patterns. (4) Extinctions probably have played a major role in producing incompatible reduced area cladograms. Selective pressures at times have probably favored the most vagile insect groups and thereby selected for those least likely to have compatible reduced area cladograms while selecting against more sedentary groups, those most likely to have compatible cladograms. The methods of vicariance biogeography may be unable to fully elucidate the historical biogeography of many major components of continental biotas due to factors such as those affecting insects. Such methods may be most appropriate for relatively sedentary organisms found in areas outside the ranges of drastic environmental changes such as Pleistocene ice sheets. The methods of vicariance biogeography need to be further tested with data from real organisms rather than from simplified or hypothetical taxa; such testing may lead to the devising of more robust procedures. For many groups of organisms the methods of vicariance biogeography will be an important subset of a more multidisciplinary approach.
10.2307/2992198|The biogeographic patterns exhibited by freshwater fishes in the Greater Antilles are examined. These twelve groups of fishes (gars of the genus Atractosteus, synbranchid eels of the genus Ophisternon, cichlids of the genus Cichlasoma, cyprindontiforms of the genera Cyprinodon, Cubanichthys, and Rivulus, and poeciliids of the tribe Girardiini, the subgenera Limia and Poecilia of the genus Poecilia, and the nicaraguensis, puncticulata, and punctata species groups of the genus Gambusia) all belong to Myer's (1938) secondary division, which he felt was uninformative for historical biogeography. Cladograms are presented for each group, largely taken from the literature. Many are poorly resolved, and several become only two-area statements when converted into area cladograms; however, a composite area cladogram, derived from the resolved areas of the individual area cladograms, proposes a hypothesis of area relationships in the Greater Antilles that all freshwater fish cladograms are consistent with, although this composite area cladogram, because of the lack of resolution in many of the individual area cladograms, is not robust to some statistical tests. This hypothesis predicts: 1. that neither Cuba nor Hispaniola are single areas of endemism, Cuba being divisible into western and eastern portions and Hispaniola into southwestern and central portions; 2. that western Cuba (including the Isla de la Juventud), the Cayman Islands, Jamaica, and southwestern Hispaniola form a monophyletic group; 3. that eastern Cuba is related to the Bahamas and central Hispaniola; and 4. that these two island groups together form a group, which is most closely related to Nuclear Central America (Yucatan, Guatemala, and Belize). Geological evidence (summarized by Rosen, 1985) also supports these predictions, but it is emphasized that better systematic input, in the form of more resolved, more highly corroborated area cladograms, will provide a more critical test of this hypothesis.
10.2307/2992271|The ontogeny character polarization criterion was empirically evaluated relative to the outgroup criterion using the salamander genus Ambystoma. The ontogeny criterion produced a single most-parsimonious tree which was equally or better-resolved than the four most-parsimonious trees produced by the outgroup criterion. Using the consensus tree to represent the outgroup results, the two criteria derive essentially the same topology. Thus, in comparing topological similarity, level of resolution, and degree of ambiguity, the ontogeny criterion performs as well as or better than does the outgroup criterion in resolving the relationships of this study group. The superior performance of the ontogeny criterion appears to be due to its robustness to the effects of paedomorphic characters as long as those characters do not predominate in the data set. This robustness suggests that the requirements for successful application of the ontogeny criterion may be widely met in nature and that the criterion, therefore, may be useful in resolving the relationships of taxa in which outgroup analysis is problematical.
10.2307/2992272|Discussions of the theory and practice of systematics and evolutionary biology have heretofore revolved around the views of philosophers of science. I reexamine these issues from the different perspective of the philosophy of history. Just as philosophers of history distinguish between chronicle (non-interpretive or non-explanatory writing) and narrative history (interpretive or explanatory writing), I distinguish between evolutionary chronicle (cladograms, broadly construed) and narrative evolutionary history. Systematics is the discipline which estimates the evolutionary chronicle. Explanations of the events described in the evolutionary chronicle are not of the covering-law type described by philosophers of science, but rather of the how-possibly, continuous series, and integrating types described by philosophers of history. Pre-evolutionary explanations of states (in contrast to chroniclar events) are still widespread in "evolutionary" biology, however, because evolutionary chronicles are in general poorly known. To the extent that chronicles are known, the narrative evolutionary histories based on them are structured like conventional historical narratives, in that they treat their central subjects as ontological individuals. This conventional treatment is incorrect. The central subjects of evolutionary narratives are clades, branched entities which have some of the properties of individuals and some of the properties of classes. Our unconscious treatment of the subjects of evolutionary narratives as individuals has been the cause of erroneous notions of progress in evolution, and of views that taxa "develop" ontogenetically in ways analogous to individual organisms. We must rewrite our narrative evolutionary histories so that they properly represent the branching nature of evolution, and we must reframe our evolutionary philosophies so that they properly reflect the historical nature of our subject.
10.2307/2992273|The conditions under which Nei's (1972) genetic identity measure (I) yields results which are discordant with changes recorded in the gene identities at single loci are defined. We noticed that upon reassessment of allele frequencies, the value of I can in some cases change in the opposite direction of changes recorded in single locus gene identities. This anomaly may affect phylogenetic reconstructions especially when closely related populations and/or rare alleles are involved. We illustrate this problem using two examples, one based on real electrophoretic data from two Macaca species, the other based on hypothetical allele frequencies. We propose to use instead of Nei's I, an alternative measure, which we call Nei's modified genetic identity (I). This measure is based on the arithmetic mean of single locus gene identities. Nei's modified distance (D) is derived analogically to Nei's D. We present the sampling variances of these modified estimates.
10.2307/2992275|A previously derived parasite cladogram for North American fresh water ancyrocephalids with articulating haptoral bars was compared with one obtained for their centrarchid hosts. Mapping of the parasite phylogeny on the host phylogeny gave a consistency index of only 0.38. Host-parasite coevolution was attributed solely to ecological association (co-accommodation). Absence of historical association (co-speciation) was correlated with lack of host specificity and host hybridization. Both broad and narrow co-accommodation were demonstrated and attributed to a combined effect of host hybridization and differential geographic distribution of hosts and parasites in response to Pleistocene glaciation events.
10.2307/2992274|Geographic races of pocket gophers, Thomomys bottae, have been defined classically by differences in cranial dimensions, augmented by pelage color variation. Here, we distinguish between size and non-size related components of cranial variation and show that overall size is predicted mainly by features reflecting the nutritional quality of the available vegetation among the habitats occupied by gophers. Body size thus has a strong non-genetic, or environmental, basis. Cranial shape, on the other hand, identifies geographically homogeneous units that are concordant with electromorphically determined segments of the species' range. Cranial shape is, therefore, considered to represent underlying genetic influences and to identify more closely historical (phyletic) evolutionary units. In our view, these evolutionary units should form the basis for the infraspecific taxonomy of pocket gophers, and other organisms as well. The number of formal subspecies of T. bottae for the region of study (the deserts of eastern California) would be reduced from 11 to three by application of this criterion.
10.2307/2992270|The Hawaiian "picture-winged" Drosophila are a well characterized group among which there are marked differences in the pattern of expression of several developmentally regulated enzymes. We have assessed the phylogenetic information content of these pattern differences by using them in the PAUP computer program (Swofford, 1984). The resulting phylogenies were examined for internal consistency and compared to phylogenies based on other character sets. The results suggest that these patterns have changed so extensively that relationships between distantly related species have been obscured. However, the amount of homoplasy within groups of closely related species is sufficiently small that regulatory patterns may be useful for inferring relationships at this level, especially between chromosomally homosequential species.
10.2307/2992374|Panbiogeographic and vicariance cladistic methods are compared and contrasted through applications to two aspects of New Zealand biogeography involving the inter-relationships of endemic rich and poor areas, and of the Chatham Islands biota. Biological area cladogram methods are utilized and for the first time the construction of a geological area cladogram based on cladistic analysis of geological characters is demonstrated. A new method of track analysis based on compatibility and clique approaches to graph analysis is outlined and applied to distributional data sets for taxa distributed in New Zealand and the Chatham Islands. This track analysis provides the basis for a novel parallel arcs model for the origin of the Chatham Islands biota. This model exemplifies reciprocal illumination between panbiogeography, phylogenetic systematics and geology.
10.2307/2992369|This paper discusses some methodological problems associated with reconstructing the evolutionary history of continental biotas through a biogeographic analysis of areas of endemism. Present evidence suggests continental biotas have had a long, complex history as judged by patterns of relationship among areas of endemism. Thus, an analysis of species-cladograms, in which component taxa share areas of endemism, reveals, first, that more than one general area-cladogram typically exists for the areas of a continental biota, and second, that there is often incongruence among these general area-cladograms. Under the vicariance hypothesis that general area-cladograms describe real historical patterns for components of the biota, such incongruence implies that the biota has been subjected to a number of processes that can produce highly complex histories among areas of endemism, including area-hybridization, vicariance events of different ages located in the same areas, extinctions, and loss of barriers, among others. Current methods of biogeographic pattern analysis-specifically component analysis and biogeographic parsimony analysis-are reductionist in the sense that they attempt to resolve multiple conflicting patterns across species-cladograms to a singular, less complex pattern, or general area-cladogram. As incongruence increases among general area-cladograms, component analysis will resolve fewer shared components. Biogeographic parsimony analysis, in contrast, will always be able to produce parsimonious solutions, but those solutions may not explain much of the original biogeographic data satisfactorily. This latter method is predicated on viewing areas as analogues of taxa and taxa as analogues of characters. The analogy may not always be appropriate, however, because, among other things, areas can have multiple histories, but taxa cannot. It is suggested that "nonreductionist" methods need to be developed within historical biogeography in order to generate hypotheses that can unify the historical patterns implied by incongruent general area-cladograms. These problems are illustrated by biogeographic patterns among the areas of endemism of the Amazon basin.
10.2307/2992370|The metaphor "Space, Time, Form: The Biological Synthesis" has proven to be valuable in the development of theory and method in biogeography. It has also helped polarize biogeographers. In an attempt to unify the polarized positions and promote cooperation and appreciation among scientists with different special interests, yet another view of Space, Time, and Form is offered. Ecological and historical biogeography can be seen as portions of a continuum that relates temporal and spatial scaling effects in the production of biomass and diversity. The utility of this non-reductionist view is illustrated using a study of Neotropical freshwater stingrays and their parasites.
10.2307/2992371|It is argued that inference procedures used in cladistic phylogenetics and in vicariance biogeography make different assumptions. In cladistic phylogenetics, vertical transmission of characters is assumed; in vicariance biogeography, the competing hypotheses disagree as to whether transmission is horizontal or vertical. The bearing of this difference on the idea that a single methodology underlies the two inference problems is considered.
10.2307/2992372|This paper describes methods for constructing and comparing area cladograms. Three different interpretations (Assumptions 0, 1 and 2) of widespread taxa and redundant distributions are outlined. Algorithms for Assumptions 1 and 2 are presented, and a measure of relative parsimony for area cladograms is discussed. By using quantitative measures of the similarity between two or more area cladograms it is possible to test statistically hypotheses of biogeographic congruence. The algorithms described in this paper have been implemented in a computer program available from the author. Rosen's (1978, 1979) and Cracraft's (1986) data are reanalyzed using this software.
10.2307/2992373|Two major methodological approaches to vicariance biogeography are reviewed. Component analysis is rejected as a general technique because (1) the assumptions that have been used with the method are not the most parsimonious assumptions available, and (2) those applications of the method that rely on consensus techniques produce unparsimonious hypotheses and are incapable of finding equally parsimonious alternative hypotheses. Brooks Parsimony Analysis (BPA) uses data from independent phylogenetic hypotheses in a parsimony analysis to reconstruct either biogeographic relationships of areas or coevolutionary relationships among species inhabiting the same community. Biogeographic analysis using BPA offers vicariance biogeographers both a strategy for problem solving and a method for analyzing area relationships that are free of the limitations inherent in both cladogram reduction methods and component analysis. Modifications to Brooks (1981) coding removes the objections of critics regarding the independence of variables. Each analysis requires the investigator to deal with the total distributional evidence available using the (methodologically) most parsimonious assumptions available. A Brooks Parsimony Analysis results in one or more hypotheses of area relationships. At present, full implementation of BPA is impeded by a lack of appropriate options in available computer programs. Using PAUP, a posteriori analyses can be performed to "normalize" the distributions of ancestors and descendants (area synapomorphies) on each area cladogram. Rules used to accomplish this task include specific reference to the original data inherent in the phylogenetic analysis of each group.
10.2307/2412239|A Fortran program for constructing identification keys is described. The strategy used by the program aims to minimize the probability of error or the amount of difficulty in using the key. The main considerations in assessing the merit of a character are the reliability or convenience of the character (as estimated by the maker of the key), the evenness of the division produced by the character, and the amount of intra-taxon variability for the character. The key maker has a high degree of control over the strategy, as the relative importance of these criteria may be specified, and the automatic choice of characters may be overridden.
10.2307/2412240|Art and science are inextricably mingled in taxonomy as in other disciplines. The process of improving science is not equivalent to a process of reducing or eliminating art. Semantics, theory, and practice should be distinguished in discussions of taxonomic problems. Distinctions should also be drawn carefully between the real universe, the models we construct, and the classifications or sets of formal names we use. Comparisons are made between the three principal strands in taxonomy, the phenetic, cladistic, and eclectic. Different values, for example nomenclatorial stability and fidelity of classification and model in taxonomy, cannot be simultaneously maximized; this makes compromise necessary. Two cladistic models and related classifications are compared.
10.2307/2412242|New information of value in phylogenetic and systematic considerations of the ciliate Protozoa is rapidly accumulating; to give this the attention it merits, a revised scheme of classification for the CILIOPHORA, now believed to represent a separate protistan phylum in its own right, needs to be developed. First, the history of past attempts at erecting phylogenetically-based classifications for the group is reviewed, with emphasis on changes which have evolved in response to technical advances in the field, growth in interest of biologists in these protozoa, and promulgation of new ideas and hypotheses by qualified leaders. Such a critical look at the past lends perspective to the overall problem and has provided a basis for the new revision proposed here. The First Period (1880-1930), the Age of Discovery, is noted for the simplicity of the classification scheme, credited principally to Otto Butschli. But there were only 500 species of ciliates known at the beginning of the period and they were separated into several groups primarily on the basis of easily visible differences in the location and composition of the external ciliature. The long life of the Butschlian system is credited to its adequacy, under the conditions which existed, and to the weight of the authority of the men backing it. The Second Period (1930-1950), the Age of Exploitation, was marked by the tremendous growth both in numbers of species and in interest in these protozoa by biologists who were not exclusively taxonomists or parasitologists. The diversity of the 3,000 species recognized by the early 1930's required considerable expansion in the number of higher-level taxa within the subphylum, as it was then called. The leadership fell to Alfred Kahl, an able and hard-working ciliatologist from Hamburg who described many new species and published monumental monographs, still indispensable in many ways today, on nearly all groups. But the classical scheme was essentially retained in the Kahlian classification. The Third Period (1950-1970), the Age of the Infraciliature, gave birth to what appeared to be a very conservative scheme of classification; but, in fact, it represented a revolutionary change over the preceding systems. Brilliantly conceived by E. Faure-Fremiet of Paris and supported almost entirely by the insightful works of other French protozoologists of the time (and of men like E. Chatton even earlier), the combination of a most appropriate and effective cytological technique (silver impregnation) and of phylogenetic and evolutionary hypotheses based on a full appreciation of the heretofore unknown infraciliature of ciliates made possible a fundamental revision of the Kahlian classification. Supposed evolutionary interrelationships were reflected in significant and often iconoclastic regroupings of major taxa within the subphylum. The number of species involved reached about 6,000 by 1960, and many new ecological niches (e.g., sands of intertidal zones) were beginning to be explored. The Fourth Period (1970-), the Age of Ultrastructure, can be identified primarily by its focus on the exciting data made available through electron microscopy. Fine structure studies of the parts of the infraciliature and of other organelles have supplied information bearing directly on the degrees of difference and similarity among ciliate species (now nearly 7,500 in number). A greater diversity than expected has demanded a splitting up of many of the groups established in the Faurean scheme, description of entirely new groups, and important evolutionary realignment of a number of groups. Even recognition of the ciliates as comprising an independent phylum is based on appreciation of the tremendous diversity within the overall assemblage. Leadership has become diffuse; E. Faure-Fremiet himself foresaw a number of the changes; critical ideas have emanated from various sources; but many of the ultrastructural facts so crucial to the revision have been produced by members of the de Puytorac school in Clermont-Ferrand. Most active in publishing new overall schemes for the ciliates has been Anatol Jankowski of Leningrad. The new classification of the CILIOPHORA proposed in the present paper incorporates some of Jankowski's ideas but reflects many other changes over the Faurean scheme as well, including a sizable multiplication in number of high-level taxa and postulation of quite different affinities among some of the key groups, the latter based in large measure on interpretation of pertinent morphogenetic data available from studies (including, but far from exclusively, ultrastructural research) on cortical, infraciliary, organellar, and macronuclear material in species representative of many ciliate taxa.
10.2307/2412237|Chromosomal data reveal the existence of two mainland species of Macrotus that are parapatric in distribution. Individuals can be identified to species by both chromosomal features and cranial morphology. A stepwise multiple discrimmant analysis and canonical variate analysis show that the two species are morphometrically divergent. The distribution of these two taxa is proof that parapatry occurs in species with high vagility If chromosomal data had not been available or if chromosomal divergence had not accompanied speciation in Macrotus, this unique pattern of distribution probably would not have been detected. Allopatric, stasipatric, and centrifugal speciation are considered in light of the presently available data for Macrotus.
10.2307/2412241|Several statements are suggested as necessary for the formulation of any theory of phylogeny reconstruction; these include statements about kinship relationships, the origination and diversification of taxonomic units, and clustering. From these basic statements an attempt is made to construct phylogenetic models corresponding to the theory and methods of the two principle schools of systematic thought. The models are compared, and it is concluded that the phylogenetic systematic model is a more powerful tool in reconstructing phylogeny than is the evolutionary systematic model. The ways in which the phylogenetic models influence the form and content of classifications are discussed. Only information about phylogenetic (cladistic) relationships can be stored in and retrieved from Linnaean hierarchical classifications, and thus classifications should be based on a phylogenetic systematic model because such a classification will reproduce precisely the information (phylogeny) used to construct it.
10.2307/2412238|Experiments were performed in the field on males of five species and females of ten species of damselflies (Odonata: Zygoptera: Coenagrionidae) to determine the relative importance of visual and mechanical reproductive isolating mechanisms. Males of all five species did not distinguish visually their own female from heterospecific females of the same genus, but they were slightly less responsive to females of other genera, probably because of size differences. When the males attempted to mate with females of other species, they were usually prevented from doing so because their abdominal appendages were unable to secure a firm grip on the appropriate thoracic structures in the females. In only one species pair was the male able to achieve the tandem position successfully most of the time, and the reciprocal was unable to do so. Mechanical isolation is clearly very important in this group of odonates, and it is hypothesized that it will be found to be important in all odonates in which male appendages differ substantially between species while female coloration does not.
10.2307/2412235|Skulls from 284 wild canids collected in Arkansas from July, 1968 through March, 1971 approximately one year old or older and of known sex and capture locality were analyzed taxonomically Each skull was compared to six target populations of skulls from known canids (coyotes, coyote x dog hybrids, dogs, red wolves, northeastern forest gray wolves, and plains gray wolves) for identification. The 165 male unknowns were identified as: coyote, 117, coyote x dog intermediate, 26; dog, 3; red wolf, 2; coyote x red wolf intermediate, 16; dog x red wolf intermediate, 1. The 119 female unknowns were identified as: coyote, 91, coyote x dog intermediate, 12; dog, 5; coyote x red wolf intermediate, 11. Coyotes occur in all counties of the state and are the predominant wild canid in most areas. Local pockets of coyote x dog intermediates are randomly distributed but fairly common. Wild dogs have become established in some areas, especially in east-central Arkansas. A strong red wolf influence still exists in the canid population on the Gulf Coastal Plain of southern Arkansas. Occasional pockets of red wolf influence are found in the Ouachita and Ozark Mountains and Delta.
10.2307/2412236|A broad survey of immunological affinities among squirrels (Sciuridae) was achieved by testing sera of 36 species in immunodiffusion using antisera to the sera of 11 species. The results (net spur values) were summarized using set theoretical notation in a computer program which ordered the compared species in order of their divergence from the homologous species. A dendrogram was constructed by the Unweighted Pair Group Method. Species within genera were usually discriminated by this method and taxa recognized on morphological evidence as related were more similar in their proteins than unrelated ones. Among members of the Sciuridae the first branching was of chipmunk-ground squirrel and tree squirrel-flying squirrel lineages. The immunological evidence for the divergence of chipmunks and ground squirrels early in the evolutionary history of the family is in accord with the fossil record. Systematic relationships among ground squirrels suggested by the comparison data correlate with accepted classification; prelimmary data also support the hypothesis that prairie dogs are most closely related to the genus Spermophilus. The data suggest divergence of three phyletic lines of tree squirrels and two of flying squirrels. The Asian tree squirrel lineage includes members of the tribe Callosciurini (Callosciurus, Sundasciurus, Tamiops, and Menetes) and the Indian Funambulus which were more similar to each other antigenically than to any other tree squirrels. The giant squirrel genus Ratufa represents a separate phyletic line and Sciurus and Tamiasciurus constitutes a third line. Except for the Asian Iomys, all flying squirrels examined (Glaucomys, Petinomys, Pteromys, and Petaurista) were more closely related to each other than to other squirrels, and as a group show a close affinity to the Sciurus phyletic line. This observation opposes the present classification which assigns flying squirrels to the subfamily Petauristinae and the tree squirrels and ground squirrels to the subfamily Sciurmae. The immunodiffusion technique permits comparisons over a wide taxonomic range, providing data useful at several taxonomic levels; Aplodontia rufa, the most primitive living rodent, was greatly divergent from all squirrels.
10.2307/2412471|Traditionally, species (like other taxa) have been treated as classes (universals). In fact they may be considered individuals (particular things). The logical term "individual" has been confused with a biological synonym for "organism." If species are individuals, then: 1) their names are proper, 2) there cannot be instances of them, 3) they do not have defining properties (intensions), 4) their constituent organisms are parts, not members. "Species" may be defined as the most extensive units in the natural economy such that reproductive competition occurs among their parts. Species are to evolutionary theory as firms are to economic theory: this analogy resolves many issues, such as the problems of "reality" and the ontological status of nomenclatorial types.
10.2307/2412470|Cerion displays an extraordinary range of phenetic diversity. This has led to the naming of several hundred species, though only a mere fraction of these are valid if, as we believe, morphological diversity does not reflect reproductive isolation in this genus. The taxonomic morass has precluded fruitful evolutionary study of these extremely plastic animals. We apply techniques of multivariate morphometrics and biochemical genetics to a local situation on the northeastern coast of Great Abaco, Bahamas. Here, a local population is semi-isolated along a strip of coastline near the settlement of Pongo Carpet; it is in contact with other populations only to the north. Its morphology is highly distinct and, on all previous criteria, it merits recognition as a separate species. We find, however, that its patterns of covariation (as revealed by factor analysis) cannot be distinguished from those of the only recognized taxon of northern Abaco, C. bendalli (while patterns in the southern Abaconian species, C. abacoense, are entirely different). Canonical analysis displays a cline towards standard morphology from the region of maximum isolation at Pongo Carpet to the northern area of potential contact with standard C. bendalli. Levels of morphological variation do not differ among samples; those of intermediate morphology show no increase in variability or other signs of hybridization. Starch-gel electrophoresis showed the pongo carpet samples to be genetically indistinguishable from standard bendalli at the 18 structural gene loci surveyed. No evidence for selfing or inbreeding was detected. The proportion of polymorphic loci in each population ranged between 16.6-22.2%; genic heterozygosity per individual was 5.25-6.79%. The only genetic "anomaly" within the area contrasts some standard and pongo carpet samples with C. bendalli from elsewhere on Abaco and Grand Bahama Island. We conclude that the pongo carpet population is a well-marked geographic variant within Cerion bendalli. The coordinated application of biochemical genetics and multivariate morphometrics can resolve many issues in the systematics of highly variable organisms.
10.2307/2412466|In a previous paper the author showed that the American planarian Dugesia dorotocephala possesses a haploid set of 8 chromosomes. New investigations have now demonstrated in two populations a haploid set of 4 chromosomes. The possible ways this karyotype has varied and its taxonomic value are discussed.
10.2307/2412465|Syngens 1, 2, 4, and 6 (at least) of Paramecium aurelia are morphologically distinct in their multivariate complexity. On the basis of 20 attributes, requiring only 7 measures and 3 counts on stained specimens, the synegic ascertainment of stocks of these four syntens is feasible using multivarate methods. Extension of these methods to all of the syngens of the aurelia group is necessary before definitive syngenic ascertainment in practical by morpholgy alone
10.2307/2412468|The ultrastructure of the chorion in three pairs of closely related Drosophila species endemic to Hawaii was determined using a scanning electron microscope. All species have a generally similar pattern of a network of hexagons, yet they differ in the detailed structure of the chorion. The size and shape of the hexagons, the thickness and shape of the hexagonal rims and the presence and size of the respiratory pores are strikingly different between the members of each pair. It is suggested that these differences are correlated with the substrates used for oviposition by each species. The chorionic structure of eggs of interspecific hybrids indicates polygenic control with both parental genomes being involved, yet with a strong maternal influence on the shape and size of the hexagonal rims.
10.2307/2412469|A new concept based on Dollo's Law, the uniquely evolved character concept, is defined; it can be applied only to characters involving evolution of a structural character or development of a new enzymatic pathway. From this, a new method of trying to establish cladistic relationships has been developed and studied with the same published data on taxa of orthopteroid insects as used in my earlier paper (Le Quesne, 1972).
10.2307/2412464|Two consistent observations from recent multi-locus electrophoretic studies are: (1) levels of genic similarity between conspecific populations appear very high (populations nearly identical in allelic content at 85 percent or more of their loci) and (2) genic similarities between different, even very closely related species, are generally much lower and more widely dispersed (congeneric species pairs often completely distinct at one-fifth to four-fifths of their loci). These observations have valuable implications regarding the practical utility of electrophoresis: (1) one or a few samples often yield adequate data for the description of an entire species for systematic purposes and (2) closely related species may be arranged according to percentages of shared alleles or genotypes. A survey of the literature indicates that when such arrangements are made, they usually correspond very closely to previously recognized relationships of various species groups based on classical systematic criteria. This observation, coupled with several theoretical advantages of the study of allozymes, makes it clear that electrophoretic techniques will provide an extremely valuable tool for systematists.
10.2307/2412467|The evolution of the protostome coelom is an adaptation to burrowing as is segmentation in the annelids. The burrowing ancestral polychaete resembled in body-form recent terrestrial oligochaetes. Recent polychaete families originated in an adaptive radiation following the migration of the ancestral annelids into the flocculent detrital layers in shallow marine muds and from there onto hard bottoms and other specialized environments.
10.2307/2412131|The geographical distribution of the six genera and 130 species of nematodes within the Family Camallanidae Railliet and Henry, 1915 is plotted and discussed. The family is divided into three subfamilies, the Procamallaninae, Camallaninae and Paracamallaninae, based upon buccal capsule structure. The fauna within each zoogeographical region is characterized as to host type and degree of specialization. Some general principles of parasite biogeography are discussed and applied to the data to hypothesize a center of origin and patterns of dispersal for the family. The use of female body volume as a fitness character in temperate climates for dispersing species is discussed. Estimates of the mean female body volume of the genera within various geographical regions are given. These estimates are correlated with the distribution pattern of the family.
10.2307/2412130|Coastal rivers are isolated habitats that can be studied as biogeographic islands. Forty-nine rivers of the North American Atlantic and Eastern Gulf of Mexico Coastal Plains and their freshwater mussel (Unionidae) faunas are analyzed as a discrete island biogeographic system. Cluster analyses group the rivers on the basis of faunal similarity into five intergrading zoogeographic provinces. Distributional patterns in these provinces are strongly influenced by the proximity of species source rivers. Independent variables measuring stepping-stone distances (number of intervening rivers) from species source rivers, area of river drainage basins, and water quality parameters were tested in multiple regression models for their ability to predict numbers of species. Area of drainage basins is the best predictor of numbers of species. The species-area effect is greatest for provinces containing important source rivers and is lower for provinces in which rivers were colonized primarily by stepping-stone dispersal. The influence of stepping-stones on dispersal was assessed by constructing a stochastic model that uses immigration and extinction probabilities on serially arranged islands. Simulations of the model demonstrate that numbers of species on the islands should decrease approximately geometrically with distance from the species source. Numbers of freshwater mussels in the coastal rivers display a similar geometrical decline. The species-area and stepping-stone dispersal effects are combined in a descriptive model that stresses an interaction between area and distance from source rivers in determining species numbers. When combined with measures of environmental quality (hydronium concentration, amount of dissolved solids, and nitrate concentration), this model explains up to 80 percent of the variance in unionid species numbers among the coastal rivers.
10.2307/2412139|The concept of center of origin in the Darwinian sense is often accepted and used as if it were a conceptual model necessary and fundamental to historical zoogeographical analysis. But in certain respects it is inconsistent with the principles of common ancestry and vicariance
10.2307/2412132|The distribution patterns of western and central Oklahoma fishes were analyzed, utilizing factor analytical techniques, to determine generalized patterns and their correlation with certain environmental variables. Twenty-seven drainage units of the major Arkansas and Red river tributaries were scored for the presence or absence of each of 53 species and values for 13 environmental variables. Six factor groups were obtained through oblique rotation of principal axes that were factored from the correlation matrix of the variables. These six associations were judged biologically meaningful and provide insight into the limiting factors affecting the Oklahoma fish fauna. The relative effects of historical and environmental components on current distribution groupings are discussed and some predictions are made concerning future faunal changes.
10.2307/2412129|The Bathynellacea are one of the oldest groups of the freshwater fauna. They most likely inhabited surface habitats during the Carboniferous prior to becoming established in the mesopsammal. Their dispersive capacity is severely limited. The occurrence of some species in oligohaline to polyhaline waters is secondary. The centre of evolution of the Bathynellacea is located in East Asia where the most primitive species of the two extant families are to be found. As for the Parabathynellidae two lines extending from there onwards can be distinguished. One leads to the west in the direction of Europe, Africa and South America. The "Cteniobathynella-group" of genera belongs to this line. The other is represented by the "Chilibathynella-group" of genera and leads to the south via Australia also to South America. Along both lines the genera become more and more apomorphic in their characters. In order to understand the distribution of the "Cteniobathynella-group" Mesozoic land connections between Africa, Madagascar and South America have to be envisaged. The distribution of the "Chilibathynella-group" cannot be explained unless there had been land connections between Australia/New Guinea and New Zealand and between Australia and South America via Antarctica in the Mesozoic. There are indications that the distribution of the family Bathynellidae may have paralleled that of the Parabathynellidae. But lack of a proper insight into the systematic relationships within this family prevents a detailed reconstruction at present.
10.2307/2412136|Information about the operation of various, major zoogeographic barriers in both marine and terrestrial environments is presented. The data appear to indicate that such barriers affect the distribution of animals in a consistent manner. Therefore, it is possible to propose a general theory of barrier function. If we assume that such barriers have been constant in their function over long periods of time, we are provided with a relatively simple explanation for certain, worldwide distributional (and phylogenetic) patterns that apparently have taken millions of years to become established. If it is recognized that, in general, the more advanced species will be found in the center of origin, the task of working out the relationships of an animal group, and hence the course of evolution, will be made easier. The data on barriers indicate that the cladistic biogeographic principle, which states that the most primitive species are found closest to the center of origin, is probably unsound.
10.2307/2412134|We have examined allozymic variation at 25 loci in nine species of Peromyscus inhabiting the southwestern United States, Sonora, Baja California, and islands in the Gulf of California. Four previously studied species of Peromyscus are also included in a dendrogram formed by cluster analysis of genic similarity coefficients. Mainland populations currently assigned to P. eremicus represent two distinctive genetic types, an eastern form in Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona, Texas, and Sonora, and a western form in southern California and Baja that may have been separated originally by the Gulf of California embayment in the Pleistocene. Peromyscus merriami is genically distinct from sympatric P. eremicus populations of the eastern type, although it falls within the range of genetic variation found between eastern and western P. eremicus forms. The insular endemics P. guardia, P. interparietalis, and P. dickeyi, and two insular subspecies of P. eremicus, are similar to the western P. eremicus type on Baja and probably share a recent common ancestor. Populations on shallow-water islands near Baja are more similar to mainland populations than are those on deep-water islands. Other insular species, P. caniceps and P. stephani, are genetically more distinct from P. eremicus and may have closer relationships with other mainland species. P. sejugis is closely related to P. polionotus (maniculatus species group) and probably evolved from maniculatus. There is considerable variation in level of genic heterozygosity among mainland populations, although the mean of six percent is consistent with "normal" heterozygosity estimates for other vertebrates. All insular populations have low variability, averaging less than one percent of loci in heterozygous state, presumably as a consequence of random drift in small populations.
10.2307/2412133|A population of Leiobunum longipes Weed from west central Indiana was compared with a population of the same species from southwestern Michigan. This comparison was based on two parameters: daily cycle of activity and secretion of serotonin. The daily activity patterns of the two populations were found to differ. The Indiana forms were active during the nighttime hours and quiescent during the day, with only one peak of activity per 24 hours. In contrast the Michigan forms had two peaks of activity, one during the night and another during the daylight hours. The pattern of the secretion of serotonin also differed in the two populations. In the Michigan form the peak of production came during the daylight hours while the Indiana individuals had their peak production during the night. It is proposed that such behavioral and physiological differences are useful as indicators of speciation before morphological differences can be noted.
10.2307/2412135|Operational biological classification at the species level is analyzed as a series of sequential steps employing phenetic, reproductive, and ecological parameters. The first step involves segregation of individuals or populations into phenetically similar groups. Numerical techniques for objectively assessing phenetic similarities are well established, and are the method of choice. The next major step involves reproductive grouping, whenever possible. Reproductive isolation may be a sufficient criterion for species status in the case of sympatric populations. In other cases species decisions are usually deferred until the following step, or ecological grouping, which is based on ecological similarities and differences, quantified and analyzed with numerical methods. Species limits may be visualized graphically by considering phenetic, ecological, and reproductive similarities as axes of a three dimensional space. Populations may be plotted within this space and may be tested for conspecific status by existing computer techniques.
10.2307/2412137|The highland avifauna of thirteen mountain tepuis of southern Venezuela has been examined through multiple regression analyses to determine which parameters of environmental diversity (area, elevation above sea level) and isolation correlate most strongly with the number of species. A linear model with elevation as the independent variable accounts for 81% of the variation in species number. All independent variables account for 84% of the variation in the multiple regression. This result is discussed in terms of extinction since the last glacial lowering of vegetation zones and it is suggested that elevation and topography may significantly affect the probability of extinction and recolonization. In a comparison of the Pantepui species with two other highland avifaunas, it is shown that the major portion of the variation from the regression of species number on elevation (Fig. 3) is due to the presence of more suboscines than expected, suggesting differential survival during interglacials at higher elevations.
10.2307/2412543|An apparent dimorphism in a sample of galls of the aphid Pemphigus populitransversus was substantiated by several univariate and multivariate methods. The initially observed dimorphism in gall shape could be substantiated by objective analyses and it was found that life history characteristics not originally noted were more dimorphic than measures of gall shape. Morphometric characters of stem mothers and alates also exhibited the dimorphism. Two measures of dip intensity, clustering, and ordination were employed to analyze six other samples. Three of these were found to be dimorphic in the sense established in the first locality, one turned out to be monomorphic, while the remaining two samples were nonallocable by the criteria established earlier. The importance of objective, logically consistent methods in analyzing apparent dimorphisms is stressed. The problems of establishing dimorphism in population samples are discussed in some detail, as are geographic variation of the dimorphism and of each morph. The possibility of a polythetically variable dimorphism over different localities or niches is discussed. Various biosystematic interpretations of the phenomena observed in this aphid are briefly enumerated.
10.2307/2412539|Study of the Middle Pennsylvanian, Mazon Creek, Essex fauna Crustacea (Johnson and Richardson, 1966; and Richardson and Johnson, 1971) of northeastern Illinois has prompted an examination of the entire Late Paleozoic radiation of caridoid malacostracans. Members of this radiation bear several gross anatomical similarities to Mesozoic-Cenozoic eucarid forms, yet are totally and completely distinct taxonomically from them. This convergent phenomenon affords a rare look at the evolution of a major taxonomic category extending over a period of some 300 million years. The comparison also bears on general theoretical considerations of diversity and convergence in evolutionary theory.
10.2307/2412541|Contacts between the ranges of four pairs of different chromosome forms of pocket gophers of the Thomomys talpoides complex were studied in an effort to gain insight into the relationship between karyotype differences and level of evolutionary divergence. All contacts are located in the mountainous region of western Colorado. Three different results were found. At one contact no evidence of hybridization between the two chromosome forms was detected by an examination of karyotypes. At two other contacts limited hybridization occurs between the chromosome forms. The fourth contact studied is a broad zone of intergradation (20 miles or more in width) in which more or less unrestricted interbreeding occurs. A discussion of each contact area is presented and I conclude that frequently, though not always, karyotype differences in pocket gophers are indicative of species-level differences.
10.2307/2412542|A multidimensional scalogram analysis, MSA-I, shows that 27 inbred mouse strains, classified by thirteen loci, can be represented as points in a two-dimensional space. Five of the loci provide a rectangular coordinate system for partitioning of the space, three a polar, while the remaining ones make little further systematic contribution. The systematic partitionings may suggest theories of the origin of the strains' similarities and differences.
10.2307/2412544|A phylogeny based upon genetic similarity coupled with information from cytogenetics, behavior, ecological distribution, and geography is developed for the roquet species group of Anolis lizards in the southeastern Caribbean region. We postulate that the primary events were stepwise colonization of the three island banks closest to the South American mainland (Grenada, St. Vincent, and St. Lucia). The secondary events were colonization from St. Lucia to the more westerly islands of Blanquilla, and from there to Bonaire; the acquisition of a second species on St. Vincent by in situ speciation or by secondary colonization; the colonization of Martinique, Barbados, and the Grenada Bank (the latter for the second time).
10.2307/2412545|Morphometric differentiation in 10 egg guide characters was examined in 13 chromosomal races and species within the Viatica group of morabine grasshoppers. Considerable divergence was found to have occurred among races within each provisional species and among the various provisional species. The extent of multivariate phenetic overlap among races within a species ranges from 28% between the 2n = 19 and 2n = 17 races of viatica to 13% among the three races of P24. The interracial relationships among the taxa as reflected by canonical variate analyses of the 13 taxa and of the 8 taxa (races pooled) generally gave close correspondence to the known genetic and geographic affinities among the taxa. Factor analysis of the pooled data followed by analysis of variance and a posteriori testing of the factor scores provided evidence of intertaxa differentiation in the shape of the egg guide. Again, a close correspondence between phenetic variation, genetic divergence and ecogeographic separation was noted. Finally, the extent of multivariate phenetic overlap was found to decrease as a function of phylogenetic distance with the phylogenetically most primitive races having the greatest overlap with the other taxa and the most derived forms being phenetically the most discrete.
10.2307/2412540|Nine different karyotypes are evident among samples of six subspecies of Peromyscus boylii (P. b. rowleyi, P. b. spicilegus, P. b. simulus, P. b. levipes, P. b. ambiguus, and P. b. beatae). All specimens have a diploid number of 48; the principal differences are in the numbers of large and medium-sized biarmed autosomes which range from 2-10. Three chromosome races are recognizable in P. boylii; they are distributed parapatrically with respect to one another, and present evidence suggests that limited gene exchange occurs among them. The karyotype for topotypes of P. b. simulus from Nayarit, Mexico, is markedly different from all other forms of P. boylii, suggesting that this taxon is a distinct species. Chromosomal polymorphism of a non-Robertsonian type is seen in certain populations of P. boylii and may be the result of intergradation between the different chromosome races. The polymorphism involves a variable number of large biarmed autosomes with certain individuals in a population possessing a heteromorphic pair of autosomes. The karyotypes of P. oaxacensis and P. evides, both members of the boylii species group, are also described for the first time.
10.2307/2412538|The morphological order of evolutionary trees has been the traditional argument for the operation of directional causes in macroevolution. We show, in this work, that a similar order can be generated within stochastic systems bounded by minimal biological constraints. Our system generates an evolutionary tree by making random decisions about each lineage in each time interval given preset probabilities for branching, extinction and persistence (Raup, Gould, Schopf, and Simberloff, 1973). Morphology is determined in an independent and equally stochastic manner. Using ten hypothetical characters, the beginning lineage is given an all zero morphology. At each branching point, each character may change by one unit (in a positive or negative direction) according to preset probabilities for positive change, negative change, and no change. Our simulations display most of the ordered features generally associated with uni-directional selection: morphological coherence of monophyletic groups and incomplete filling of "morphological space"; regular "unfolding" of morphology (as seen in strong correspondence between phenetic and cladistic taxonomies); marked evolutionary "trends"; strong correlation among characters; large variation in rates of evolution; and specialization of derived forms. We attribute much of this order to abstract topological properties of the tree itself and urge that the data for inferences about directional causes be sought elsewhere (in functional morphology, for example). We suggest, with caution, that undirected selection may be the rule rather than the exception in nature, if a temporal unit of sufficient duration be used as the yardstick of measurement.
10.2307/2412547|A workshop with 28 participants was convened at the Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, from 30 May to 1 June 1974 to consider the trends, priorities, and needs in systematic and evolutionary biology. The group represented a broad spectrum of interests, and presents this summary report in anticipation of stimulating responses from many colleagues. Major extrinsic factors affecting the field are 1) its vast and virtually unmanageable data base; and 2) the imminent destruction of whole ecosystems, especially the lowland tropics, with the consequent loss of information. The nature and control of genetic variation in natural populations and the control of structure in complex ecosystems were among the important intellectual problems identified. Five major needs were identified as follows: 1) additional substantial resources for studies in the tropics, especially those of the New World; 2) additional laboratories to attack the nature and control of genetic variation in natural populations at a biochemical level; 3) a taxon-based data bank for some portion of the biota of the United States by 1980 as a stage in the development of a worldwide data bank; 4) establish four kinds of chemosystematic centers with an initial capital outlay of about $1 million and an annual total budget of about $300,000; and 5) operating an apparatus for monitoring and responding to requirements for systematic studies in the solution of human problems in the health sciences, the production of food, and similar areas. The last point would include, but not be limited to, the establishment of an Institute for Applied Systematics with appropriate funding and staffing.
10.2307/2992207|Superimposition methods for comparing configurations of landmarks in two or more specimens are reviewed. These methods show differences in shape among specimens as residuals after rotation, translation, and scaling them so that they align as well as possible. A new method is presented that generalizes Siegel and Benson's (1982) resistant-fit theta-rho analysis so that more than two objects can be compared at the same time. Both least-squares and resistant-fit approaches are generalized to allow for affine transformations (uniform shape change). The methods are compared, using artificial data and data on 18 landmarks on the wings of 127 species of North American mosquitoes. Graphical techniques are also presented to help summarize the patterns of differences in shape among the objects being compared.
10.2307/2992206|The repeatability (precision) with which lizard scale counts can be made was assessed using two observers who repeatedly scored six scale characters on the same five adult and five hatchling specimens of Anolis sagrei. The precision with which characters could be scored varied by more than an order of magnitude, and there was congruence between observers as to which characters could be scored precisely and which could not. Variances derived from the repeated counts were always correlated with the character means, thus confounding the relationship between intrinsic character variation and the mean. For one observer, character variances were consistently higher for hatchlings than for adults, a finding that impugns the conclusions of some vertical cohort analyses that reduction in variance in samples of larger (=older) lizards is evidence of stabilizing selection. There was enormous inter-observer variability in the precision with which the characters were scored, and the observers differed in their conception of the characters themselves. Discriminant analyses "discovered" differences in the data that were easily of the magnitude used to justify taxonomic decisions, even though the differences were due solely to inter-observer variability. There was no evidence of skewness in the distribution of the repeated scale counts, and thus no indication that deviations from the mean were biased. Choice of characters and of the individuals who score the characters is critically important. Pilot studies are recommended in order to identify those characters that can be scored with acceptable precision, and those individuals capable of scoring characters precisely. Error variances based upon repeated counts on the same specimens provide a rationale for partitioning character variances into their intrinsic and artifactual components.
10.2307/2992204|We propose a method to compare rooted classifications when the fusion levels between OTUs are to be taken into account. This problem can be formulated as a statistical randomization test, that includes a double permutation procedure involving the generation of random dendrograms from ultrametric matrices. We test the null hypothesis stating that the two dendrograms under comparison are not more similar than dendrograms randomly generated in terms of three different aspects: topology, leaf positions, fusion level positions. The similarity beween nested trees is computed using a normalized form of the intermediate consensus index of Faith and Belbin (1986). A special case is discussed where limited permutations are required to test a conditional null hypothesis. This test is applied to kangaroo classifications to measure the congruence between dendrograms derived from different character sets.
10.2307/2992205|A unified methodology for parsimony analysis in studies of the co-speciation of clades that co-occur in ecological associations is presented. It incorporates two methodological prescriptions proposed by Wiley with a third, namely duplication of areas when members of single or multiple clades are differentially represented. This third component eliminates the need to ignore data on widespread taxa or to weight taxa differentially. Re-analysis of Neotropical bird data demonstrates that the proposed method is sensitive to a variety of general and unique evolutionary influences in studies of historical biogeography, and is hence non-reductionist. Parsimony analysis at the level of clades is analogous to parsimony analysis at the level of ecological associations because the process invoked for homology, i.e., common history, is the same, even though the processes invoked to explain homoplasy differ, in all cases.
10.2307/2992208|This analysis considers the validity of the assumptions of the Gaussian perturbation model as applied to landmark data collected for morphometric analyses. The primary conclusion is that the assumption of homoscedasticity is unrealistic when applied to biological data sets. We also point out some important difficulties associated with alternate models.
10.2307/2992354|We discuss the use of phylogenetic patterns in testing the predictions of coevolutionary scenarios or process models. For this purpose we develop a general method for reconstructing the coevolutionary history of an association from the phylogenies of the component groups and an association matrix describing the associations between the species. We focus on the evolution of the traits that determine which species are associated, and therefore set up a null model with no change in these traits. Furthermore, we distinguish among three different processes that change association patterns: (1) colonization, whereby new associations are created; (2) exclusion, whereby old associations disappear; and (3) successive specialization, through which ancestral associations split into two or more descendant associations. In contrast to earlier methods for coevolutionary analysis, the method we propose explicitly includes all these processes as possible explanations of observed deviations from the null model. The parsimony principle can be used to choose between alternative reconstructions of the history of an association if successive specialization, colonization, and exclusion events are given weights relative to the probability of each of these events occurring. However, it is often possible to take advantage of the distribution of traits in the phylogenies of the associated groups to choose between alternative reconstructions; then, the weights need not be specified. Although the method we propose is explicitly developed for coevolutionary analysis, it should also be applicable to biogeographical problems with suitable modifications. The method is compared to parsimony mapping (Brooks parsimony analysis) and found to be superior in several respects. To illustrate the potential of the method, we first discuss different coevolutionary process models for insect-host plant associations with emphasis on the patterns they predict and how reconstructions of the coevolutionary history of an association can be used to test these predictions. We then use the method to analyze the evolution of an association between gall midges (Semudobia spp.) and birches (Betula spp.).
2992353|Defining the names of taxa in terms of common ancestry, that is, using phylogenetic definitions of taxon names, departs from a tradition of character-based definitions by granting the concept of evolution a central role in taxonomy. Phylogenetic definitions bear on other taxonomic principles and practices, including the following: (1) Names cannot be applied to nonmonophyletic taxa as the result of mistaken ideas about relationships or characters. Such mistakes do not affect conclusions about the monophyly of taxa but about their content and/or diagnoses. Because nonmonophyletic taxa can only be named deliberately, they are easily avoided. (2) Definitions are clearly distinguished from descriptions and diagnoses. Definitions are ontological statements about the existence of entities that result from the relationships of common ancestry among their parts; descriptions and diagnoses are epistemological statements about how we recognize the parts of those entities. (3) By precisely specifying the clade (ancestor) with which a name is associated, phylogenetic definitions clarify the limits of taxa, and this in turn clarifies related phenomena such as time of origin and duration. (4) Unlike the case for character-based intensional definitions and enumerative extensional definitions, phylogenetic definitions provide an unambiguous criterion for synonymy of taxon names: names are synonymous if they refer to clades stemming from the same ancestor. (5) Because of their relevance to synonymy, phylogenetic definitions also are relevant to priority, of both names and authorship. In phylogenetic taxonomy, priority is based not on first use of a name at a particular rank or rank-group but on first use of a name in association with a particular ancestor.
10.2307/2992358|Genetic distances measured by DNA-DNA hybridization experiments are subject to inherent levels of measurement imprecision that may limit the resolution of estimated phylogenetic trees. This type of error is reflected by the variance of replicate pairwise comparisons of OTUs within cells of the distance matrix. We propose an application of the bootstrap method to gauge the effects of such imprecision in phylogenetic reconstruction. Pseudoreplicate distance matrices are generated by resampling the original data with replacement, and phylogeny estimates are made for each pseudoreplicate matrix using a least-squares pairwise algorithm; the process is repeated many times to produce a distribution of possible trees. The frequency of occurrence of specific clades in this distribution measures the resolving power of the original measured distances. This procedure does not assay the effects of inaccuracy (bias) in measured distances, but, in conjunction with a jackknife approach for resampling OTUs, provides a means for quantitative assessment of the robustness of trees estimated from DNA hybridization distances.
10.2307/2992357|Previous observations indicate that morphologic distinctness of suprageneric taxa (superfamilies, suborders, and orders) of trilobites increased during their Cambro-Ordovician diversification. Analysis of nearest-neighbor distances (NNDs) among trilobites in morphospace is used to test the robustness of this pattern while avoiding the overprint of higher-level taxonomy. The properties of the uniform distribution are used to determine the bounds of the morphospace, and computer simulation of random points is used to circumvent edge effects in the analysis of NNDs. Observed NNDs became significantly smaller relative to expected distances, supporting the hypothesis that morphospace became more discontinuously occupied from the Cambrian to the Ordovician. However, absolute NNDs (not considered relative to expected NNDs) actually increased. Therefore, the increase in clustering intensity reflects the expansion of morphospace that accompanied the diversification, because the expected NND is proportional to the morphologic range. The increases in clustering and in absolute NND hold even if Cambrian genera are treated as equivalent to Ordovician species.
10.2307/2992356|Little is known about individual variation in the muscles of birds. We dissected the hindlimb muscles bilaterally in a large series of two species of passerine birds to assess the kinds and frequencies of variation in their structure and to evaluate the effect of such variation on the reconstruction of phylogeny. Variation was rare. Three of 33 muscles varied in Cardinalis cardinalis, four of 32 muscles varied in Hylocichla mustelina, and no individual possessed more than three variants. We found no correlation of variation with sex and no significant tendency for multiple variants to occur in an individual. However, there was a significant tendency for variation to occur in specific muscles. Muscular variation was divided into several categories for which descriptive terms are introduced. Two of these categories, minor variants and incongruous variants, are unlikely to cause problems in phylogenetic studies. In contrast, mimicking variants and singular variants do pose a danger of introducing error into phylogenetic analysis. A special case of rare occurrence is explosive variation, in which multiple variants occur at high frequencies, and which may also cause problems in reconstructing phylogeny. We found the error rate in identifying species-typical conditions to average 2.0% and to range from 0.5 to 3.3% in passerine birds. We propose a research strategy that maximizes the probability of avoiding errors while minimizing the number of specimens dissected. We conclude that this strategy yields highly accurate assessments for phylogenetic analysis, and that individual variation is probably a minor source of error in phylogenetic reconstructions based on myological data for birds.
10.2307/2992355|Maximum likelihood inference is discussed, and some of its advantages and disadvantages are noted. The application of maximum likelihood inference to phylogenetics is examined, and a simple Poisson process model of DNA substitution is used as one example. Further examples follow from the clarification of implicit models underlying traditional "parsimony" and "compatibility" analyses. From the elucidation of these models and analyses, it is seen that Poisson process analysis gives a statistically consistent estimate of phylogeny, and that parsimony methods do indeed have a maximum likelihood foundation but give potentially incorrect estimates of phylogeny. The maximum likelihood formulation provides a common framework within which these analyses are discussed and compared.
10.2307/2992450|A new approach to assessing percent measurement error (%ME), using an old statistical technique (Model II Analyses of Variance and Covariance: ANOVA/ANCOVA), was developed using both weight and linear measurements made three times each on 87 freshwater snails (Cipangopaludina chinensis; Vivipariidae). Variability of each measurement, as well as covariability between pairs of measurements, was partitioned into among- and within-snail (i.e., measurement error) components. The %ME varied by two orders of magnitude across the ten measurement variables considered. Shell weight had the lowest %ME (0.059%), while body whorl height had the highest (3.88%). There was a low correlation between %ME and the among-snail coefficient of variation for each variable (r = -0.28; P > 0.20). Within-snail correlations between pairs of measurement variables were uniformly low (r
10.2307/2992449|Computer simulations of randomly evolving lineages were performed using the model of Raup and Gould (1974). The mean, variance, and distribution of quantitative traits were evaluated. These results were compared with the predictions of diffusion theory (Slatkin, 1981). It is a common feature of all simulations that the predictions fit better in rapidly expanding clades than in slowly expanding clades. Hence, high probabilities of extinction compared to the probability of speciation cause a high degree of stochasticity in character dispersion. We therefore recommend restricting the statistical analysis of interspecific variation to recent and rapidly evolving clades. The results also show that the within clade mean has exceedingly high interclade variance, which calls into question the significance of a direct comparison of within clade means. In contrast the distribution of variances and variance ratios of two traits is more predictable and these statistical parameters might be useful in comparative biology: variances increase linearly with time according to the diffusion approximation, variance ratios of two independent traits follow approximately an F-(variance-ratio) distribution, and the distribution of the variance ratio is independent of speciation rate and the age of the clade. On the basis of these results it is possible to design two kinds of statistical tests: 1) Comparing the variances of a set of homologous traits in two monophyletic clades allows one to test whether the traits show cladespecific evolutionary flexibilities. 2) The ratio of variances of two different traits within the same clade provides a measure of the relative evolutionary flexibility of two traits which is independent of the exact phylogeny and the age of the clade. To illustrate the application of these tests the interspecific variation of seven meristic characters from three clades of blennioid fishes is analysed.
10.2307/2992451|Gene flow estimates between groups of populations (Nm
10.2307/2992453|Coevolution of parasites and their hosts is presumed if the phylogeny of a group of parasites matches that of their hosts, producing a high value of a consistency index. Such comparisons are done using relatively host specific parasite species that are usually separated only by morphological characters. Parasitic, unionicolan mites in the subgenus Unionicolides are described, from sampling data, as highly host specific and are thought to have co-speciated with their freshwater mussel hosts. However, experimental observations of Unionicola Unionicolides poundsi and U. U. lasellai were inconsistent with these mites' supposed high host specificity. A transplant experiment, in which nymphs metamorphosed in the "wrong" host, demonstrated that the morphological characters used to differentiate these mite species are plastic and host-determined. Hence, when taxonomists use only morphological characters and host-induced morphological variation is present, morphological variants can be elevated to the status of species. Consequently, parasites can appear to be highly host specific. If morphs are then grouped, as species, into the same taxon, phylogenetic comparisons can produce high consistency indices independently of any coevolutionary processes. The conditions under which this bias can occur are commonly true of phylogenetic comparisons. Hence, host-induced morphology is a viable, alternative explanation for high consistency indices.
10.2307/2992452|Analyses of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and allozymes were used to estimate phylogenetic patterns in the avian genus Ammodramus. Levels of interspecific genetic differentiation were greater than most previous estimates for other congeneric avian taxa. Phenetic and phylogenetic patterns were highly concordant for these two genetically independent data sets, suggesting a robust estimate of the evolutionary history of these sparrows. However, the genetic pattern was not concordant with an estimate of variation in skeletal morphometrics produced by Robins and Schnell (1971); we suggest that ecological pressures effect convergence in skeletal morphology. Independent calibrations of mtDNA and allozyme distances suggest times of divergence that differ by a factor of two among the species assayed.
10.2307/2992181|Documentation of widespread cospeciation in a host-parasite assemblage requires statistical evidence that the congruence observed between the host and parasite phylogenies exceeds that expected by chance. Although the validity of this test rests on the assumption of independence of the host and parasite phylogenies, this critical assumption may be violated in many tests of cospeciation. Herein, we emphasize the need for rigorous tests of cospeciation in host-parasite assemblages, and we show how estimates of genetic distance can be used to investigate relative rates of evolution and timing of phylogenesis in the hosts and parasites once widespread cospeciation has been documented for the assemblage. The method involves a non-parametric test of association between genetic-distance matrices for the hosts and their parasites. If the association is statistically significant, the relationship is examined in greater detail using bivariate analysis. We use an example from our studies of pocket gophers and chewing lice to illustrate how genetic distances can be used to explore relative rates of genetic change in the two groups and to investigate relative timing of cospeciation events in the assemblage.
10.2307/2992186|Hierarchic classifications can differ with respect to tree balance-the degree to which branches divide the subtended taxa into subsets of equal size. Several indices, sensitive to different aspects of tree balance, are compared. Extensions of these indices to multifurcating trees and to trees with varying numbers of OTUs are proposed, and suggestions for employing these indices are furnished. Different tree-forming algorithms may result in trees with differing degrees of balance no matter which index is computed. Tree balance is an important consideration for phylogenetic systematics, because balance of the true phylogeny will affect the accuracy of its estimates.
10.2307/2992184|Multilocus data are an important source of information on genetic variation within and among natural populations. Hierarchical techniques are used widely for examining multilocus data. However, the limitations of hierarchical (phenetic or phylogenetic) algorithms to depict geographic genetic structure, particularly within species, have long been recognized. Multidimensional scaling of genetic distances is herein examined as a useful technique for exploratory analysis of geographic genetic structure. The advantages and limitations of multidimensional scaling are discussed and illustrated with reanalyses of two case studies: pocket gophers (Thomomys bottae) of the central California "genetic group" and a hybrid zone of two chromosomal forms of the tent-making bat (Uroderma bilobatum). Multidimensional scaling does recover hierarchical patterns when present and is especially useful to uncover nonhierarchical patterns of variation. The finding that reticular and clinal patterns of variation may be examined via multidimensional scaling even in the absence of fixed genetic differences between hybridizing taxa opens new possibilities for studying geographic genetic divergence and speciation.
10.2307/2992183|Tests of adaptive explanations are often critically confounded by phylogenetic heritage. In this paper we propose statistics and a null model for estimating phylogenetic effects in comparative data. We apply a model-independent measure of autocorrelation (Moran's I) for estimating whether cross-taxonomic trait variation is related to phylogeny. We develop a phylogenetic correlogram for assessing how autocorrelation varies with patristic distance and for judging the appropriateness and effectiveness of an autoregressive model. We then revise Chevcrud et al.'s (1985, Evolution, 39:1335-1351) autocorrelational model to incorporate greater flexibility in the relation between trait variation and phylogenetic distance. Finally, we analyze various comparative data sets (body weight in carnivores, clutch size in birds) and phylogenies (morphological, molecular) to illustrate some of the complications that may arise from using an autoregressive model and to explore the effects of different weighting matrices in adjusting for these complications. Although our approach has limitations, it is both effective in partitioning trait variation into adaptive and phylogenetic components and flexible in adjusting to peculiarities in taxonomic distribution.
10.2307/2992182|Cladistic analysis of congruence between different area cladograms, and between parasite and host cladograms, is typically limited to comparing branching sequences only. Adding information on timing of the cladogenetic events can increase the power of the analysis. Instances where two cladograms have the same branching pattern but the relevant events occurred at different times can be distinguished from genuine congruence (cladistic and temporal agreement). Temporal information can also help resolve instances of apparent incongruence. As an example, I reanalyze data from Hafner and Nadler's (1988, Nature, 332:258-259; 1990, Syst. Zool., 39:192-204) elegant study of cospeciation between pocket gophers and their chewing lice. By combining both cladistic and temporal information, estimates can be made of relative roles of cospeciation, dispersal, and extinction in structuring the pattern of host-parasite association between the gophers and their lice.
10.2307/2992185|A cladistic analysis of 42 two-state characters of the adults of five species in the monophyletic Trimmatom nanus species group resulted in a fully resolved cladogram of 48 steps with a consistency index of 88% (excluding autapomorphies of the group and of terminal taxa). The initial analysis was based on 52 osteological and external two-state characters (although in both cases some characters were analyzed as ordered transformation series). The monophyly of three of the species-T. sagma, T. offucius, and T. nanus-was especially well corroborated, with 19 synapomorphies. Within this subgroup, eight synapomorphies unite T. offucius and T. nanus as sister species. These two species mature at smaller sizes and do not reach the lengths attained by the other three species in the species group. Reexamination of the eight apomorphic character states in similar-sized specimens of their sister species, T. sagma, led to the interpretation of three of the eight character states as being consistent with progenesis. Because these character states are the result of progenetic processes, they are subsumed as a single apomorphy of truncated development. The potential to reassign the position of the progenetic (at this level of analysis) character states on the tree is explored. Some character states involving lack of ossification that cannot be positively identified as synapomorphies of T. offucius and T. nanus by comparison with juveniles of T. sagma and T. zapotes may be interpreted as the result of heterochronic shifts earlier in development. Cladograms therefore can be used on real data sets to identify progenetic characteristics and their level of universality.
10.2307/2413294|Explicit, ad hoc character weighting, widely dismissed by cladists as too subjective for practical application, can be useful in resolving difficult instances of homoplasy. Such weighting should be avoided to the extent possible, and should only be tried when critical reexamination of the evidence and the parsimony criterion have failed. So long as such uses of weighting are fully explicit and their results are viewed as tentative solutions, they support formulations of hypotheses where none might otherwise be possible.
10.2307/2413295|Previously presented arguments for and against character weighting in systematic analyses are briefly reviewed and the bases for different weighting methods summarized. A priori and a posteriori methods are defined. I conclude that a priori weighting is the only noncircular approach for weighting of characters in the construction or recognition of groups of taxa, but that no objective method of a priori weighting has been proposed to date. A hypothetico-deductive methodology for character analysis completely prior to and independent of cladistic analysis (or phylogeny reconstruction) is briefly summarized. Identifications and characters are shown to be hypotheses testable prior to the construction of a cladogram. In that context, rather than attempting to weight on intrinsic properties of characters as suggested up to now, weighting on the basis of the relative degree of corroboration of the character in the character analysis provides a rational basis for character weighting if character conflicts occur in the cladistic analysis.
10.2307/2413289|The intergeneric relationships of the lizard family Xantusiidae were reevaluated against a cladistic synthesis of morphological (squamation and osteology) and karyological data. The two data sets were analyzed independently and examined for congruent patterns with each other and against biogeographic-geologic data. Patterns indicated by morphological, karyological, and biogeographic-geologic data suggest two sister groups: (1) Klauberina-Xantusia; and (2) Cricosaura-Lepidophyma. Our phylogeny differs from the accepted view of xantusiid relationships in suggesting that Lepidophyma should be transferred from the subfamily Xantusiinae (currently consisting of Klauberina, Lepidophyma, and Xantusia) to the Cricosaurinae. We propose a vicariance model for the distribution of the Xantusia-Klauberina clade.
10.2307/2413296|A fundamental assumption of any phylogenetic analysis is that characters are evolutionarily independent. This suggests the genetic correlation as a potentially useful weighting tool for quantitative characters. The quantitative genetic framework used to measure genetic correlations and heritabilities is first briefly described. Several hypothetical examples are then discussed where purely phenotypic values of characters lead to incorrect phylogenetic conclusions. These may occur either because characters are presumed to be genetically independent when they are not, or by misinterpreting environmentally induced variation as under genetic control. Genetic correlations and heritability estimates for eight characters from a quantitative genetic study of a population of Mexican ambystomatid salamanders are presented. On the basis of these data, gill lengths have low heritabilities and are rejected as useful characters. Head width, head length, and interorbital distance have very high genetic correlations, and are best considered as a single character. In the final section, some of the difficulties in interpreting quantitative genetic data are discussed; these include extrapolating from laboratory to field situations, variability in genetic parameters during phylogeny, and using intermediate genetic correlations as character weights.
10.2307/2413290|Chromosome banding techniques have been used in a large-scale survey of karyotypic variation within and between the chromosomal races of the Gehyra variegata-punctata species group. A total of nine chromosome races are now known among these taxa. G-banding confirms that the principal mode of chromosome change is centric fusion and, in most cases, allowed the specific chromosomes involved to be identified. The location of C-band heterochromatin and the nucleolar organizing region varied within and between the races. In two of the chromosome forms, heteromorphic sex chromosomes were observed in the early stages of evolution. The cytogenetic characters were evaluated and then used to construct a phylogeny for these taxa. The types of chromosome change between the races and their geographic relationships were then considered to examine the role of chromosomal mechanisms of speciation in these gekkos. The previously suggested role of single centric fusions as initiators of speciation in Gehyra requires further evaluation. In one case, an unusual form of tandem fusion has been established and this race is clearly reproductively isolated from all others. The presence of monobrachial homology between the biarmed chromosomes of some taxa suggests that a distinct mode of chromosomal speciation may also be important in Gehyra.
10.2307/2413287|The phylogenetic relationships of 30 taxa of Holarctic hylid frogs were examined using starch gel electrophoresis. Allelic variation was scored at 33 presumed genetic loci and genetic distance data were used to construct trees representing the phylogenetic relationships. There are two major groups: (A) Hyla regilla, H. cadaverina, H. crucifer, Limnaoedus ocularis, and all presently recognized species of Pseudacris; and (B) the remaining species of Holarctic Hyla. The positions of Acris and H. meridionalis are unclear. In general, the relationships based on electrophoretic data agree well with immunological, hybridization, and chromosome studies, but conflict with some morphological studies. A phylogenetic classification requires that H. regilla, H. cadaverina, H. crucifer, and L. ocularis be transferred to the genus Pseudacris. This genus is characterized by terrestrial species that breed during cold weather and possess small digital pads and spherical (or ovoid) dark testes. Holarctic Hyla are arboreal species that breed during warm weather and possess large digital pads and elongate white (or yellowish) testes. The correlation between albumin immunological distance (AID) and Nei's electrophoretic distance (D) is significant, with 1 D = 70 AID. Calibration of the molecular clock for Holarctic hylid frogs suggests that Pseudacris diverged from a Hyla-like ancestor in the early Tertiary. The physiological traits associated with cold-weather breeding and the morphological trait (small digital pads) associated with terrestrial habits appear to have been key innovations that allowed Pseudacris to undergo an adaptive radiation in North America coinciding with the radiation of Holarctic Hyla.
10.2307/2413292|Phylogenies of the hominoid primates based on biomolecular or karyological data routinely feature an African ape-human clade that excludes orangutans, while phylogenies derived from continuous variables of the skull include the four great ape species in a single clade that excludes humans. This difference obtains whether cladistic or phenetic methods are used to estimate phylogenies. Phenetic trees based on anatomical features differ from those based on biomolecular data because of greater heterogeneity in evolutionary rates for the former among hominoid lineages. Cladistic trees from the two types of data differ primarily because similar features in gibbon and human skulls are treated as shared, derived characters in quantitative cladistic analysis, although they are size associated in gibbons and neotenic in humans. The most-parsimonious trees based on craniodental data from which such pseudoconvergences have been removed are those with an African ape-human clade. This result supports the hypothesis that man is more closely related to the chimpanzees and to the gorilla than to other living apes, as does the fossil evidence.
10.2307/2413288|Prior to Darwin, the evolutionary vision had always looked for the unity of life with nature's overall dynamics. Darwin had to truncate this connectivity to establish evolution as a science, as opposed to a philosophic perspective on change. An autonomy-of-biology mentality has grown from this separation that is now antithetical to the evolutionary project. As the science of macroscopic process, thermodynamics is essential to bringing life back to nature. The entropic drive to randomness underlies the phenomena of both variation and speciation; competition between thermodynamic flow patterns underlies the phenomenon of selection; the dissipative structure schema provides basic constraints on morphological transformation. Semantic problems regarding the meaning of entropy obstruct delivery on these promises. I discuss some of those problems in the first sections of this paper, then consider a possible way in which principles drawn from statistical thermodynamics can be extended into the biological realm to illuminate the phenomena of variation and speciation.
10.2307/2413291|The dispersal of a community in a territory can be reconstructed using various more or less specific methods of data analysis. When the data are in the form of presence/absence of species for the various units of territory, or in the form of frequencies of occurrence, they are analogous to the data used for reconstructing evolutionary trees. Furthermore, when one is looking for a treelike structure of dispersal, issued from a common trunk, the tree-reconstruction methods may represent an appropriate analytical tool. Four tree-reconstruction methods are found to be appropriate in their hypotheses. They lead to satisfactory trees when applied to a data set describing the geographic distribution of the stenohaline freshwater fishes of the Quebec peninsula, previously divided into 21 regions. For binary data, the method of Camin and Sokal and the polymorphism parsimony method were used with success, while the continuous character data maximum-likelihood method and the least-squares method of Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards were applied to frequency-of-occurrence data. When compared to a method of pairwise comparison of adjacent regions, it is shown that the tree-reconstruction methods provide the user with information that is not found otherwise. I also show that external information (i.e., geographic adjacencies, and the degree of asymmetry of the faunal vectors of regions connected by the tree), available in biogeographic data but not taken into account by the tree-reconstruction algorithms, must be considered to render the results meaningful.
10.2307/2413109|An earlier phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters (Livezey, 1986a) indicates that Tachyeres is a member of a specialized clade of Southern Hemisphere shelducks (Tadorninae). Within Tachyeres, the three flightless species appear to be monophyletic, with the two Atlantic species-T. leucocephalus and T. brachypterus-being closest relatives. This phylogenetic hypothesis mirrors the pattern of morphometric similarities among the four species. Speciation in the genus is explainable by the isolation caused by two major glaciations in southern South America and related fluctuations in sea level, and intervening dispersals. The biogeographic model is compared to a morphometric assessment of populations of T. patachonicus and electrophoretic analyses of the four species of Tachyeres.
10.2307/2413116|The D measure is presented as a quantification of historical constraints in phylogenetic data. It is derived from information-theoretic considerations, and offers increased resolution of the criteria used in parsimony analyses. Thus, it can be used as an optimality measure in phylogenetic studies. The D measure is more sensitive to the evolutionary nature (symplesiomorphy, synapomorphy, autapomorphy) of characters on trees than two commonly used phylogenetic optimality measures: the consistency index; and the F-ratio. The consistency index does not distinguish between shared and unique characters on a tree. The F-ratio is affected by factors relevant to undirected, rather than directed, trees. Neither the D measure nor the F-ratio are biased a priori towards choosing postulates of reversal or parallelism in equal-length trees. Neither the D measure nor the F-ratio always indicate the shortest tree when used alone. The D measure can be used to choose among equal-length shortest trees that have been produced by standard parsimony techniques.
2413113|Plethodontids, a monophyletic group, comprise about 60% of living salamanders. Many have a tongue that may be projected rapidly and for a distance up to half the body length. Previous studies have focused on the functional morphology of the projectile tongue and the comparative morphology of the feeding system in the family. Here we present a working hypothesis for the phylogeny of plethodontids and a scenario for the evolution of tongue feeding based on the phylogenetic hypothesis. Primitive and derived states are identified and transformation series proposed for 30 characters. Four alternative phylogenetic hypotheses are presented. Our choice of a preferred phylogenetic hypothesis is based on consideration of conflicting characters and tongue projection mechanics. The preferred hypothesis is not the most parsimonious, in a strict technical sense, because several homoplasious characters appear (on functional grounds) to be closely associated with attainment of tongue projectility, which itself has evolved several times. In our hypothesis the bolitoglossines and plethodontines are sister taxa. They in turn are the sister taxon of the hemidactylines, and this grouping is the sister taxon of the desmognathines. Within the bolitoglossines, Batrachoseps is the sister taxon of the Neotropical genera (supergenus Bolitoglossa). In our scenario for the evolution of tongue feeding, the ancestral plethodontid had an attached protrusible tongue. From this condition attached projectile tongues have arisen at least three times within the family: in the ancestors of the hemidactylines; in the ancestors of Ensatina; and in the ancestors of the bolitoglossines. In turn, the attached projectile condition has given rise to free projectile tongues at least once within the hemidactylines and twice within the bolitoglossines. This scenario tends to maximize the number of times attached projectile and free projectile tongues have evolved in the family.
10.2307/2413112|Relationships among lizards of the anole genera Chamaeleolis, Chamaelinorops, Phenacosaurus, and Anolis (sensu lato) are discussed based upon a cladistic analysis of osteological, karyological, and albumin immunological data. Osteological data support a sister-group relationship of carolinensis subsection and beta section anoles, while anoles of the bimaculatus-cristatellus-cybotes, cuvieri series, and latifrons series are sequentially more distantly related to this terminal cluster. Karyological data support five major groupings. One of these groups represents those forms with the primitive karyotype for lizards and includes: Chamaeleolis, Chamaelinorops, and Phenacosaurus; the cuvieri, cybotes, and latifrons series; and most of the carolinensis subsection. Two groups with advanced karyotypes characterize the cristatellus and bimaculatus series, respectively. The remaining two groups of karyotypes characterize the beta subsection. One population of beta anoles possesses the modal karyotype of both of these groups suggesting a saltatorial evolution of chromosomes within anoles and making difficult the determination of relations among the five groupings of karyotypes. Albumin immunological data support a close sister-group relationship among the beta section, and the cristatellus and bimaculatus series, while the carolinensis series and latifrons series are sequentially more distantly related. Within Anolis (sensu lato), five distinct monophyletic lineages are recognized as genera. The latifrons series (placed in the genus Dactyloa) is derived relative to the primitive anole genera in the presence of autotomic septa on the caudal vertebrae and reduced numbers of aseptate caudal vertebrae. The cuvieri series (placed in Semiurus) shares with other advanced anoles the derived conditions for the shape of the parietal, parietal cresting, total number of parasternal ribs, and number of attached parasternal ribs, but lacks the derived condition of occipital region of more advanced anoles. The bimaculatus-cristatellus-cybotes series (placed in Ctenonotus) represents a lineage possessing a derived condition of the occipital region and a derived total number of parasternal ribs but lacks the derived shape of the interclavicle. The most derived lineages-the carolinensis subsection and beta section-are linked by the derived shape of the interclavicle. The carolinensis subsection is diagnosed by derived numbers of lumbar vertebrae and constitutes the genus Anolis. The beta section is diagnosed by derived processes on the caudal vertebrae and is placed in the genus Norops. This systematic arrangement eliminates the paraphyletic nature of the alpha section and punctatus subsection. Although some aspects of current distribution patterns of anoles must be due to dispersal events, it appears that vicariant events provided the impetus for the separation of the anole genera into their current ranges. On the basis of a cladogram of areas and recent geological evidence of vicariant and accretional events in the Caribbean, it seems that a widespread ancestral distribution of anoles throughout Central and South America, connected by a proto-Greater Antilles bridge, was fragmented by geological events forcing part of the proto-Greater Antilles northeastward towards their present location. This fragmented the distribution of primitive anoles in South America (Phenacosaurus and Dactyloa), and on Hispaniola and Cuba (Chamaelinorops and Chamaeleolis, respectively) from the ancestors of the advanced forms on Central America and associated portions of the rest of the proto-Greater Antilles. More advanced anole genera were added to the Caribbean by additional geological activity which separated the remainder of the proto-Greater Antilles into a Hispaniolan-Puerto Rican block and a Cuban-Hispaniolan block. Separation and accretion of these blocks brought Semiurus, Ctenonotus, and Anolis to their present distributions, leaving Norops on Central America as well as on an attached block that later separated to become Jamaica. The closing of the Panamanian portal allowed extensive invasion of South America by Norops and less extensive invasion of Central America by Dactyloa.
10.2307/2413110|A simple way is needed to indicate the approximate uncertainty in phylogenetic diagrams. The reliability of reconstructed phylogenetic trees is considered with respect to sampling error. A measure of uncertainty is developed for a triad of integral Manhattan distances surrounding an inner node of a tree, using three statistical models based on the Poisson and binomial distributions. The three models give broadly similar results. The methods give very approximate estimates that indicate the order of magnitude of the standard error of the central node's position, as well as a rough estimate of the probability that another random sample of characters would lead to a local change in tree topology. The uncertainty can be shown graphically, and illustrations are given on trees from cytochrome and myoglobin sequences, Hennigian analysis of morphology, and DNA pairing data. The sampling errors for the first three are substantial; that for DNA data is in theory very small, but experimental error is shown to have a noticeable effect.
10.2307/2413117|Monte Carlo methods were used to examine the sampling distribution of eight consensus indices based on either of the following two models: all bifurcating trees are equally likely; or all trees (including both bifurcating and multifurcating trees) are equally likely. Ten different consensus-tree methods were applied before computing consensus indices. The strictness of a consensus-tree method and the recognition ratio of a consensus index are the two main factors determining the consensus-index distribution. The former factor influences the mean index values; the latter changes the shape of the distribution curves. We furnish significance test tables for consensus trees or indices based on randomly generated trees permitting multifurcations. These tables can be used to test whether a given consensus tree or consensus-index value obtained from data on real organisms differs significantly from what one would expect if one were computing such quantities from randomly sampled trees.
10.2307/2413111|The current hypothesis of relationship among the Loricarioidea (a diverse group of Neotropical catfishes) is used as the basis for a case study of historical transformation in the feeding mechanism in this monophyletic clade. The historical approach to functional morphology is discussed and is used in this analysis as a means of examining the evolutionary sequence of structure-function transformation. The distribution of structural novelties in the feeding mechanism and their functional correlates are mapped onto the current hypothesis of loricarioid phylogeny. Three major steps in the transformation of the feeding mechanism are identified. The first was the acquisition of highly mobile premaxillae in the lineage leading to the Callichthyidae, Astroblepidae, and Loricariidae. The second step occurred in the lineage leading to the Astroblepidae and Loricariidae: both families possess highly mobile premaxillae with new muscular insertions and movements that are independent of maxillary mobility. Another specialization at this level was the loss of the interoperculo-mandibular ligament and the acquisition of independent bilateral lower jaw mobility via loss of the tight connection between right and left sides of the lower jaws. The third major step occurred in the lineage leading to the Loricariidae. Further subdivision of the jaw adductor muscle resulted in an additional mesial subdivision with a direct muscle insertion onto the premaxillae. A neomorphic structure, the intermandibular cartilage plug (also shared by astroblepids) is specialized in loricariids with a direct attachment to the hyoid, resulting in an additional biomechanical linkage between the hyoid and mandible. A major trend in the evolution of the loricarioid feeding mechanism is the increase in the number of biomechanical linkages. This is hypothesized to be causally related to morphological and trophic diversity. Two explicit predictions are made testing the hypothesis that decoupling of primitively constrained biomechanical elements is related to increased morphological and functional diversity in descendant species.
10.2307/2413108|A computer model that simulates general aspects of ontogeny is presented as a heuristic device for studying the relationship between ontogenetic changes and the evolution of morphologies. The model consists of a set of developmental rules limited to known cellular properties and activities of gene products; it assumes development to be an algorithmic and hierarchical process. Morphological patterns are generated through the interactions of developmental rules. Thus, by its very nature the model establishes pleiotropies and complex characters. To represent mutations, changes were introduced in the developmental rules. Phylogenetic analysis of mutant forms showed that morphology retained significant information about ancestry. Genetic parallelisms, as a rule, did not result in morphological parallelisms, because the effect of a given "genetic rule" is context-dependent. Morphological parallelisms that did arise were a consequence of different mutations that affected certain populations of cells in related ways.
10.2307/2413115|The evolutionary school of biological classification, which considers both dissimilarity and evolutionary branching pattern when classifying species into higher taxa, has been criticized by: cladists for the vagueness with which it makes evolutionary considerations; pheneticists for trying to use something so poorly known as evolutionary branching pattern; and both for its lack of operational methods. In the past 20 years, both the volume of data and the quality of operational methods have increased, so that more credible estimates of evolutionary branching pattern are being constructed. Progress has also been made in understanding the properties, strengths, and weaknesses of both cladistic and phenetic classifications. This work describes and illustrates an operational criterion for using an estimate of evolutionary branching pattern to constrain phenetic clusters to reflect both dissimilarity and branching pattern. The resulting evolutionary classifications are operationally defined, reflect both evolution and similarity, are less cumbersome than cladistic classifications, and permit a more stable system of formal higher taxa while debate and revision of ideas concerning ancestors and evolutionary directionality continue.
10.2307/2413114|The logarithmic transformation can be utilized to equilibrate variances of traits of different size when these variances scale proportionally to the square of the trait means. Otherwise variances will not be equilibrated by log transformation. A simple model of ontogenetic growth is utilized to show that trait variances increase with the square of the mean during ontogeny when individual growth increments are perfectly correlated. Alternatively, if these individual growth increments are uncorrelated, trait variance accumulates only in direct proportion to the mean itself. For most actual ontogenies, the incremental growths would not be perfectly correlated, so log-transformed variances would be expected to decrease during ontogeny. The model was extended to address the comparison of variances between two traits differing in size. When two traits are highly correlated, the ratio of variances of the traits will be proportional to the square of the mean ratio. When two traits are uncorrelated, the ratio of variances scales directly to the ratio of means. Biological traits are usually characterized by varying degrees of intercorrelation (i.e., they exhibit multivariate structure). Since the appropriate transformation to accommodate scale depends upon the intercorrelation among a set of traits, it is unlikely that a single transformation would equilibrate variances (and covariances) among all traits. A similar caution applies to genetic variances and covariances in quantitative genetics. However, narrow-sense heritabilities and additive genetic correlations are both approximately invariant under a change of scale and can be compared across traits and/or populations with less concern about scale effect.
10.2307/2413427|The evolutionary relationships of the soricine shrews were examined cladistically and phenetically using allozyme electrophoresis. Nine species representing three tribes of the Soricinae (sensu Repenning, 1967), plus three crocidurine species, were examined. UPGMA cluster analysis generated a phenogram from the Rogers' similarity matrix; the soricine species clustered separately from the crocidurine species. Using the crocidurines as an outgroup, distance-Wagner and qualitative locus-by-locus cladistic analyses were performed. Results support Repenning's (1967) classification rather than those proposed by Stirton (1930), Gureev (1971), and Reumer (1984). The Blarinini and Soricini shared a common ancestor after the Neomyini diverged. Comparing the results of the electrophoretic analyses to the fossil record provided estimated divergence times within the Soricinae of early Miocene for the initial dichotomy and middle Miocene for the Blarinini-Soricini dichotomy.
10.2307/2413433|The higher-level systematics of the mammalian infraclass Eutheria is investigated with protein sequences of seven polypeptide types combined in an extended tandem alignment. Evolutionary trees constructed from the sequence data by the maximum-parsimony algorithm depict five major lineages of living eutherian orders which are treated as superorders in a phylogenetic classification. Glires (orders Lagomorpha, Primates, and Rodentia) and Therictoidea (Carnivora, Chiroptera, Insectivora, Pholidota, and Scandentia) constitute extant sister groups which are allied to the superorders Ungulata (Artiodactyla, Cetacea, and Perissodactyla), Paenungulata (Hyracoidea, Proboscidea, Sirenia, and Tubulidentata), and Edentata in that order. As sequence data for extant mammalian taxa continue to accumulate, we anticipate that many remaining questions about eutherian phylogeny will be resolved.
10.2307/2413428|For the past approximately 6,000 years, chromosomal fusions have been occurring in populations of Mus domesticus in the mountainous regions of central and northern Italy and southern Switzerland. From these areas, 13 different karyotypically transformed races of communal house mice have been described with chromosome numbers reduced to 22, 24, 26, and 28 from the original 40 still possessed by all the known surrounding populations of house mice. It is likely that, once fused, chromosomes do not separate again in subsequent generations. The establishment of a race with a newly fused chromosome pair requires several complicated steps, so that nearby races with a common fusion very likely share that common fusion event in their evolutionary history. Each fusion, identified by G-banding patterns, has been used as a cladistic character in compatibility analysis to construct plausible hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships among these races of Robertsonian mice. Those fusion events that seem most likely to be incompatible with history are identified and discussed; both parallel evolution and hybridization are suggested as possible explanations.
10.2307/2413431|Variation in land-snail shell form has been extensively documented, but its causes are poorly understood. For no character are there general rules relating shell form to environmental characteristics, although certain correlations are common. Size variation generally has a large genetic component. Larger snails are often associated with moister conditions; the effect may be inductive (direct) or selective, but the mechanism is not documented. Snails may attain smaller adult sizes at higher population densities, apparently through the effects of pheromones on growth rate. Relative aperture area tends to be smaller under drier conditions, probably because of selection for smaller whorl cross-sectional area to reduce water loss. Larger snails tend to have higher whorl expansion rates. This pattern is variously interpreted as relating to the maintenance of constant attachment area/weight, whether of foot surface area when the snail is active or when attached to a substrate or of aperture perimeter when attached. Apertural denticles are generally thought to represent adaptations to reduce predation. Relative shell height of snail species relates to the angle of the substrate on which activity occurs; this could be related to the mechanics of shell balance. For unknown reasons, helicid species in the Mediterranean area frequently have forms with keeled and with rounded shell peripheries. Snails living on calcareous substrates sometimes have thicker shells; the effect is not necessarily direct. Surprisingly, only a weak relationship exists between shell thickness and moisture conditions. Shell coiling sometimes occurs in the opposite direction between sympatric species, probably as a result of selection for reproductive isolation. A recurring problem in the explanation of shell form is the interpretation of covarying shell characters. Identification of nonadaptive variation which results from developmental dependence on another character is dependent on the study of the selective and direct-environmental causes of variation in land snail shell form.
10.2307/2413430|Systematists often attempt to avoid the problem of correlated characters by establishing an arbitrary number of variables that must be significant before groups are considered distinct. The appropriateness of this approach has not been evaluated empirically in the biological literature. We analyzed morphometric data for 27 species of bats from the Brazilian Northeast. Twenty-two mensural characters (12 cranial, 10 external) were analyzed for interlocality and secondary sexual variation in each species using ANOVA and MANOVA. The univariate and multivariate analyses showed little correspondence; no predictable relationship between the number of characters exhibiting significance for a particular treatment effect in the univariate analyses and the significance level for that treatment in the multivariate analysis was discernible. Small sample sizes or disparate sample sizes do not contribute to this phenomenon. Results ranged from: 11 of 12 characters significant using ANOVA and nonsignificance in the MANOVA; to no character significant using the ANOVA with significance in the multivariate analysis. Because MANOVA utilizes rather than ignores correlations among characters, it is the correct statistical test for evaluating overall group differences. We show that even conservative interpretations of the univariate results can lead to erroneous systematic conclusions.
10.2307/2413432|A well-known approach to inferring phylogenies involves finding a phylogeny with the largest number of characters that are perfectly compatible with it. Variations of this problem depend on whether characters are: cladistic (rooted) or qualitative (unrooted); binary (two states) or unconstrained (more than one state). The computational cost of known algorithms that guarantee solutions to these problems increases at least exponentially with problem size; practical computational considerations restrict the use of such algorithms to analyzing problems of small size. We establish that the four basic variants of the compatibility problem are all NP-complete and, thus, are so difficult computationally that for them efficient optimal algorithms are not likely to exist.
10.2307/2413429|The worldwide occurrence of antitropical organisms is correlated with a reorganization of world climate culminating in the middle Miocene. It is suggested that rising tropical temperatures in the Miocene led to a global exclusion of stenothermic taxa from low latitudes. The phylogeny and distribution of the New World silversides are congruent with this interpretation of antitropical origins. Evidence bearing on the relationships of the American anchovies is consistent with this paleoclimatic hypothesis as well. Alternative hypotheses promoting long-distance dispersal, tropical submergence, competition and predation contribute to a fuller understanding of the mosaic nature of the global antitropical pattern.
10.2307/2413384|Chromosomal, genic, and morphologic variation was examined among populations of Dipodomys agilis from southern California and Baja California, including populations previously recognized as D. antiquarius, D. paralius, and D. peninsularis. Populations with a diploid chromosomal number of 62 and a fundamental number of 110 were found north of San Gorgonio Pass, and those possessing a diploid number of 60 and a fundamental number of 116 were found to the south. Genic data also indicated a similar separation of northern and southern populations. Analyses of morphologic data revealed that populations in the north were significantly larger than those in the south for several characters. Considering the three data sets, there is considerable differentiation of populations north of San Gorgonio Pass from those to the south. Apparently, the terrain at San Gorgonio Pass, and possibly human habitation, has prevented genetic exchange between these populations for a sufficient period for differences between them to accumulate.
10.2307/2413390|Unpaired male least sandpipers (Calidris minutilla) emitted three main kinds of calls to attract mates and in sexual or agonistic interactions. The call types varied slightly across the nesting range (samples from British Columbia, Yukon Territory, Manitoba, and Nova Scotia). One call type, analyzed in most detail, was given in long rhythmic series during aerial displays. Tape recordings of 2,250 calls from 80 males were analyzed using four measurements on temporal characteristics and eight on frequency. Most of the variance (59-82% for the 12 characters) was attributable to variation among males, less to cells (13-41%), and least to locality (0-9%); only one variable differed significantly among geographic samples. Temporal characteristics varied more than frequency characteristics, with coefficients of variation (Vs) averaging 4 to 9% for the former and 2 to 3% for the latter. Vs were significantly heterogeneous across characters for each locality but variability profiles were very similar among localities. No Vs differed significantly among geographic samples. The extreme geographic uniformity in call structure, univariate and multivariate variation, variance components, and correlational relationships among call variables was unexpected. Comparative studies using similar quantitative techniques are needed to assess the generality of the findings.
10.2307/2413385|An undirected phylogenetic tree is an unrooted tree with labeled leaves in which no interior vertex has just two incident edges; the labels associated with the tree's leaves identify organisms or evolutionary units in a study collection. Any subset of four leaf labels is called a quartet. Each quartet inherits from the phylogenetic tree a subtree providing basic information about branching relationships among the quartet's organisms within the phylogenetic tree. Consequently, quartets can be used to measure resolution of, and to construct measures of structure and dissimilarity between, such trees. I report empirical and theoretical investigations of six quartet dissimilarity measures. The empirical study provides information about frequency distributions of quartet dissimilarities when trees are randomly sampled from the set of all phylogenetic trees of given size. The theoretical study analyzes expectations of quartet dissimilarity measures when trees are randomly sampled; for this model, expectations of quartet dissimilarity measures are determined by the expectation of a measure of tree resolution.
10.2307/2413381|C-banded karotypes of five species of frogs endemic to western North America were analyzed to investigate the use of such chromosomal data in determining their systematic interrelationships. Morphologically, three of the species (Rana aurora, R. cascadae and R. pretiosa) may be considered generalized "brown frogs," while the other two species (R. boylii and R. muscosa) are morphologically divergent and may be termed "stream frogs." The peculiar karyotype of R. muscosa, with its three pairs of telocentric chromosomes, can be derived from that of R. boylii by postulating a series of chromosomal inversions. Based on karyotypic character analysis, R. boylii and R. muscosa constitute a pair of sister taxa that appears to have arisen from within the western Rana. The chromosomal evidence, while concordant with morphological considerations, conflicts with various systematic hypotheses that have been proposed concerning these frogs based on immunological distance studies and reanalyses.
10.2307/2413382|Eight species of frogs of the genus Rana, comprising five species endemic to western North America and three related species, were examined electrophoretically in order to investigate their systematic interrelationships. Two morphotypic "stream frogs," R. boylii and R. muscosa, were found to be sister taxa derived from within an assemblage of "brown frogs" that included R. aurora, R. cascadae and R. pretiosa. Rana cascadae was closely allied to R. aurora. The two subspecies of R. aurora were discernable, but closely related, and exhibited variation conforming to a north-south pattern of allozyme divergence. Allozyme differences indicated considerable divergence in R. pretiosa, both between samples and from other species. The five western species were found to be a monophyletic group exclusive of the Eurasian species R. temporaria and R. dybowskii and the North American R. sylvatica. The 24-chromosome species R. dybowskii was very distant genetically from all other species examined. The electrophoretic evidence agrees with a number of conclusions drawn from karyological investigations, such as the common derivation of R. boylii and R. muscosa, but disputes previous conflicting systematic hypotheses concerning these frogs based on immunological distance studies and reanalyses of existing data. The widespread "brown frog" morphotype may be considered a conserved primitive state in Rana. In certain respects, karyotypic, morphotypic and genotypic evolution in these frogs may have proceeded independently.
10.2307/2413389|While many advances have been made in the statistical treatment of morphometrics, there has been little improvement in the design of measurements subjected to statistical analysis. Commonly measured linear dimensions result in a loss of geometrical integrity and an inability to translate multivariate statistical results into material three-dimensional morphology. Problems with the definition of size and shape, spurious correlation, and anatomical localization of form change or difference arise with linear dimensions. Finite-element scaling methods overcome these problems and produce measures that can be subjected to standard multivariate statistical analyses. The finite-element scaling method is described, as are measures of local and general size and shape change. We use finite-element scaling as a basis for an analysis of sexual dimorphism in rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) facial growth. Males grow approximately twice as fast as females, although facial growth stops at nearly the same age in the two sexes. The adult female face is morphologically quite similar in all aspects of size and shape to that of a juvenile male (4.5 years old). Thus, considered heterochronically, and taking the female morphology as primitive, sexual dimorphism in the size and shape of the rhesus face arose through rate hypermorphosis. Growth of the face was strongly allometric, with the maxillary alveolus growing much faster than other facial regions. Finite-element scaling is a very useful measurement tool for the comparison of forms, especially in studies of growth and phylogenetic transformation.
10.2307/2413383|An iterative procedure for deriving minimum-length phylogenetic trees from allele frequencies using Rogers' genetic distance as the measure of branch length is extended to include eight additional distances: a modified Rogers' distance; Nei's standard, maximum and minimum distances; Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord and arc distances; and modified forms of the chord and arc distances. The derivation of such trees is defended as a parsimony procedure, and I conclude that any distance used in this procedure must be metric. The nine genetic distances are compared on the criteria of: metricity; ability to produce ancestral allele frequencies with heterozygosity approximating that of the terminal taxa; convergence to a stable solution; and computer time. The modified Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord distance is equal or superior to the other distances on the first three criteria, but requires more computer time than most. Rogers' distance has the properties of metricity and convergence, and ranks below the modified chord distance on ancestral heterozygosity, but generally requires about one-half as much computer time as the modified chord distance.
10.2307/2413388|Panbiogeography, from Croizat to its latest developments in New Zealand, is treated at length. Craw and Weston's attempt to squeeze their approach into Lakatos' philosophy of science is shown to be futile. Due to a heavy burden of a priori assumptions, panbiogeography is to be viewed, especially in Craw and Weston's version, as an adjunct to historical geology, rather than as a biogeographic theory. The role of panbiogeography as an impetus to the development of vicariance or cladistic biogeography is acknowledged.
10.2307/2413387|A method is presented that constrains principal components analysis (PCA) to extract a first component that, by definition, summarizes isometric size alone. The remaining information is partitioned according to variation in shape. Size-constrained and conventional procedures are compared with analyses of data on sexual dimorphism in the painted turtle (Chrysemys picta marginata) and a crayfish (Cambarus bartoni). Contrary to results from standard analyses using covariance or correlation matrices, the size-constrained technique shows that turtles are dimorphic in isometric size but not in shape. Conventional methods do not completely isolate variation in isometric size from variation in shape. Analysis of the crayfish data confirms that PCA with the correlation matrix separates size from shape more effectively than analysis with the covariance matrix. Secondary shape components (i.e., the third and subsequent components) differ markedly, suggesting that incomplete partitions of isometric size and shape by the traditional methods dramatically affect the results.
10.2307/2413386|The iguanid lizard Sceloporus grammicus is one of the most chromosomally variable of all nonmammalian vertebrates, and is an often-cited example of stasipatric or cascading chromosomal speciation in progress. We report on a sampling effort focused on populations in central Mexico of this complex that was designed to describe the (1) extent of karyotypic variability, (2) interpopulation divergence as defined by chromosomal markers, and (3) levels of within-sample chromosomal polymorphism. A total of 597 lizards karyotyped from 42 localities revealed extensive inter- and intrapopulational variation, with a minimum of 42 distinct karyotypes being scored by conventional staining techniques. These ranged in diploid number from 2N = 31 to 2N = 46, and are most parsimoniously explained as being derived primarily by the fixation of a sequence of fission rearrangements in the macrochromosomes. Summary statistics of genetic similarity and distance coefficients were used to group populations by overall chromosomal similarity, and this resulted in an objective designation of seven distinct cytotypes. Distributional evidence indicates that the ranges of the most derived cytotypes are internal to ranges of the more ancestral races. Of 14 chromosomally polymorphic populations analyzed, all conformed to Hardy-Weinberg expectations. Implications of these findings for models of chromosomally-mediated speciation are discussed.
10.2307/2411679|Contemporary population and developmental genetics sees no problem in finding mechanisms adequate to effect a change from one level of adaptive organization to another. Natural populations contain sufficient genetic variability to respond to directed selection for a change in the mean of almost any character. Such responses usually come by the accumulation of small increments and can be attributed to shifts in the frequencies of different alleles in polygenic systems. The extent of the response to persistent selection depends on whether the remainder of the genome adjusts to include the new mean in an integrated whole. The greater the change and the more fundamental the reorganization, the lower the probability of occurrence. Hence the prediction of such events with any degree of precision presents difficulties close to insuperable.
10.2307/2411682|Evolution is neither an autonomous sequence of spontaneous organic changes nor a predictable chain of unalterable reactions of organisms to their environment and its changes; hence ecological factors are neither just the background for evolution nor do they determine it directly and unequivocally. The contribution of ecological factors to the timing and the direction of evolution depends upon the role they assume, or are allotted, in the life history of the species in question. The adaptation of species to momentary relationships with their particular environments may preadapt them to the establishment of new ecological relationships. Preadaptation is achieved when new or even existing components of the organism's environment acquire additional or totally novel roles in the ecological niches of these organisms, i.e., when the organism interacts with parts of its environment in new and different ways. The exploitation of the evolutionary opportunities emerging from the interaction between organic and environmental diversity involves both chance and choice. The central role of behavior permits the element of choice; the importance of choice in evolution increases with increasing complexity of animals and their behavior. The role of ecological factors in evolution must be investigated by clarifying the multiple feedback relationships between structure, habit, and habitat.
10.2307/2411680|The relationship of morphogenesis to evolution of higher levels of organization is discussed, with three embryological examples: the origin of the cerebral inductor complex, the probable origin of paired fins and of variation in the skull bones of fishes, and the reduction of the fibula and digits in tetrapods. Minor changes in morphogenesis may lead to major alterations in adult structure, usually affect the entire organism, and must be balanced with respect to the morphology and function of the organism.
10.2307/2411684|The transition from one higher level of organization to another always involves some form of biological improvement for the same or a new way of life. Except in rare cases when a single lineage attains a new level, the transition is expressed in terms of similar adaptations (broad adaptations) that evolve more or less in parallel in lineages of common ancestry. Within the limitations imposed by ancestry, canalization and directional selection, experimentation with various combinations of primitive, intermediate, and advanced characters will lead to both niche adaptation and to broad adaptation. Broad adaptations may evolve at different rates and times in related lineages, but they are, in effect, responsible for the recognition of a higher level. The partly opportunistic nature of this process implies that these lineages will approach or enter a new level with varying degrees of success. A particular higher level of organization may therefore have a multiple origin even though it has a monophyletic origin at a particular lower level.
10.2307/2411681|One of the most controversial questions in the study of major evolutionary changes is whether or not all macroevolutionary steps are fully adaptive and completely understandable in terms of the known principles of microevolutionary change. The answer appears to lie not in the search for new evolutionary mechanisms, but in the correct description and analysis of the events involved in the origin of new higher levels of organization, as has been stressed by several workers who are dissatisfied with the synthetic theory of evolution. Evolutionary adaptation is the relationship of a species to a specific set of environmental conditions; it connotes both the process and the state of being. An adaptation is a form-function complex (= faculty) that has two components: it has a definite biological role that interacts with a selection force; and it has a relative degree of efficiency. The degree of adaptation, as a state of being, is defined as the ability of the feature to execute successfully its biological role with the minimal expenditure of energy. As a process, adaptation is defined as any evolutionary change that reduces this amount of energy. Preadaptation occurs when a feature, by virtue of its present form and functions, acquires a new biological role and thus gains a new adaptation. Key innovations are those adaptations focal to the exploitation of a new habitat. The model suggested for the sequence of events in the origin of new groups is an evolutionary change that: (a) involves a series of many steps, each representing an intermediate stage between the ancestral and descendent groups; (b) occurs in an intermediate adaptive zone; and (c) involves a number of phyletic lines. Each step involves preadaptations, key innovations and a postadaptational period with an adaptive radiation of forms. This radiation, in turn, may result in a new preadaptation leading to another step, and so on. If the evolving group in the transitional zone reaches a new major adaptive zone, a larger adaptive radiation may occur, marking the primary flowering of the new group. However, no single point can be cited as the origin of the group. The series of modifications involved in the evolution of a new higher level of organization is exactly the same as the continuous evolutionary change within the old adaptive zone, except for the steady change in niche relationships in the transitional zone. The adaptive mechanisms involved are identical for both series of changes; a search for new mechanisms is not needed.
10.2307/2411683|The process of natural selection operates at the population and species levels, but its effects are seen at all levels of organization. Directional selection is the primary mechanism for changes that result in the evolution of higher levels. The effectiveness of natural selection can be measured by three types of evolutionary rates: taxonomic, morphological, and biological (species origin). The most useful rate is that of species origin, which can be compared with rates obtained from experimental or mathematical models. The rates computed from the fossil record of many Pleistocene mammals are higher than those derived from models. The history of several well-known vertebrate lineages clearly demonstrates that higher levels of organization evolve by means of microevolutionary processes rather than by special genetic and selective mechanisms. Phenotypic variation observed in phyletic lines does not give a direct index of the genetic variability underlying the phenotype.
10.2307/2411737|This paper relates to aspects of taxonomy and systematic zoology contained in volumes of the Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, published by the Geological Society of America and Kansas University Press.
10.2307/2411733|The generic name Ichthyosporidium Caullery and Mesnil, 1905, was created for two original species. One of them was probably a fungus and the other a protozoan, but neither was ever designated as type-species. In subsequent studies this name has been applied by some authors to organisms known to be fungi and by other authors to quite different organisms which are generally conceded to be protozoans. In this study the protozoan originally included in the genus, I. phymogenes, later corrected to I. giganteum (Thelohan, 1895) Swarczewsky, 1914, is selected as type-species and the generic name is thereby reserved for the protozoans. The other original species, I. gasterophilum C. and M., 1905, is transferred to genus Ichthyophonus Plehn and Mulsow, 1911.
10.2307/2411546|The 17 modern Canadian arctic tundra mammals share only six broad patterns of taxonomic variation and geographic distribution. These are believed to result from differing distributions during the Wisconsin glacial stage, and the past distributions to have been in large part determined by the ecological relations of the species during the preceding interglacial stage. Those that were tundra species were able to maintain populations in the northern refugia, both in Beringia and Pearyland if the species was widespread (e.g., varying lemming) and only in the former if confined to western North America (e.g., brown lemming). Tree-line species (e.g., caribou) gave rise to both woodland and tundra forms, the former from populations isolated south of the ice, and the latter from populations trapped in the cooling northern refugia. Other species maintained themselves only in Beringia (e.g., man), and others only south of the ice-sheets (e.g., wolverine). Two species, polar bear and arctic fox, find sea-ice no barrier to distribution, and their present ranges are of as little zoogeographical relevance as those of anadromous fish.
10.2307/2412997|Chromosomal homologies between Neotomodon alstoni, Baiomys taylori and species of Peromyscus for which G-band chromosomal data are available in the literature were identified using G- and C-banding techniques. The primitive karyotype for the peromyscine genera is hypothesized to have a 2n = 48 composed of two or three pairs of biarmed and 20 to 21 pairs of acrocentric autosomes, with heterochromatin restricted to the centromeric regions. Patterns of chromosomal change are presented in the form of a cladogram. The G-banded karyotype of Baiomys taylori is composed of all acrocentric autosomes and is most like that of Peromyscus crinitus, differing only by pericentric inversions in pairs 1, 22, and 23. Neotomodon alstoni shares synapomorphic inversions with several species of Peromyscus. Based on these data, we believe Neotomodon is best considered a congener of Peromyscus.
10.2307/2412998|A probabilistic model of evolution in a character is presented. It involves two character states, 0 and 1. The population may have a third state, 01, in which there is polymorphism for both character states. There are three evolutionary events in the model: origination of state 1, reversion from state 1, and loss of polymorphism, plus an event corresponding to total misinterpretation of the character by the taxonomist. The maximum likelihood method of estimating the phylogeny is described. When the probabilities of the four events are taken to be extreme, then depending on their relative sizes under different circumstances four different phylogenetic inference methods emerge as maximum likelihood methods. Three are known: the Camin-Sokal parsimony method, Farris's Dollo parsimony method, and the Estabrook-Johnson-McMorris compatibility method. A new method, the polymorphism parsimony method, also emerges. It explains parallelism and convergence by persistence of character-state polymorphism after a unique origin of the derived character state, and attempts to find that evolutionary tree which requires the least extent of polymorphism. Details of implementation of the polymorphism parsimony method are given. Some variants of the evolutionary model are discussed, involving unrooted character state trees. The use of the model to resolve a paradox which arises when we attempt to apply the Dollo parsimony method to multiple-state characters is briefly considered.
10.2307/2412995|Cladistic analysis is the analysis of hierarchically branching diagrams (cladograms), which estimate, with more or less informativeness and efficiency, one or more cladistic parameters. Branch points (components) comprise part of the information of a cladogram (the component information); and branch tips (terminal taxa) comprise the other part (the term information). In an analysis of five cladograms published on allodapine bees, components were segregated into four categories: (1) replicates; (2) components non-combinable with replicates; (3) components combinable with replicates and with each other; (4) components individually combinable with replicates but not with each other. Components replicated in cladograms based on independent data sets have low, but specifiable, probabilities of occurrence. For the five cladograms of bees, the replicates were found to be non-random (P = 10
10.2307/2412996|Six species of periodical cicadas have been recognized even though there are only three morphologically distinct types. Each of the three types exhibits 13-year life cycles in certain areas of its range (primarily southern) and 17-year life cycles in other areas (primarily northern). It has been suggested that the two life cycle forms of each morphological type originated from a single splitting event and that the three 13-year-17-year pairs should be considered sibling species pairs. An alternate interpretation is that shifts between 13- and 17-year life cycles have occurred more than once in each morphological type making untenable the classification of life cycle forms within a type as sibling species. The fact that each life cycle form of each morphological type is divided into broods, the adults of which emerge synchronously in different years, complicates matters further but multiplies the opportunities for studying the evolution of the various forms. Numerical phylogenetic analysis of allozymic information supports the second interpretation. Allozymic variation was generally low. Genetic distances between 13- and 17-year forms based on 20 loci proved to be no greater than those found between local populations of most other organisms. Phylogenetic analysis of two 17-year and three 13-year broods indicated that, in this case, brood formation in the 17-year cicadas preceded the formation of the 13-year life cycle. The present geographic distributions of broods coincide logically with the proposed branching sequence. Testable predictions are made as to the relationships of unstudied broods which are based on geographic distributions and Pleistocene paleobotany. Morphological studies, in progress, will serve as an independent test of the proposed cladogram.
10.2307/2412999|A positive correlation between intrapopulation variation and among population diversity has been demonstrated for morphometric characters (the Kluge-Kerfoot phenomemon). This study extends the relationship to allozyme variation. Four sets of statistics are utilized to partition genetic variation into within and among population components of diversity and the strength of association between these components is assessed by means of rank order correlation. All but one of the seven species tested demonstrate significant, positive correlation coefficients for all four of the diversity measures. Although both selective and stochastic mechanisms may generate such a relationship, it appears that stochastic forces do not totally account for the correlations seen in the data sets analyzed here.
10.2307/2412560|The purpose of a general formal classification of animals is to foster effective communication within and between zoological subdisciplines. Cladistics is a method of classification based only on phylogeny, but knowledge of phylogeny requires a relatively dense and continuous fossil record not available for many groups. Cladistics presumes phylogeny, and it cannot be used to reconstruct phylogeny. Furthermore, phylogenetic relationships are not the only attributes of organisms, and classifications based solely on phylogeny ignore important attributes related to adaption, biogeography, and age. Effective communication requires that a classification be as simple as possible, balanced, and relatively stable. In practice, organisms are grouped into species, and species are grouped into successively higher taxa primarily on the basis of (1) overall similarity (including morphology, geography, and age), with the boundaries between taxa being drawn in such a way that (2) each group is monophyletic in the general sense of this term, with (3) traditional groupings being maintained to the maximum extent consistent with (1) and (2). Classification is basically phenetic, with phylogeny (where known) providing an important constraint on acceptable phenetic arrangements. Traditional and cladistic classifications of North American Eocene primates of the family Adapidae are compared, with a slightly modified traditional classification being favored because of its simplicity, balance, and stability. Phylogeny itself is better expressed in a diagram than in a formal classification.
10.2307/2412566|Although Henning presented cladistic methods by referring to a model of the evolutionary process, neither the value nor the success of the methods is limited by the value or success of that evolutionary model. Dichotomous cladograms can be preferred simply on the basis of their maximal information content, without reference to speciation mechanisms. Because only the interrelationships of diagnosable taxa (those with unique sets of apomorphic characters) can be investigated, questions about whether speciation can occur without branching, or whether species become extinct at branching points, are irrelevant to cladistic practice. The distinction between plesiomorphic and apomorphic character states depends not on the reconstruction of actual evolutionary history, but on the discrimination of more general from less general characters; groups based on plesiomorphy are defined by the absence of characters and are therefore artificial. Hence cladistic methods are not the methods of phylogenetics per se, but the methods of natural classification in general; phylogenetic conclusions are an extrapolation from hypotheses about natural order.
10.2307/2412558|The goal of cladistic systematics is to discern sister-group relations (cladistic relations) by the methods of cladistic analysis and to represent them explicitly and unambiguously in cladograms and cladistic classifications. Cladists have selected cladistic relations to represent for two reasons: cladistic relations can be discerned with reasonable certainty by the methods of cladistic analysis and they can be represented with relative ease in cladograms and classifications. Cladists argue that features of phylogeny other than cladistic relations cannot be discerned with sufficient certainty to warrant attempting to represent them in either cladograms or classifications and could not be represented if they could. I argue that a better alternative is to work toward improving methods of cladistic analysis (or else to supplement them with other methods) so that such features of phylogeny can be discerned and to devise methods of representation capable of representing them in both cladograms and classifications. However, cladograms and classifications cannot represent everything about phylogeny. It is better to represent one or two aspects of phylogeny explicitly and unambiguously than nothing at all.
10.2307/2412570|When recent literature on the falsifiability of natural selection is examined critics and defenders seem to communicate with each other very poorly. An examination of the structure of tautology and that of causal explanation provides criteria by which to examine the claims of both critics and defenders. Natural selection is free of tautology in any formulation that recognizes the causal interaction between the organism and its environment, but most recent critics have already understood this and are actually arguing that the theory is not falsifiable in its operational form. Under examination, the operational forms of the concepts of adaptation and fitness turn out to be too indeterminate to be seriously tested, for they are protected by ad hoc additions drawn from an indeterminate realm. Future knowledge may reduce the organism to a determinate system, but until such time too little is known to investigate organism-environment relations. Researchers should consider whether natural selection is necessary to empiric investigation in their area, and whether it can serve the purpose for which it is applied.
10.2307/2412565|Systematists of all minds, be they pheneticists, evolutionists, or cladists, are urged to reconsider the kinds of criteria that ought be used in judging the scientific worth of a method of classification. It is suggested that the current enthusiasm for Popperian falsificationism may be mistaken, and that systematists might more profitably consider a criterion of merit based on what William Whewell termed the "consilience of inductions."
10.2307/2412567|The development of hypotheses in phylogenetic systematics involves two activities: (1) the construction of phylogenetic hypotheses, and (2) subjecting these hypotheses to critical tests. Both may be analyzed within the framework of Bayes' theorem. Both are, in my view, inherently probabilistic and, as such, do not fit well into Popper's rigidly deductive models of scientific methodology. Regarding item (1), phylogenetic hypotheses are constructed, wholly or in part, by applying an ordering principle of shared derived character states to M taxa out of a group of N taxa. In order to establish a rational basis for when to apply the ordering principle (when to believe it), the principle is analyzed in terms of a relative frequency model. Application of Bayes' theorem to this model, first for M = 2, and then for M >2, establishes a necessary condition for applying the ordering principle. As it turns out, the conditions under which one might rationally apply the principle vary markedly from one value of N (and M) to the next; this conclusion provides a good incentive for following a probabilistic approach when applying the ordering principle. The testing of phylogenetic hypotheses (item 2 above) is also viewed in terms of Bayes' theorem. These probabilistic approaches contrast markedly with the strictly deductive view of scientific methodology developed by Popper.
10.2307/2412569|An electrophoretic comparison of proteins is used to evaluate the genetic relationships of the salamanders of the genus Plethodon. The genetic relationships are generally in agreement with the morphological data upon which recent classifications are based but several discrepancies are discussed. In particular, the discovery that the eastern small plethodons are paraphyletic suggests that the ancestral plethodon resembled the small species in size and that the large size of the other eastern species is a derived state. Plethodon neomexicanus, whose relationship to the other plethodons has long been ambiguous, is most closely related to P. larselli; these two species share, in addition to protein similarities, a derived osteological character state not found elsewhere in the genus Plethodon. Electrophoretic genetic distance (D) is highly correlated with albumin immunological distance determined for the same set of populations (r = .86) and both measures estimate similar divergence times for Plethodon lineages even when values of D are very large. Average net rate of speciation in Plethodon equals that previously determined for salamanders in general (0.12 speciation events/lineage/million years) but the rates vary considerably. Estimates of genetic distance are used in an analysis of the results of DNA annealing studies. Evolutionary divergence of total single copy and total middle repetitive DNA fractions is highly correlated with genetic distance indicating that both DNA fractions include sequences that diverge in a time dependent manner. Sequence divergence of single copy DNA, which is directly proportional to  Tm, is calculated to be 0.17-0.18%/million years as a minimum estimate for Plethodon. The middle repetitive fraction as a whole appears to evolve rapidly in Plethodon as measured by changes in percentages of reassociation and by  Tm in interspecific comparisons, but a small subset of the middle repetitive sequences is highly conserved. It is concluded that the eastern and western species of Plethodon diverged slightly over 40 million years ago (in the late Eocene). Compared to other North American salamanders, morphological divergence among plethodons has been slow.
10.2307/2412561|The nature and historical origins of the phenetic approach to classification are described. A common misconception equates phenetics with numerical taxonomy, but in fact most phenetic taxonomy (at least of plants) is not numerically based. Phenetics is not characterized by any particular methodology but by its primary, perhaps single, purpose, which is to provide a convenient general-purpose framework for accommodating the diversity of plants and animals. It is recognized that it is the process of evolution that permits such a general-purpose classification of organisms, but otherwise phenetics makes no attempt to reflect evolution in classification. Instead, phenetic classification seeks to reflect the overall characteristics of the organisms being studied and to describe the distributions among organisms of as many of their character-states as possible. Phenetic studies usually start by "arranging" organisms by overall similarity. In numerical phenetics this arrangement has generally involved the calculation of a set of pairwise dissimilarities and the subsequent transformation of these to a set of ultrametric distances which define a dendrogram. Attention is drawn to the distinction between a dendrogram which is usually distance-defined and a classification which is necessarily rank-defined. The point is also made that, except in very small groups, constructing a practical classification involves a process of simplification of the number of ranks and branching-points suggested by any dendrogram. Criteria for judging phenetic classifications require, therefore, a component which assesses the simplification process as well as one measuring the extent to which an ultrametric transformation reflects the original data. Methods of phenetic classification are reviewed and the role of a posteriori weighting of characters is discussed. Iterative character-weighting to reinforce incipient groupings, and analogous methods such as those based on ordinations are considered often to provide a better reflection of the maximally predictive properties of phenetic groupings than do unmodified transformations of overall similarity matrices. The cladistic and eclectic ("evolutionary") approaches to classification are assessed. Although phenetic relationships cannot be expressed in reduced dimensionality without loss of information, a two-dimensional diagram can (at least in theory) always perfectly express cladistic pathways. Consequently, it is suggested that it is redundant to seek to make a classification reflect cladistic pathways. Both a phenetic classification and a cladistic reconstruction can usefully be presented in the same study. Attempts to reflect cladistic pathways in a classification leads to a complexity that cannot be expressed in the normal taxonomic framework and consequently result in an explosion of ranks. The problems associated with these attempts and the axiomatic treatment by cladists of certain classic biological uncertainties are noted. Eclectic classification is ill-defined. Often it seems indistinguishable from the neural assessment of relationship by non-numerical pheneticists, and in general it differs from phenctic classification only by its claim to express evolutionary relationships in a different way from that implicit in the former.
10.2307/2412568|The possibility of deciphering patterns of evolutionary diversification using the semiaquatic bugs (Hemiptera: Gerromorpha) as an example group is examined. Two different approaches are contrasted: the evolutionary systematic and the phylogenetic (cladistic) approach. The methods of phylogenetic inference are thereafter applied to data on the structural, behavioral, and ecological divesity of semiaquatic bugs. Semiaquatic bugs comprise an unusual life form as they are the most successful group of insects inhabiting the water surface in almost any kind of habitat, including the open ocean. Semiaquatic bugs are currently classified in eight families: Mesoveliidae, Hebridae, Paraphrynoveliidae, Macroveliidae, Hydrometridae, Hermatobatidae, Veliidae, and Gerridae. A cladogram of relationships among these families is constructed. It provides a hypothesis about the sequence of branching in evolution corroborated by synapomorphic characters. An estimate of the amount of evolutionary change within single lineages (derivation load) is introduced. The habitat preferences of semiaquatic bugs are superimposed upon the cladistic relationships among taxa. Phylogenetic inferences suggest that the ancestral type of habitat of most families was humid terrestrial and/or marginal aquatic. Species belonging to most families have remained in the ancestral habitats and a few species of the Veliddae and Gerridae have secondarily invaded similar habitats. Derived habitats include the plant-covered water surface, the free surface of stagnant fresh water, flowing fresh water, intertidal marine waters, and the surface of the open ocean. Each of these categories of habitats has been independently invaded several times from more ancestral habitats. Several adaptive features of semiaquatic bugs are discussed and their ancestral and derived states separated. There are definite associations between the physical nature of the environment and the structural, mechanical, and behavioural elements of locomotion. The evolutionary transition from the walking rhythm of leg movements towards the rowing rhythm and locomotion by jump-and-slide movements has probably taken place several times. Two different kinds of predator strategies in semiaquatic bugs can be distinguished: that of a searching predator, which is the most ancestral, and that of a waiting predator utilizing surface ripples in prey-location, which is the derived strategy. Wing polymorphism, sexual behaviour of surface-inhabiting bugs, and diversification of the egg system are also discussed. The evolutionary diversification of semiaquatic bugs is visualized as a repeated series of transitions between a hygropetric and a pleustonic adaptive zone and adaptive radiation towards various subzones of the latter. This model has some weaknesses from an ecological point of view. Ecological diversification is not just a problem of the relations between structure and environment. The limited supply of resources, conflicting demands of various factors, and interspecific competition and/or predation may be important as well. In conclusion, the neo-Darwinian views on the origin and differentiation of higher taxa are examined and criticized.
10.2307/2412564|Philosophy, especially metaphysics, is not easily distinguished from science at the borderline since both are realistic pursuits of truth, with their theories held open to criticism. It is not useful to apply the distinguishing criterion of falsifiability strictly at the margin, and anyway falsifiability needs supplementing with an attitude of openness to criticism (refutation). This is Popper's view. Applied to taxonomy, it challenges pheneticism severely (as superficial) and classical evolutionary classification and cladism just a little. The scientific character of the search for natural taxa should not be obscured by the conventional character of an internationally agreed classification.
10.2307/2412559|The goal of evolutionary systematics, to provide classifications of maximum utility through maximum use of evolutionary theory, has failed of accomplishment to the extent that practitioners of evolutionary systematics have relied upon descriptive rather than theoretical definitions of terms. Monophyly and related terms are discussed, a new definition of higher taxon is provided, and a new methodology for producing classifications of maximum utility, employing cladistic and anagenetic analysis, is partly outlined. Cladists, by ignoring a significant part of evolutionary theory, produce classifications that are less useful to systematist and nonsystematist alike.
10.2307/2412562|Both pheneticists and evolutionary taxonomists claim that their classifications contain more information on characters and degrees of similarity than does the phylogenetic system, but until recently no attempt had been made to measure the information content of phylogenetic classification. Extending previous results, I show that both distance and character information is better retained by phylogenetic than by phenetic classifications. The phylogenetic procedure of grouping according to synapomorphy corresponds to expressing distance information as a path-length distance, while phenetic clustering expresses distance information through clustering levels. It is impossible for a clustering-levels distance to fit distance data better than the best-fitting path-length distance. Classifications are most natural in Gilmour's sense, and have greatest information content per taxon, when they allow description of data in the fewest symbols. Most parsimonious trees have highest information content, are most natural, allow data to be completely summarized by the most succinct diagnoses, minimize exceptions to such complete diagnoses, and permit the greatest number of predictions between adjacent taxa. Values of Brothers' (1975) index of distinctness are perfectly described by a phylogenetic classification, but not by any other. There is no justification for either a phenetic or an evolutionary approach, since the phylogenetic system contains greater information than either on characters and similarities, while at the same time better reflecting phylogenetic kinship.
10.2307/2412521|Principal components analysis and linear discriminant function analysis were applied to two data sets comprised of a sample of laboratory-reared hybrid fish, and wild-caught parental samples. For each method, the assumptions required for making statistical inferences and the biological assumptions employed in hybrid studies are reviewed. The degree to which we can expect biological data sets to conform to both types of assumptions is assessed by examination of the two data sets discussed here. The usefulness of each method for hybrid identification, quantification of hybrid variability, and general determination of morphological distance from the suspected parents is evaluated by considering the results of the methods when applied to known hybrids. Evidence is presented for decreased developmental integration in the hybrids. Principal components analysis makes apparent the difference in the branchial baskets of the very similar Notropis spilopterus and N. whipplei, suggesting an ecological separation related to this morphology. The hybrids of both the Notropis and Lepomis cyanellus x L. macrochirus crosses had generally intermediate scores in both analyses, but were not uniformly intermediate, instead graded into the parental phenotypes. In the results of principal components analysis, F1 variability precludes the confident identification of all hybrid individuals as well as any specific identification of F2 and backeross individuals; the majority of hybrids should be identifiable as being of mixed genetic origin. Principal components analysis is demonstrated to be of use in the examination of variation in hybrid fishes. Linear discriminant function analysis as it is presently employed does not appear useful for hybrid analysis, for both practical and theoretical reasons. Discriminant function analysis of samples of known hybrid origin may permit subsequent analysis of suspected hybrids.
10.2307/2412520|Electromorphic variation of -glycerophosphate dehydrogenase in 71 species of Drosophila has been studied using sequential polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, sequential starch gel electrophoresis, and isoelectric focusing. Although this locus was previously reported as nearly invariant among many species of the genus, this study shows a substantial increase in variation between species which is concordant with the known taxonomy of the genus. However, these methods revealed no additional variation within the species themselves. Each of the three methods found variation not detectable by the other two; thus, all are necessary for maximizing the observed variation between species. In comparison to previous electrophoretic studies of this enzyme in Drosophila, these new data show a much increased concordance with reported immunological and kinetic differences between this enzyme in different species. The implications of these results for electrophoretic studies of speciation and taxonomy are discussed.
10.2307/2412519|The gene phylogeny for a set of contemporary species is defined as the ancestral order of branching of evolutionarily related gene lineages leading to the expressed genes in the contemporary species. The species phylogeny for this set of species is defined as the evolutionary branching of species lineages leading to the contemporary species. Since a given gene may duplicate within its species lineage, and distinct sister genes may be expressed by different species, the topologies of the gene and species lineages may not be the same for the same set of contemporary species. The present paper develops a parsimony strategy for scoring the gene duplications and gene expression events needed to fit gene lineages into their corresponding species lineages. In the usual parsimony reconstruction, an effort is made to minimize the number of nucleotide replacements throughout the tree. In the present study, the sum of nucleotide replacements, gene duplications, and gene expression events is the value to be minimized. Gene expression events are further subclassified as gene loss events, activating regulator mutations, and inactivating regulator mutations. Analysis of amino acid sequence data from the alpha and beta hemoglobins and myoglobins suggests that the gene lineages deviate relatively little from established species relationships, and that most contemporary gene pairs in this phylogenetic system may be regarded as orthologous (split at the time of speciation) rather than paralogous (split prior to speciation). It also appears that as the statistical sample of orthologous sequence sites becomes greatly enlarged by tandem alignment of enough different types of protein chains, the parsimony reconstruction based strictly on minimal nucleotide replacement length will itself reveal the correct cladogram for the set of contemporary species.
10.2307/2412518|The major source of funds in the U.S. Government to which most American university and museum biologists can turn to support their studies of plant and animal systematics is the Systematic Biology Program (SYST) of the National Science Foundation (NSF). Commonly requested information on award patterns (zoological and botanical) of SYST is summarized for a recent five year interval. Funding for botanical versus zoological projects was comparable, with a slightly greater amount having gone to the latter. Regular research grants comprised by far the most significant activity of SYST. Paleobiological projects received at least 10 percent of the total yearly programmatic budgets. About two-thirds of the funds for botanical work supported projects on phanerogams; of this, most was for flowering plants. Morphology, the major category of botanical research activity, received a decreasing percentage of funds as other areas, especially in the experimental realm, grew. Support for floras and revisions showed general, though not precipitous, reduction. Research on insects, molluses, and crustaceans dominated awards for invertebrates; work on many groups of invertebrates was poorly represented. In contrast, the classes of vertebrates were represented fairly evenly in research support. Research on terrestrial and freshwater animals generally received more than 75 percent of the dollars allotted for zoological projects. A 15-year comparison was made with funding levels of four other NSF programs (Developmental, Metabolic, Regulatory, and Genetic Biology) selected because of their close conceptual relationships with evolutionary biology and because their funded research frequently leads to laboratory procedures used by systematists. Although total funding within NSF for research in systematic biology held its own in comparison with these related areas, most systematists have had much more limited alternative agencies for Federal support of their research. A result is that SYST has consistently provided significantly more awards per year than the average of the other four selected NSF programs, but with a comparatively much smaller dollar value per award.
10.2307/2412587|The possibility to use the fine structure of ooplasmic inclusions in the classification of fresh-water triclads has led to an examination of numerous planarian species. It was found that in the genera Dugesia and Cura autosynthetic yolk is present while in Polycelis, Planaria, Plagnolia, and Dendrocoelum only cortical granules are present, which are localized in the peripheral cytoplasm of mature oocytes. These findings are consistent with the recently proposed phylogenetic theory of Ball, in which the primary division of the fresh-water triclads is into the Dugesiidae and the Planariidae plus Dendrocoelidae.
10.2307/2412582|Experiments and field observations document vocal imitation in six cardueline species representing four genera. Flight call learning was found in all birds studied; learning of many other call types was observed in two genera. Additional evidence extends call learning to other carduelines bringing to eight the total number of genera in which call learning has been observed. Call learning is perhaps characteristic of subfamily Carduelinae, and the taxonomist should consider the possibility that learning may affect the patterns of all adult cardueline vocalizations. The taxonomic value of cardueline calls in particular and passerine calls in general is re-examined in light of this extensive call learning. It is suggested that the ontogenetic, learned modification in call pattern can be eliminated from the taxonomic analysis, and that calls may then be taxonomically valuable behavioral characters. The problem of homologizing behavior is discussed, with criteria for homology applied to two call types, both associated with call learning. Cardueline flight calls are autapomorphic characters useful as species specific characters, while social/alarm calls are synapomorphic at the subfamilial level and can be used as taxonomic characters at the family level.
10.2307/2412585|Some general characteristics of classifications are discussed. The usual components of phylogenetic classifications are species and supraspecific groupings. The concept of natural taxa is discussed in relation to concepts of monophyly espoused by Hennig, Simpson, and Ashlock. It is concluded that only Hennig's concept is internally and externally consistent. Genealogy is discussed in relation to natural taxa. Unique genealogical descent is defended as the only necessary and sufficient criterion for justifying a taxon as natural. The use of non-genealogical characters for justifying natural taxa rests upon two bridge principles which tie character modification to genealogical descent. The only non-genealogical characters which conform to the bridge principles are synapomorphies employed at their correct level of universality. Therefore, it is concluded that natural taxa are monophyletic sensu Hennig. Two rules of phylogenetic classification are stated and three systems which conform to these rules are contrasted. It is concluded that the Linnaean system, suitably amended, can fulfill the role for general biological classifications. Definitions of Linnaean categories are suggested. Nine conventions for classifying phylogenetic trees are presented. These conventions purport to classify phylogenetic trees of any complexity, including ancestral species and taxa of both hybrid and symbiotic origin, in such a way that their phylogenetic relationships are expressed exactly to the level that the hypothesis permits.
10.2307/2412588|A general method for making initial hypotheses and projections for secondarily analyzed characters in comparative biology is presented. Initial hypotheses are preferred (1) which are implied by compatibility of the cladogram of the group with that of a relevant character and (2) which have the greatest precision and empirical content and the highest degree of falsifiability. In cases for which compatibility analysis is not possible, a minimal character state set hypothesis meets the latter criteria. Deduction of testable implications of the various hypotheses is made possible by fully stating them in a narrative summary. Finally, character state hypotheses for ancestral species may provide a basis for projecting unobserved character states of modern taxa.
10.2307/2412584|Coevolution is defined as a combination of two processes: co-accommodation between host and parasite with no implication of host or parasite speciation and co-speciation, indicating concomitant host and parasite speciation. Parasite speciation in general is viewed as primarily the result of allopatric speciation processes regardless of host speciation or changes in host type. The observation that co-speciation of hosts and parasites forms a predominant pattern relates to a more general principle of biotic allopatric speciation explicit in the vicariance biogeography model, more than to an assumption that host speciation somehow causes parasite speciation. The close ecological relationship between hosts and parasites, which may be depicted using a variation of the MacArthur-Wilson island biogeography model, explains their spatial proximity at any time during which an isolating event occurs and thus may be necessary in some cases, but is not sufficient to explain parasite speciation, coevolution, or parasite phylogeny.
10.2307/2412581|Immunological, electrophoretic, and other macromolecular comparisons strongly suggest that Theropithecus gelada (Primates: Cercopithecidae) is cladistically closer to the genus Papio than the latter is to any other Old World monkey, despite customary views to the contrary. Review of the distinctive features of gelada anatomy, behavior, and ecology show them to be almost wholly autapomorphic and therefore not indicative of cladistic relationships. The fossil record suggests the Theropithecus lineage has existed for somewhat more than four million years. The time of separation of the Papio and Theropithecus lineages estimated from the results of three techniques of macromolecular comparison is compatible with this evidence.
10.2307/2412583|Thirty-one island populations of Podarcis sicula and P. melisellensis from Yugoslavia were examined to determine phenetic similarities based on means of 15 characters. Both cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling (MDS) revealed the following patterns of variation: 1) the two species formed distinct groups; 2) within each species, OTUs from northern and southern islands grouped separately; 3) within P. melisellensis, OTUs from small islands tended to resemble other small island OTUs from geographically close islands. These patterns appear to contradict similarities implied by previous subspecific designations based largely on color and pattern differences. Genetic drift, gene flow, and selection are evaluated as explanations for observed phenetic patterns. Drift appears to be highly unlikely as a major force determining regional, large island, and small island similarities among OTUs. Channel depths and estimates of the rate of net increase in sea level suggest that the northern islands are younger than the southern islands, supporting the idea that gene flow has been restricted among the southern islands and between the two regions for a longer time than among the northern islands. Combined with differences in selection regimes, the recency of gene flow appears to have been important in determining north-south phenetic similarities. Populations on small islands are exposed to qualitatively different selection regimes than those on large islands. The closer similarity of northern, small island OTUs to large island OTUs suggests that the northern OTUs have not responded to small island selection regimes to the same extent that southern island OTUs have.
10.2307/2412586|Multivariate statistical techniques (such as canonical variate and principal component analyses) are often used to ordinate or summarize morphometric data to facilitate biological interpretation of the morphological relationships under study. While the major axes of statistical variation which are derived in such analyses may have direct biological significance, there is no a priori reason that the biological and statistical determinants of morphological variation necessarily be concordant. Multiple regression provides a simple means of identifying and describing the maximum degree of relationship between (1) a variable, such as size or latitude, which is thought to have some biological relevance to the problem at hand, and (2) the set of uncorrelated variables, such as canonical or principal component variates, which represent the major axes of statistical variation and which may be thought of as a convenient, analytically efficient system of reference axes describing the multivariate data space. Of particular significance is the ability to examine the full multidimensional space and detect biological information having an angular relationship to the major axes of statistical variation.
10.2307/2413413|The leopard frog Rana berlandieri is presently considered to be comprised of three subspecies: R. b. berlandieri; R. b. forreri; and R. b. brownorum. In two of the purported races, genetic similarity was investigated by assessing interpopulation genetic compatibility and spermatocyte bivalent formation in interpopulation hybrids. Primary structural components of racial mating trills were analyzed and compared. The data do not support the recognition of R. b. berlandieri and R. b. forreri as conspecifics.
10.2307/2413412|A cladistic analysis of the skeletons of loons (Gaviidae), grebes (Podicipedidae), and the Cretaceous diving birds, Hesperornis and Baptornis, supports the hypothesis that they form a monophyletic group (here called the Gaviomorphae) within the class Aves. Two lineages within the gaviomorphs can be delineated: (1) loons + grebes, and (2) Hesperornis + Baptornis. The Early Cretaceous Enaliornis and the Late Cretaceous Neogaeornis are related to the second lineage; the Late Cretaceous Lonchodytes, often placed near loons, is apparently not a gaviomorph but perhaps a charadriiform. Skeletal evidence also suggests that penguins (Spheniscidae) are the sister-group of the Gaviomorphae. Arguments that similarities of gaviomorph taxa represent convergence are not well founded. First, morphological differences among taxa do not constitute valid evidence against their monophyly, as many previous workers have argued. Second, in no case has anyone supporting convergence presented a corroborated alternative phylogenetic hypothesis. A close relationship among gaviomorphs, penguins, and apparently also the Procellariiformes and Pelecaniformes implies that a lineage of aquatic birds was established very early in avian history, presumably in the Early Cretaceous or Late Jurassic.
10.2307/2413410|Evolution may be described as a nonequilibrium process involving the conversion of information from one form to another and the maintenance of old or forging of new reproductive networks. Species participate in nonequilibrium processes because they have properties of closure and because evolution is a historically irreversible phenomenon. Speciation is a process which consolidates available potential information into two or more stored information systems. Character change and the history of a clade are highly correlated because potential information is constrained by its own evolutionary history. Thus new and potential information may be converted into stored information only to the extent that this new and potential information is compatible with the ancestral information system or can find expression in an alternate ontogenetic pathway. All modes of speciation as well as anagenesis follow the second law of thermodynamics and may be described by a summary equation which charts the changes of entropy states of information and cohesion over time. We suggest that some empirical evidence corroborates our theory and that the research programs involved in further studying nonequilibrium evolution are largely in place now.
10.2307/2413411|Disillusions concerning evolutionary theorizing have forced a split among cladists. The disillusioned group of "pattern" cladists seeks an evolutionarily neutral brand of cladistics. But pattern cladistics is not, after all, evolutionarily neutral. Rather, it is at odds with evolutionary theorizing.
10.2307/2413414|Trees with branch length assignments may be constrained so that the sum of branches connecting any two labelled tips of the tree is at least as large as a previously observed distance value. When the sum of all branch lengths is minimized under this constraint, one has a minimal length tree. Two conditions regarding minimal length trees, one proved necessary and the other conjectured to be sufficient, are presented. They provide simple tests of minimality and raise problems in the interpretation of the individual branch values.
10.2307/2413368|Some geometric and probabilistic aspects are examined for three commonly used statistical distance functions. It is argued that the distance between centroids can be viewed as a probabilistic function reflecting both the geometric position of each taxon and/or the variance and correlation between the variables. A Monte Carlo simulation study is carried out to assess the effects of sample size, different variances and intercorrelations on the variability or "precision" of the distance estimates using the Euclidean distance, Pearson's Coefficient of Racial Likeness, and the Mahalanobis distance. All three distance estimators are shown to be biased and consistently overestimate the theoretical distance. The effects of these results on studies in systematic biology are discussed.
10.2307/2413369|The interpretation of two state features on a cladogram presents no problem in that Farris optimization (Farris, 1970) produces the simplest (most parsimonious) explanation of a set of changes. The only methods which produce parsimonious explanations for multistate characters either require theories of character evolution or assume that any transformation between different states is always possible. A method-Transformation Series Analysis (TSA)-for obtaining the cladogram which best explains all the data including multistate characters is developed. TSA derives parsimonious interpretations of character change (cladistic characters) from a cladogram, and the cladogram iteratively until a stable point is reached. It is demonstrated that the cladograms resulting from TSA do not depend on the initial classification. Further, the solution (stable) cladogram results in a set of characters of greater consistency that the original Wagner tree for the 20 multistate data sets examined. Sometimes this stable cladogram is the same as the original "best" (parsimonious) cladogram. When Transformation Series Analysis (TSA) gives results different from the original Wagner trees, the cladograms from the former show greater taxonomic congruence between data sets. Therefore, TSA is an improvement on existing phylogenetic methods. Because the cladistic characters are different from the original characters, "theories" for character evolution are not so well verified as has been presumed. Cladogram characters resulting from TSA are powerful systematic tools to be used in the study of character evolution.
10.2307/2413362|Traditionally, taxonomic rates of evolution have served primarily as estimators of "transformational" rates-i.e., rates of anatomical and underlying genetic change. This approach comes from the Modern Synthesis, which sees all evolutionary patterns reducible (at least in principle) to simple generation-by-generation change in gene content and frequency. If, however, species are individuals (sensu Ghiselin, 1974) rates of speciation (and species extinction) are important intrinsically, and cannot be construed as a mere function of rates of transformational change. In general, it can be argued that for every kind of biological individual posited, there is implied a quasi-discrete phenomenological level of the evolutionary process. Different sorts of biological individuals are nested hierarchically (for example, individual organisms within species), conveying an ontological (rather than purely epistemological, cf. Stebbins and Ayala, 1981) basis to the claim that evolution involves more than one phenomenological level. Each level has its characteristic patterns of change produced by its own array of deterministic and stochastic processes. Such processes cause a shuffling of component smaller individuals with-in the next higher individual. Rates of change within the levels are to a significant extent independent of one another. Five levels of the evolutionary process are briefly characterized and discussed.
10.2307/2413366|Biostratigraphically based rates of morphologic change often provide the basis for interpreting rates of evolution and speciation. A rate of morphologic change must specify the amount of and duration for that change. So, evaluating the temporal component in biostratigraphic rates of morphologic change requires the ability to tell time precisely in stratigraphic sections. A few stratigraphic levels can be calibrated by radiometric ages, but biostratigraphers have had difficulty determining how precisely they can tell time between these levels of known age. In other words, we have yet to define and estimate completeness practically in our stratigraphic records. Here, completeness is defined as a ratio contrasting the time represented by sediment vs. the total time-span of a section. This method estimates the average or expected completeness of sections at specific levels of temporal precision. Since a biostratigraphic record cannot be resolved more finely than the lithostratigraphic record containing it, these estimates usually represent the maximum amount of temporal precision attributable to a given biostratigraphic pattern. Biostratigraphic patterns should not be interpreted below the level of precision at which a section is estimated to be complete, unless that section is far above the average completeness for sections of comparable duration that represent similar environments. Accordingly, we might begin to distinguish between stratigraphic patterns resulting from geologic processes and ones resulting from biologic processes of longer duration than the level of precision at which a section is complete. For example, our previous inability to estimate completeness has often resulted in one biostratigraphic pattern being interpreted to represent both punctuated and gradual rates of morphologic change. To use the new approach, we must precisely define rate-related concepts like punctuation and gradualism in terms of their temporal duration and amount of morphologic change. Illustrations based on the biostratigraphic record of an Eocene primate from the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming and Plio-Plcistoccne molluses from the Turkana Basin of Africa caution against applying short-term neontological concepts to most biostratigraphic patterns.
10.2307/2413363|Macroevolutionary analysis focuses on the explanation of general patterns of diversity among monophyletic groups. Three general patterns can be recognized: radiation diversity in which species richness increases through time, reduction diversity in which richness decreases, and steady-state diversity in which it remains relatively constant. Most clades show some combination of these three patterns. Clades also exhibit a pattern of phenotypic change that can be superimposed on the pattern of diversification. With speciation, descendant species can become either markedly apomorphic or remain plesiomorphic relative to the ancestral condition. There is no necessary correlation between a particular phenotypic pattern and a specific pattern of diversity. Explanations of macroevolutionary patterns have been of two principal types: adaptationist and species selectionist. The adaptationist approach has explained patterns of diversity in terms of the occupation of "adaptive zones," driven by natural selection. "Adaptive zones" are tautological constructs and lack ontological status. The other macroevolutionary explanation, species selection, is a pattern of species survival through time and as such is neither a process nor a theory of macroevolutionary change. A deterministic theory of macroevolution lies in explaining inter-cladal diversity patterns by variation in the rate-controls of speciation and extinction. Speciation rate is controlled by factors intrinsic to species such as morphogenetic complexity (Wiley and Brooks, 1982) and by external factors. It is hypothesized here that the primary external rate control of speciation is lithospheric complexity, which relates directly to the number of geological and climatic barriers promoting geographic isolation. It is also proposed that plate tectonic activity controls extinction rates through mechanical influences on habitats and its effects on environmental climatic change. Extinction rates are postulated to be lower in environments of higher favorableness, which is defined in terms of relatively high mean annual temperature, low range of mean annual temperature, and high annual rainfall dispersed evenly throughout the year. The interaction of relative environmental complexity and favorableness can be used to make predictions about diversity patterns among clades and to investigate the relative importance of internal morphogenetic complexity.
10.2307/2413367|Advocates of syncretistic classification have generally held that the descriptive and explanatory roles of the biological reference system should be kept separate, and that description and explanation impose conflicting goals on classification. I show that view leads to contradictions, and I summarize earlier demonstrations that the phylogenetic system satisfies both goals at once. Pheneticists have advocated ordinations as an alternative to hierarchic classification, claiming for them superior descriptive power. I show that ordinations are more general than had been thought, as hierarchies can be subsumed under such structures. This viewpoint allows a great many classificatory criteria to be analyzed under a factor or regression model. Present phenetic criteria for clustering amount to evaluating a multiple correlation as the sum of simple correlations. This fallacy can be avoided by regressing data multiply on classificatory factors (groups), but then perfect fit to data can always be achieved, so that the classificatory problem becomes one of choosing among alternative sufficient bases. This problem is approached by analogy with simple structure criteria of factor analysis, and it is found that classificatory simple structure leads to the phylogenetic parsimony criterion. From this new viewpoint the phylogenetic system thus emerges again as a unified descriptive and explanatory structure. Objections to the descriptive power of the phylogenetic system are discussed with emphasis on recent claims by Rohlf and Sokal. It is shown that attempts to defend phenetic classification have comprised nothing other than abandoning or rendering untestable every claimed advantage of phenetic methods. There is thus no possible substantive basis for preference for phenetic grouping.
10.2307/2413365|Cladistic analysis by the maximum parsimony method was carried out on amino acid sequence data from 579 polypeptide chains of 250 species, and also on nucleotide sequence data of 41 globin genes and pseudogenes of eight species. The genealogical trees constructed in this analysis provided evidence on the phylogenetic relationships of eutherian mammals and other vertebrates, which in turn served as a framework for evaluating long term trends-rates and mechanisms-in molecular evolution above the species level. Individual proteins proved to be very poor evolutionary clocks because they evolved at markedly non-uniform rates. We hypothesize that positive selection for differentiation of the chains produced by duplicated globin genes was responsible for greatly accelerated globin evolutionary rates, especially at sites acquiring cooperative functions, during the basal radiation of Gnathostomata and Tetrapoda. Furthermore, we suggest that stabilizing selection to preserve functional improvements explains the markedly decelerated rates of globin evolution in the amniote lineages to birds and mammals. On the eutherian and early primate stem to the Anthropoidea, globin evolution again speeded up as adaptive substitutions occurred, e.g., in the -chain of primate fetal hemoglobin; globin evolution then drastically slowed in hominoids. Similar acceleration-deceleration patterns of evolutionary rates observed in the other protein genealogies, such as that of cytochrome c, further emphasize the central role of natural selection in protein evolution.
10.2307/2413364|Studies of taxonomic rates of evolution depend largely on a literal reading of the fossil record for extinction and origination events. This approach can yield estimates that grossly misrepresent phylogenetic patterns derived independently from character analysis. Such distortion can arise even in cases (e.g., Primates) where the fossil record is thought to be comparatively well-documented. Results of studies of rates at broader taxonomic levels (e.g., mammals versus bivalves) vary markedly according to, often unwarranted, assumptions regarding origination times. The significance of much of the published study on taxonomic rates is moot until fossil data for these rates are broadly compared with cladistic hypotheses.
10.2307/2413033|Electrophoretic analysis of Rhagoletis (Diptera: Tephritidae) has been performed to gain insight into phylogenetic relationships in the genus, and to determine whether Rhagoletis species have cospeciated with their host plants. The electrophoretic phylogeny differs from both the conventional classification and the assumed phylogeny of the host plants. Most of the changes suggested in the conventional classification are compatible with morphological data. The differences in the phylogenies of Rhagoletis and its host plants are not, however, likely to be resolved by further systematic analysis of the host plants. In addition to these topics, we also discuss the electrophoretic phylogeny with respect to the biogeography of the genus.
10.2307/2413034|The rigor of different parsimony methodologies and the significance of alternative branching networks with slightly differing nucleotide replacement (NR) scores are a focus of debate in studies of primate systematics. Branching topologies generated by our use of the maximum parsimony algorithm are criticized as equivalent or inferior to alternative networks generated by other methods of ancestral reconstruction. Critics also argue that it is not possible to determine which of several alternative topologies, differing by a small number of NR's, most closely reflects cladogeny since the statistical significance of the NR score differences is unknown. A careful investigation of the method of these critics reveals that their method is nonrigorous, nonreplicable and produces erroneous results. The need for rigorous, automated systems of data analysis in studies of molecular evolution is made apparent, particularly in light of the voluminous nature of the data. We here describe a series of parsimony tests conducted with globin amino acid sequence data, focusing on the position of Tarsius within Primates, in order to illustrate the importance of interpreting NR score differences within a context which includes the number of lineages represented in a data set, the density of the lineages in particular regions of a dendrogram and the exact nature of the changes attributed to specific NR savings. Analyzed within the context of these changing parameters, small NR score differences between alternative topologies can be meaningful and do produce results with significant confidence. The phylogenetic relationship of Tarsius to Anthropoidea, as well as other important issues in primate systematics, are expected to be greatly clarified with the gathering and rigorous analysis of nucleotide sequence data which can resolve the difficulties presented by convergent evolution and paralogous gene lines.
10.2307/2413035|Of the eight currently recognized species of Ceratophrys (aurita, calcarata, cornuta, cranwelli, ornata, pierottii, stolzmanni, and testudo) six are considered to be species. Ceratophrys testudo is considered a synonym of C. cornuta. The subfamily Ceratophryinae is argued to be monophyletic and is defined on the basis of two synapomorphies. The genus Ceratophrys (excluding C. pierottii) is monophyletic and is defined on the basis of three synapomorphies. Two subgenera are recognized within Ceratophrys. The subgenus Ceratophrys (one synapomorphy) includes C. aurita, C. cranwelli, and C. ornata where C. aurita and C. ornata are more closely interrelated. The subgenus Stombus (three synapomorphies) includes C. calcarata, C. cornuta, and C. stolzmanni where C. calcarata and C. cornuta are nearest relatives. Ceratophrys pierottii is hypothesized to be an intergeneric hybrid between Ceratophrys cranwelli and Lepidobatrachus llanensis. The least refuted hypothesis of relationships is inconsistent with the hypothesis that speciation amongst forest-dwelling species was mediated by Pleistocene contractions of forest into refugia. The northern species of Ceratophrys form a group fragmented in part by the Andes and the southern (and eastern) species form a second group fragmented ecologically but not physically. The widespread Amazonian species, C. cornuta, shows little evidence of having had its distribution fragmented by forest contractions. Ceratophrys cornuta is the most widely distributed species, is centrally distributed, and is by far the most apomorphous (measured in terms of autapomorphies). Such a combination is contrary to the expectations under the macroevolutionary hypothesis termed punctuated equilibria.
10.2307/2413032|In principle, any measured distances between landmarks of a form may serve as characters for morphometric analyses. Systematic studies typically are based on a highly biased and repetitious sample of these. But collections of landmarks and the distances among them must be homologous from form to form for comparisons to be meaningful, and an adequate character set should at least permit the full reconstruction of the original configuration of landmarks. We describe a geometric protocol for character selection, the truss network, which enforces systematic coverage of the form and which exhaustively and redundantly archives the land-mark configuration. Reconstruction of the form from truss measures provides Cartesian coordinates for landmarks and allows estimation of, and compensation for, measurement error. Samples of forms may be averaged and standardized to one or more common reference sizes by regression of measured distances on a composite measure of body size, followed by reconstruction of the form using distance values predicted by the regression functions at some standard body size. Principal component loadings of distance measures may be indicated directly on the truss network to display patterns of within-group allometry or between-group shape differences. Because the truss enforces use of cross measurements, discrimination among groups may be enhanced. Composite mapped forms are useful in biorthogonal analyses of differences in shape because they allow the comparison of averaged forms among samples. Certain patterns of principal component loadings are concordant with, and provide an initial sampling of, the biorthogonal grids for these deformations.
10.2307/2413231|Differentially stained chromosomes, when analyzed in a cladistic framework, provide a systematic hypothesis for ten glossophagine genera. Two separate groups are recognized on the basis of chromosomal data; a chromosomally conservative or plesiomorphic group consisting of Glossophaga, Monophyllus, Leptonycteris, and the brachyphyllines, and a relatively rapidly evolving derived group consisting of Anoura, Lonchophylla, Lionycteris, Choeroniscus, Choeronycteris, Hylonycteris, and Musonycteris. Among the six genera characterized as slowly evolving, only a single rearrangement has been identified, whereas, among the seven genera characterized as rapidly evolving over 100 chromosomal rearrangements are required to explain the observed variation. Such a contrast in rate and type of chromosomal evolution is difficult to explain in terms of most currently accepted theories of chromosomal evolution and the pattern of change is most like "karyotypic megaevolution." Within the derived group, cladistic relationships are resolved to the generic level. Variation in the magnitude of evolution at the morphological and chromosomal levels is such that chromosomal data are useful for the resolution of relationships among genera, whereas, morphological data are more informative at the subfamilial level. A combination of the two data sets is compatible with the hypothesis that the Glossophaginae is monophyletic and provides a better understanding of the nature of evolution within this subfamily.
10.2307/2413230|A cladistic analysis of the neotropical bat families Noctilionidae, Mormoopidae, and Phyllostomatidae is presented utilizing structures of the female reproductive tract. Several shared-derived (synapomorphous) features of the uterus, oviduct, and ovaries were identified within these taxa. These included features of external and internal uterine anatomy, the uterotubal junction, form of oviductal mucosal folds, anatomical relationships between oviduct and uterus, and the position of the ovarian ligament. A cladogram based on these female reproductive histomorphological synapomorphies was constructed and is proposed as a phylogenetic hypothesis. This hypothesis was tested for congruence with independent data sets involving comparative morphological, karyological, and biochemical characteristics. Noctilionids, mormoopids, and phyllostomatids possess synapomorphies that indicate they shared a common ancestor and thereby form a monophyletic group, the Phyllostomatoidea. However, based on features of the female reproductive tract, the neotropical family Thyropteridae (which has been previously assigned to the superfamily Vespertilionoidea) should be included in considering phylogenetic relationships of the Phyllostomatoidea. Familial relationships are somewhat conflicting; some studies (including the present analysis) specify a sister-group relationship between mormoopids and phyllostomatids, whereas others suggest a noctilionid-mormoopid relationship. Relationships within the Phyllostomatidae are resolved at subfamilial levels with female reproductive and independent data sets. The high level of congruence found between the phylogenetic relationships predicted by these data sets is proposed as strong evidence for the phylogenetic resolving power of female reproductive histomorphology.
10.2307/2413232|Univariate comparisons of twenty morphometric characters of sixty adult Bufo marinus recorded before preservation and six and 14 months after preservation reveal a statistically significant heterogeneity among group means of fourteen characters. After six months in preservative, the means of six of these 14 characters are significantly larger, and eight are significantly smaller, than for the same individuals prior to preservation. After eight additional months in preservative, the means of five of these 14 characters differ significantly in the opposite direction of that initially detected. Linear regressions and analyses of covariance suggest that over the range of sizes considered here, preservation effects the elevations but not the slopes of the regressions between pairs of morphometric characters. Sexual size dimorphism in six characters is documented for the fresh material; certain of these intersexual differences are reduced or are undetectable in the preserved material, and in one instance a new, marginally significant, difference is apparent after 14 months in preservative. Not all characters are measurable with equal precision, and there is a highly significant rank correlation between precision and inter-individual character variance. Principal component analyses confirm and extend the univariate findings, and discriminant function analysis reveals differences between fresh and preserved specimens of roughly the same magnitude as those commonly used to justify taxonomic decisions. The assumption that preservation induces tolerably little morphological distortion in frogs appears to be substantially violated, but an unknown proportion of among-group character variation may be attributable to measurer bias.
10.2307/2412027|Various methods of summarizing phenetic relationships are briefly reviewed (including a comparison of principal components analysis and non-metric scaling). Sequential agglomerative hierarchical clustering schemes are considered in particular detail, and several new methods are proposed. The new algorithms are characterized by their ability to "adapt" to the possible trends of variation found within clusters as they are being formed. A nonlinear version allows the isolation and description of clusters which are parabolic, ring-shaped, etc., by the introduction of appropriate dummy variables. Procedures for computing the best fitting trend line through the cluster are also presented, and problems in measuring the amount of information lost by clustering are discussed.
10.2307/2412026|Multivariate statistical techniques are used to describe phenetic relationships of the 93 species in the suborder Lari (Charadriiformes: Aves). A total of 51 skeletal and 72 external characters from adult specimens was analyzed. Classifications based on skeletal characters, external characters, and both combined are compared and contrasted. Product moment correlation coefficients and average distance coefficients were used as measures of similarity. OTUs were clustered using the unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic averages (UPGMA) and linear adaptive hierarchical clustering schemes (linear AHCS). In addition, three-dimensional models were constructed of OTUs plotted with respect to the first few principal components extracted from a matrix of correlations among characters. Part I describes the materials, methods, and the results of the principal components analyses. Part II will include the phenograms resulting from various analyses, as well as discussion and conclusions sections.
10.2307/2412028|The article derives some properties of Wagner Trees and Networks and describes computational procedures for Prim Networks, the Wagner Method, Rootless Wagner Method and optimization of hypothetical intermediates (HTUs).
10.2307/2412024|Hennig's (1966) Phylogenetic Systematics is primarily concerned with cladism. The central thesis is that all taxa must be monophyletic in a special, rigid sense, and that their rank must be determined solely by time of origin. Secondary concepts are that species split in a very simple way; that one of two daughter species derived from a common ancestor will deviate more than the other; that species divide only dichotomously and that phylogenies must be dichotomous; that rates of evolution and divergence are constant and the same in different groups, unless known to be different; that relative primitiveness established at time of species-splitting remains characteristic of groups throughout their history; and that primitive groups remain at or near their places of origin. These concepts are all oversimplified, in part illogical, not consistent with real situations that are common in nature, and of no practical use in systematics or biogeography. Brundin (1966) accepts and further oversimplifies Hennig's concepts and applies them uncritically in classification of southern chironomid midges and antarctic biogeography. His supposed history of antarctic land connections, beginning in the Jurassic, is based on application of Hennig's erroneous secondary concepts, on an imaginary parallelism between chironomids and birds, and on an arbitrary decision that chironomids cannot cross water gaps although they occur in aereal plankton. His conclusions are probably wrong as to dating, as to directions of dispersal, and as to existence of continuous land connections. Existing chironomids may really have dispersed during or not long before the Tertiary, along the edges of Antarctica, and across water gaps between the southern tips of the continents and Antarctica.
10.2307/2412025|Our modern, Northern Hemisphere boreal faunas apparently had a dual origin. In Paleocene-Eocene times, one cold-temperate evolutionary center probably became established in the Arctic Basin. Then, as the climate grew colder, another center south of the Bering Land Bridge began its development. During the Oligocene, boreal species were able to move out of the Arctic Basin into the North Atlantic and, in the Pacific, southward from the Bering Sea. By the late Miocene, when a seaway first became established through the Bering Strait, the movement of species was predominantly northward into the Arctic Ocean and thence to the North Atlantic. The second opening of the seaway in the late Pliocene had an even more striking result, transforming the character of the North Atlantic fauna yet scarcely affecting that of the North Pacific. In the contemporary North Atlantic, such characteristic features as a depauperate shore fauna; species with broad latitudinal ranges; the complete lack of an endemic, boreal pelagic group; and the very low rate of endemism at the oceanic islands; present a decided contrast to conditions in the North Pacific. These facts together with good evidence of Pleistocene faunal replacements, latitudinal shifts, and extinctions reveal that the North Atlantic has provided for its marine fauna a more rigorous environment than the North Pacific. It seems clear that alteration in temperature, the one evident variable, was the primary cause. It is concluded that the geographic setting of the North Atlantic with its open exposure to the Arctic Ocean and its relatively small size are the main factors responsible for its history of varied surface temperature. The most severe drops in temperature probably took place during the ice ages of the Pleistocene and these appear to have averaged about 3
10.2307/2412276|Examination of a simple evolutionary model shows that the deficiencies of a phenogram, as an estimate of an historical cladogram, are not as great as sometimes imagined. In reality, there are grounds for a fair degree of confidence, particularly in relationships between taxa of higher rank. It can be shown, for instance, that uniformity in rates of evolution is not critical. What is required is, roughly, that later stocks should not evolve for substantial periods at rates much greater than in earlier stocks and/or that sister-species should diverge appreciably before undergoing further splitting. Likewise, the convergent elements of resemblance need not be small, or even uniform: simply, and roughly, later lines should not converge upon each other less than upon earlier lines. The latter holds also for "phylogenetic" reconstructions, based on what are believed to be resemblances in derived attributes only. There seem to be reasonable grounds for believing that such conditions are often met in Nature, and that a phenogram therefore supplies a reasonable phylogenetic hypothesis, for testing against further characters and taxa (but not methods) as they become available. This analysis does not conflict with the pragmatic aspects of classification, and can supply some criteria for choice of a numerical method: for instance, there are grounds for favouring "average linkage" as a clustering strategy.
10.2307/2412277|This paper studies some of the algebraic properties of Throckmorton's (1968) indices of predictivity and efficiency Certain interpretations of predictivity comparisons are considered, and the relevance for evolutionary taxonomy of measures of correlation between similarity indices is discussed.
10.2307/2412275|Patterns of morphological variation of three taxa of orioles, Icterus galbula (Baltimore oriole), I. bullockii (Bullock oriole) and I. abeillei (black-backed oriole) (Icteridae; Aves) are discussed. Baltimore orioles breed in eastern North America, Bullock orioles in the western half of that Continent, and black-backed orioles on the Mexican Plateau. Distributional overlap is minimal. In most parts of their ranges individuals of either sex can be easily identified as to type by any of an array of features of size, color pattern, or vocalization. However, where the distributions of the morphs appear to abut, considerable phenetic variation is manifest. Special attention is here given to one such region of apparent abutment, the central Great Plains, where there is an abrupt east-to-west transition of Baltimore-morph to Bullock-morph and where some populations consist of orioles that are obviously phenetically intermediate. It has been suggested that the two forms are incipient bio-species, hybridizing in a geographically narrow region where secondary contacts have recently occurred. It is pointed out that step-clines of the sort manifest among Plains populations of orioles can arise by means other than secondary contact, and in the present context it seems unnecessarily speculative to postulate such rejunctions. On the basis of logical, distributional, and historical evidence, there is no reason to believe that the human activities of the past 150 years have had any fundamental effect on the distribution of the orioles in the Plains, and neither the meidence of phenetically intermediate individuals nor the width of the zone that essentially describes their distribution seems to be increasing. Rather, all evidence suggests that there is considerable stability among these populations, such that the patterns of distribution of the various morphs are coincident with some of those of the climatic environment. Doubtless many agencies of selection are acting in concert to dynamically maintain the "steps" in the oriole morph-clines in the Plams. Among these, the demonstrable difference between Baltimore and Bullock orioles high temperature tolerance must be of considerable significance. Also, the differences between the Baltimore- and Bullockmorphs are so great that birds that disperse across the "hybrid zone" are probably selected against as being "unrecognizable" or as "odd birds." It is impossible, within the described limits of non-phenetic concepts of the species, to designate as separate species or not these groups of orioles without relying upon a priori assumptions that are untenable or teleological, or without inviting a posteriori circularity. I have preferred nomenclatural separation for the groups for the sake of convenience, but such a decision is arbitrary
10.2307/2412279|Algorithms are presented for automatic contour mapping of characters and displaying of the composite differential of several characters by computer. An example is given using morphological and chemical characters from Juniperus pinchotii Sudw. (Cupressaceae). Several attributes of contour mapping of geographic variation are discussed. Differential systematics is shown to be of considerable interest in delimiting areas of speciation and/or ecotypic differentiation.
10.2307/2412448|This work provides a means by which it is possible to determine whether two groups of related proteins have a common ancestor or are of independent origin. A set of 16 random amino acid sequences were shown to be unrelated by this method. A set of 16 real but presumably unrelated proteins gave a similar result. A set of 24 model proteins which was composed of two independently evolving groups, converging toward the same chemical goal, was correctly shown to be convergently related, with the probability that the result was due to chance being <10
10.2307/2412449|Hybrid index analysis of two natural hybrids between the parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus sonorae and the bisexual C. tigris demonstrates that the hybrids more strongly resemble the maternal parent. Karyotypic analysis reveals that the hybrids are tetraploids having received three genomes from the maternal (triploid) species and one genome from the paternal (diploid) species. Examination of testicular material shows the formation of chromosomal bivalents and polyvalents, including quadrivalents. Karyotypic variation involving centric fission occurs in the maternal parent C. sonorae. The origin of various levels of polyploidy in the genus Cnemidophorus appears to be rather different from that occurring most frequently in plants.
10.2307/2412450|On the basis of chromosome data, the large and complex genus Cnemidophorus of the New World lizard family Teiidae is divided into five species groups (the deppei, lemniscatus, sexlineatus, tigris, and tesselatus groups). These species groups are, in the main, congruent with those customarily recognized on the basis of external morphology. The hyperythrus species group, however, is placed in the deppei group: (1) all species examined from these two groups have identical karyotypes which differ from those of all other species examined in the genus, and (2) the two groups were formerly distinguished primarily on the basis of a single variable morphological character. The tesselatus group contains two species (tesselatus and neomexicanus), each parthenogenetic and derived through intergroup hybridization. Both of these parthenospecies originated through hybridization between the same two species groups, but different parental species combinations were involved in the production of each of them. The karyotype of the deppei species group appears to be the most primitive among the extant species groups of the genus Cnemidophorus, and the karyotypes of the other species groups are readily derived from it primarily by means of Robertsonian centric fusions and unequal pericentric inversions. The phylogeny of the genus based on the observed pattern of karyotypic evolution is consistant with the overall ecologic and biogeographic distributions of the species.
2412452|Principles abstracted from Hennig (1966) are used as axioms to form a quantitative analog of phylogenetic systematics. A close connection is demonstrated between phylogenetics and most parsimonious trees. The compatibility of some existing clustering methods with the principles is discussed. and a new clustering technique, the Weighted Invariant Step Strategy (WISS) is described. Generalization of the axioms to the case where direction of evolution is not assumed is examined, and it is shown that the Wagner Method for estimating evolutionary trees is consistent with the generalized phylogenetic axioms.
10.2307/2412451|There is a possible common ground between conventional and numerical taxonomy involving computer analysis of many characters. It would utilize evolutionary concepts whenever possible to modify an otherwise phenetic classification. New algorithms are described for character analysis and for cluster analysis. Many combinations of computer analysis were tested on four sets of taxonomic data. Results were judged by the effectiveness in showing greater similarity between individuals of the same group as defined by reliable evidence not included in the data sets. Statistically significant improvements were obtained by inclusion of computer procedures for adjusting correlated characters and for weighting characters. A variety of numerical procedures are discussed.
10.2307/2412206|The aims and justification of taxonomy are discussed, followed by an examination of the foundations of ordination and classification. The Adansonian or phenetic philosophy is critically examined and it is concluded that its claims of objectivity and precision are ill-founded, since subjective or arbitrary choices and definitions are necessary concerning acceptable or relevant attributes, homologies and correspondences, measures and commensurabilities of attributes, and measures of similarity. Phylogeny, represented topologically as a temporal branching sequence, is held to be the nearest approach to a firm basis of reference in nature for biological classification. The charge that phylogenetic reconstruction involves viciously circular reasoning is discussed and rejected, though some positive feedback is admitted. The theory and application of numerical taxonomy are discussed in general and the potential value of numerical phyletics is stressed. The possibility of using DNA base matching as a solid foundation is briefly examined. It is shown that, while phenetic classifications are infinitely variable, topological phyletic reconstructions do not themselves supply the kind of taxonomy that is usually demanded, since they do not adequately express significant evolutionary changes in patterns of organisation. No optimal classification can be defined, but improvement is possible up to a point of inherent instability. While the underlying facts and processes can be scientifically studied as part of systematics, classification itself remains largely a disclipined art, which is not convertible to an exact science by any form of arbitrary quantification. The necessity for compromise and continued synthesis is stressed. The suggested replacement of the Linnaean hierarchy by "numericlature" is mentioned but held to be premature and to have serious disadvantages. Mathematical concepts are discussed wherever relevant to the foundations of the subject.
10.2307/2412211|Phenetic affinities of the 93 species of skuas, gulls, terns, and skimmers in the suborder Lari (Charadriiformes: Aves) are described in detail. Methods and materials, as well as the results of principal components analyses, were given in Part I (Schnell, 1970). In this paper the 18 phenograms resulting from the use of different character suites (51 skeletal, 72 external, and both combined), transformations, and clustering methods are presented and analyzed. A classification of these resulting classifications (clustering basic similarity matrices or cophenetic values on the basis of correlations between classifications) is used to indicate which methods and character suites give similar results. The phenograms have also been compared with the classifications of Peters (1934) and Moynihan (1959) for the Lari. For analyses that included suites of highly correlated characters, correlation matrices were found to be relatively more robust than distances, being affected less by transformations or the use of different character suites. Also, when particularly divergent classifications occurred, this was partly due to divergent basic similarity matrices, but the clustering procedures added additional differences. The placing (or forcing) of OTUs into a hierarchical system of clusters (rather than just analyzing basic similarity matrices) resulted in an indication of relationships between OTUs more in accord with the opinions of previous workers, who also represented relationships in a hierarchy. The determination of the "best" overall phenetic classification, for use when one is in need of a single measure of similarity, is discussed and a set of guides is suggested to aid in the selection of such a classification. Some cladistic speculations are given and the relative positioning and stability of clusters is discussed. When analyzing data with high correlations between characters, the use of adaptive hierarchical clustering schemes that take into account possible trends in variation found within clusters is strongly recommended, and the value of multiple classifications to represent affinities is stressed. Principal component models, where no assumption is made that OTUs must fall into clusters, were particularly useful in representing relationships. The analysis of external characters resulted in phenograms that showed some similarity to those based on skeletal measurements. However, there were significant differences, indicating support for only a weak version of the nonspecificity hypothesis. A morphological description, using numerous characters, should be particularly valuable to current and future workers conducting various types of comparative studies (e.g., behavioral, ecological) within this taxon. It seems obvious that accurate and detailed morphometric description at the interspecific level is as important in the sound development of evolutionary theory as quantitative studies of intraspecific (e.g., geographic) variation.
10.2307/2412210|A new numerical method is given which is of value to taxonomists. It enables further species to be added to a previous principal coordinates analysis in order to find their phenetic relationships with the original set of species.
10.2307/2412207|Biological classifications are judged by assessing their predictive value against the co-variance of character-states in organisms not previously studied or against the classification of some character-states not previously studied in the organisms classified. As a corollary, taxonomists, judging by their published work, aim to produce that classification which maximises the concordance of the classifications of single characters or, put another equivalent way, which maximises the character correlations of the organisms being classified. Such classifications are then assumed to be inductive and, therefore, predictive and this predictive content is tested. It is argued that the sole operational aim of taxonomy is the production of maximally concordant, and so predictive, classifications which can be explained by the fact of evolution. The reversal of this explanatory role wherein it is claimed that phylogenies can be studied by erecting such classifications has obscured rather than clarified discussion of classification. It is further argued that because all the characters in a given organism are not correlated some weighting of characters is inevitable in producing general classifications and that the taximetric approach has obscured the discussion of classification by erecting a series of axioms which make the testing of any classification depend upon the method by which it was constructed rather than upon the form of the classification itself.
10.2307/2412209|An open nomenclature is proposed for intermediate forms, especially those situated between two successive species, which indicates both between what species said intermediate forms are found and their sequence in the evolutionary line. This makes unnecessary the creation of waagenons or successional subspecies in continuous phyletic lineages.
10.2307/2412864|The allodapine bees constitute a part of the tribe Ceratinini. The immature stages have evolved a variety of adaptations to life in a common burrow instead of each isolated in its separate cell. This is a unique environment for bee larvae. These adaptations, which result in greater morphological diversity among allodapine larvae than among all other bee larvae together, involve often nonhomologous structures and behavior which serve for supporting the young in the nest burrow and for manipulating larval food masses, as well as various structures which appear to be sensory in nature, and are presumably related to the frequent interactions among individuals. In contrast, most adult allodapines are monotonously similar; most of the exceptions are social parasites which live in the nests of related nonparasitic species. Larvae of the parasites closely resemble those of their nonparasitic relatives; in this case it is the adults which have diverged sharply, the various species or groups of parasites having independently entered an environment that is unusual for adult bees. They rarely or never visit flowers and in effect replace the egg laying female (queen) of the host with which they live. A cladogram was developed; then four mutually exclusive sets of variables (larval, pupal, external adult, and male genitalic) were superimposed on the cladogram. These sets included all of the known and readily codified variables, a total of 269, not merely the few useful in preparing the cladogram. Presumably because of the very different and independent environmental factors impinging upon these sets of variables, phenetic classifications based on them would be exceedingly different. Other sets of variables (biochemical, internal structure, etc.) may well convey equally different information about resemblances. A phenetic classification, based of necessity only on known sets of variables, is always likely to be altered when new sets become accessible. A cladistic hypothesis should be more stable. To base a classification on a cladogram alone, however, seems undesirable. In the allodapines it would result either in lumping very dissimilar forms or in placement of very similar forms in different taxa; these procedures are contrary to usefulness and convenience as well as to our biological knowledge other than the sequence of cladistic branching points.
10.2307/2412863|The Passeriformes and related avian orders (here termed "perching birds") have presented almost insurmountable problems in resolving phylogenetic relationships. New evidence from the morphology of the avian stapes (columella) permits a reassessment of the phylogenetic relationships of the advanced perching birds. Though the stapes represents but a single character, the primitive condition for the element can be established beyond reasonable doubt as that condition found in the reptilian ancestors of birds and present in the vast majority of living birds. Therefore, where unique, derived morphologies of the stapes occur, they may be of great importance in establishing evolutionary relationships within these groups, as no other characters are presently available for which primitive-derived sequences can be established beyond doubt. A cladistic approach to stapedial morphology permits a number of probable evolutionary statements concerning the "perching birds" as follows: 1) New and Old World suboscines are a monophyletic assemblage, and this group, now termed the Tyranniformes, includes the previously classified subocines of Madagascar, but not those of Australia (the lyrebirds and allies, and the New Zealand Wrens), which are shown to be oscines; 2) the wood-hoopoes and hoopoes are monophyletic and possess a unique "anvil" stapes; 3) the bee-eaters, motmots, kingfishers, and todies possess a common derived stapedial morphology and almost certainly represent a monophyletic assemblage; 4) trogons possess a stapedial morphology identical to that of the above assemblage (in 3) and are probably derived from that particular group, all of which are now termed the Alcediniformes; 5) the oscines and suboscines could not have shared a common ancestor because suboscines show a myriad of primitive characters with respect to the oscines, are relictually distributed, and yet possess a derived stapedial morphology, while the otherwise structurally advanced oscines possess the primitive condition of the stapes; for that reason the order Passeriformes is restricted to include only the oscines; 6) the Tyranniformes (suboscines) and Alcediniformes may have shared a common ancestor; both groups possess derived morphologies of the stapes that share many common features, but establishing beyond all doubt that the morphologies are strictly homologous is difficult. New evidence from the fossil record (particularly from the Western Hemisphere) provides a new basis for a paleobiogeographic analysis of "perching birds." This new evidence indicates that: 1) The Eocene of North America was a period during which structurally primitive piciform birds were the predominant, if not the only, perching birds. Eight species are now known from the Lower and Middle Eocene of North America, including one previously thought to represent a passerine. 2) The piciforms are probably New World in origin, and could have dispersed into the Old World via Beringia or across the North Atlantic. 3) The alcediniform birds are almost certainly Old World in origin; trogons, motmots, and perhaps todies crossed over into the New World using the Beringia route; alcediniforms were probably predominant during the Oligocene. 4) Suboscines are probably a Southern Continent group, and probably did not arrive into North America until relatively late, perhaps late Pliocene or early Pleistocene, when a Central American land bridge became established. 5) The Bering route probably served as a corridor for the arrival of oscines in the New World that gave rise to the New World nine-primaried oscine radiations. Apparently North America did not reciprocate to any significant degree. Oscines probably did not become established firmly in North America until the Miocene and are late arrivals into Central and South America; they probably entered these regions as late as late Pliocene or early Pleistocene when the Central American land bridge became established.
10.2307/2412866|Protein evolution is primarily a divergent process, proceeding independently of organismal or morphological evolution (Wilson et al., 1974). This makes proteins ideal tools for detecting cases of convergent anatomical evolution. A probable instance of convergent evolution, involving the monotypic genus Anotheca, was detected by comparative studies of serum albumin. On the one hand, Anotheca albumin is shown to be as similar to the albumins of several North American Hyla as the albumins of the North American Hyla are to one another. On the other hand, Anotheca albumin is very different from the albumins of the marsupial tree frogs, as different as are those of Hyla. Phylogenetic analysis of the albumin data indicates that Anotheca is phyletically a member of the subfamily Hylinae. Thus, its placement in the Amphignathodontinae was due to convergent morphological evolution in Anotheca to resemble the other genera of marsupial tree frogs.
10.2307/2412865|Chromosomal divergence within the family Anniellidae is extensive. Diploid chromosome numbers in somatic tissue range from 36 in Anniella geronimensis to 22 in northern and 20 in southern A. pulchra. One to four testicular supernumerary microchromosomes occur in A. p. pulchra populations in northern Baja California. There is a lack of congruency between the chromosomal and morphological races of A. pulchra. Within the infraorder Anguimorpha, anniellids have chromosomal similarities to both the diploglossans (Anguidae) and the platynotans (Varanidae). The genetic distances between the four populations of Anniella analysed electrophoretically correspond well with their currently recognized hierarchical relationships: D
10.2307/2412867|Methods suggested by LeQuesne for eladistic analysis under Dollo's Law in the sense of Crowson are shown to be inappropriate, as they may lead to clustering by symplesiomorphy. The use of most parsimonious trees in phylogenetic analysis under the Dollo model is justified as a statistical inference method.
10.2307/2412861|Three concepts of ancestry are distinguished, the individual organism as ancestor, the population or species as ancestor, and the supraspecific taxon as ancestor. Of these, only the first two can be objectively applied, the third is a taxonomic artifact. Of the first two, only the population or species as ancestor is used extensively in phylogeny reconstruction. We adopt the view that empirical or objective statements must be potentially falsifiable. The introduction of initial assumptions concerning the historical interpretation of empirical relationships can make phylogeny objective in this sense. We suggest that our outlook precludes identification of ancestors as self-evident. But, does it preclude hypotheses of ancestry? The strongest case for incorporating hypotheses of populational or species ancestors into phylogenetic reconstructions rests on the conclusion that the incorporation of such hypotheses seems to add to the information content of a purely "cladistic" statement. On morphological grounds, a statement of ancestor-descendant relationships would seem falsifiable if the hypothesis can be refuted by finding autapomorphies and can be corroborated by finding plesiomorphies in the supposed ancestor. We explore the nature of phylogenetic testing to assess this conjecture. In testing the relationships of a limited group of organisms, conflicts between alternate phylogenetic hypotheses may be resolved without introducing bias if those sets of characters which provide valid tests (the apomorphies) can be sorted out from those sets of characters which do not (the non-homologies and plesiomorphies). The weighting of characters as apomorphous, plesiomorphous, or non-homologous is an appeal to parsimony which represents an effort to sort out which set of characters provide tests of relationship within the problem at hand, given a higher level phylogeny. The resultant estimate will be the most parsimonious of the alternatives within the context of the higher level phylogeny. This estimate may or may not prove most parsimonious in an unweighted character analysis of the problem at hand carried out in isolation from the higher level phylogeny. It is the adoption of the higher level phylogeny which allows the investigator to objectively assess a problem of realistic proportions without ignoring relevant information. Plesiomorphies can not be used to test phylogenetic hypotheses because they are ad hoc statements required by the acceptance of the most parsimonious solution. Therefore, they can not provide corroboration for ancestor-descendant relationships. Autapomorphies are identified because they supposedly differ from the hypothetical ancestor. But, the ancestral morphotype is not a scientific statement, rather, it is a simple summary of characters derived from a cladistic hypothesis. An autapomorphy can only be identified by rejecting the alternate character as synapomorphous. We conclude that autapomorphies can not refute ancestor-descendant relationships. Therefore, given our initial assumptions, ancestor-descendant relationships based on morphology are not objective statements when applied to fossil populations or species. With the additional assumption that a particular cladistic relationship is true, ancestor-descendant relationships might be testable, but, this would render the cladistic relationships untestable. Another argument states that when fossil samples are close in time and space, it is more parsimonious to postulate that the ancestor is represented in the lower stratigraphic sample than to postulate it is missing. The apparent success of this argument rests on the requirement that the investigator answer a question that can not be answered objectively because its structure limits the alternate answers to non-objective statements.
10.2307/2412862|It is argued that the practice of expressing all phylogenetic relationships as cladistic relationships (i.e. splittings, those expressed only in the form of dichotomous sister group relationships) gives an incomplete and therefore potentially misleading view of evolutionary history. Consequently such schemes tend to supply hypotheses that fail to mirror evolutionary descent. Application of shared derived characters to set up phylogenetic hypotheses is a mere consequence of establishing morphocline polarities. Therefore, the test of a phylogenetic hypothesis lies in the soundness of biological (developmental, functional, etc.) investigations of character clines. The challenging issue then is the testability of morphocline polarity hypotheses, rather than competing phylogenetic schemes. Age of any phenon is one of its attributes, its fourth dimension. In addition to those same considerations as are employed in dealing with sister group hypotheses (shared-derived characters), ancestor-descendant hypotheses may also be tested by the temporal position of the taxon. According to the Popperian view of scientific criteria, postulated ancestor-descendant relationships may be falsified by biostratigraphic evidence, and therefore such hypotheses are as "scientific" as those of a sister-group nature. Phylogenetic trees are preferred over cladograms because the former always contain more information since they can express both ancestor-descendant relationships (anagenesis) as well as sister group relationships (cladogenesis). A brief synopsis is offered for the procedure to establish historical relationships of taxa.
10.2307/2412796|A cladistic analysis of the marsupial order Marsupicarnivora is made in an attempt to clarify borhyaenid-thylacinid affinity. This analysis is made in consideration of importance of weights for homologous character states as recognized by Hecht (1976), and Hecht and Edwards (1976). Apomorphies in borhyaenids which separate them from thylacinids include presence of a nasal-laerimal contact, a solid palate, and reduction or loss of the transverse canal. Apomorphies in thylacinids which separate them from borhyaenids include reduction in size of dP4 and presence of an epitympanic squamosal sinus. The "dog-like" marsupials of Australia (thylacinids) and South America (borhyaenids) appear to represent a classic example of parallelism in evolution; thylacinids having evolved from a common ancestor shared with Australian dasyuroids, and borhyaenoids having evolved from a common ancestor shared with didelphoids. Reduction or loss of the metaconid and stylar shelf, loss of ossified epipubic bones, and reduction of incisors to 4/3 apparently occurred independently and in parallel in borhyaenids and thylacinids.
10.2307/2412797|Samples of 13 nominal species of the more than 50 recorded from New Guinea were collected at eight localities. Comparative data from nine proteins studied in all species indicate wide biochemical divergence among species, in concordance with morphological evidence, and suggest the presence of two distinct lineages. Biochemical evidence supports the recognition of two previously described pairs of sibling species and suggests that a third cryptic species may exist in one of these pairs. Litoria infrafrenata, a series for which no morphological variation of consequence in New Guinea has been recorded, shows population differentiation in proteins. Parameters of genetic variation in the species were estimated as: A = 1.62, P = 0.50, H = 0.073. In contrast, L. iris, a species with marked color pattern polymorphism, shows little variation in proteins.
10.2307/2412795|Techniques of numerical taxonomy were applied in combination to morphometric data based on 111 characters from 61 OTUs, representing 61 species of the feather mite family Eustathiidae. Smaller subsets of taxa were analyzed to clarify the relationships and status of certain species. A statisfactory classification was obtained, complementing a monographic revision of the family in press. Supraspecific taxa were indicated by the placement of species on minimum spanning trees superimposed upon ordination diagrams. The latter were obtained by nonmetric multidimensional scaling applied to taxonomic distances. An initial configuration for multidimensional scaling was taken from a principal component analysis of character correlations. In every case except one the placement of species into genera by numerical methods matched our impressions of generic entities obtained by traditional approaches, although between- and within-generic relationships were clarified. The combination of Q- and R-mode analysis, including the use of nonmetric multidimensional scaling, provided an effective approach to the analysis of taxonomic structure. Multidimensional scaling is strongly recommended for similar studies as a technique to improve the accurate visual representation of taxonomic relationships. Only moderately strong host-parasite relationships occur within the Eustathiidae, although the group as a whole is restricted to the Apodi. No member of the Eustathiidae occurs on the other suborder of the Apodiformes, the Trochili. This emphasizes the distinction between Apodi and Trochili, and points again toward the question of whether or not these taxa of birds should be placed together. Host-parasite relationships within the Eustathiidae may be associated with resource tracking, but further data on feeding habits and life histories of the mites are needed to answer this question. Finally, this study represents a collaborative approach to the solution of a taxonomic problem. We feel that the collaborative approach has considerable potential in the resolution of difficult relationships within the Acari and other groups of organisms.
10.2307/2412794|The concept that historical interrelationships can be demonstrated only by the presence of shared innovations is fundamental to the fields of textual and linguistic, as well as phylogenetic, reconstruction. All three fields utilize analogous procedures in which data are organized into transformation series of homologous character states, the polarity of these transformation series is determined by out-group comparison, and shared innovations are used to construct internested series of three-taxon statements that operate at a level of generality above that of specific ancestor-descendant hypotheses. The acceptance of these methods as the standard operational tools in separate fields suggests that cladistic analysis is a general comparative method applicable to all studies of historical interrelationships based on ancestor-descendant sequences, and that biologists concerned with such questions can ill afford to ignore cladistic theory and methods.
10.2307/2412793|Paleozoogeographic patterns of Late Paleozoic through Triassic marine and freshwater malacostracans, interpreted in light of Croizat's vicariance model of biogeography, lend significant insights into the distribution of living malacostracans, as well as events in the Late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic radiation of these crustaceans. The Hoplocarida and Eumalacostraca had a tropical Laurentian range which became well established by Late Carboniferous time. With the suturing of the supercontinent Pangaea in the Permian, the former Laurentian marine crustaceans appear to have spread into the nearshore and freshwater habitats of Gondwana and Angara. By the late Permian and Early Triassic a decapod eumalacostracan fauna became established in tropical and subtropical regions of Pangaean marine habitats, while the Late Paleozoic hoplocaridan and eumalacostracan fauna became extinct or was restricted to geographic and ecologic refugia (which in contemporary terms is largely expressed as a Gondwana and deep-sea distribution).
10.2307/2412839|Although osteological features are utilized frequently in comprehensive systematic reviews of anuran taxa, no serious attempt has been made to quantify the data and assess its variation other than in a descriptive context. Such assessments first must be made at the population level; thus, 119 osteological measurements were made on a series of adult males and females of the Neotropical frog Hyla lanciformis (Anura: Hylidae). The results of this study show that nearly 50% of these characters demonstrate relatively low levels of variation in both sexes within the population. This suggests that osteological features can be quantified, and selected characters can be utilized to generate an osteological profile of a taxon to be used in concert with other numerical data for subsequent analyses.
10.2307/2412837|Brachyuran crabs are important predators of molluscs, influencing both the distribution and characteristics of their prey. Crab master-claw strength, as inferred from morphological measurements, decreases in a general way from a peak in the tropical Indo-West-Pacific to progressively lower values in the Eastern Pacific, Western Atlantic, and Eastern Atlantic, with temperate crabs having the smallest claws. Many genera of large-clawed crabs found in the tropical Pacific and Indian Oceans are poorly represented or missing in the tropical Atlantic, especially West Africa. Metabolic limitations and competition are likely to be important determinants of claw size in crabs.
10.2307/2412840|Karl Popper maintains that the laws of science are not, in principle, verifiable but only falsifiable because they are formulated in strictly universal statements which refer to an unlimited number of instances. Several taxonomists have apparently concluded that the knowledge of systematic zoology is expressed in these strictly universal statements. It is argued in this paper that the knowledge claims of systematic zoology are formulated in what Popper has called numerically universal statements which are equivalent to conjunctions of a finite number of singular statements and that they are, therefore, in principle, both verifiable and falsifiable.
10.2307/2412841|Previously proposed definitions of the terms monophyletic, paraphyletic, and polyphyletic are examined. The definitions provided by Hennig and Ashlock are internally flawed because they do not prevent a single group from being simultaneously paraphyletic and polyphyletic. The definitions provided by Nelson are internally consistent but have undesirable consequences by either precluding the existence of monotypic genera or allowing coordinate taxa to both correspond and not correspond to monophyletic groups. The definitions provided by Farris are internally consistent and lack the drawbacks of Nelson's views; it is suggested that they are successful because they identify necessary relationships between the concepts of polyphyly and parallelism and the concepts of paraphyly and character reversal.
10.2307/2412838|Genetic similarities among twenty-two populations of Polycelis coronata and one population of Dugesia tigrina (Planaria) were determined from electrophoretically obtained protein data. Similarity values between populations of Polycelis were lower than expected, being significantly below values reported for many vertebrate and invertebrate species. This difference is partially explained by various ecological and behavioral isolating mechanisms. Lack of morphological variation between populations which does not correspond with the biochemical divergence may imply different rates of evolution at these two levels. Evolutionary divergence times based on the protein data are used as possible indices of the migratory pattern of Polycelis in the Pacific Northwest and correlate with the theory of land bridges between North America and Asia.
10.2307/2412842|This paper focuses on the estimation of parameters in the bivariate linear model, especially in the context of bivariate size-shape relationships or allometry. Existing estimation procedures (regression, major axis, reduced major axis) all depend on a priori assumptions on the ratio of the residuals, usually called "errors," in both variables. These assumptions are reviewed and evaluated. The Bartlett method is not independent of assumptions on the residuals as has been often claimed. A method which does not require assumptions on the ratio of residuals, providing data from a third variable are available, is given. All of the methods discussed are illustrated with data measured on planktonic Foraminifera.
10.2307/2412678|A total of 11-15 genetic loci encoding enzymes and other proteins has been assayed in populations belonging to 20 taxa of the North American sunfish in the family Centrarchidae. Four stages of evolutionary divergence are recognized among these taxa by systematists. We have determined mean levels of genetic differentiation, D, between populations at each of these stages: geographic populations, D = 0.024  0.003; subspecies, D = 0.171  0.004; species, D = 0.626  0.028; genera, D = 1.340  0.064. D estimates the number of electrophoretically detectable codon substitutions per locus accumulated since populations separated from a common ancestor. Mean genetic distance among centrarchids increases dramatically through the various stages of evolutionary divergence. Different subspecies of Lepomis macrochirus exhibit about an 8-fold increase in genetic distance over geographic populations belonging to a subspecies. Species of the genus Lepomis are completely distinct in allelic composition at nearly 50 percent of loci, on the average, despite their ability to produce viable and sometimes fertile hybrids. Species belonging to different centrarchid genera have accumulated more than one allelic substitution per locus, on the average. Among the centrarchids prezygotic reproductive isolating barriers may have preceded the development of significant postzygotic isolating mechanisms. Nonetheless, mean levels of genetic divergence between centrarchid taxa are similar to those other animal taxa of corresponding rank characterized by different modes of reproductive isolation. Amounts and patterns of genetic divergence are employed to infer probable evolutionary relationships among the Centrarchidae. A great deal of evolutionary information is contained within even a relatively small number of genes.
10.2307/2412677|Comparisons of the karyotypes of the species of Vampyressa suggest two modes of chromosomal rearrangements in the derivation of the Vampyressa karyotypes: pericentric inversions in V. brocki, V. nymphaea, and V. bidens; and translocations (fusions) in V. melissa and the variants of V. pusilla. This Vampyressa phylogenetic model was used to evaluate the possible derivations of the chromosomal patterns of the 97 species of phyllostomid bats whose karyotypes are known. Sufficient variation to indicate probable evolutionary patterns, in addition to that outlined for Vampyressa, was found at the species level for Micronycteris and Tonatia, and at the generic level for the Glossophaginae, Carolliinae, and Stenoderminae. The analysis supports the points of view presented herein that (1) the common (often considered the ancestral) 2n = 32, FN = 60 configuration was independently acquired by three or more evolutionary lineages and, therefore, must be considered to be derived; (2) the primitive phyllostomid karyotype had a high diploid number (near 40, but possibly as high as 46) and a low fundamental number (near minimum); (3) there was a general trend toward reduction in diploid numbers concomitant with maximization of fundamental numbers; and (4) totally biarmed autosomal configurations, which characterize the majority of the Phyllostomidae, are comparatively more stable than those karyotypes in which half or more of the autosomes are uniarmed. Fourteen karyotypes are reported here for the first time, including that of Vampyressa melissa, which has the lowest diploid number known in the Chiroptera (2n = 14).
10.2307/2412675|Cladistic interrelationships of plagiorchioid genera found in anuran intestines and of species of the genus Glypthelmins are analyzed to determine patterns of dispersal and vicariance. The first analysis reveals three generic lineages, each characterized by one genus whose species are distributed on four or more continents or subcontinents in addition to related genera restricted in number of species and found on a single continent or two adjacent continents. Examination of the distribution of the three characteristic genera, Mesocoelium, Opisthioglyphe, and Glypthelmins, suggests similar but not congruent dispersal-tracks and shows different centers of form-making for each. In the second analysis, cladistic (genealogical) relationships of species of Glypthelmins in the Old World and of species in Central and North America can be accounted for on the basis of vicariance from widely-distributed ancestral taxa. Vicariance of the South American species corresponds with the phylogeny of their hosts as proposed by Lynch (1973). This, the first study using cladistical methodology for deducing the evolutionary history of a group of parasitic helminths, demonstrates the feasibility and applicability of that methodology.
10.2307/2412673|Three modes of allopatric speciation can be distinguished, depending on whether the isolating geographic barrier is within a single land mass ("continental speciation"), between islands of the same archipelago, or between different archipelagoes ("insular speciation"). The contributions of these three modes to speciation in Pacific land birds are analyzed. Continental speciation in birds has occurred in no Pacific land mass smaller than Australia, New Guinea, and possibly New Zealand; intra-archipelagal speciation has occurred only on six of the most remote archipelagoes; and inter-archipelagal speciation has produced most of the sympatric bird species pairs from the Bismarcks to Samoa. The frequency of each mode depends on area and isolation of the island, and on mobility and perhaps population density of the taxa involved. What is an "island" to some taxa may be a "continent" to others. For example, New Caledonia behaves as a continent to higher plants, insects, and lizards, but not to birds or ferns.
10.2307/2412676|Problems of ascertaining affinities of fossil taxa are explored utilizing the European Miocene primate Pliopithecus vindobonensis as an example. Traditionally, Pliopithecus has been regarded as an ancestral gibbon, yet aspects of its postcranial anatomy contradict this. Current studies provide strong evidence that the forelimb complex of the extant Hominoidea represents a synapomorphic character complex. The shoulder joint of Pliopithecus was therefore compared with 17 species of anthropoid primates using 10 measurements emphasizing the glenohumeral articulation. Multivariate analysis indicates that Pliopithecus conforms in every way with the symplesiomorphic morphopattern shown by extant cercopithecoids and platyrrhine primates but contrasts markedly with extant hominoids, especially the gibbon. It is therefore unlikely that Pliopithecus and Hylobates are directly related. The great similarity of Pliopithecus to the African Miocene primate, Dendropithecus, also sheds doubt on its current hylobatine classification.
10.2307/2412679|Fourier analysis in closed form provides a highly efficient method for measuring overall morphological similarity and identifying specific types of morphological variation. In shape analysis of ostracode outlines, continuous variation representing phylogenetically induced changes as well as shape families reflecting taxonomic categories can be recognized. Two-dimensional shape is described by a series of terms in a Fourier expansion of periphery radius as a function of polar angle for members of the ostracode genus Rabilimis and for six genera of Hemicytheridae. Raw data, consisting of Cartesian coordinates of the two-dimensional outline are converted to polar coordinates using the center of gravity of the form as a reference point. Coefficients of each term in the expansion represent the contribution of a fundamental harmonic form to the total shape description. When morphological variability is partitioned across the harmonic amplitude spectrum so that individual coefficients represent separate sources of morphological variation, removal of specific harmonics allows comparison of variation resulting from genetic vs. nongenetic factors.
10.2307/2412674|A natural concept of agreement among characters is defined in a phylogenetic context. A method for estimating phylogenetic relationships using this concept is described. This method is used to choose among the characters given by Blackith and Blackith those that agree. These characters are then used to construct an estimate of phylogenetic relationships among the Orthopteroid taxa discussed by these authors. This estimate is compared with the conventional one, and with one determined by the method of Camin & Sokal.
10.2307/2413134|Methods that use outgroups in the reconstruction of phylogeny are described and evaluated by the criterion of parsimony. By considering the character states and relationships of outgroups, one can estimate the states ancestral for a study group or ingroup, even when several character states are found among the outgroups. Algorithms and rules are presented that find the most parsimonious estimates of ancestral states for binary and multistate characters when outgroup relationships are well resolved. Other rules indicate the extent to which uncertainty about outgroup relationships leads to uncertainty about the ancestral states. The algorithms and rules are based on "simple parsimony" in that convergences and reversals are counted equally. After parsimony is measured locally among the outgroups to estimate ancestral states, parsimony is measured locally within the ingroup, given the ancestral states, to find the ingroup cladogram. This two-step procedure is shown to find the ingroup cladograms that are most parsimonious globally; that is, most parsimonious when parsimony is measured simultaneously over the ingroup and outgroups. However, the two-step procedure is guaranteed to achieve global parsimony only when: (a) outgroup relationships are sufficiently resolved beforehand; (b) outgroup analysis is taken to indicate the state not in the most recent common ancestor of the ingroup, but in a more distant ancestor; and (c) ancestral states are considered while the ingroup is being resolved, not merely added afterward to root an unrooted network. The criterion of global parsimony is then applied to evaluate procedures used when outgroup relationships are poorly resolved. The procedure that chooses as ancestral the state occurring most commonly among the outgroups can sometimes yield cladograms that are not globally parsimonious. By the criterion of global parsimony, the best procedure is one that simultaneously resolves the outgroups and ingroup with the data at hand. Finally, simple parsimony can choose among competing hypotheses, but it often fails to indicate how much confidence can be placed in that choice.
10.2307/2413131|Methods, such as the distance Wagner procedure, that construct phylogenetic trees by fitting branch lengths to genetic distance matrices result in ancestral taxa that cannot exist in allele frequency space and in loss of information on the distribution of particular alleles among terminal and ancestral taxa. A new minimum evolution procedure is described which constrains ancestors to exist in allele frequency space, estimates the frequency of each allele in each ancestor, and optimizes the branch lengths of the tree by positioning the ancestors so that total tree length is minimized. The optimal positions for the ancestors are determined by a technique, the hyperboloid approximation procedure (HAP), borrowed from industrial engineering. Three different methods of deriving tree topologies-the distance Wagner algorithm, UPCMA clustering, and a new procedure described here-are compared.
10.2307/2413129|Multiple discriminant analysis and bivariate correlations of logarithms of progression indices are applied to volumetric data on 11 major brain regions of 139 species of Insectivora, Chiroptera, and Primates. The pattern of projections of the coordinate axes of original variates on the first two discriminant functions appears to correspond to MacLean's (1970) division of the brain into the neomammalian, paleomammalian and protoreptilian regions. However, the peculiar position of the neocortex may be somewhat exaggerated by collinearity. The brain components which undergo the greatest relative volumetric increase from basal Insectivora to higher Primates are, by order of decreasing importance, the neocortex, cerebellum, striatum, and diencephalon. The bulbus olfactorius and paleocortex are strongly correlated in Insectivora and prosimians, but this correlation drops abruptly in Chiroptera and in simians, where olfaction has regressed markedly while the paleocortex remained relatively stable, presumably by developing its non-olfactory functions. The neocortex, bulbus olfactorius, septum, schizocortex, and hippocampus are positively correlated in Chiroptera, apparently because they are large relative to body weight in Megachiroptera and frugivorous Microchiroptera but small in insectivorous Microchiroptera. The neocortex may be more useful in frugivorous and nectarivorous bats-for environment recognition based on visual and olfactory stimuli-and relatively less useful in insectivorous bats, which often must react rapidly to echolocative signals. The negative correlations of the medulla oblongata with the bulbus olfactorius and paleocortex, in progressive Insectivora, appear to reflect the evolutionary regression of olfaction and the compensatory progression of the tactile trigeminal system (vibrissae) in aquatic Insectivora.
10.2307/2413132|If a taxon G is associated with a set g of characteristic attributes, knowledge that O belongs in G allows us to predict, with varying success, that O exhibits the attributes in g. An index of predictivity (C
10.2307/2413128|The methodology of scientific research programs developed by 1. Lakatos is discussed and applied to the current debate concerning method and theory in historical biogeography. Of the three recognized approaches-centers-of-origin/dispersalist, vicariance biogeography, and Croizat's panbiogeography-only the latter two are progressive scientific research programs sensu Lakatos. Croizat's panbiogeography is considered to be a progressive research program because it has predicted numerous novel facts about geology. Croizat's novel predictions concerning the geology of the circum-Pacific continents and island groups are reviewed and discussed in relation to the latest geological findings which corroborate his work.
10.2307/2413130|The concept of the predictive value of biological classifications is reviewed and two indices are introduced which can be used to evaluate and compare the goodness of classifications (with regard to their predictive value) constructed using different classification methods. These indices incorporate the unique relationship between hierarchical classifications and the expectations of prediction success for character states. The predictive value of a classification is the degree to which states of characters are constant within and restricted to taxa in the classification. Previous studies used phenetic correlations, taxonomic congruence, parsimony, and partitions of the taxa to measure predictive value. These approaches are reviewed and found deficient. To have high predictive value for new characters or new taxa, a classification must be constructed to have maximal predictive value "fit" for the characters initially used to construct it. It is concluded that predictions made with regard to the observation of new characters versus new taxa are the same, in contradiction to previous discussions.
10.2307/2413133|Evolutionary theory predicts that population divergence should be correlated with both geographic distance and environmental difference. This prediction was tested using 25 populations of Goniobasis proxima (Say), a snail restricted to small creeks in the piedmont and mountains of the southern Appalachians. Geographic distance was measured both over land and through water. Genetic difference was measured in three ways: an analysis of allozyme frequencies at seven polymorphic enzyme loci using gel electrophoresis, and two measures based on different variance components from 23 specially-screened morphological variables. Three measures of environmental difference were also calculated: one based on 11 water chemical variables; a second based on standardized water chemical variables plus four physical and biological variables; and a third based on diatom floral similarity. The correlations between all pairs of the resulting eight symmetric matrices were examined by calculating K
10.2307/2413090|Consensus methods for dendrograms representing numerically stratified hierarchic nested classifications are discussed. An algorithm for computing the consensus n-trees which result from Neumann's (1983) generalized intersection methods is given. This algorithm involves operations on the matrices of cophenetic values representing the original n-trees. An approach for extending known intersection consensus methods for n-trees (e.g., Adams, cardinality intersection, strict) to consensus methods for dendrograms is proposed.
10.2307/2413089|To evaluate the potential of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) analysis for avian systematics, we have assayed mtDNA differences among 13 species of waterfowl in the genera Anas and Aythya (Anseriformes: Anatidae). Purified mtDNA was digested with each of 15 different type II restriction endonucleases which cleave at five- or six-base recognition sequences. Side-by-side comparisons of digestion profiles permitted the estimation of levels of fragment homology and nucleotide sequence divergence (p). Among nine Anas species, mean sequence divergence (p) was 0.062 (range 0.004-0.088); among four Aythya species, 0.034 (0.025-0.043); between selected species belonging to separate genera, 0.109. Phylogenetic trees and dendrograms were constructed from qualitative and quantitative data bases by a variety of procedures including undirected parsimony (Penny and Wagner algorithms), undirected compatibility (Estabrook algorithms), and phenetic clustering. These trees were highly concordant with one another, and with traditional phylogenies derived from independent sources of information. Previously published evidence from mammals has suggested a "saturation effect" on level of mtDNA differentiation: for p less than 0.15-0.20, mtDNA distances are reportedly linearly related to time since common ancestry, but for larger p values the relationship becomes curvilinear as differentiation approaches an observed plateau at a p of approximately 0.30. Our estimates of mtDNA sequence divergence among congeneric waterfowl fall in a broad range well within the expected linear portion of the curve. This observation, coupled with the general concordance of mtDNA-generated trees with those derived from independent information, demonstrates that the restriction fragment approach to mtDNA analysis should provide an important new molecular technique for studying evolutionary relationships among lower taxonomic levels in Aves.
10.2307/2413092|Morphometric variation in samples of common mynas from 11 localities in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Hawaii was analyzed with principal component analysis. We attempt to avoid two shortcomings in many previous applications of principal component analysis in morphometrics by analyzing separately variation within and among populations, and by applying the jackknife procedure to reduce subjectivity in interpretation of the principal components. Within populations, only principal component I appears to have a stable orientation and this orientation is common to all localities. Component II may be a simple vector, differing across localities, but similarity in the second and third eigenvalues warns that the associated components could be largely arbitrary. The variance along component I does differ across localities. Among populations, again only the first component displays convincing stability, although component II may be a stable but extremely simple vector. Both within and among populations, component I appears to be a general factor representing size and size-related shape variation. The apparently simple patterns of covariation displayed by the introduced populations may be attributable to bottlenecks in small founding populations and the short time since the introductions were made. Future studies should incorporate some form of testing to confirm putative patterns of character covariation, and doing so probably will require sample sizes much larger than has been the custom.
10.2307/2413088|Claws of the front legs of Culicidae (Aedes, five species; Culex, one species; Anopheles, one species), altogether 118 claws, were characterized by 10 variables selected from land-marks on a Cartesian coordinate system. The 118 x 10 data matrix was analyzed by the SIMCA (Simple Modelling of Class Analogy) pattern recognition method (Wold et al., 1983). Regularities in multivariate data were found by construction of a "training set" from a known origin according to the SIMCA method. As a training set, Aedes excrucians Walker "narrow" was used. This material was subsequently compared with unidentified specimens and classes were constructed progressively. The analysis included eight classes, one species being present in two forms (excrucians "narrow" and "wide"). For these two forms, very subtle differences in shape were discriminated by the SIMCA method. The results for different class separations showed that the addition of three more variables might be sufficient for complete characterization of shape in these culicid claws. The applicability of the SIMCA method to other zoological data dealing with shape characterization or description is discussed.
10.2307/2413091|Tests of OTU stability were carried out by random selection of subsets of OTUs from the Recent Caminalcules. From these samples we computed UPGMA phenograms and estimated cladograms based on Wagner parsimony and compatibility analysis. These were compared with pruned versions of the trees based on 29 OTUs representing: (1) their standards; and (2) the true cladogram known for this artificial data set. A similar analysis was carried out for a complete sampling of sets of OTUs from a data set based on the Leptopodomorpha (Hemiptera). Only the first type of comparison could be carried out for this data set. In the Caminalcules, when classifications based on samples of OTUs are compared with their own standards (classifications based on all OTUs)-which would be the typical situation in real organisms where true cladogenies are not known-stability seems to be a function of OTU sample size. For low OTU numbers, stability is higher in classifications based on estimated cladograms, but for high OTU numbers it is greater in classifications based on phenograms. While there is a trend towards increasing stability in the phenograms as OTU sample size increases, no such trend is evident in estimated cladograms of the standards or of the true cladogram. By contrast, estimated cladograms have a higher consensus with the true cladogram than do UPGMA phenograms regardless of number of OTUs employed. In the Leptopodomorpha, classifications based on UPGMA and Wagner parsimony methods are about equally stable with a suggestion of slightly better performance for Wagner parsimony at low OTU numbers and a reversal of this trend for higher OTU numbers. There is no evidence of marked superiority of Wagner parsimony as had been claimed in an earlier study of this group. The outcome of studies of both character and OTU stability is shown to be approximately related to the ratio n/(2t - 3), where n is the number of characters and t is the number of OTUs. When this ratio is low, phenograms are more stable than estimated cladograms; when it is high the reverse relation holds. Also, when the ratio is low, phenograms are better estimates of the true cladogeny than are estimated cladograms. The reverse relation holds for high values of the ratio. To confirm these conclusions, we carried out combined studies of character and of OTU stability applied to both data sets. As character number decreased, or OTU number increased, classifications based on phenograms became more stable than those based on estimated cladograms, and became better for reconstructing the true cladogeny than estimated cladograms in the Caminalcules. Character stability and OTU stability may in fact be two separate aspects of the same phenomenon-taxonomic stability. The merits of various designs suitable for testing OTU stability in numerical taxonomy are discussed. All are based on the results of sampling subsets of OTUs for the entire taxon.
10.2307/2413021|Protein variation was analyzed at 38 presumptive genetic loci in 214 specimens of 12 species of Empidonax and 3 species of the related genus Contopus. These tyrannid flycatchers are noted for their great morphologic uniformity, species-specific songs, and distinctive nesting ecology. Intraspecific genetic variability was substantial and comparable to that shown in other recent avian studies. The average Nei's genetic distance among species of Empidonax, exclusive of euleri, was 0.070, a value somewhat higher than the average of 0.044 shown by other birds. Because euleri differs from all other species of Empidonax at large genetic distances, 0.348 to 0.465, we conclude that it should be removed from the genus; euleri is probably best placed in Cnemotriccus. Eight of the 12 species of Empidonax possessed unique alleles, ranging from 1 autapomorphy in atriceps to 10 in euleri. Within Contopus, only sordidulus had unique alleles and these were uncommon. A locus by locus comparison of alleles revealed many subsets of species which share particular alleles, but no clear groupings of taxa are evident. Distance Wagner trees and Fitch-Margoliash trees, as well as UPGMA and WPGMA phenograms, were constructed from the matrix of Rogers' genetic distances, showing that: (1) euleri is very distinct from all other species of Empidonax and Contopus; (2) the three species of Contopus are closely related; and (3) E. traillii-E. alnorum and C. sordidulus-C. virens are species pairs. Two of the three branching diagrams also suggest the close affinity of E. difficilis and E. flavescens, and of E. hammondii and E. atriceps. The latter relationship was unexpected because, on morphologic and vocal evidence, E. hammondii had been considered to be a close relative of E. minimus. The latter species and E. virescens seem to be rather strongly differentiated within the genus. Except for the component allospecies of superspecies (E. traillii-E. alnorum, E. difficilis-E. flavescens, and C. sordidulus-C. virens), which are relatively recently derived, the protein evidence suggests that the radiation of species of Empidonax occurred over a rather narrow span of time, perhaps in the late Pliocene or early Pleistocene. The phylogenetic picture is not one of a prolonged evolution of species via a dichotomous sequence of cladogenetic events. Therefore, the great similarity of sibling species in Empidonax and in Contopus is not evidence for their recent origin. Rather, it is a consequence of a very conservative evolution of plumage and morphology that has not kept pace with evolutionary rates for allozymes, vocalizations, and features of nesting biology.
10.2307/2413018|A new species of bat from the genus Rhogeessa is described, which would not have been recognized as distinct if the karyotypes had not been available. The discovery of this species clearly documents that it is possible for two sympatric species of mammals to be so similar in external and cranial morphology that without chromosomal, genic, or some other data, a researcher would never realize a local sample contained more than a single biological species.
10.2307/2413015|Phenetic and cladistic approaches were used to assess relationships among 22 species representing 17 genera of batagurine turtles, and 2 species representing 2 genera of emydine turtles. Phenograms and cladograms were constructed from a total of 90 variable enzyme products (electromorphs) of 14 gene loci. Phenograms were generated by UPGMA clustering using genetic similarity, identity, and distance matrices, and a Wagner tree was constructed from a binary-coded character matrix. A qualitative locus-by-locus cladistic approach was also attempted, and in this as well as in our application of the Wagner algorithm, a species of the sister group family Testudinidae was used as the outgroup taxon. Results of the three approaches are evaluated relative to each other, and relative to relationships that have previously been proposed with other lines of evidence. Some of the clades generated by one or more of the approaches used in this study are particularly strongly corroborated by chromosomal and osteological data sets. High genetic distances between some taxa, and high levels of inferred homoplasy suggest that divergence among many species approaches the limits of electrophoretic resolution and, as a result, several cladistic hypotheses are presented for some taxa. Where results are inconclusive, however, they are useful to the extent that they draw attention to contradictory data sets and alternative hypotheses of intergeneric relationships.
10.2307/2413017|A method is proposed for identifying the phylogenetically reliable information in homoplastic characters and using it to derive phylogenetic trees by character compatibility analysis. The sister groups identified on the primary tree are used as outgroups for possible recoding of rejected characters. The recoded characters are then used in secondary analyses to resolve relationships on smaller and smaller branches of the tree. The method combines the suggestions of Watrous and Wheeler (1981) with compatibility analysis and bases lower-level resolution on polarity decisions made at higher levels. Farris's (1982) criticisms of the method of Watrous and Wheeler are found to be irrelevant in studies that use estimates of character polarity and ancestral states for deriving phylogenetic trees. An application of the method using real data is provided.
10.2307/2413020|Morphometric and allozymic data were collected for eight populations of a palaemonid prawn, Macrobrachium rosenbergii (de Man), throughout Asia, north Australia, and parts of the western Pacific. For each data set, Fitch-Margoliash networks were constructed to estimate the patristric and cladistic relationships among these populations. Two measures of taxonomic congruence were calculated for the networks with varying results which are traced to inherent differences in the methods. Both measures indicated that the networks agreed in the divergence of the species into eastern and western subspecific groups along Wallace's Line, a zoogeographic discontinuity in Asia. These networks were correlated with paleogeologic and paleoclimatic theory to infer the species' expansion and evolution. The same paleotectonic factors resulting in the formation of Wallace's Line are thought to have caused the species' subspecific divergence. Climatic differences may promote selective forces which at different levels maintain Wallace's Line and the prawn's subspecific divergence.
10.2307/2413022| The islands of Aruba, Bonaire and Curaao are Cerion's geographic outlier, inhabited by the single species C. uva. I studied geographic variation in C. uva as recorded in 135 samples of 20 snails each, based on 19 measures selected to show covariance in patterns of ontogenetic allometry. The four regions of eastern Curaao, western Curaao, Bonaire and Aruba are clearly distinguished by consistent differences displayed in covariance sets. Snails from western Curaao reach a constrained final size with few large whorls, those from Aruba with more and smaller whorls. Each mode of growth entails, through its covariance set, a host of subsidiary consequences for the shell's basic form. Snails from Bonaire grow their apertures with more intense allometry. Nonadaptation must be an important theme in this variation; for even if the basic regional differences have an adaptive trigger (which is, in itself, far from demonstrated), the large set of allometric consequences, forming most of the noted and measured differences, must follow as automatic sequelae, not as selected traits. Covariance sets therefore offer a way of studying nonadaptation with positive evidence. Although each region can be distinguished by covariance sets, all regions display large and probably ecophenotypic differences in shell size as a response to moisture and vegetation of immediate habitats. This large variation in size within each region conceals the subtler but consistent differences among regions and has prevented their proper identification in past studies. An allometric and multivariate approach must be used to identify regional variation. 
10.2307/2413019|Three new karyotypic races of common shrew have been found in Britain: the "Aberdeen" race (northeastern Scotland); the "Oxford" race (central and northern Britain); and the "Hermitage" race (southeastern England). The karyotypes of all these races include metacentrics hi, jl and gm. Their karyotypes differ in metacentrics composed of chromosome arms k, n, o, p, q, r (Aberdeen: ko, np, qr; Oxford: kq, no, pr; Hermitage: ko only). The relationship of all 12 known karyotypic races of the common shrew has been examined by cladistic analysis. The results, supported by the geographic distribution of the races, suggest that there are three phylogenetic groups of common shrew (the "West European," "East European" and "Siberian" phylogenetic groups) to which 10 of the 12 karyotypic races can be ascribed (the British races belong to the West European phylogenetic group). Of the remaining two races, the Kuusijoki race in northern Scandinavia has characteristics of both the West European and East European phylogenetic groups and may have originated through hybridization, while the Valais race in Switzerland shows no close relationship to the other races. I propose that the European range of the common shrew was restricted to southern parts during the last glacial maximum and that the West European phylogenetic group spread over an area extending from southeastern to northwestern Europe at the end of the ice age.
10.2307/2413016|We have examined the behavior of the "treeness" test for evolutionary independence (Cavalli-Sforza and Piazza, 1975) using "evolutionary histories" from simulated and real data. For each set of characters, we have evaluated the treeness statistic (T) for the 945 topologies possible with six populations, or a random sample of them, and have analyzed the resulting distributions. All the distributions studied show common features: (1) Generally, a small fraction (less than 6%) of all topologies gave T values compatible with the phylogenetic hypothesis. (2) This fraction became smaller as the number of characters increased. (3) The T values obtained for the simulated and reconstructed trees are always found at the far left tail of the distribution.
10.2307/2413075|The history of chelonian systematics reflects the underlying theme of biologic systematics: the search for natural groups characterized by an inter-nesting pattern of features. Eighteenth century turtle systematics was dominated by the discovery of new species followed by the subdivision of Linnaeus' single genus, Testudo, into many genera. Higher category classifications were first based on habitat-related features; but as more morphologic information became available and was seen to be inconsistent with these classifications, new higher taxa (e.g., cryptodires and pleurodires) were recognized and tested successfully. The advent of process hypotheses in the form of evolutionism had a deleterious effect on turtle systematics due to the erection of supposedly ancestral and adaptational taxa. Phylogenetic systematics may be considered as the most recent phase in chelonian systematics but instead of being a new methodology, it is a more precise and objective technique of discovering and testing natural groups of the sort systematists have been seeking for centuries. A new classification and cladogram of turtles utilize these principles.
10.2307/2413073|Parallel evolution, as exemplified by data on opisthobranch mollusks (a group in which snails have repeatedly evolved into slugs), often exceeds divergent evolution. A similar level of parallelism has been described in an array of other organisms. This fact presents a serious challenge to those systematists who claim that a cladogram with a minimal number of steps represents a most parsimonious and most likely scenario of genealogical relationship. When rampant parallelism is present, pattern cladism or other congruence networks which rely solely on ingroup comparison of characters are unsuccessful in resolving the problem. We suggest that emphasis on unique innovation and divergent apomorphy presents a fruitful and scientifically consistent alternative to this dilemma. We contend that cladists have drastically altered the meaning of several terms-including "parallel evolution," "parsimony," and "a priori"-to suit their own methodological and philosophical paradigm. These modifications reduce the testability of their hypotheses and, therefore, the scientific credibility of their methods. The construction of a genealogy based on shared-derived features, which is independent of a theoretical basis, represents a resurfacing of typological thinking which has little value in explaining or even depicting the patterns of diversity of life.
10.2307/2413074|One reason radiolarian species are difficult to define is because the reproductive biology and ecology of living radiolarians are not well understood. Asexual reproduction has been documented, but sexual reproduction is only suggested by the presence of flagellated swarmer cells. The evidence for dimorphism and hybridization found in the fossil record has not been correlated with that from living radiolarians. The depth at which the organisms are found has been suggested as important with respect to skeletal shape, but this idea in part has recently been disproved. Characters used to define radiolarian species many not accurately reflect reproductive modes or living environments. Ideally, the determination of a radiolarian species, as with all other types of species, should incorporate data on their reproductive biology, ecology, and paleontology. Radiolarians, like other protozoans, probably do not develop in any one evolutionary mode (owing to different reproductive strategies). New evidence for alternation of generations and hybridization is given. One should not assume that the methods used to determine species for larger-sized organisms are applicable to radiolarian species.
10.2307/2413076|Outlines of wings from 127 species of North American mosquitoes were digitized. Comparisons were made among several different methods of reducing the information in the resulting coordinates to a series of descriptors that could be used in multivariate analysis. Methods included Fourier analysis of both radii and tangent angle change functions. In addition, the relatively new method of elliptic Fourier analysis was tried. Cluster and ordination analyses based on the various sets of descriptors summarized well the pattern of similarities and differences in wing shapes, but clusters of similar wings do not agree well with traditional taxonomic groupings. The use of elliptic Fourier descriptors appears to be especially promising for future work.
10.2307/2412693|To explore the relationship between organismal and protein evolution, a comparative study was made of the serum albumins of tree frogs (Hylidae). Attention was centered on those Holarctic hylines whose anatomy and way of life have been intensively studied, namely species of Acris, Hyla, and Pseudacris. An albumin phylogeny was constructed from immunological distance data obtained with rabbit antisera to the purified albumins of 12 hyline species by means of the micro-complement fixation test. An analogous study with antisera to purified hemoglobin from 4 of these species was in approximate agreement with the albumin phylogeny. The albumin phylogeny revealed an apparent case of convergent morphological evolution involving H. wrightorum and H. regilla. These two species are similar enough in external morphology to have been classified in the same species by some recent authors. Yet their albumins differ as much from each other immunologically as from Acris albumin. This case is discussed more fully elsewhere (Maxson & Wilson, 1974). Discrepancies between organismal resemblance and albumin resemblance can also arise because of unequal rates of organismal divergence. Acris provides an example of this. The albumin phylogeny, supported by hemoglobin evidence, shows that the Acris lineage falls cladistically within the North American assemblage of Hyla lineages. Acris is more similar at the protein level to some Hyla species than the latter are to other Hyla species. Yet Acris is very different from Hyla in anatomy and way of life. The Acris lineage evidently underwent unusually rapid organismal evolution. However, there is no indication of accelerated albumin evolution in this lineage. Limnaoedus and Pseudacris provide additional examples of this sort. We infer that organismal and protein evolution can proceed at independent rates. This provides taxonomists with a dilemma: Should classifications be revised on the basis of protein data? The albumin results are consistent with recent ideas about the historical biogeography of hyline tree frogs. By assuming that albumin behaves as an evolutionary clock, which evolves at the rate of 1.7 immunological distance units per million years, it is calculated that a) Australian hylines diverged from New World hylines about 75 million years ago, b) North American hylines diverged from South American hylines 65 million years ago, and c) Eurasian hylines diverged from North American hylines about 40 million years ago. These estimated times are in approximate agreement with non-molecular evidence concerning the times when land connections existed between these continents. The assumed rate of albumin evolution is similar to that estimated elsewhere for such diverse organisms as mammals, iguanid lizards, crocodilians and ranoid frogs. The inference that albumin behaves approximately as an evolutionary clock is thus extended to include tree frogs.
10.2307/2412701|Mitotic chromosomes were analyzed from 74 specimens representing three subspecies of Peromyscus maniculatus from Oklahoma and Texas. Two distinct chromosomal forms were found. One form, occurring predominantly north of the Red River in Oklahoma and representing P. m. ozarkiarum, had 11 pairs of subtelocentric, six pairs of metacentric or submetacentric and six pairs of acrocentric autosomes. A second form, occurring south of the Red River in Texas and representing P. m. pallescens, had ten pairs of subtelocentric, eight pairs of metacentric or submetacentric, and five pairs of acrocentric autosomes. Both karyological types were found in the same habitat at two localities in north-central Texas, but no chromosomal hybrids were found in this area. Meiotic analysis of hybrids from laboratory crosses between the two types indicated partial sterility. A morphological analysis revealed that gene flow is restricted in eastern Oklahoma, west-central Texas, and eastern Texas. The most plausible explanation for the observed variation is the existence of circular overlap.
10.2307/2412696|The Oldman Formation (Campanian) of Alberta includes in its dinosaurian fauna 3 genera and 12 species of closely related lambeosaurine hadrosaurs. A biometric study of 36 skulls that ranged in size by a factor of three was undertaken; the data were fitted to the allometric equation. Bivariate plots reveal the validity of two genera, Corythosaurus and Lambeosaurus, with one species of the former, C. casuarius, and two of the latter, L. lambei and L. magnicristatus (quite rare), being accepted. Sexual dimorphism is recognized in each. Procheneosaurus includes juvenile individuals of each genus. Although 48 cranial characters were measured, only 5 or 6, confined to the crest, had any discriminatory value. The analogy between cassowaries and hadrosaurs in growth of the crest is observed. The sex ratio and maximum size of each sex is about equal for both common species.
10.2307/2412699|The concept of two biotic assemblages in mediterranean seas is developed. The two assemblages correspond to the two extreme glacial situations which recur periodically. Present changes in these seas, natural or manmade, either enhance or inhibit these two elements. The Lessepsian migrants represent the glacial assemblage of the Red Sea, and in the Mediterranean, they play the opposite role of the interglacial assemblage. They will expand or withdraw in their new environment according to the future improvement or deterioration of the world climate.
10.2307/2412700|Interspecific and subspecific variation in cranial morphology of the big-eared ground squirrels (Spermophilus) was described and found to be related to patterns of chromosomal variation. The first discriminant function (DF) and first principal component (PC) were found to correspond roughly to the latitudinal location of the species. In this study, looking at the scatter plots of individuals on PC's would not have helped one to find groups. Differences considered to be biologically meaningful were found between pairs: Spermophilus r. richardsonii and Spermophilus richardsonii aureus; Spermophilus columbianus columbianus and Spermophilus undulatus; and Spermophilus parryii kennicottii and Spermophilus parryii leucostictus. The S. richardsonii subspecies group was reorganized so the S. richardsonii is now a species distinct from the three subspecies S. elegans elegans, S. elegans aureus and S. elegans nevadensis. S. p. leucostictus and S. p. kennicottii, if only cranial morphology were considered, could be regarded as different species.
10.2307/2412702|A critical evaluation of the characters on which the Protostomia-Deuterostomia theory is based shows that this theory rests on shaky ground. In an attempt to test this superphyletic classification, I investigated the phylogenetic relationship between Echinodermata, Mollusca and Vertebrata on the basis of various biochemical, physiological, and histological characters. The outcome is that Mollusca and Vertebrata have many more characters in common than have the Vertebrata and Echinodermata. Therefore, unless the use of non-morphological characters is excluded a priori, it follows that Mollusca and Vertebrata have ancestors in common that were not ancestors to Echinodermata, and that the Protostomia-Deuterostomia classification is falsified.
10.2307/2412698|Multiple-diseriminant analysis with aid of the Mahalanobis D
10.2307/2412694|Analysis of mating calls of two cognate species of Pseudacris reveals divergence in two components, pulse rate and pulse number, which in at least one species seems best interpreted as reproductive character displacement. Pulse rate is apparently the critical parameter upon which female discrimination of mating call is based, but pulse number appears to be involved too.
10.2307/2412695|Potential reproductive isolating mechanisms between sympatric Calopteryx maculata (Beauvois) and C. aequabilis Say are examined and evidence is presented for the reinforcement of species discrimination during pair formation and for a selective basis for changes in female wing pigmentation in the context of reproductive isolation between these species. The species are sympatric across the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada. In the area of sympatry C. aequabilis shows nearly complete ecological and temporal overlap with C. maculata. Mechanical barriers to interspecific copulations are apparently absent and no hybrids are known despite several observed interspecific copulations. Visual discrimination based on female wing pigmentation is identified as a major component in the reproductive isolation between C. maculata and C. aequabilis. C. maculata males discriminate between their females and C. aequabilis females by responding to the females with the darker of two alternative wing colors. Differences in wing pigmentation between sexes and among Calopteryx species are accentuated and displayed during pair formation and courtship. There is experimental evidence for the reinforcement of C. maculata male species discrimination ability in the area of sympatry with C. aequabilis. Experiments also indicate a selective disadvantage against dark winged sympatric C. aequabilis females. Coupled with the fact that sympatric C. aequabilis females have more lightly pigmented wings than allopatric ones, this finding provides a potential example of character displacement in the context of reproductive isolation between these species.
10.2307/2412697|Graphing on probability paper of radius and tibia lengths (N = 17, 16) of Moropus from the Agate Spring Quarries, Nebraska, shows a bimodal population with approximately equal numbers in each size group. These results, along with the generally uniform morphology, suggest that a single sexually dimorphic species, Moropus elatus, is represented. Accounts of size bimodality in other chalicotheriids are consistent with widespread sexual dimorphism in species of this family, despite the fact that numbers of collected individuals in the two size groups are not equal in every case.
10.2307/2412905|Caribbean biogeography is reviewed to illustrate within a particular geographic framework how evidence of plant and animal distribution may be interpreted without commitment to special assumptions other than allopatric speciation (vicariance). The distributional data are examined with respect to whether or not they form recognizable patterns within the Caribbean region. Four main patterns and one lesser pattern are identified. The patterns or generalized distributional tracks are regions or geographical features (e.g., islands, coastlines, oceanic and continental regions) in which the distributions of monophyletic groups of diverse organisms are coincident. The generalized tracks are compared with geophysical theories of Caribbean history. The one geophysical theory which is strongly consistent with the distributional evidence (generalized tracks) specifies that Antillean land was originally or had its origin as part of an early lower Central American archipelago that was later replaced by the tectonically and topographically similar, presentday, lower Central American land. The postulated events associated with this replacement involve continental drift, the main effect of which would have been to intrude a portion of the eastern Pacific sea floor into the tropical western Atlantic, carrying the early lower Central American archipelago with it. The hypothesized intruded sea floor, now forming the Caribbean Sea, is bounded on the north and east by a transposed, original archipelago, the Antilles, and on the west by a new archipelago, now represented by the continuous land of present-day lower Central America. The separate parts of each generalized track are interpreted as the remnants of an ancestral biota that underwent geographical fragmentation followed by allopatric speciation (vicariance). This vicariance model of Caribbean biogeography specifies where dispersal, rather than vicariance, is the most parsimonious interpretation of a particular individual distribution, and contrasts strongly with other biogeographic interpretations in which dispersal is assumed aprioristically to be the sole, or single most important, feature of Caribbean biotic history. The vicariance model is also shown to predict, and therefore to be tested by, phylogenies (cladograms) of geographically included taxa.
10.2307/2412904|All biogeographical studies seem to pass through three main phases: an empirical or descriptive phase, a narrative phase, and an analytical phase, the last two being the true subject matter of explanatory historical biogeography. Narrative explanations are more or less inductively based and differ from the usual covering law models of explanation in that it is the particular circumstances in the form of an historical narrative that bear the explanatory load. Much biogeographical thinking is of this nature and the hypotheses so formulated stiffer from their lack of predictive power and their basic untestability--usually they cannot be falsified and a preference between competing narrative hypotheses cannot be established on logical grounds. Examples of such hypotheses are given. The best biogeographical hypotheses are those that follow the hypothetico-deductive model and an example of how this may be done is provided. A phylogenetic systematic background is essential. Rigorously formulated hypotheses must have explanatory power, internal consistency, predictive power, and potential for falsification. Our aim should be to make our biogeographical hypotheses fit these requirements for only then will we begin to understand the history underlying modern distribution patterns.
10.2307/2412906|Minute genera, whose shell measures less than 100 mm, form 60.0% of the Pacific land snail fauna. In contrast to this, the minute class only represents 27.1% of the continental fauna. The mean generic size in the Pacific fauna is correspondingly lower: 11.9 mm vs. 20.6. The difference between the 2 groups is statistically highly significant. Similarly to the Pacific, the eastern Pacific and eastern Atlantic insular land snail faunas and the wide-spread fauna also are dominated by the minute genera. From these observations it is concluded that minute body size is advantageous for long distance dispersal, both overseas and overland, in the land snails. This in turn indicates that the mechanism involved must be aerial, since only in this type of dispersal are small size and light weight advantageous. The minute species also are, as a rule, more abundant than the large ones, which constitutes a further advantage. Support to the hypothesis is provided by the facts that land snarls have been recovered from the plumage of birds; that recently formed volcanic islands have been colonized predominantly by minute land snails, and that mineral particles considerably larger and heavier than the minute land snails have been collected at high altitudes by airplanes. Alternative hypotheses are considered and rejected on the grounds that their tenets are unproven, unnecessary or erroneous; however, it is emphasized that the relationship between body size and area size needs further analysis. The characteristics of insular land snail faunas are summarized as follows: predominance of minute genera; high frequency of primitive, orthurethran genera and families; resemblance to the fauna of the nearest continent; low degree of enclemism on the family level, increasingly higher, on the genus and species level, relatively recent origin, through aerial immigration.
10.2307/2412752|A total of 191 specimens of Peters' tent-making bat, Uroderma bilobatum, were collected from the zone where two chromosomal races, representing two subspecies, meet. Eighty-eight specimens had 2n = 38, four had 2n = 39, one had 2n = 40, one had 2n = 41, one had 2n = 42, 14 had 2n = 43, and 82 had 2n = 44. This chromosomal variation is best explained as resulting from hybridization between two cytotypes with the 2n = 38 and the 2n = 44 being the parental (pure) types, the 2n = 41 individual being of the F
10.2307/2412753|The genetic structure of 52 natural populations of four species (P. attwateri, P. boylii, P. pectoralis, and P. polius) of the Peromyscus boylii species group was analyzed through application of chromosomal and electrophoretic techniques. Only slight or no chromosomal variation was observed in three species (attwateri, pectoralis, and polius), but considerable chromosomal variation occurred among populations of P. boylii. Chromosomal evidence indicated that gene flow occurred between two of the chromosomal forms of P. boylii (spicilegus and rowleyi). Analysis of electrophoretic variation in proteins encoded by 17 structural loci of populations of P. boylii, consisting of eight chromosomal forms, indicated that these forms of P. boylii form a conspecific unit. Populations of P. attwateri were genetically distinct from other members of this group, thus supporting the specific status of this form. Examination of specific loci for allelic homology indicated that P. attwateri probably arose from P. boylii. A sample of P. polius suggested that the affinities of this species are with the boylii group. Populations of P. pectoralis demonstrated very low levels of genetic similarity with other members of this species group suggesting that the affinities of P. pectoralis may lie with other forms of Peromyscus.
10.2307/2412756|A multivariate component analysis with an oblique factor solution was performed on 18 (15 osteometric and 3 external metric) traits in male and female randombred house mice of 3 different ages (1-month, 3-months, and 5-months). Approximately 77% of the total variance was explained by 4 factors in the 1-month mice, and by 5 factors in the 3-month and 5-month individuals. Skull, limb, pelvic girdle, and width factors (listed in order of importance) were identified for the 1-month age group, the external measures mostly associating with the skull factor. In the 3-month and 5-month age groups, girdle, skull length, limb, skull width, and tail factors were evident. There were considerable differences between the sexes throughout the age groups in the delineation of specific variables (especially the external ones) into factors. Factor patterns were explained largely in terms of differential growth and general anatomical and functional considerations. The direct contributions of the factors to the specific variables most affected were taken to represent the effects of a combination of additive genetic and residual environmental influences. The totals of the residual direct contributions and the indirect contributions of the factors for each of the variables were found to be highly correlated with previous estimates of non-genetic maternal effects.
10.2307/2412754|Cytogenetic comparisons were made of northern red-backed voles of two subspecies, Clethrionomys rutilus dawsoni Merriam and C. r. albiventer Hall and Gilmore, as well as of intergrades of dawsoni x albiventer to the F
10.2307/2412757|A phenogram of relationships between members of the termitophilous subtribe Termitusina was derived by methods of numerical taxonomy. Discrepancies exist between the inferred phylogeny of the genera and the phenetic relations of the species. A method of association analysis was applied to the Termitusina, and the resulting phenogram is compared to that derived by numeric analysis using Slobodehikoff and Johnson's (1973) Index of Comparative Positional Analysis. While the congruence between phenograms is not perfect, there is a striking similarity. The advantage of association analysis is that the characters which produce the branchings of the phenogram are identified and can be evaluated for their evolutionary significance and used for constructing taxonomic keys.
10.2307/2412759|Dates for the primate phylogeny based on fossil evidence contradict those obtained from albumin as a "molecular clock." Consequently the theoretical basis for a "molecular clock" is reviewed to determine if the albumin "molecular clock" has been calibrated in accordance with that theory. The neutral mutation model and data relating amino acid differences to time of divergence of species based on fossil evidence suggest a reasonably linear relationship when the number of differences is corrected for multiple mutations at the same locus. This disagrees with the assumption of a linear relationship between time and number of differences that has been used for calibrating the albumin "clock." When corrected, the albumin "clock" yields dates that are contradicted by fossil evidence. It is then argued that the second assumption used for calibrating the "clock," of an exponential relationship between ID values and amino acid differences, inadequately fits experimental data. Two plausible equations for relating ID values and amino acid differences that fit the data better are given. Depending on the equation used and the time assigned to the hominoid-cercopithecoid divergence, time estimates for the pongid-hominid split ranging from 5 x 10
10.2307/2412758|A coordinate digitizer was used to record morphometric data from a set of operationally-homologous points defined on various regions of a set of illustrations. Similarities obtained from the data were compared with sets of similarities obtained by an intuitive approach, by conventional numerical taxonomy with definition of characters and manual recording of data, and by pseudo-optical scanning. All sets were highly correlated with each other, suggesting that data capture by the technique described could serve to expedite the handling of material for biological classification.
10.2307/2412755|Many species of voles and lemmings (Microtinae) possess specialized sebaceous glands on the skin arranged in pads which are known as skin glands. Microtus pennsylvanicus and M. longicaudus do not have these distinct skin glands, but their development can be induced by exogenous pharmacological dosages of testosterone. Since the positions of the microtine skin glands are generally considered to be of taxonomic significance, induction of glands on spccies not known to possess them seems to be an easy taxonomic tool. The results are discussed in terms of the phylogenetic relationships of the two species and the differential response of skin glands on animals in different populations of the same species.
10.2307/2412717|The roof rat (Rattus rattus Linnaeus) was initially introduced into the Galapagos Archipelago before Darwin's visit in 1835. The species is now known from seven of the 16 major islands and exhibits a wide range in both human and non-human associated habitat usages. Morphological distinctiveness of island populations was first noted by Heller in 1904, consisting of overall size and shape as well as pelage color differences. Analyses involving allozyme frequencies at 37 genetic loci, epigenetic cranial characters, and multivariate treatments of mensural characters confirm and extend these observations. The level of concordance between each analysis is extremely high; each delineates the same three groupings of islands based on overall similarity: (1) Isla Santiago-Bartolome; (2) Isla Floreana-Isabela-Pinzon-San Cristobal; and (3) Isla Santa Cruz-Baltra. An hypothesis of multiple origins best accounts for the similarity relationships between islands as each of the groupings fits a known separate period of human use activity. The initial introduction was most likely at Santiago in the late 1600's; the most recent on Baltra-Santa Cruz during World War II. Gene flow between the different island groups, past and present, is considered slight, but continual introduction of immigrants from outside source populations, particularly to Baltra, Santa Cruz, and San Cristobal, is highly probable. Genic variability as demonstrated by allozyme analysis is quite low (mean heterozygosity = 2.85 per cent) when compared to other rodent species. The pattern of variability, however, suggests that this low level does not result from a severe founder effect, but that it is a general characteristic of the species as a whole.
10.2307/2412718|The study of evolutionary phenomena such as reticulate evolution, gene transfer, convergence and mosaic evolution, and their differentiation from mistaken evolutionary homology (i.e., orthology), requires methods for detecting cladistic incompatibilities. Protein sequences are potentially valuable for such investigations, and for these two main strategies are proposed. Strategy (a) is to look for unexpected similarities between segments of the sequences using cross-association or similar methods. Strategy (b) (which assumes satisfactory prior alignment of the sequences) is to compare the sites in the sequence and test whether the observed co-occurrences would readily fit a single cladogram; for this Le Quesne's method of testing for cladistic incompatibilities has been adapted to protein sequences. Studies have been made on a number of cytochromes. Strategy (a) reveals unexpected high similarity among the N-terminal portions of some eukaryote and prokaryote cytochromes, and there appear to be several short segments that differ in their patterns of similarity. It is not yet clear whether functional requirements or gene transfer is the explanation. Strategy (b) has been tested on sequences where the evolutionary history appears straightforward and also on simulated disturbances of cladogeny and homologization. It seems to be a sensitive technique for such studies. Strategy (b) has also the advantage that it should permit the partitioning of characters into sets that may reflect different evolutionary behavior even when such sets cannot be distinguished by inspection. Preliminary trials suggest that such sets could be recovered by cluster analysis of character compatibility matrices.
10.2307/2412716|Allelic variation at fourteen loci coding for ten enzymes was studied in seventeen populations of Hyla regilla and in H. eximia, H. wrightorum, H. cadaverina, and H. euphorbiacea. Heterozygote deficiencies were found at several loci in several populations of H. regilla and possible reasons are suggested. The proportion of polymorphic loci and average individual heterozygosity were typical of other vertebrates with some exceptions: (1) the Lee's Camp, Oregon population; (2) the Santa Cruz Island population; (3) the three San Diego Co. populations; (4) the Sierra San Pedro Martyr population; and (5) the three populations in southern Baja California. Measures of genetic similarity (S) and genetic distance (D), as well as patterns of variation in allele frequencies at PGI and IDH-2, suggested three groups within Hyla regilla. These were: (1) the four Oregon populations; (2) the three central California populations; and (3) the ten southern California and Baja populations. The proportion of major alleles shared indicated Hyla eximia and H. wrightorum are very closely related and that H. wrightorum is not a subspecies of H. regilla; H. eximia and H. wrightorum are also closely related to H. euphorbiacea. Hyla regilla and H. cadaverina are more closely allied to each other than they are to the other three forms. A strong correlation (r = 0.93) between genetic relatedness as measured by immunological comparisons of albumin and that measured by electrophoretic studies of many proteins was found, although immunological techniques cannot be used to study taxa which are very closely related (D = 0.25 or less).
10.2307/2412719|Some of the problems associated with the taxonomic study of proboscis hook characteristics in the phylum Acanthocephala are discussed. The "Meristogram" method of graphical analysis is introduced and applied to the genera Echinorhynchus and Pomphorhynchus. This new method eliminates many of the problems associated with the study of morphological variability in the serially repeating proboscis hooks of these acanthocephalans. Suggestions are made concerning the application of the method to other groups possessing serially repeating structures such as Annelida, Arthropoda, Graptoloidea and Osteichthyes.
10.2307/2412720|A geometric model of the Conus shell has been developed in order to increase objectivity, quantification, and reproducibility in the use of attributes of gastropod shells as taxonomic characters. The model also permits determination of the position of Conus in the spectrum of geometrically possible gastropod shell forms. The parameters of the model comprise the smallest number of characters sufficient to describe the shell adequately. They include 1) shape of generating curve, 2) rate of whorl expansion, 3) rate of translation, 4) rate of spire translation, 5) relative whorl height, 6) convexity, 7) position of maximum diameter, and 8) relative diameter. Parameters 1-3 are adopted from Raup's generalized model of the coiled shell; 4-8 are necessitated by aspects of geometry specific to Conus. In addition, two sculptural parameters, number of tubercles and number of spiral striae on the last whorl, are utilized. Comparative analyses of the morphometric and sculptural parameters in five samples of shells belonging to three species indicate that nine of the ten are independent, i.e., not significantly correlated with others. Comparisons of samples from 3 geographically separated populations of C. miliaris from the southeastern Pacific indicate that specimens from Easter Island differ significantly from those from Managareva and Tahiti with respect to seven of nine independent characters. Objective analysis of shell color by reflectance spectrophotometry also distinguishes Easter Island specimens of C. miliaris from those from more central Indo-West Pacific localities. Specimens from Tahiti assigned to C. coronatus and C. aristophanes on the basis of one sculptural character were distinguished by only two of the remaining eight independent characters. Conus occupies a region of the hyperspace of geometrically possible shell forms bounded by the following approximate values of major parameters: shape of generating curve, 5.5-19; rate of whorl expansion, 1-2; rate of translation, 2.5-8; distance between generating curve and axis of coiling, 0.
10.2307/2412227|Push-up displays vary among several populations of the lizard genus Uta and allow new interpretations of the systematics and evolutionary history of the genus. Variation in the displays can be divided into seven geographic zones of push-up similarity; taxonomic recognition of the display variation may require revision of the infraspecific taxonomy of Uta stansburiana. The push-up display characteristic of Uta palmeri is probably primitive to that of other populations; probable evolutionary trends in the modification of the display are discussed. Some of these modifications probably have evolved within the last 12,000 years, and some may have resulted from hybridization or introgression between Uta populations. The push-up display is probably a communicative signal and is performed during intraspecific aggression and mating. Selective or other factors possibly regulating intrapopulation stereotypy and interpopulation divergence of the display are discussed.
10.2307/2412223|Most definitions of the term monophyly are ambiguous because they do not limit the common ancestor sufficiently. Simpson's (1961) definition does not define monophyly; rather, it attempts to define a nameable taxon. Hennig's (1966a) definition, which requires a group to contain all the descendants of the common ancestor, is precise and useful, but it is narrower than the classic concept of monophyly and is here renamed holophyly. One way to limit the common ancestor is to require that it be a member of the group of which it is the stem, but this would seem to require a macroevolutionary appearance of groups. A precise definition of monophyly may be formulated if the common ancestor need be only cladistically a member. If a group can be shown to have one or more unique evolutionary innovations, it may be inferred that the most recent common ancestor also had these innovations; and it is, then, cladistically a member of the group. The ancestor need not have reached the grade of, or phenetically be, a member of the group. Holophyly, with Hennig's contrasting term paraphyly, then become two aspects of monophyly, while polyphyly describes a group whose common ancestor is not cladistically a member of the group.
10.2307/2412222|The theory is developed that the antigenic distance between two lineages of organisms (i.e., average number of non-matching antigenic sites between proteins produced by homologous genes in the separate evolving lines) becomes larger the longer the two have been without a common ancestor. A set theoretical analysis of protein antigen comparisons between contemporary species in trefoil Ouchterlony plates shows that from networks of these immunodiffusion comparisons, developed by antisera to an homologous species and comparing homologous to heterologous and heterologous to heterologous species, the antigenic distances of the homologous to the various heterologous species in the comparison series can be calculated. Computer procedures are described for first estimating these taxonomic distance tables for a species collection with a number of homologuos species in it (i.e., species against which antisera were produced and used to gather Ouchterlony data) and for then generating from the antigenic distance measurements a cladogenetic tree of the species in the collection. On applying this set theory, computer approach to a large mass of Ouchterlony data gathered with monkey, rabbit, and chicken antisera to proteins of various catarrhine species, it is shown that the catarrhine primates are a monophyletic group which subdivide in accordance with the established taxonomic scheme into Cercopithecoidea and Hominoidea. Also the cercopithecoids further subdivide as traditionally represented into Colobinae and Cercopithecinae. However within the Hominoidea the classical Pongidae is found to be polyphyletic. A cladistic classification, based on immunodiffusion systematics, reduces Pongidae to the subfamily Ponginae, containing Pongo as its only living genus; Ponginae is placed in the Hominidae alongside of Homininae, the latter containing Pan, Homo, and Gorilla. The subfamily Hylobatinae containing Symphalangus and Hylobates belongs to Hylobatidae as the only other family of extant Hominoidea.
10.2307/2412221|The lizards Anolis trinitatis and Anolis aeneus probably were introduced onto Trinidad. They tend to be found in pure species enclaves, but populations do overlap. Where they overlap they hybridize. Hybrid males are normal in size, but hybrid females are "giants," exceeding the parental females in length and weight. Hybrids have greatly reduced reproductive fitness, and are presumed to be largely sterile. Intersex hybrids have been found. Spermatogenesis occurs in hybrid males but few sperm are produced because of impaired meiosis; spermatogenic failure is not due to hormonal deficiencies. Androgen production appears normal in hybrid males. Few eggs are produced among the hybrid females. Electrophoresis of blood proteins serves to describe the structure of the hybridizing population. Species specific albumins, hemoglobins, and transferrins were useful for recognition of hybrids. The distribution of protein variants throughout the population showed that backcrosses were rare if they occurred at all. There are no distinct behavioral or ecological isolating mechanisms between the two species and little character displacement has occurred. It is not obvious if either species has a competitive advantage. However, large adult aeneus males are slightly more robust than male trinitatis. This may confer an advantage on the aeneus in territorial interactions. Casual observations suggest that aeneus is replacing trinitatis. The pure enclaves may result from the "advantage of numbers": the less abundant species will fail to find conspecific mates, will produce sterile hybrids, and therefore will not become established.
10.2307/2412119|Multivariate statistical distance and computer mapping techniques are used to determine and display changes in the intensity of morphologic variation between populations of Ascaphus truei, the ribbed frog, in the northwestern United States. The resulting maps can be interpreted on the basis of ancient distribution patterns, avenues of gene flow, and environmental adaptations. Factor analysis is used to depict interrelationships among the measured morphologic characters.
10.2307/2412120|An analysis of information within characters and shared between characters is undertaken using data collected on a group of marine snakes (Hydrophiidae). Of the approaches considered, an information theory measure of variation is the most direct method of evaluating intra-character variation. Chi-square is useful for the evaluation of the association between characters. Arguments are presented that indicate character correlation is the true basis of most character weighting. An exploration of the relationships of the chi-square results with measures of variation based on information theory estimates and runs document the logical relationships between variation weighting and correlation weighting.
10.2307/2412115|Electrophoretically demonstrable genetic variation in 11 enzymes and six non-enzymatic proteins encoded by 18 loci was analyzed in 1208 specimens of 11 species of kangaroo rats (Dipodomys) from the western United States and in a related heteromyid, the pocket-mouse Perognathus hispidus. Most of the 17 proteins studied exhibit both polymorphic and interspecific variation, but protein-1 is invariable; and protein-2, protein-3, and hemoglobin are interspecifically variable although not polymorphic in any species. Except for Hb-1 (hemoglobin) and Trf-1 (transferrin), there is at each locus one allele which tends to predominate in all species of Dipodomys. The maximum number of alleles detected at a single locus in a population was three. Species of Dipodomys are, on the average, less variable genetically than other organisms for which estimates of levels of polymorphism and heterozygosity are available. An average of 7.9% of loci are polymorphic per population, and mean heterozygosity is 2.1%. Only four species are genetically as variable as rodents of the genera Mus and Peromyscus. Genic variability is uniform within species and is not correlated among species with extent of geographic range or degree of morphological "specialization." Possible relationships between degree of genetic variability and ecological amplitude or niche width are discussed. Significant regional heterogeneity in allele frequencies was demonstrated at most polymorphic loci in species that were relatively well sampled. Because geographic variation is limited, useful estimates of frequencies of the major alleles at loci in a species can be obtained from a small number of samples taken anywhere within the range. Coefficients of genetic similarity between conspecific populations invariably exceed 0.90. For interspecific comparisons, coefficients range from 0.31 to 0.89, with a mean of 0.61. On the average, species of Dipodomys are genetically more similar than are non-sibling species of Drosophila or Anolis. The pattern of relationships among species of Dipodomys indicated by genetic analysis differs significantly from those derived by Setzer, Lidicker, and others on morphological grounds but is similar to that provided by Stock's recent analysis of karyotypic variation in the genus.
10.2307/2412117|Two hundred and sixteen proteins were classified by comparing the frequency with which different amino acid doublets (nearest neighbour pairs) occurred in their amino acid sequences. The proteins classified into the usually recognised groups (e.g., the fibrinopeptides A & B, the insulins, the haemoglobins, etc.) The relationships within these groups mostly coincided with the assumed relationships of the organisms from which the proteins were obtained. The classification also suggested relationships between some proteins not normally thought to be related.
10.2307/2412118|The ever increasing demands on the time of the research taxonomist necessitate regularly a scrutiny of taxonomic and curatorial practices in order to permit elimination of obsolete rituals. Much time can be saved by eliminating unproductive practices and by establishing a clear sequence of priorities. What this should be depends on the group of which the taxonomist is a specialist.
10.2307/2412121|Both normal and lognormal statistics describe the distribution of vertebral numbers in local samples of lower vertebrates. When samples from populations possessing different means are compared, however, standard deviations of vertebral counts are correlated with mean counts, a relationship predicted by the lognormal, but not the normal distribution. Fit to the lognormal requires recognition in significance testing, necessitates log transformation of variables in studies of evolutionary rates, and predicts exponential rates of character divergence under constant selective pressure.
10.2307/2412116|A method is presented that is asserted to provide all hypothetical ancestral character states that are consistent with describing the descent of the present-day character states in a minimum number of changes of state using a predetermined phylogenetic relationship among the taxa represented. The character states used as examples are the four messenger RNA nucleotides encoding the amino acid sequences of proteins, but the method is general.
10.2307/2412055|Densitometric, micro-Ouchterlony immunodiffusion tests and turbidimetric precipitin tests were used to study relationships among species of bats in the family Phyllostomatidae. The immunodiffusion data were analyzed using two multivariate statistical programs in a GE 625 computer. The turbidimetric data were analyzed empirically. A distance dendrogram and a computer-drawn three-dimensional stereogram were derived. Immunologically the sturnirinines and the stenodermines are closely related as are the carollines and glossophagines. The immunologic distinctness of Choeronycteris from Glossophaga and the affinity of the former to species of the Phyllostomatinae suggest that the Glossophaginae are of polyphyletic origin. Desmodus (Desmodontidae) may possibly be a subfamily in the Phyllostomatidae. The Chilonycterinae may rank as a separate family
10.2307/2412052|Diversity and average generic age distributions for hermatypic corals show that while the Atlantic and Indo-Pacific faunas have evolved at different rates and in some respects have long been isolated systems, many responses to environment are the same. In each ocean, the diversity is highest north of the equator and in the western portion of the ocean. Positive anomalies in mean annual sea surface temperature are closely associated with maximum diversity and with minimum average generic age and a general relationship between both parameters and the area suitable for hermatypic coral growth is also evident. The data suggest that evolution of new genera is proceeding most rapidly in the regions of warmest water, but it is not possible to separate from the temperature relationship the affect of area of favorable bottom which cannot yet be quantified.
10.2307/2412053|Species density matrices and contour maps are presented for the amphibians and reptiles of the United States and Canada. Both classes show a regular southward increase in average density, and these patterns together with those of birds and mammals are analyzed to show the effects of topographic variability on species density. Some problems and theories about latitudinal gradients in diversity are discussed. A longitudinal complementarity between mammals and reptiles is demonstrated and some possible causes are discussed.
10.2307/2412058|Phenetic and phylogenetic classifications of 42 Tertiary and Recent species of the Family Lucinidae (Mollusca, Bivalvia) correspond reasonably well only at the lower taxonomic levels. On the basis of their evolutionary relationships, these species can be assigned to 28 subgenera and 7 genera. In the phenetic study, 45 multistate, mostly qualitative characters were used to calculate correlation and distance coefficients; both similarity measures were clustered by the weighted pair-group method. Small clusters which formed at high similarity levels in the two phenograms were usually composed of species of one subgenus or two or three closely related subgenera. Major clusters in each of the phenograms, however, differed considerably both from those of the other phenogram and from the principal phylogenetic lineages (genera). "Cophylogenetic coefficients," analogous to the cophenetic coefficients used in comparing phenograms, indicated that both phenograms poorly reflected inferred phylogeny and that they did not differ significantly with regard to their correspondence to the phylogenetic classification. Simple cluster analysis probably is adequate for finding phylogenetic groups at the subgeneric level but not for recognition of higher taxa. At the generic and higher levels, phenetic classifications are not more stable than phylogenetic ones. Phylogenetic classifications, being hypotheses about genealogy rather than static descriptions of morphological similarity, are more likely than phenetic ones to be productive of future investigations.
10.2307/2412057|Character correlations among 37 skin and skeletal characters within a statistically homogeneous sample of Brewer's black-birds (Euphagus cyanocephalus) were analyzed by component analysis and average linkage cluster analysis in order to isolate structural and/or functional character sets. Associations were assessed using productmoment correlation coefficients, partial correlations that corrected for a general size factor, and a subset of special partial correlations that corrected for a group factor defining high intercorrelations among limb bone length measurements. With ordinary correlations separate associations were identified for limb bone length, flight feather length, bill length, sternum size, bill width, and limb bone thickness. Some characters were predominantly independent. Partial correlations that corrected for covariation due to the group limb bone length factor indicated special associations among wing bones. An overall size factor is defined as that component which accounts for most of the covariation among all characters. Partial correlations correcting for this factor were analyzed and several size-independent associations emerged. The limb bone length assemblage is in part size-dependent. Size-independent associations include wing bone length, flight feather length, bill length, bill width, and limb bone thickness assemblages, and possibly a partial leg bone length set. Association of three sternal characters appears size-dependent, however a special size-independent association between sternum length and keel height was found. In addition, low-level, size-independent associations are found for pelvis width and bill height characters, as well as between the scapula and coracoid in the pectoral girdle. Results suggest the existence of selective factors that affect the development of functional complex as a whole. Comments are given concerning redundant characters in systematic studies and a temporary solution is offered concerning the problem of adequate sample size in studies of character correlations.
10.2307/2412059|The generic classification of the Luciliini was re-examined using the methodology of numerical taxonomy. Fifty-seven characteristics of the group were used to calculate a correlation coefficient matrix. The matrix was clustered by five techniques: unweighted and weighted pair group method using arithmetic averages, weighted pair group using Spearman's sum of variables, complete linkage, and single linkage. Examination of the five dendrograms reveals that, except for the cosmopolitan and island species, the Luciliini segregate well according to geographic groupings. The Hawaiian genus Dyscritomyia was arranged the same in all dendrograms. Seven species endemic to the Galapagos Islands, Cocos Islands, Micronesia, or the Philippine Islands were variously placed by the different clustering techniques. The ability of the various techniques to equally treat a presumedly monophyletic group, the genus Dyscritomyia, and the inconsistent treatment of other species groups, indicates that the methods of numerical taxonomy will not provide a better procedure for this tribe. These methods can be employed as part of the information for a taxonomic system, but not as the sole basis for classification.
10.2307/2412054|One hundred years has passed since one of the biggest biogeographical experiments started with the opening of the Suez Canal. The successful migration along the Canal of a great many Red Sea species into the Mediterranean is seen as a process to which most of these species were preadapted in the littoral environment of the Red Sea. The repeated transgressions of this sea into the basin of the Bitter Lakes and the existence-presently and in the past-of several slightly hypersaline lagoons along its shores, resulted in the creation of a special stock of species able to perform this migration. Progress through the Canal is either a step-by-step one, or a result of active swimming (or transport). Neither the role of planktonic spread by means of larvae and/or currents, nor the obstacles put by the salinity, should be overemphasized. The main factors in helping or hindering migration are considered to be the presence of suitable substrates and water transparencies in the Canal. The Levant Basin of the Mediterranean was also "preadapted" to receive the immigrants because of its high salinity and temperature and the resulting biological undersaturation with temperate fauna. Most probably this explains the one-way stream of the migrants into the Mediterranean. The distribution limits of the immigrants in the Mediterranean are most probably set by the increasing competitive capacities of the aboriginal species. The westward advance of the immigrants in the Mediterranean will probably become more pronounced after the damming of the Nile waters behind the newly erected Asswan dam.
10.2307/2412056|Albumin was purified from blood plasma and the H
10.2307/2412344|Two groups of workers from two universities assigned phenetic similarities, intuitively and numerically, to two sets of test objects (Caminalcules). The results of these studies were analyzed for correspondence and relative variability, and contrasted in various ways.
10.2307/2412343|The term `dendrogram topology' is defined as the branching pattern relationship among individuals in a dendrogram. An example developed in the text indicates that it is a useful concept in comparing classifications.
10.2307/2412340|Traditionally, all organisms have been assigned to the Plant and Animal Kingdoms. Higher members of these assemblages differ so clearly in so many ways that no confusion arises even in those cases in which members of one kingdom show some characteristic of the other, for example, insectivorous plants, or cellulose producing tunicates. Among primitive organisms, especially among flagellates and fungi, however, application of the ordinary criteria for differentiation of plants and animals leads only to confusion. Most biologists have ignored this problem, but for over a century a few have tried to resolve it by erecting additional kingdoms for these primitive organisms. While such systems have expressed a widespread professional malaise, they have not achieved general acceptance because of logical difficulties of these systems and the relative unfamiliarity of the key groups to most biologists. Recently, however, it has been shown that the bacteria and blue-green algae (procaryotes) contrast with all higher organisms (eucaryotes) so sharply in an extensive array of nuclear and cytoplasmic characteristics that the procaryotes must be regarded as a separate kingdom of life, the Kingdom Mychota. The major cytoplasmic organelles of eucaryotes, i.e., chloroplasts, flagella and other 9 + 2 organelles, and mitochondria, are all missing from procaryotes. A long series of observations, culminating in exact biochemical comparisons, indicates that these organelles originated as intracellular symbionts. Thus, the eucaryotes arose from a large, amoeboid, anaerobic procaryote given to ingestion of smaller procaryotes, some of which became established as intracellular symbionts. Aerobic symbionts were integrated into the host as mitochondria, while flagellate procaryotes with the 9 + 2 structure became flagella and a whole series of other 9 + 2 organelles. Mitosis and meiosis then evolved, and the eucaryote cell was complete. There is a nexus of relationships among the eucaryotes which makes it infeasible to separate the problematical groups of primitive eucaryotes into a kingdom apart. Thus, the present paper supports a basic taxonomy of three kingdoms Mychota, Animalia, and Plantae. The intergrades between the latter two are treated not as defects of the classification but rather as the inevitable result of common ancestry and separation by a process of evolution.
10.2307/2412345|Past studies of the evolution of the Brachyura (crabs, Crustacea: Decapoda) have, in general, provided conflicting and unsatisfactory results. This unfortunate situation stems in part from the objective reason that their evolution has been very complex, but, it is also due to the basic inadequacy of the methodological approaches used. Brachyuran evolution has been considered predominantly from only one point of view at a time (i.e., morphological, ontogenetic, etc.) without reference to a synthetic theory of evolution. The present paper attempts to initiate a synthetic approach to the study of crab evolution. The identity of the ancestors of the Brachyura remains uncertain. Nevertheless, it seems obvious that the Brachyura have reached the highest organizational level found among the decapod Crustacea. The genesis of the new organization-brachyurization-involves changes in shape and structure accompanied by maximal diversification or organs and of their functions. This new level of organization has led to great biological improvement as manifested by taxonomic diversity, wide distribution and the ability to leave the primary (littoral) environment. The brachyuran organization is very plastic and has undergone many secondary modifications in connection with further changes of habits and habitats.
10.2307/2412346|This paper combines criticism of some theoretical (especially numerical) taxonomy with detailed description of an actual example of good modern practical taxonomy. Proximate purposes of taxonomic work are diverse, but the ultimate purpose is to produce classifications that will be most useful for storing and retrieving information for all branches of modern organismic-evolutionary biology. Tests and judgments of taxonomic work are diverse, but the final test is use in practice. Biological species present difficulties which are handled in different ways by numerical and by modern practical taxonomists; some numerical taxonomists seem to be "slipping off into a kind of scientism which brings an appearance of precision by the abandonment of reality." New methods should be judged by their usefulness and cost, in time as well as money. Three usually unwritten rules of good practical taxonomy are to do only useful work, to do specific tasks with the available material in the available time, and to use appropriate and only appropriate procedures. The example of modern taxonomy chosen for discussion is Lindroth's "The ground-beetles (Carabidae) of Canada and Alaska." Details are given as to how the work was done (during a time span of twenty years), how it differs from earlier work (taking successive treatments of Bembidion as an example), and how it can be and is being used. A threshold exists in taxonomy below which taxonomists deal somewhat unrealistically with dead specimens and above which they deal with living populations in nature. Some resources, prerequisites, and procedures of modern practical taxonomy are listed and discussed. Type specimens continue to be essential in taxonomy; they or "voucher specimens" should be used by all organismic-evolutionary biologists, to assure that organisms being worked with can be known with certainty Practical taxonomy provides a "floor plan" for more detailed taxonomic, ecologic, zoogeographic, and evolutionary studies. Lindroth's taxonomy includes description of the wing dimorphism of many Carabidae; the dimorphically winged species have special uses in studies of evolution and zoogeography, including studies of Pleistocene history. The place of museums in modern taxonomy is discussed, taking Lindroth's use of the Museum of Comparative Zoology as an example; in this case (as in many others) the museum has made an essential contribution to the kind of taxonomy that is a prerequisite for modern ecology, zoogeography, and study of evolution in nature. The primary characteristic of good modern practical taxonomy is a return to reality, effected by continual comparisons with situations in nature.
10.2307/2412342|Two subspecies of Spermophilus richardsonii, occurring in the Madison River valley of southwestern Montana differ in chromosome number, S. r. aureus being 2n = 34, and S. r. richardsonii, 2n = 36. The zone of contact between them is 20-25 miles long; only one of 21 colonies investigated contained chromosomal hybrids (2n = 35). Cytological and morphological differences suggest that aureus and richardsonii passed through a period of divergence while isolated from one another, and that the present contact is secondary.
10.2307/2412339|The present shallow marme biogeographic pattern is geologically transitory and reflects in large part the present state of the geography of continents and of lithospheric plate margins. Provincial boundaries are formed by thermal barriers and by land and deep-sea barriers, all of which are related to or controlled by tectonic patterns. Continental patterns, which greatly affect climate, reflect the patterns of plate tectonic processes. Deep-sea barriers are formed by ocean ridges and transform fault zones, while major oceanic dispersal routes are formed by island arcs associated with subduction zones. Patterns of species diversity can be related to tectonic as well as climatic patterns, presumably because the stability of shallow marine environments varies with the influence of continentality, and this is under tectonic control. In particular it is the stability patterns of light and of nutrients (which directly affect the stability of trophic resource supplies) that correlate best with diversity patterns, and it is suggested that trophic resource stability is the fundamental regulator of species diversity within communities. Past changes in continental relations and sizes, in oceanic sizes, and in the patterns and extent of island-are chains have resulted from plate tectonic processes, and as these relations affect the trophic resource regime there have been corresponding alterations in patterns of both provinciality and diversity
10.2307/2412341|Sixteen of the nominal species in the genus Catostomus, predominantly in western North America, form a progressive morphological sequence in which adjacent forms are similar and perhaps not reproductively isolated. Several cladistic estimates indicate divergence in two primary lines or directions. The oldest cladistic furcation is phenetically trivial. Significant phenetic trends indicate evolution at several levels. The dominant trend involves osteological, oral, and hemoglobin characteristics leading to the mountain suckers. Secondary phenetic trends in body shape and in size of fins and scales have led to adaptations for life in large rivers in three separate lines. Two phenetic trends, involving meristic and serum protein characters, are involved in the adaptation of populations to local climatic conditions.
10.2307/2992299|A dynamic multi-level model of Darwinian evolutionary theory is presented. Darwinian evolutionary theory consists of interconnected sub-theories and theories at different levels of abstraction. The theory of natural selection is the generic core of the whole structure. Few or no predictions can be directly derived from the generic core. The theory of natural selection generates specific theories and theoretical models which can be empirically tested. Theorizing procceds through deductive and inductive inferences. The dynamic multi-level model assumes that Darwinian evolutionary theory consists of several competing research programmes and the importance of a pluralistic interpretation of Darwinism is emphasised.
10.2307/2992302|Geographic variation of variability profiles is studied based on stem mother, alate and gall characters of the aphid Pemphigus populicaulis. Significant differences among the coefficients of variation of the suite of characters in every locality were found by two methods-Bartlett's test for homogeneity of variances (using log-transformed data) and Friedman's nonparametric test for randomized blocks. Nine characters are highly variable and six are consistently low in variability. Coefficients of variation show significant heterogeneity among localities for every character by Bartlett's test, and for all but two characters using a modified Friedman's test. The variability profiles of the 66 localities were clustered into three groups based on both size and shape by the k-means algorithm. A mixture of two types of profiles occurs throughout the middle latitudes of the study area, while the third type is found in its northern and southern regions. This geographic pattern may in part be due to the year of collection. Attempts to relate the magnitude of the coefficients of variation to several ecological indices were unsuccessful.
10.2307/2992300|Hylobatid cranial similarities are examined using Cartesian coordinates describing morphological landmarks. While Symphalangus appears distinct from analysis of raw coordinates, it is less so when analytical procedures are included for controlling the influence of general size. This weakens arguments for maintaining siamangs as a distinct genus from Hylobates.
10.2307/2992298|Island integration is proposed as a possible mechanism in the formation of endemic biotas. Reconstructions of the Hawaiian-Emperor chain for -20, -40, -60 and -70 my are used to demonstrate the biogeographical importance of horizontal island movements, particularly the possible effects of the integration of islands/seamounts (formed SE of the Island of Hawaii) into the Hawaiian-Emperor chain. Necker Island and Wentworth Seamount, which appear to have originated south of the equator, probably close to the East Pacific Rise, are given as examples. The event of island integration could have resulted in the mixing of two different biotas: Hawaiian and non-Hawaiian. As a possible alternative to Founder Principle, island integration is offered as a mechanism in the formation of Hawaiian Island endemism.
10.2307/2992297|An operational rule for analyzing character polarity with out-group comparison is presented and a series of observations, including potential problems in applying the rule, are discussed. The "commonality principle" (="frequency of occurrence," "common equals primitive") for determining character polarity is reviewed and dismissed as a reliable alternative to out-group comparison. Based on the rule and observations, a general method for character analysis is synthesized.
10.2307/2992301|Phenetic and cladistic methods have been employed to estimate evolutionary relationships in Algansea, a small genus of Mexican cyprinid fishes. Cluster analyses and ordinations were prepared from various association, correlation, and distance matrices. Cladistic analyses were prepared in the form of a Wagner analysis (after Farris), compatibility analysis (after Estabrook), and a non-numerical phylogeny (after Hennig). All analyses utilized the same set of morphological and ecological characters to allow direct comparisons of estimatcs of relationships. Cluster analyses produced different views of the relationships between taxa. Ordinations produced generally similar arrays of OTU's in total character space which, of the phenetic methods, were closest to the identical solutions given by Wagner and compatibility analyses. A minimum spanning tree derived from taxonomic distances resulted in a network that also reflected the same relationships indicated by the cladistic methods. A reinvestigation of the relationships among the barbelled species of Algansea based in part on the distribution of shared apomorphies not included in the larger analysis confirmed the existence of a polyphyletic species. Possible solutions to this problem are discussed.
10.2307/2413054|Recent proposals to measure the degree to which given taxometric methods meet goals defined by the three current schools of classification have led to quantitative comparisons of the methods. To aid in understanding such comparisons, a flow chart of taxonomic procedures is presented. Optimality tests are reviewed for each type of procedure. Possibly desirable properties of classifications include: the fit of a summary representation to a similarity matrix, stability, general utility, fit to a known cladistic relationship, and optimality criteria of numerical phylogenetic methods. We examine how they relate to the professed goals of the taxonomic schools and whether they can be used for comparative evaluations between these schools. Previous attempts at comparing numerical classifications are reexamined. Such comparisons have largely been made improperly. Published comparative tests of taxonomic congruence are based on inappropriate comparisons or were improperly executed and cannot furnish evidence on relative stability of phenetic, evolutionary, and phylogenetic classifications. Reports which claim to show that numerical phylogenetic classifications result in better fits to original similarity matrices than phenetic methods and therefore retain distance information better than phenetic classifications are shown to be misleading. In the first such study, the comparison was not relevant to the question asked. In all of these studies the results were biased in favor of phylogenetic methods by retaining redundant information during the computation of matrix correlations for the phylogenetic methods. In two later studies based on ten taxonomic data sets, the comparisons for the phylogenetic methods were in terms of unrooted trees rather than hierarchic classifications. By limiting the reference OTU to OTU 1 in each data set, results were obtained in these studies, that tended to favor the phylogenetic methods considerably more than if some other reference OTUs had been employed. Only in a few cases is there a significant increase in fit with the phylogenetic methods. Interpreted as classifications, UPGMA clustering of the original dissimilarity matrix gives the best fit in the majority of cases when compared with rooted trees (minimum length and least squares fitted). For these data, there is no evidence that classifications by any "phylogenetic" technique yield better summaries of phenetic information than UPGMA. A recent study of predictivity, while correctly designed, yielded complex results with no clear preference for any one school of taxonomy. Thus there is no current acceptable evidence that numerical phylogenetic methods yield classifications which contain more information than either phenetic or evolutionary ones.
10.2307/2413053|The diagnostic and other features of the grasshoppers of the subfamily Morabinae are described, with special reference to the characteristically parapatric distributions of congeneric species and races. The concepts of allopatry, sympatry, parapatry, and geographical intergradation, and of species, race, subspecies, superspecies, and semispecies, are critically examined. Two categories of parapatry, ecological and hybridization parapatry, are distinguished and defined; the occurrence of hybridization parapatry in morabine and other grasshoppers, and in other groups of animal is indicated. Models of speciation are discussed, with special reference to those in which hybridization parapatry is implicated; it is suggested that the most generally applicable model may be the "alloparapatric" one of Endler; events in the parapatric "tension zone" are described. The meanings of "reproductive isolation" and "isolating mechanism" are discussed and their bearing on the taxonomist's problem of finding a satisfactory criterion for distinguishing between the categories "species" and "race." A definition of reproductive isolation is proposed. It is suggested that this be tested on various groups of animals to ascertain the effect it would have upon the ranking of taxa currently treated as species and as races, and hence upon the stability of zoological nomenclature.
10.2307/2413051|Jaera albifrons is a complex of five intertidal species of Crustacea that are abundant on the cold and temperate coasts of the North Atlantic. Two or three species of Jaera albifrons occur frequently on the same strand, partially isolated (approximately 50%) by ecological preferences. In zones of species overlap, hybrids remain scarce (0.6% average); sexual isolation is due to homogamic tendencies of male sexual choice, to specific male displays and especially to female reactivity. Most of the F<sub>2</sub> recombinations are inviable; hybrid fitness, estimated from demographic data, is about 0.15. Other isolating mechanisms (e.g. temporal, mechanical and gametic isolation) are missing. The study of variability of isolating mechanisms between pairs of species and populations and of incipient isolation within species allows formulating a plausible hypothesis on their origins. A geographical mode of speciation with establishment of sexual isolation and hybrid breakdown during geographic isolation is likely.
10.2307/2413052|One of us (Vermeij) recently proposed that relative strength of the master claw of shell-breaking crabs, indirectly measured by the ratio of chela height or thickness to carapace breadth, (1) within the tropics decreases in the order Indo-West Pacific > Eastern Pacific > Western Atlantic > Eastern Atlantic; (2) is greater in the tropics than in the temperate regions; and (3) increases as the number of co-occurring congeners or total number of brachyurans increases. These patterns were hypothesized to result from diffuse and intrageneric competition in the tropics and from metabolic limitations in the temperate zones. Here we reconsider the data and show that, because the ratio varies with body size, any comparisons depend more upon the size of the animals being compared than on their geographical origin. Crabs with similar ratios may differ significantly in claw dentition, musculature, and leverage properties; the ratios are therefore not good measures of claw strength. We also suggest that the crabs in the analysis do not represent a random sample of crabs from the regions being compared. Using the same data as Vermeij (1977), we are unable to reject the null hypotheses that there are no relationships between relative claw size and (1) geographical region, (2) number of co-occurring congeners, and (3) total number of brachyuran species. Tests of the hypotheses require actual measurements of crab claw strength.
10.2307/2992415|Reciprocal immunological distances were measured using antisera to the serum albumins of Rana sylvatica and representatives of five groups of Holarctic Rana (R. pipiens, R. catesbeiana, R. temporaria, R. lessonae, and R. muscosa or R. aurora or both). Scaled reciprocal values for three data sets (with R. muscosa, with R. aurora, or with both) were used to generate three sets of Fitch and Margoliash phenograms. The nine lowest percent standard deviations ranged from 6.18 to 8.44, 5.20 to 6.95, and 7.51 to 9.12, respectively. The interspecific distances in both the input and network matrices suggest that R. sylvatica is immunologically most like the eastern North American Rana. Probable cladograms place R. sylvatica either with the eastern North American Rana or in an independent lineage between the brown frogs and the water frogs. One-way comparisons with antigens representing 12 additional species were made using the first four antisera listed. The R. sylvatica antiserum distinguished two subgroups of eastern North American Rana while the R. temporaria antiserum did not, and the R. temporaria antiserum distinguished two subgroups of both Nearctic (Rana boylii group) and Palearctic brown frogs while the R. sylvatica antiserum did not. Our data support the monophyly of the Rana boylii group, the affinity of the Palearctic brown frogs to the R. boylii group, and a distant association between R. sylvatica and the eastern North American Rana.
10.2307/2992414|An evolutionary process, involving splitting of populations at random times and Brownian motion for independent characters at a constant rate, was simulated for the purpose of comparing methods of tree reconstruction and of evaluating errors. The number of errors (counted as the number of changes necessary to obtain the true tree structure starting from the reconstructed one) has a Poisson distribution; it and the dependent frequency of correctly inferred tree structures were used to measure the accuracy of tree reconstruction. The best methods, of those compared, were found to be average linkage, maximum likelihood and least squares. To choose among them, one must resort to other considerations. Maximum likelihood is the most demanding in terms of computer time, but is the only one estimating errors of evolutionary segment lengths. Least squares is easier and can supply estimates of segment lengths even if the evolutionary rate is not constant, but it does not supply a root of the tree. Average linkage is the simplest to use, but can give accurate estimates of segment lengths only in cases of constant evolutionary rate. None of the methods compared tests constancy of evolutionary rate or the overall goodness of fit of a tree; other techniques must be employed. In analyses of real data, a reasonable strategy is to start with average linkage and use other methods as appropriate and necessary for the rest of the analysis. The number of errors in reconstruction of tree form decreases as the square root of number of independent characters and increases almost linearly with the number of populations. Relatively conservative estimates indicate that a number of characters five times the number of populations tends to give less than one error every ten populations. There are, however, some factors-considered in the discussion-which make the number of actual characters difficult to compare with the number of independent characters in the simulation.
10.2307/2992412|Electrophoretic analysis of the protein products of 84 presumed gene loci for over 180 specimens reveals that two distinct species of bonefishes occur in Hawaiian waters. Both species are characterized by low levels of within-species variation (H = 0.005 and 0.022). However, the two species are well differentiated from each other; they possess fixed allelic differences at about 70% of the loci screened and have a calculated genetic distance of 1.16. There is no evidence that the two species hybridize although they co-occur on both a macro and a microgeographic scale. The magnitude of genetic differentiation between the two species suggests that they have been separate genetic units for approximately the last 20-30 million years. Although the two species of bonefishes in Hawaii are superficially very similar morphologically, there are a number of significant differences. The distributions of vertebral counts for the two species are completely non-overlapping, and the mean values for several meristic variables (including numbers of lateral-line scales, branchiostegal rays, and gill rakers) are significantly different in the two species. The single best field character for diagnosis is the shape of the lower jaw which is broadly rounded in one species and more angular and pointed in the other species. A number of traits associated with the head and feeding (lower jaw shape, number of gill rakers, shapes of tooth patches, and number of teeth) differ in the two species. Stepwise discriminant function analysis using 31 morphological characters demonstrates that the two species have distinctively different overall morphologies and that they can be distinguished with over 99% accuracy.
10.2307/2992413|Antillean land vertebrates came from North and South America sometime in the past, but the question of when and by what means continues to segregate zoogeographers. The recently advocated vicariance hypothesis of Caribbean biogeography assumes a "proto-Antillean" archipelago that contained the antecedents of the modern West Indian biota. This hypothesis, however, is contradicted by current knowledge of Caribbean tectonics, the composition of the fauna itself, and the fossil record of North and South America. The evidence is more accurately interpreted as indicating that the Antilles are oceanic in origin, and modern terrestrial vertebrates probably began arriving by over-water dispersal during the Oligocene and continued to do so through the Quaternary.
10.2307/2413250|Four species groups of the neotropical frog genus Leptodactylus are currently recognized on the bases of morphological and life history characteristics. The fuscus and pentadactylus groups are related as a monophyletic cluster, whereas the phylo-genetic relationships of the melanonotus and ocellatus groups remain unknown. Five species representing all four species groups occur in Costa Rica. This study examined protein variability among four Costa Rican species as ascertained by electrophoretic and histochemical techniques. The presumptive genetic data were analyzed cladistically with the Wagner method. This procedure constructed a cladogram for the Costa Rican species which was congruent with the phylogenetic relationships proposed for their species groups from morphological and life history characteristics. This congruence among phylogenetic inferences based on different character sets argues for the continued recognition of species group relationships as currently viewed within the genus.
10.2307/2413249|The geometry of canonical variate analysis is described as a two-stage orthogonal rotation. The first stage involves a principal component analysis of the original variables. The second stage involves a principal component analysis of the group means for the orthonormal variables from the first-stage eigenanalysis. The geometry of principal component analysis is also outlined. Algebraic aspects of canonical variate analysis are discussed and these are related to the geometrical description. Some practical implications of the geometrical approach for stability of the canonical vectors and variable selection are presented.
10.2307/2413247|A quantitative solution for Hennig's parasitological method is presented. Cladograms summarizing natural relationships among parasite taxa are converted into host-group characters by means of additive binary coding. Unrooted Wagner analysis followed by most parsimonious rooting produces a maximum information-content, representation of natural host-parasite relationships. Because host-parasite relationships result either from random colonization or from co-speciation, host relationships well corroborated by a multi-parasite analysis correspond to.host phylogeny. Poorly corroborated, host relationships indicate an ambiguous parasite message alerting a worker to possible host transfers. Thus, such analyses point out co-speciation and random colonization components of host-parasite systems. Single or multiple parasite taxa may be used. A host phylogeny based on non-parasite characters is neither necessary nor sufficient for studying phylogenetic aspects of coevolution, although such may be helpful in testing ambiguous aspects. Once a host-group cladogram based on .parasites has been established, phylogenetic interpretations for each observed host-parasite relationship may be made according to a listed set of necessary and sufficient criteria. Finally, evaluation of two models of coevolution, a "vicariance" model and the "resource-tracking" model, indicates that the latter cannot be extrapolated successfully to explain congruent phylogenetic differentiation of hosts and parasites and that the former model represents the general pattern of natural relationships among hosts and parasites.
10.2307/2413251|The diverse methods for analyzing size-free shape differences tend to be guided by computational expediency rather than geometric principles. We question the use of ratios and ad hoc combinations of spatially unrelated measures. Neither are linear discriminant functions or series of independent regressions helpful to the visualization of shape differences. A bridge is needed between traditional quantitative methods and the geometrical analysis of shape. In principle any measured transects between landmarks of a form can serve as characters in a morphometric analysis. Systematic studies use a highly non-random sample of these, particularly biased regarding geometrical information. We suggest defining size and shape in terms of factors--estimates of information common to a universe of measured distances. The model presented here calculates a linear combination of variables that quantifies shape differences among populations, independent of size. In analyses in which the first two principal components confound size and shape, size is removed from one axis with shear coefficients derived from regression of general size on principal components centered by group. The general size factor is estimated by the principal axis of the within-group covariance matrix of the log-transformed data. Residuals from the regression of general size on the transformed axes approximate a shape-discriminating factor that is uncorrelated with size within group and displays the interpopulation shape differences borne by the first two principal components. The results bear a direct and interpretable correspondence to biorthogonal analysis of shape difference.
10.2307/2413248|The influence of kinds of variables, data errors, standardizations similarity coefficients, and ordination techniques are judged in reference to a model involving hybridization and introgression in three species of sand verbenas, Abronia (Juss.). Various criteria indicate that principal component analysis performs best, but inaccurately, with variable standardization and the correlation matrix, and that nonlinear mapping consistently performs poorly. Excellent results were obtained from principal coordinate analysis with Gower's general similarity coefficient based upon quantitative and multistate variables; a 'diagnostic' character measured with known error; and detailed color evaluation. This and other principal coordinate analysis results were further improved by nonmetric multidimensional scaling. Performance of methods is consistent with the nonlinearity of Abronia data. It is assumed that nonlinearity is common in taxonomic data.
10.2307/2412263|The genus Blarina (Mammalia: Soricidae) is represented in Nebraska by two well-differentiated, geographically exclusive phena that generally have been regarded as subspecies. Field studies conducted along their zone of contact resulted in the collection of representatives of both phena at each of five localities. Cluster analysis of distance matrix readily separated reference samples of the phena as well as test samples from near the zone of contact. A three-dimensional projection of the specimens onto their first three principal components, together with a discriminant function analysis, served further to elucidate the degree of differentiation among the phena and to confirm that their characteristic differences are maintained even where they occur sympatrically. The latter technique also indicated that one specimen not singled out by other analyses might be a natural hybrid, but none of the analyses provided even the slightest evidence for panmictic intergradation. The possibility that the phena represent the ends of a circularly inter-grading species is considered, as is the possibility that the phena are distinct, biological species. Two means of speciation, one "classical" and the other involving formation of "stasipatric species," are discussed.
10.2307/2412259|Because of the nature of the speciation process we have to admit (1) that nature has created a system of its own that is in principle hierarchic, and (2) that the biological species and strictly monophyletic species groups have been the real units of evolution. Hence only a system expressing nature's hierarchy of sister groups can function adequately as a general biological reference system. Causal biogeography, whose main method is the investigation of geographical replacement within properly reconstructed sister-group systems, is indissolubly connected with the reconstruction of nature's hierarchy. In his criticism of Hennig-Brundin, Darlington (1970) has not considered these principles. He has also overlooked that dispersal, seen in the time perspective, is a multiple process including progression in space, evolutionary change (development of comparative apomorphy), and speciation. Hence his criticism is neither relevant nor progressive.
10.2307/2412257|Sixty characters were measured and used in multivariate statistical programs to study the systematics of 54 species of Caribbean and Hawaiian reef corals. Correlation and distance phenograms and a computer-generated, three-dimensional model were used to develop phenetic rankings of species groups at levels corresponding to the taxonomic categories of genus, family and suborders. The data generally supports the classification of Vaughan and Wells (1943) as opposed to the "classical" systematics (e.g., Hyman, 1940; Bourradaile, et al., 1963) of the order.
10.2307/2412261|The paper deals with a method of determination of the similarity of shapes of objects based on direct comparison of shape curves. Given that certain limiting conditions are fulfilled, shape curves may be interpreted numerically by this method and their mutual similarities determined. The method is more precise than the intuitive procedures commonly used to describe and compare shapes. Its use is illustrated with an example from the cave bears.
10.2307/2412258|Jardine's (1969) logical model of biotaxonomy suffers from the defect of being ostensibly applicable only to "basic taxa," groups of individuals already clustered by some different process that remains unanalysed. This defect can be removed by regarding individuals as "single-linkage" clusters of "appearances" in time (Colless, 1970). By this means, all classificatory procedures can be brought under Jardine's model. The necessity for any "basic taxa" then disappears, as do any grounds for argument about the "basic unit of classification."
10.2307/2412255|In 1898 H. C. Bumpus compared morphological measurements of House Sparrows which survived a severe storm and those which did not. He observed that the group of birds which survived had fewer extreme measurements than did those which died, and suggested that selection had eliminated extreme individuals. The data, given in full by Bumpus, have been analyzed statistically in the present study The results support the suggestion made by Bumpus. It is found that among females the survivors varied significantly less than did those which died, in four measurements; weight, length of humerus, length of tibiotarsus and length of sternum. There are no significant differences in variation in any measurement among the males. Females suffered proportionately heavier mortality than the males. It is not possible to identify the target of selection because the four dimensions involved are strongly correlated with each other. It is suggested that females suffered particularly heavy mortality because they were at least partly denied access to food by the socially dominant males. It is also suggested that the extreme individuals were selected against in the storm because the largest birds were unable to mobilize energy reserves rapidly enough, and because the smallest birds exhausted their energy reserves and were unable to replace them.
10.2307/2412254|A study of the phenetic relationships among 47 endemic species of Ptycta from the Hawaiian Islands was based on 79 adult morphological characters. Correlation and distance phenograms obtained were compared by the average absolute cophenetic value method and the cophenetic correlation coefficient. The effect of excluding a set of six genital characters and adding 15 extra-Hawaiian species into the analysis were investigated. Species groups were established on the basis of similarities existing between the correlation and distance phenograms.
10.2307/2412260|Forty-one characters from six OTU's representing the generic and species group levels of divergence were used to estimate the phylogenetic relationships within the Sternoptychidae. Numerical techniques included the weighting by an intra-OTU variability criterion, use of the Rootless Wagner Method, a criterion for measuring convergence, and methods for "testing" the stability of the proposed phylogeny. The results support the classical subdivision of the family into three divergent genera. The genus Polyipnus has diverged least from the presumed ancestral condition. Polyipnus and Argyropelecus have diverged less from each other than either has from the highly divergent genus Sternoptyx. It is likely that Argyropelecus and Sternoptyx share a common line of descent. Argyropelecus consists of three species groups of which the A. affinis group is most distinct and contains the highest number of primitive character states. The P. spinosus group exhibits the greatest divergence within that genus.
10.2307/2412262|The relation between climate and scale size was studied in the two northern groups of Sceloporus graciosus. In the western section, an area of intense summer drought, 84 percent of the geographic variation in the number of mid-dorsal scales was explained in a multiple regression model by August rainfall and annual pan evaporation. Desiccation is probably the relevant selective factor. In the eastern section where the summer drought is variably ameliorated by the summer Sonoran monsoon rains, especially in the south, winter maximum temperatures and August rainfall, in that order of importance, account for 83 percent of the geographic variation. It is hypothesized that scale size, by partially determining cutaneous surface area, is an important component of both thermoregulatory and water balance systems in this animal.
10.2307/2412253|Three anophelines (maculatus, stephensi and tessellatus) were crossed using induced copulation. The stephensi [female] x maculatus [male] cross was the only one to produce offspring, although 6 of 54 females produced embryonated eggs. Of 371 eggs 128 were embryonated and 48 hatched. 36 adult females (no males) emerged. None was fertile and all had reduced ovaries with no developing eggs. The stephensi [female] x tessellatus [male] cross produced about 45% embryonated eggs, of which only one hatched; this died in third instar. The tessellatus x maculatus cross produced no embryonated eggs in either direction. The crossing results indicate considerable genetic affinity between stephensi and maculatus but complete genetic isolation. Tessellatus appears to be closer genetically to stephensi than to maculatus. The hybridization results support the current classification within the subgenus Cellia.
10.2307/2412256|A numerical taxonomic analysis of the species of the chiropteran genus Myotis revealed the existence of three major phenetic groupings. These may correspond to three feeding-foraging modalities. Phenetic evidence suggests the Oriental Region as a center of origin for Myotis, and a Myotis goudoti-like bat as a likely myotine prototype.
10.2307/2412431|Data for the average generic age of assemblages of benthonic foraminifera at 104 stations have been examined for temperature correlation which was found to be pronounced. Using this set of data and various curve and surface fitting techniques, it was found possible because of the temperature correlation to locate the equator and the north pole with good precision. This kind of data is seemingly less distorted by poor sampling than is comparable diversity data and appears promising as a means of setting constraints which must be satisfied by continental drift models.
10.2307/2412432|A new problem in the science of classification is presented, along with its solution. The problem is to combine the information in several taxonomic trees into a single tree. The solution is a computational method for computing a tree which represents only that information shared by all the rival trees. Such a method, called the consensus method, can be used to "compare" several rival tree representations or to compute a more stable tree from slightly perturbed variants of the original data. A method is defined and demonstrated for each of two different types of trees: rooted, fully labelled trees, and rooted trees with unlabelled internal nodes.
10.2307/2412428|Five species of lizards in the undulatus species group of the genus Sceloporus have generally similar karyotypes with a diploid number of 22 chromosomes. Nevertheless, extensive variation occurs in centromere position on chromosome pair number 7 Comparisons of chromosomes in population samples from numerous localities across North America reveal considerably more variability and local differentiation than is expected on the basis of current taxonomy Intraspecific and intrasubspecific differences within the species S. undulatus often are greater than interspecific differences. Within most local populations, however, chromosome 7 occurs in a fixed (homozygous) state, as a metacentric, submetacentric, subtelocentric, or telocentric pair. Thus, individually recognizable chromosomes occurring in lizards in adjacent populations can serve as genetic markers to document interbreeding between distinctive "chromosome races" and improve our understanding of the evolution, systematics, and population genetics of these terrestrial vertebrates.
10.2307/2412430|The process of allometry often distorts numerical results, causing size-related effects in shape coefficients. The study of allometry has traditionally emphasized only aspects of detection and description, rather than correction, of allometric trends. A method of allometry correction is offered for the specific purpose of adjusting metrical data prior to quantitative taxonomic analysis.
10.2307/2412434|There is more chromosomal variation in the tent-making bat than has been reported for any other species of bat. This is true in the number of chromosomal races (three), the minimum number of chromosomal rearrangements required to produce the respective races from a common ancestor, and the number of individuals surviving with atypical karyotypes. Some of the atypical karyotypes may be the result of interbreeding of cytotypes. Univariate analysis of variance indicated different patterns of secondary sexual dimorphism among the races. U. b. molaris was dimorphic in eight measurements whereas the others were dimorphic in only two. Multivariate statistical analysis were used to examine phenetic differentiation among races. Based on morphometrics, U. b. davisi was least divergent from the geographically adjacent U. b. convexum. Chromosomally, U b. davisi was more similar to the geographically distant U. b. bilobatum and U. b. trinitatum. The Bayesian probability classification procedures indicated that at least 90% of all specimens were correctly classified (excepting U. b. bilobatum). The misclassified individuals appeared to represent a random geographic collection rather than clusters at potential zones of interbreeding.
10.2307/2412433|Differences between Wagner Networks and Wagner Trees, and, the general problems encountered in estimating ancestral character states are briefly reviewed. The relation between Wagner Network structure and probable ancestral state combinations is illustrated with a hypothetical case and a real case of seven species of bullhead catfishes (genus Ictalurus, subgenus Amiurus) The relation between Wagner Networks and paraphyletic classifications is also noted.
10.2307/2412429|Mayrian relationships are concepts that embody overall genetic and phenotypic similarity rather than kinship. Simpsonian relationships embody kinship partitioned into horizontal and vertical aspects, defined in relation to ancestors presumed to be empirically unknown (hypothetical) and empirically known (non-hypothetical), respectively Hennigian relationships correspond only to the horizontal relationships of Simpson, but are generally applicable-to fossil as well as recent species. Hennigian relationships are consistent with, and acceptable to, ichthyological usage. Phylogenetic classification in Hennig's sense is consistent with, and is a modern expression of, the Darwiman tradition. Recent work in systematic ichthyology indicates progress toward a phylogenetic classification in the Darwin-Hennig sense.
10.2307/2412286|The present paper is the first classification of the phylum Gnathostomulida, of which 18 genera and more than 80 species are known. Two orders are created, according to the absence (Filospermoidea) or presence (Bursovaginoidea) of a female bursa-vagina-system and paired sensory organs. The latter order is divided into two suborders: Scleroperalia (with a cuticularized bursa) and Conophoralia (with a soft bursa and giant sperm). Presently Filospermoidea comprise 2 families; and the Bursovaginoidea, 6 families. Gnathostomulid evolution, as suggested in this paper, can be characterized by the following trends: shortening of the body and rostrum proportions, differentiation of skin as well as epidermal inclusions and of paired sensory organs, concentration of pharynx musculature, lamellarization of jaws and row-like arrangement of teeth, differentiation of the basal plate, and a more permanent vagina. In the derived phylogeny, Haplognathia is the most primitive, and Austrognatharia the most advanced type. A hypothetical ancestral form is outlined and possible relationships briefly discussed. A complete and categorized bibliography is given.
10.2307/2412292|This paper presents a measure for characterizing a phenogram and measuring its usefulness.
10.2307/2412290|The literature of the Mesozoa is confused because of errors in taxonomy, both in names and dates. Faulty notions concerning the relations between hosts and parasites led to the erection of imaginary genera. Differences of opinion on the limits of generic concepts have resulted in suppression and restoration of generic names. The status of suprageneric categories is similarly confused. Families have been erected, e.g., Heterocyemidae van Beneden, 1882; Orthonectidae Hartmann, 1925; and Heteronectidae Hartmann, 1925, with names that are invalid since they are not based on type genera. The designations and dates given by Grasse in the Traite de Zoologie (1961) are sometimes in error or are otherwise indefinite. The family names Rhopaluridae and Pelmatosphaeridae proposed by Caullery (1961) had been established by Stunkard (1937), where other emendations were made. The Mesozoa, originally regarded as a subphylum intermediate between Protozoa and Metazoa, are secondarily simplified marine organisms derived from free-living progenitors, degraded as a result of parasitism. Their morphology and life cycles, still only partially elucidated, indicate platyhelminth affinities. The rhombozoans and digenetic trematodes are initially parasites of mollusks and the dicyemids arose and evolved with the cephalopods.
10.2307/2412285|This paper presents an attempt to compare the passerme and near-passerine bird faunas of the six faunal regions on a trophic basis. Indices of similarity are calculated using: a) the importance (percentage of total species) of families in the areas, and b) the importance of different trophic roles in the areas. The importance values for trophic roles were calculated by multiplying the importance values of the families by indices for the importance of applicable trophic roles for each family and summing the values for each trophic role in each region. The faunal regions showed much higher similarity indices when compared on a trophic rather than a taxonomic basis. Also, the geographic patterns of taxonomic similarity are different from that for trophic similarity High trophic similarity is related to the major ecological division "temperate" versus "tropical" rather than to the geographical proximity An examination of the individual trophic roles reveals several facts. While some, such as gleaning invertebrates from foliage, have little variation in importance from region to region, others such as nectivory show high degrees of difference. Other roles with intermediate variability show individual discrepancies, such as the paucity of ground-feeding insectivores in the Australian region. Possible reasons for some of these phenomena are suggested. The families of birds that are specialists in or major contributors to the different trophic roles are surveyed to provide a number of examples of "ecological equivalence" between taxonomically remote groups. This ecological equivalence is often reflected in convergent morphology and behavior patterns.
10.2307/2412288|An index (the weighted separation index) is described which uses qualitative variables to provide a measure of likeness to two known groups of individuals (D tryoni and D neohumeralis). An "identification rule" is presented by which this index may be employed to discriminate between the members of two populations. Where separation of two species is associated with a low probability of misidentification, the weighted separation index is also suited to the separation of a third or hybrid group whose members are intermediate with respect to the two known groups.
10.2307/2412289|The validity of phylogenetic speculations based on chromosome number and morphology alone is examined. Karyotypic attributes are examined by numerical phenetic methods in two groups of organisms where lineage relationships have been extensively studied by experimental methods. The results illustrate the inaccuracies of karyotypic data alone in inferring lineage relationships when intergenomic homologies are not available and the mechanisms of chromosomal change and direction of aneuploidy unknown.
10.2307/2412291|Biological nomenclature cannot be divorced from the taxonomy that it serves, although contradictions between the two have been increasingly recognised. The problem is here discussed in phylogenetic rather than phenetic terms. Taxonomy above and below the species level is governed by different rules, as also is its nomenclature. The species (the highest taxonomic category with a direct biological basis) forms the essential biological link between the two levels and is the focus of taxonomic contradictions. The species binomen, a frankly evolutionary statement, epitomises this link in nomenclatural terms: it still fulfills a useful role in taxonomic and systematic communication and is to be preferred to other linguistic or numerical `labeIs' The contradiction between nomenclature and taxonomy, like that between high and low-level taxonomy, is an inevitable dialogue whose resolution at one stage secures progress to new and higher modes of understanding.
10.2307/2412287|The mathematical relationships between generalized distances, Sokal's distances, distances based upon principal components, and Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards' chord distances are discussed, and the biological consequences of these relationships in the case of nontrivial correlation matrices are pointed out. While none of the techniques discussed are wholly satisfactory, a practical solution to the problems encountered in their deployment is suggested which combines two of the techniques (generalized distances and principal components)
10.2307/2412170|Reported is an evaluation (using discriminant and principal component analyses) of the incidence of interbreeding occurring (1) between populations of eastern and western meadowlarks, Sturnella magna and S. neglecta, respectively, from the central and southern Great Plams, and (2) between neglecta and an isolated southwestern population of magna (S. m. lilianae) from the desert grassland of west Texas and eastern New Mexico. Individuals in reference samples taken out of sympatry could be segregated sufficiently to leave a distinct phenetic gap between groups. Evaluation of specimens taken in sympatry also revealed phenetic gaps separating both pairs of meadowlarks, indicating that their genetic integrity is being maintained in both areas of sympatry. Nonetheless, certain specimens from both areas of contact fell in phenetic positions highly intermediate to the reference specimens and were presumed to be of mixed ancestry There was an apparently higher incidence of intermediate females than males, and it is suggested that females of mixed ancestry have a greater probability of survival than males in the polygynous meadowlarks. The geographic distribution of 16 of the most intermediate specimens from the plains sympatry was such that incidence of intermediates from the Platte River drainage was two to three times higher than that for other drainage systems. Coincidentally, the flood plains of the Platte River system were the only ones examined along which magna was not more or less continuously distributed up to its westernmost point of occurrence. Along the Platte, magna was found only in several small and isolated colonies in which appropriate mate selection may have been rendered difficult by the low numbers of conspecifics and the presumed year to year instability of these colonies. Song was thought to play an important role in selection of conspecific mates. In both zones of sympatry the meadowlarks maintain interspecific territories, and song is important in territory establishment and maintenance. Yet, there has been no convergence toward a common song type in either of the zones of sympatry, despite a considerable information loss when songs are used in interspecific communication. Presumably strong selection opposing interspecific matings has maintained the remarkable differences in songs of these siblings in both areas of sympatry.
10.2307/2412166|A number of methods of selection of characters based on the uniquely derived character concept (LeQuesne, 1969) have been applied to published data on taxa of Orthopteroid insects and also to random data obtained by dealing cards. The latter has been used to verify the essential soundness of the statistical methods. The data on Orthopteroid insects show some uncertainty in the most likely phylogeny among the group, although verifying the existence of some already well-accepted groupings. It is shown that at least 54 out of 80 characters tested are not uniquely derived.
10.2307/2412169|Data for diversity and average ages of first occurrence of Recent and Miocene bivalve genera along the east coast of the United States show that tropical areas of high diversity are characterized by a fauna that is geologically younger than that of high latitude areas of low diversity. For Recent bivalves, average ages expressed as a modified survivorship curve indicate higher rates of evolution in the tropics than elsewhere. Diversity and average age of Miocene bivalve genera show a weaker gradient against latitude than modern ones and may reflect the fact that Miocene-Recent evolution in the tropics has not yet been distributed to higher latitudes.
10.2307/2412163|Information from distribution, ecology, behavior, and morphology indicates that Zeledon's Chlorospingus (Chlorospingus zeledoni Ridgway) is a grayish-green morph of the Sooty-capped Bush Tanager (Chlorospingus pileatus Salvin); the latter in typical form represents the yellow-green phase. Combined reflectance spectrophotometry and pigment biochemistry demonstrate that the two morphs differ in but one feature, the concentration of lutein pigment in the feathers of the breast band, flanks, and dorsum. A direct positive relationship exists between the concentration of pigment and degree of colorimetric purity Extraction of lutein from the breast plumage of an example of the yellow-green phase resulted in a bird visually identical with examples of the gray-green phase. Comments are offered on the relationship between the three attributes of color (dominant wave length, brightness, and purity) and the physical basis for colors in feathers (pigment type, pigment concentration and placement, and feather structure) as exemplified by certain tanagers. The local confinement of the gray-green morph to two high mountains in central Costa Rica, Volcanes Irazu and Turrialba, a region of historically active volcanism where the background of ash, vegetation, and fog provides an environment of pervasive grayness, suggests that the polymorphism is maintained there by the advantages of matching coloration, particularly after volcanic eruptions. Theories of heterozygote advantage and of apostatic selection do not seem appropriate in this instance to account for the polymorphism.
10.2307/2412165|This study reports on comparisons of Kruskal's nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis, principal components analysis, and Gower's principal coordinates analysis. Nine different sets of data were used. It was found that nonmetric scaling gave better results (as measured by the correlation between the distances in the k-dimensional configuration and the original distances). It was also found that principal coordinates analysis gave a better fit than principal components analysis when missing values were present.
10.2307/2412164|Allelic variation at 27 structural gene loci was studied electrophoretically in five populations of Thomomys bottae and one of T. umbrinus in Arizona. The status of eight individuals identified karyotypically as F
10.2307/2412168|Two computer-aided techniques, the clustering analysis of the Graph Theory Model and the CHARANAL program which finds a succession of characters best classifying the objects under study, were used to indicate phenotypic similarities existing within certain members of the genus Salmo. Eight characters from 104 objects consisting of 849 specimens from 44 collections representing 5 described species and unnamed forms of western North American trouts were analyzed. Results of the Graph Theory Model and CHARANAL program were almost identical, and the former clustered the same form of trout at high similarity levels. Considering only the computer-aided analyses, the Apache (unnamed), red-banded (unnamed) and Kern River (S. aguabonita gilberti) trouts seem to be a closely-linked group slightly distinct from the Gila trout (S. gilae). The California golden trout (S. a. aguabonita) joins the cutthroat trout (S. clarki) before any other group; the trouts of the "golden trout complex" are phenotypically more similar to cutthroat trout than to rainbow trout. The rainbow trout (S. gairdneri) is connected only to trout from the Rio Truchas, also a rainbow-like trout, before the lowest level of similarity. The Mexican golden trout (S. chrysogaster) is unique in that it joins the above trouts at the lowest level of similarity. Other taxonomic informations support these contentions. The taximetric analysis shows that the trout from the upper Little Kern River basin, named S. whitei, correctly should be considered a synonym of S. a. gilberti. This paper demonstrates the efficiency of the two computer programs as a method to facilitate data analysis for systematic investigation. It is, however, also an attempt to consider all the known divergent forms of endemic western trouts in a comparative study and is a step toward a sounder understanding of the phylogenies involved.
