43699941|When performing an analysis on a collection of molecular sequences, it can be convenient to reduce the number of sequences under consideration while maintaining some characteristic of a larger collection of sequences. For example, one may wish to select a subset of high-quality sequences that represent the diversity of a larger collection of sequences. One may also wish to specialize a large database of characterized "reference sequences" to a smaller subset that is as close as possible on average to a collection of "query sequences" of interest. Such a representative subset can be useful whenever one wishes to find a set of reference sequences that is appropriate to use for comparative analysis of environmentally derived sequences, such as for selecting "reference tree" sequences for phylogenetic placement of metagenomic reads. In this article, we formalize these problems in terms of the minimization of the Average Distance to the Closest Leaf (ADCL) and investigate algorithms to perform the relevant minimization. We show that the greedy algorithm is not effective, show that a variant of the Partitioning Around Medoids (PAM) heuristic gets stuck in local minima, and develop an exact dynamic programming approach. Using this exact program we note that the performance of PAM appears to be good for simulated trees, and is faster than the exact algorithm for small trees. On the other hand, the exact program gives solutions for all numbers of leaves less than or equal to the given desired number of leaves, whereas PAM only gives a solution for the prespecified number of leaves. Via application to real data, we show that the ADCL criterion chooses chimeric sequences less often than random subsets, whereas the maximization of phylogenetic diversity chooses them more often than random. These algorithms have been implemented in publicly available software.
43699939|Historical biogeography is increasingly studied from an explicitly statistical perspective, using stochastic models to describe the evolution of species range as a continuous-time Markov process of dispersal between and extinction within a set of discrete geographic areas. The main constraint of these methods is the computational limit on the number of areas that can be specified. We propose a Bayesian approach for inferring biogeographic history that extends the application of biogeographic models to the analysis of more realistic problems that involve a large number of areas. Our solution is based on a "data-augmentation" approach, in which we first populate the tree with a history of biogeographic events that is consistent with the observed species ranges at the tips of the tree. We then calculate the likelihood of a given history by adopting a mechanistic interpretation of the instantaneous-rate matrix, which specifies both the exponential waiting times between biogeographic events and the relative probabilities of each biogeographic change. We develop this approach in a Bayesian framework, marginalizing over all possible biogeographic histories using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). Besides dramatically increasing the number of areas that can be accommodated in a biogeographic analysis, our method allows the parameters of a given biogeographic model to be estimated and different biogeographic models to be objectively compared. Our approach is implemented in the program, BayArea.
43699944|Cat-like carnivorous mammals represent a relatively homogeneous group of species whose morphology appears constrained by exclusive adaptations for meat eating. We present the most comprehensive data set of extant and extinct cat-like species to test for evolutionary transformations in size, shape and mechanical performance, that is, von Mises stress and surface traction, of the mandible. Size and shape were both quantified by means of geometric morphometrics, whereas mechanical performance was assessed applying finite element models to 2D geometry of the mandible. Additionally, we present the first almost complete composite phylogeny of cat-like carnivorans for which well-preserved mandibles are known, including representatives of 35 extant and 59 extinct species of Felidae, Nimravidae, and Barbourofelidae. This phylogeny was used to test morphological differentiation, allometry, and covariation of mandible parts within and among clades. After taking phylogeny into account, we found that both allometry and mechanical variables exhibit a significant impact on mandible shape. We also tested whether mechanical performance was linked to morphological integration. Mechanical stress at the coronoid process is higher in sabertoothed cats than in any other clade. This is strongly related to the high degree of covariation within modules of sabertooths mandibles. We found significant correlation between integration at the clade level and per-clade averaged stress values, on both original data and by partialling out interclade allometry from shapes when calculating integration. This suggests a strong interaction between natural selection and the evolution of developmental and functional modules at the clade level.
43699942|Why some clades are more species-rich than others is a central question in macroevolution. Most hypotheses explaining exceptionally diverse clades involve the emergence of an ecological opportunity caused by a major biogeographic transition or evolution of a key innovation. The radiation of muroid rodents is an ideal model for testing theories of diversification rates in relation to biogeography and ecological opportunity because the group is exceptionally speciesrich (comprising nearly one-third of all mammal species), it is ecologically diverse, and it has colonized every major landmass except New Zealand and Antarctica, thus providing multiple replicate radiations. We present an extension of the conventional ecological opportunity model to include a geographic incumbency effect, develop the largest muroid phylogeny to date, and use this phylogeny to test the new model. The nearly 300-species phylogeny based on four nuclear genes is robustly resolved throughout. Consistent with the fossil record, we identified Eurasia as the most likely origin of the group and reconstructed five to seven colonizations of Africa, five of North America, four of Southeast Asia, two of South America, two of Sahul, one of Madagascar, and eight to ten recolonizations of Eurasia. We accounted for incomplete taxon sampling by using multiple statistical methods and identified three corroborated regions of the tree with significant shifts in diversification rates. In several cases, higher rates were associated with the first colonization of a continental area, but most colonizations were not followed by bursts of speciation. We found strong evidence for diversification consistent with the ecological opportunity model (initial burst followed by density-dependent slowdown) in the first colonization of South America and partial support for this model in the first colonization of Sahul. Primary colonizers appear to inhibit the ultimate diversity of secondary colonizers, a pattern of incumbency that is consistent with ecological opportunity, but they did not inhibit initial diversification rates of secondary colonizers. These results indicate that ecological opportunity may be a general but weak process in muroids and one that requires specific circumstances to lead to an adaptive radiation. The total land area, length of time between colonizations, and rank of colonizations did not influence the diversification rates of primary colonizers. Models currently employed to test ecological opportunity do a poor job of explaining muroid diversity. In addition, the various rate-shift metrics identified different clades, suggesting that caution should be used when only one is applied, and we discuss which methods are most appropriate to address different questions of diversification.
43699945|Gene trees record the combination of gene-level events, such as duplication, transfer and loss (DTL), and specieslevel events, such as speciation and extinction. Gene tree-species tree reconciliation methods model these processes by drawing gene trees into the species tree using a series of gene and species-level events. The reconstruction of gene trees based on sequence alone almost always involves choosing between statistically equivalent or weakly distinguishable relationships that could be much better resolved based on a putative species tree. To exploit this potential for accurate reconstruction of gene trees, the space of reconciled gene trees must be explored according to a joint model of sequence evolution and gene tree-species tree reconciliation. Here we present amalgamated likelihood estimation (ALE), a probabilistic approach to exhaustively explore all reconciled gene trees that can be amalgamated as a combination of clades observed in a sample of gene trees. We implement the ALE approach in the context of a reconciliation model (Szllsi et al. 2013), which allows for the DTL of genes. We use ALE to efficiently approximate the sum of the joint likelihood over amalgamations and to find the reconciled gene tree that maximizes the joint likelihood among all such trees. We demonstrate using simulations that gene trees reconstructed using the joint likelihood are substantially more accurate than those reconstructed using sequence alone. Using realistic gene tree topologies, branch lengths, and alignment sizes, we demonstrate that ALE produces more accurate gene trees even if the model of sequence evolution is greatly simplified. Finally, examining 1099 gene families from 36 cyanobacterial genomes we find that joint likelihood-based inference results in a striking reduction in apparent phylogenetic discord, with respectively. 24%, 59%, and 46% reductions in the mean numbers of duplications, transfers, and losses per gene family. The open source implementation of ALE is available from https://github.com/ssolo/ALE.git.
43699943|Understanding the evolution of diversity and the resulting systematics in marine systems is confounded by the lack of clear boundaries in oceanic habitats, especially for highly mobile species like marine mammals. Dolphin populations and sibling species often show differentiation between coastal and offshore habitats, similar to the pelagic/littoral or benthic differentiation seen for some species of fish. Here we test the hypothesis that lineages within the polytypic genus Tursiops track past changes in the environment reflecting ecological drivers of evolution facilitated by habitat release. We used a known recent time point for calibration (the opening of the Bosphorus) and whole mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) sequences for high phylogenetic resolution. The pattern of lineage formation suggested an origin in Australasia and several early divisions involving forms currently inhabiting coastal habitats. Radiation in pelagic environments was relatively recent, and was likely followed by a return to coastal habitat in some regions. The timing of some nodes defining different ecotypes within the genus clustered near the two most recent interglacial transitions. A signal for an increase in diversification was also seen for dates after the last glacial maximum. Together these data suggest the tracking of habitat preference during geographic expansions, followed by transition points reflecting habitat shifts, which were likely associated with periods of environmental change.
43699940|Species are a fundamental unit for biological studies, yet no uniform guidelines exist for determining species limits in an objective manner. Given the large number of species concepts available, defining species can be both highly subjective and biased. Although morphology has been commonly used to determine species boundaries, the availability and prevalence of genetic data has allowed researchers to use such data to make inferences regarding species limits. Genetic data also have been used in the detection of cryptic species, where other lines of evidence (morphology in particular) may underestimate species diversity. In this study, we investigate species limits in a complex of morphologically conserved trapdoor spiders (Mygalomorphae, Antrodiaetidae, Aliatypus) from California. Multiple approaches were used to determine species boundaries in this highly genetically fragmented group, including both multilocus discovery and validation approaches (plus a chimeric approach). Additionally, we introduce a novel tree-based discovery approach using species trees. Results suggest that this complex includes multiple cryptic species, with two groupings consistently recovered across analyses. Due to incongruence across analyses for the remaining samples, we take a conservative approach and recognize a three species complex, and formally describe two new species (Aliatypus roxxiae, sp. nov. and Aliatypus starretti, sp. nov.). This study helps to clarify species limits in a genetically fragmented group and provides a framework for identifying and defining the cryptic lineage diversity that prevails in many organismal groups.
23485174|Phylogenomic analyses of ancient relationships are usually performed using amino acid data, but it is unclear whether amino acids or nucleotides should be preferred. With the 2-fold aim of addressing this problem and clarifying pancrustacean relationships, we explored the signals in the 62 protein-coding genes carefully assembled by Regier et al. in 2010. With reference to the pancrustaceans, this data set infers a highly supported nucleotide tree that is substantially different to the corresponding, but poorly supported, amino acid one. We show that the discrepancy between the nucleotide-based and the amino acids-based trees is caused by substitutions within synonymous codon families (especially those of serineTCN and AGY). We show that different arthropod lineages are differentially biased in their usage of serine, arginine, and leucine synonymous codons, and that the serine bias is correlated with the topology derived from the nucleotides, but not the amino acids. We suggest that a parallel, partially compositionally driven, synonymous codon-usage bias affects the nucleotide topology. As substitutions between serine codon families can proceed through threonine or cysteine intermediates, amino acid data sets might also be affected by the serine codon-usage bias. We suggest that a Dayhoff recoding strategy would partially ameliorate the effects of such bias. Although amino acids provide an alternative hypothesis of pancrustacean relationships, neither the nucleotides nor the amino acids version of this data set seems to bring enough genuine phylogenetic information to robustly resolve the relationships within group, which should still be considered unresolved.
23485175|A general morphometric method for describing shape variation in a sample consisting of landmarks and multiple outline shapes is developed in this article. A distance metric is developed for such data and is used to embed the data in a low-dimensional Euclidean space. The Euclidean space is used to generate summary statistics such as mean and principal shape variation which are implicitly represented in the original space using elements of the sample. A new distance metric for outline shapes is proposed based on Procrustes distance that does not require the extraction of discrete points along the curve. The outline distance metric can be naturally combined with distances between landmarks. A method for aligning outlines and multiple outlines is developed that minimizes the distance metric. The method is compared with semilandmarks on synthetic data and 2 real data sets. Outline methods produce useful and valid results when suitably constrained by landmarks and are useful visualization aids, but questions remain about their suitability for answering biological questions until appropriate distance metrics can be biologically validated.
23485168|Large-scale multilocus studies have become common in molecular phylogenetics, but the best way to interpret these studies when their results strongly conflict with prior information about phylogeny remains unclear. An example of such a conflict is provided by the ratites (the large flightless birds of southern land masses, including ostriches, emus, and rheas). Ratite monophyly is strongly supported by both morphological data and many earlier molecular studies and is used as a textbook example of vicariance biogeography. However, recent studies have indicated that ratites are not monophyletic; instead, the volant tinamous nest inside the ratites rather than forming their sister group within the avian superorder Palaeognathae. Large-scale studies can exhibit biases that reflect a number of factors, including limitations in the fit of the evolutionary models used for analyses and problems with sequence alignment, so the unexpected conclusion that ratites are not monophyletic needs to be rigorously evaluated. A rigorous approach to testing novel hypotheses generated by large-scale studies is to collect independent evidence (i.e., excluding the loci and/or traits used to generate the hypotheses). We used 40 nuclear loci not used in previous studies that investigated the relationship among ratites and tinamous. Our results strongly support the recent molecular studies, revealing that the deepest branch within Palaeognathae separates the ostrich from other members of the clade, rather than the traditional hypothesis that separates the tinamous from the ratites. To ensure these results reflected evolutionary history, we examined potential biases in types of loci used, heterotachy, alignment biases, and discordance between gene trees and the species tree. All analyses consistently supported nonmonophyly of the ratites and no confounding biases were identified. This confirmation that ratites are not monophyletic using independent evidence will hopefully stimulate further comparative research on paleognath development and genetics that might reveal the basis of the morphological convergence in these large, flightless birds.
23485178|The presence of rogue taxa (rogues) in a set of trees can frequently have a negative impact on the results of a bootstrap analysis (e.g., the overall support in consensus trees). We introduce an efficient graph-based algorithm for rogue taxon identification as well as an interactive webservice implementing this algorithm. Compared with our previous method, the new algorithm is up to 4 orders of magnitude faster, while returning qualitatively identical results. Because of this significant improvement in scalability, the new algorithm can now identify substantially more complex and compute-intensive rogue taxon constellations. On a large and diverse collection of real-world data sets, we show that our method yields better supported reduced/pruned consensus trees than any competing rogue taxon identification method. Using the parallel version of our open-source code, we successfully identified rogue taxa in a set of 100 trees with 116 334 taxa each. For simulated data sets, we show that when removing/pruning rogue taxa with our method from a tree set, we consistently obtain bootstrap consensus trees as well as maximum-likelihood trees that are topologically closer to the respective true trees.
23485177|Single-access keys are a major tool for biologists who need to identify specimens. The construction process of these keys is particularly complex (especially if the input data set is large) so having an automatic single-access key generation tool is essential. As part of the European project ViBRANT, our aim was to develop such a tool as a web service, thus allowing end-users to integrate it directly into their workflow. IKey+ generates single-access keys on demand, for single users or research institutions. It receives user input data (using the standard SDD format), accepts several key-generation parameters (affecting the key topology and representation), and supports several output formats. IKey+ is freely available (sources and binary packages) at www.identificationkey.fr. Furthermore, it is deployed on our server and can be queried (for testing purposes) through a simple web client also available at www.identificationkey.fr (last accessed 13 August 2012). Finally, a client plugin will be integrated to the Scratchpads biodiversity networking tool (scratchpads.eu).
23485167|The accuracy and precision of species divergence date estimation from molecular data strongly depend on the models describing the variation of substitution rates along a phylogeny. These models generally assume that rates randomly fluctuate along branches from one node to the next. However, for mathematical convenience, the stochasticity of such a process is ignored when translating these rate trajectories into branch lengths. This study addresses this shortcoming. A new approach is described that explicitly considers the average substitution rates along branches as random quantities, resulting in a more realistic description of the variations of evolutionary rates along lineages. The proposed method provides more precise estimates of the rate autocorrelation parameter as well as divergence times. Also, simulation results indicate that ignoring the stochastic variation of rates along edges can lead to significant overestimation of specific node ages. Altogether, the new approach introduced in this study is a step forward to designing biologically relevant models of rate evolution that are well suited to data sets with dense taxon sampling which are likely to present rate autocorrelation. The computer programme PhyTime, part of the PhyML package and implementing the new approach, is available from http://code.google.com/p/phyml (last accessed 1 August 2012).
23485169|Correct rooting of the angiosperm radiation is both challenging and necessary for understanding the origins and evolution of physiological and phenotypic traits in flowering plants. The problem is known to be difficult due to the large genetic distance separating flowering plants from other seed plants and the sparse taxon sampling among basal angiosperms. Here, we provide further evidence for concern over substitution model misspecification in analyses of chloroplast DNA sequences. We show that support for Amborella as the sole representative of the most basal angiosperm lineage is founded on sequence site patterns poorly described by time-reversible substitution models. Improving the fit between sequence data and substitution model identifies Trithuria, Nymphaeaceae, and Amborella as surviving relatives of the most basal lineage of flowering plants. This finding indicates that aquatic and herbaceous species dominate the earliest extant lineage of flowering plants.
23485170|We investigate distances on binary (presence/absence) data in the context of a Dollo process, where a trait can only arise once on a phylogenetic tree but may be lost many times. We introduce a novel distance, the Additive Dollo Distance (ADD), that applies to data generated under a Dollo model and show that it has some useful theoretical properties including an intriguing link to the LogDet/paralinear distance. Simulations of Dollo data are used to compare a number of binary distances including ADD, LogDet, a restriction-site-based distance, and some simple, but to our knowledge previously unstudied, variations on common binary distances. The simulations suggest that ADD outperforms other distances on Dollo data. Interestingly, we found that the LogDet distance performs poorly in the context of a Dollo process; this may have implications for its use in connection with conditioned genome reconstruction. We apply the ADD to two Diversity Arrays Technology data sets, one that broadly covers Eucalyptus species and one that focuses on the Eucalyptus series Adnataria. We also reanalyze gene family presence/absence data from bacterial genomes obtained from the COG database and compare the results with previous phylogenies estimated using the conditioned genome reconstruction approach. The results for these case studies are largely congruent with previous studies, in some cases giving more phylogenetic resolution.
23485172|The timing of the origin of arthropods in relation to the Cambrian explosion is still controversial, as are the timing of other anthropod macroevolutionary events such as the colonization of land and the evolution of flight. Here we assess the power of a phylogenomic approach to shed light on these major events in the evolutionary history of life on earth. Analyzing a large phylogenomic dataset (122 taxa, 62 genes) with a Bayesian-relaxed molecular clock, we simultaneously reconstructed the phylogenetic relationships and the absolute times of divergences among the arthropods. Simulations were used to test whether our analysis could distinguish between alternative Cambrian explosion scenarios with increasing levels of autocorrelated rate variation. Our analyses support previous phylogenomic hypotheses and simulations indicate a Precambrian origin of the arthropods. Our results provide insights into the 3 independent colonizations of land by arthropods and suggest that evolution of insect wings happened much earlier than the fossil record indicates, with flight evolving during a period of increasing oxygen levels and impressively large forests. These and other findings provide a foundation for macroevolutionary and comparative genomic study of Arthropoda.
23485176|The phylogenetic diversity (PD) of a set of species is a measure of the evolutionary distance among the species in the collection, based on a phylogenetic tree. Such a tree is composed of a root, internal nodes, and leaves that correspond to the set of taxa under study. With each edge of the tree is associated a non-negative branch length (evolutionary distance). If a particular survival probability is associated with each taxon, the PD measure becomes the expected PD measure. In the Noah's Ark Problem (NAP) introduced by Weitzman (1998), these survival probabilities can be increased at some cost. The problem is to determine how best to allocate a limited amount of resources to maximize the expected PD of the considered species. It is easy to formulate the NAP as a (difficult) nonlinear 0-1 programming problem. The aim of this article is to show that a general version of the NAP (GNAP) can be solved simply and efficiently with any set of edge weights and any set of survival probabilities by using standard mixed-integer linear programming software. The crucial point to move from a nonlinear program in binary variables to a mixed-integer linear program, is to approximate the logarithmic function by the lower envelope of a set of tangents to the curve. Solving the obtained mixed-integer linear program provides not only a near-optimal solution but also an upper bound on the value of the optimal solution. We also applied this approach to a generalization of the nature reserve problem (GNRP) that consists of selecting a set of regions to be conserved so that the expected PD of the set of species present in these regions is maximized. In this case, the survival probabilities of different taxa are not independent of each other. Computational results are presented to illustrate potentialities of the approach. Near-optimal solutions with hypothetical phylogenetic trees comprising about 4000 taxa are obtained in a few seconds or minutes of computing time for the GNAP, and in about 30 min for the GNRP. In all the cases the average guarantee varies from 0% to 1.20%.
23485171|In their 2008 and 2009 articles, Sumner and colleagues introduced the "squangles"a small set of Markov invariants for phylogenetic quartets. The squangles are consistent with the general Markov (GM) model and can be used to infer quartets without the need to explicitly estimate all parameters. As the GM model is inhomogeneous and hence nonstationary, the squangles are expected to perform well compared with standard approaches when there are changes in base composition among species. However, the GM model assumes constant rates across sites, so the squangles should be confounded by data generated with invariant sites or other forms of rate-variation across sites. Here we implement the squangles in a least-squares setting that returns quartets weighted by either confidence or internal edge lengths, and we show how these weighted quartets can be used as input into a variety of supertree and supernetwork methods. For the first time, we quantitatively investigate the robustness of the squangles to breaking of the constant rates-across-sites assumption on both simulated and real data sets; and we suggest a modification that improves the performance of the squangles in the presence of invariant sites. Our conclusion is that the squangles provide a novel tool for phylogenetic estimation that is complementary to methods that explicitly account for rate-variation across sites, but rely on homogeneousand hence stationarymodels.
23485166|This study uses the amphibian species of the Mediterranean basin to develop a consistent procedure based on fuzzy sets with which biogeographic regions and biotic transition zones can be objectively detected and reliably mapped. Biogeographical regionalizations are abstractions of the geographical organization of life on Earth that provide frameworks for cataloguing species and ecosystems, for answering basic questions in biogeography, evolutionary biology, and systematics, and for assessing priorities for conservation. On the other hand, limits between regions may form sharply defined boundaries along some parts of their borders, whereas elsewhere they may consist of broad transition zones. The fuzzy set approach provides a heuristic way to analyse the complexity of the biota within an area; significantly different regions are detected whose mutual limits are sometimes fuzzy, sometimes clearly crisp. Most of the regionalizations described in the literature for the Mediterranean biogeographical area present a certain degree of convergence when they are compared within the context of fuzzy interpretation, as many of the differences found between regionalizations are located in transition zones, according to our case study. Compared with other classification procedures based on fuzzy sets, the novelty of our method is that both fuzzy logic and statistics are used together in a synergy in order to avoid arbitrary decisions in the definition of biogeographic regions and transition zones.
23485173|Accurate gene tree reconstruction is a fundamental problem in phylogenetics, with many important applications. However, sequence data alone often lack enough information to confidently support one gene tree topology over many competing alternatives. Here, we present a novel framework for combining sequence data and species tree information, and we describe an implementation of this framework in TreeFix, a new phylogenetic program for improving gene tree reconstructions. Given a gene tree (preferably computed using a maximum-likelihood phylogenetic program), TreeFix finds a "statistically equivalent" gene tree that minimizes a species tree-based cost function. We have applied TreeFix to 2 clades of 12 Drosophila and 16 fungal genomes, as well as to simulated phylogenies and show that it dramatically improves reconstructions compared with current state-of-the-art programs. Given its accuracy, speed, and simplicity, TreeFix should be applicable to a wide range of analyses and have many important implications for future investigations of gene evolution. The source code and a sample data set are available at http://compbio.mit.edu/treefix.
23485156|Quantifying integration and modularity of evolutionary changes in morphometric traits is crucial for understanding how organismal shapes evolve. For this purpose, comparative studies are necessary, which need to take into account the phylogenetic structure of interspecific data. This study applies several of the standard tools of geometric morphometrics, which mostly have been used in intraspecific studies, in the new context of analyzing integration and modularity based on comparative data. Morphometric methods such as principal component analysis, multivariate regression, partial least squares, and modularity tests can be applied to phylogenetically independent contrasts of shape data. We illustrate this approach in an analysis of cranial evolution in 160 species from all orders of birds. Mapping the shape information onto the phylogeny indicates that there is a significant phylogenetic signal in skull shape. Multivariate regression of independent contrasts of shape on independent contrasts of size reveals clear evolutionary allometry. Regardless of whether or not a correction for allometry is used, evolutionary integration between the face and braincase is strong, and tests reject the hypothesis that the face and braincase are separate evolutionary modules. These analyses can easily be applied to other taxa and can be combined with other morphometric tools to address a wide range of questions about evolutionary patterns and processes.
23485153|Guenons (tribe Cercopithecini) are one of the most diverse groups of primates. They occupy all of sub-Saharan Africa and show great variation in ecology, behavior, and morphology. This variation led to the description of over 60 species and subspecies. Here, using next-generation DNA sequencing (NGS) in combination with targeted DNA capture, we sequenced 92 mitochondrial genomes from museum-preserved specimens as old as 117 years. We infer evolutionary relationships and estimate divergence times of almost all guenon taxa based on mitochondrial genome sequences. Using this phylogenetic framework, we infer divergence dates and reconstruct ancestral geographic ranges. We conclude that the extraordinary radiation of guenons has been a complex process driven by, among other factors, localized fluctuations of African forest cover. We find incongruences between phylogenetic trees reconstructed from mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences, which can be explained by either incomplete lineage sorting or hybridization. Furthermore, having produced the largest mitochondrial DNA data set from museum specimens, we document how NGS technologies can "unlock" museum collections, thereby helping to unravel the tree-of-life.
23485155|The coalescent and multispecies coalescent model rooted genealogies backward through time. Often, the direction of time is unknown in trees estimated from molecular sequences due to reversible mutation models, absence of an appropriate outgroup, and the absence of the molecular clock. In this article, probabilities of unrooted gene-tree topologies under the multispecies coalescent are considered. The main result is that for any species-tree topology with seven or more taxa, there exist branch lengths such that there are unrooted gene-tree topologies that are more likely than the one that has the same unrooted topology as the species tree. Species trees with such anomalous unrooted gene trees (AUGTs) are characterized for trees with five and six taxa, and patterns of branch lengths leading to AUGTs and rooted anomalous gene trees are explored. The results could be useful for understanding gene tree discordance and designing simulations studies for inferring challenging species trees.
23485152|Most models of nucleotide or amino acid substitution used in phylogenetic studies assume that the evolutionary process has been homogeneous across lineages and that composition of nucleotides or amino acids has remained the same throughout the tree. These oversimplified assumptions are refuted by the observation that compositional variability characterizes extant biological sequences. Branch-heterogeneous models of protein evolution that account for compositional variability have been developed, but are not yet in common use because of the large number of parameters required, leading to high computational costs and potential overparameterization. Here, we present a new branch-nonhomogeneous and nonstationary model of protein evolution that captures more accurately the high complexity of sequence evolution. This model, henceforth called Correspondence and likelihood analysis (COaLA), makes use of a correspondence analysis to reduce the number of parameters to be optimized through maximum likelihood, focusing on most of the compositional variation observed in the data. The model was thoroughly tested on both simulated and biological data sets to show its high performance in terms of data fitting and CPU time. COaLA efficiently estimates ancestral amino acid frequencies and sequences, making it relevant for studies aiming at reconstructing and resurrecting ancestral amino acid sequences. Finally, we applied COaLA on a concatenate of universal amino acid sequences to confirm previous results obtained with a nonhomogeneous Bayesian model regarding the early pattern of adaptation to optimal growth temperature, supporting the mesophilic nature of the Last Universal Common Ancestor.
23485157|Modeling across site variation of the substitution process is increasingly recognized as important for obtaining more accurate phylogenetic reconstructions. Both finite and infinite mixture models have been proposed and have been shown to significantly improve on classical single-matrix models. Compared with their finite counterparts, infinite mixtures have a greater expressivity. However, they are computationally more challenging. This has resulted in practical compromises in the design of infinite mixture models. In particular, a fast but simplified version of a Dirichlet process model over equilibrium frequency profiles implemented in PhyloBayes has often been used in recent phylogenomics studies, while more refined model structures, more realistic and empirically more fit, have been practically out of reach. We introduce a message passing interface version of PhyloBayes, implementing the Dirichlet process mixture models as well as more classical empirical matrices and finite mixtures. The parallelization is made efficient thanks to the combination of two algorithmic strategies: a partial Gibbs sampling update of the tree topology and the use of a truncated stick-breaking representation for the Dirichlet process prior. The implementation shows close to linear gains in computational speed for up to 64 cores, thus allowing faster phylogenetic reconstruction under complex mixture models. PhyloBayes MPI is freely available from our website www.phylobayes.org.
23485151|A key challenge for biologists is to document and explain global patterns of diversification in a wide range of environments. Here, we explore patterns of continental-scale diversification in a groundwater species-rich clade, the superfamily Aselloidea (Pancrustacea: Isopoda). Our analyses supported a constant diversification rate during most of the course of Aselloidea evolution, until 415 Ma when diversification rates started to decrease. This constant accumulation of lineages challenges the view that groundwater species diversification in temperate regions might have been primarily driven by major changes in physical environment leading to the extinction of surface populations and subsequent synchronous isolation of multiple groundwater populations. Rather than acting synchronously over broad geographic regions, factors causing extinction of surface populations and subsequent reproductive isolation of groundwater populations may act in a local and asynchronous manner, thereby resulting in a constant speciation rate over time. Our phylogeny also revealed several cases of parapatric distributions among closely related surface-water and groundwater species suggesting that species diversification could also arise from a process of disruptive selection along the surface-subterranean environmental gradient. Our results call for re-evaluating the spatial scale and timing of factors causing diversification events in groundwater.
23485150|In this article I introduce the idea of conditional independence of separated subtrees as a principle by which to estimate the posterior probability of trees using conditional clade probability distributions rather than simple sample relative frequencies. I describe an algorithm for these calculations and software which implements these ideas. I show that these alternative calculations are very similar to simple sample relative frequencies for high probability trees but are substantially more accurate for relatively low probability trees. The method allows the posterior probability of unsampled trees to be calculated when these trees contain only clades that are in other sampled trees. Furthermore, the method can be used to estimate the total probability of the set of sampled trees which provides a measure of the thoroughness of a posterior sample.
23485154|An area of endemism is defined by the spatial congruence among two or more species with distributions that are limited by barriers. In this study, we explored and discussed the use of the network analysis method (NAM) and neighbor-joining (NJ) to analyze the areas of endemism of Quercus sect. Lobatae (red oak species) in Mexico and Central America. We compared the NAM and NJ with other methods commonly used in biogeographic studies to show the advantages of these new approaches and to identify the shortcomings of other approaches. The NAM used in this study is based on notions of centrality measures, such as betweenness. We incorporated the strength of the ties within the internal networks through p-cores and aggregate constraints in iterative analyses. The NAM based on betweenness is ideal for recognizing completely allopatric areas of endemism. The iterative NAMs increase the number of possible areas of endemism because they minimize the effect of minimal overlap, and the p-core is efficient at identifying the closest relationships among species in the cases in which betweenness is not informative. The number of areas of endemism increases when the sympatry matrix minimizes the dispersal effect and the sample effort is maximized, allowing the identification of the greatest number of these areas. The NJ method supports the idea that areas diverge among themselves in a differential way; the long branches correspond to zones with high speciation rates and complex histories (biotic and tectonic), and the short branches correspond to zones with low speciation rates and simple histories. In a classification scheme, NJ was capable of identifying the areas that are considered biotically complex because of their high speciation rates. The results obtained with the NAM and NJ showed that the physiographic regions of Mexico are not natural units and that many of them are composed of at least two different biotic components.
23485133|Gaussian processes, a class of stochastic processes including Brownian motion and the OrnsteinUhlenbeck process, are widely used to model continuous trait evolution in statistical phylogenetics. Under such processes, observations at the tips of a phylogenetic tree have a multivariate Gaussian distribution, which may lead to suboptimal model specification under certain evolutionary conditions, as supposed in models of punctuated equilibrium or adaptive radiation. To consider non-normally distributed continuous trait evolution, we introduce a method to compute posterior probabilities when modeling continuous trait evolution as a Lvy process. Through data simulation and model testing, we establish that single-rate Brownian motion (BM) and Lvy processes with jumps generate distinct patterns in comparative data. We then analyzed body mass and endocranial volume measurements for 126 primates. We rejected single-rate BM in favor of a Lvy process with jumps for each trait, with the lineage leading to most recent common ancestor of great apes showing particularly strong evidence against single-rate BM.
23485140|Recent analyses suggest that a few major shifts in diversification rate may be enough to explain most of the disparity in diversity among vertebrate lineages. At least one significant increase in diversification rate appears to have occurred within the birds; however, several nested lineages within birds have been identified as hyperdiverse by different studies. A clade containing the finches and relatives (within the avian order Passeriformes), including a large radiation endemic to the New World that comprises 8% of all bird species, may be the true driver of this rate increase. Understanding the patterns and processes of diversification of this diverse lineage may go a long way toward explaining the apparently rapid diversification rates of both passerines and of birds as a whole. We present the first multilocus phylogenetic analyses of this endemic New World radiation of finch relatives that include sampling of all recognized genera, a relaxed molecular clock analysis of its divergence history, and an analysis of its broad-scale diversification patterns. These analyses recovered 5 major lineages traditionally recognized as avian families, but identified an additional 10 relatively ancient lineages worthy of recognition at the family level. Time-calibrated diversification analyses suggested that at least 3 of the 15 family-level lineages were significantly species poor given the entire group's background diversification rate, whereas at least onethe tanagers of family Thraupidaeappeared significantly more diverse. Lack of an agediversity relationship within this clade suggests that, due to rapid initial speciation, it may have experienced density-dependent ecological limits on its overall diversity.
23485137|The relationships of the 3 major clades of winged insectsEphemeroptera, Odonata, and Neopteraare still unclear. Many morphologists favor a clade Metapterygota (Odonata+Neoptera), but Chiastomyaria (Ephemeroptera+ Neoptera) or Palaeoptera (Ephemeroptera+Odonata) has also been supported in some older and more recent studies. A possible explanation for the difficulties in resolving these relationships is concerted convergencethe convergent evolution of entire character complexes under the same or similar selective pressures. In this study, we analyze possible instances of this phenomenon in the context of head structures of Ephemeroptera, Odonata, and Neoptera. We apply a recently introduced formal approach to detect the occurrence of concerted convergence. We found that characters of the tentorium and mandibles in particular, but also some other head structures, have apparently not evolved independently, and thus can cause artifacts in tree reconstruction. Our subsequent analyses, which exclude character sets that may be affected by concerted convergence, corroborate the Palaeoptera concept. We show that the analysis of homoplasy and its influence on tree inference can be formally improved with important consequences for the identification of incompatibilities between data sets. Our results suggest that modified weighting (or exclusion of characters) in cases of formally identified correlated cliques of characters may improve morphology-based tree reconstruction.
23485139|The order in which the 3 groups of winged insects (the Pterygota) diverged from their common ancestor has important implications for understanding the origin of insect flight. But despite this importance, the split between the Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies), Ephemeroptera (mayflies), and Neoptera (the other winged orders) remains very much unresolved. Indeed, previous studies have obtained strong apparent support for each of the 3 possible branching patterns. Here, we present a systematic reinvestigation of the basal pterygote split. Our results suggest that outgroup choice and limited taxon sampling have been major sources of systematic error, even for data sets with a large number of characters (e.g., in phylogenomic data sets). In particular, a data set of 113 taxa provides consistent support for the Palaeoptera hypothesis (the grouping of Odonata with Ephemeroptera), whereas results from data sets with fewer taxa give inconsistent results and are highly sensitive to minor changes in data and methods. We also focus on recent methods that exploit temporal information using fossil calibrations, combined with additional assumptions about the evolutionary process, and so reduce the influence of outgroup choice. These methods are shown to provide more consistent results, for example, supporting Palaeoptera, even for data sets that previously supported other hypotheses. Together, these results have implications for understanding insect origins and for resolving other problematic splits in the tree of life.
23485134|In this article, we use supermatrix data-mining methods to reconstruct a large, highly inclusive phylogeny of Cyperaceae from nucleotide data available on GenBank. We explore the properties of these trees and their utility for phylogenetic inference, and show that even the highly incomplete alignments characteristic of supermatrix approaches may yield very good estimates of phylogeny. We present a novel pipeline for filtering sparse alignments to improve their phylogenetic utility by maximizing the partial decisiveness of the matrices themselves through a technique we call "phylogenetic scaffolding," and we present a new method of scoring tip instability (i.e. "rogue taxa") based on the I statistic implemented in the software Mesquite. The modified statistic, which we call I S , is somewhat more straightforward to interpret than similar statistics, and our implementation of it may be applied to large sets of large trees. The largest sedge trees presented here contain more than 1500 tips (about one quarter of all sedge species) and are based on multigene alignments with more than 20 000 sites and more than 90% missing data. These trees match well with previously supported phylogenetic hypotheses, but have lower overall support values and less resolution than more heavily filtered trees. Our best-resolved trees are characterized by stronger support values than any previously published sedge phylogenies, and show some relationships that are incongruous with previous studies. Overall, we show that supermatrix methods offer powerful means of pursuing phylogenetic study and these tools have high potential value for many systematic biologists.
23485136|Supertree methods combine a collection of source trees into a single parent tree or supertree. For almost all such methods, the terminal taxa across the source trees have to be non-nested for the output supertree to make sense. Motivated by Page, the first supertree method for combining rooted source trees where the taxa can be hierarchically nested is called AncestralBuild. In addition to taxa labeling the leaves, this method allows the rooted source trees to have taxa labeling some of the interior nodes at a higher taxonomic level than their descendants (e.g., genera vs. species). However, the utility of AncestralBuild is somewhat restricted as it is mostly intended to decide if a collection of rooted source trees is compatible. If the initial collection is not compatible, then no tree is returned. To overcome this restriction, we introduce here the MultiLevelSupertree (MLS) supertree method whose input is the same as that for AncestralBuild, but which accommodates incompatibilities among rooted source trees using a MinCut-like procedure. We show that MLS has several desirable properties including the preservation of common subtrees among the source trees, the preservation of ancestral relationships whenever they are compatible, as well as running in polynomial time. Furthermore, application to a small test data set (the mammalian carnivore family Phocidae) indicates that the method correctly places nested taxa at different taxonomic levels (reflecting vertical signal), even in cases where the input trees harbor a significant level of conflict between their clades (i.e., in their horizontal signal).
23485132|In recent years, likelihood-based approaches have been used with increasing frequency to evaluate macroevolutionary hypotheses of phenotypic evolution under distinct evolutionary processes in a phylogenetic context (e.g., Brownian motion, Ornstein-Uhlenbeck, etc.), and to compare one or more evolutionary rates for the same phenotypic trait along a phylogeny. It is also of interest to determine whether one trait evolves at a faster rate than another trait. However, to date no study has compared phylogenetic evolutionary rates between traits using likelihood, because a formal approach has not yet been proposed. In this article, I describe a new likelihood procedure for comparing evolutionary rates for two or more phenotypic traits on a phylogeny. This approach compares the likelihood of a model where each trait evolves at a distinct evolutionary rate to the likelihood of a model where all traits are constrained to evolve at a common evolutionary rate. The method can also account for within-species measurement error and within-species trait covariation if available. Simulations revealed that the method has appropriate Type I error rates and statistical power. Importantly, when compared with existing approaches based on phylogenetically independent contrasts and methods that compare confidence intervals for model parameters, the likelihood method displays preferable statistical properties for a wide range of simulated conditions. Thus, this likelihood-based method extends the phylogenetic comparative biology toolkit and provides evolutionary biologists with a more powerful means of determining when evolutionary rates differ between phenotypic traits. Finally, I provide an empirical example illustrating the approach by comparing rates of evolution for several phenotypic traits in Plethodon salamanders.
23485138|Incorporation of fossils into biogeographic studies can have a profound effect on the conclusions that result, particularly when fossil ranges are nonoverlapping with extant ranges. This is the case in archaeid spiders, where there are known fossils from the Northern Hemisphere, yet all living members are restricted to the Southern Hemisphere. To better understand the biogeographic patterns of archaeid spiders and their palpimanoid relatives, we estimate a dated phylogeny using a relaxed clock on a combined molecular and morphological data set. Dating information is compared with treating the archaeid fossil taxa as both node calibrations and as noncontemporaneous terminal tips, both with and without additional calibration points. Estimation of ancestral biogeographic ranges is then performed, using likelihood and Bayesian methods to take into account uncertainty in phylogeny and in dating. We find that treating the fossils as terminal tips within a Bayesian framework, as opposed to dating the phylogeny based only on molecular data with the dates coming from node calibrations, removes the subjectivity involved in assigning priors, which has not been possible with previous methods. Our analyses suggest that the diversification of the northern and southern archaeid lineages was congruent with the breakup of Pangaea into Laurasia and Gondwanaland. This analysis provides a rare example, and perhaps the most strongly supported, where a dated phylogeny confirms a biogeographical hypothesis based on vicariance due to the breakup of the ancient continental plates.
23485135|Speciation and extinction rates can be estimated from molecular phylogenies. Recently, a number of methods have been published showing that these rates can be estimated even if the phylogeny is incomplete, that is, if not all extant species are included. We show that the accuracy of such methods strongly depends on making the correct assumptions about how the sampling process was performed. We focus on phylogenies that are incomplete because some subclades (e.g., genera and families) are each represented as a single lineage. We show that previous methods implicitly assumed that such subclades are defined by randomly (or in an extreme deterministic way) choosing the edges that define the subclades from the complete species phylogeny. We show that these methods produce biased results if higher taxa are defined in a different manner. We introduce strict higher level phylogenies where subclades are defined so that the phylogeny is fully resolved from its origin to time xcut, and fully unresolved thereafter, so that for all subclades, stem age > x cut > crown age. We present estimates of speciation and extinction rates from a phylogeny of birds in which this subclade definition was applied. However, for most higher level phylogenies in the literature, it is unclear how higher taxa were defined, but often such phylogenies can be easily transformed into strict higher level phylogenies, as we illustrate by estimating speciation and extinction rates from a near-complete but only partly resolved species-level phylogeny of mammals. The accuracy of our methods is verified using simulations.
23485419|We review Bayesian approaches to model testing in general and to the assessment of topological hypotheses in particular. We show that the standard way of setting up Bayes factor tests of the monophyly of a group, or the placement of a sample sequence in a known reference tree, can be misleading. The reason for this is related to the well-known dependency of Bayes factors on model-specific priors. Specifically, when testing tree hypotheses it is important that each hypothesis is associated with an appropriate tree space in the prior. This can be achieved by using appropriately constrained searches or by filtering trees in the posterior sample, but in a more elaborate way than typically implemented. If it is difficult to find the appropriate tree sets to be contrasted, then the posterior model odds may be more informative than the Bayes factor. We illustrate the recommended techniques using an empirical test case addressing the issue of whether two genera of diving beetles (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae), Suphrodytes and Hydroporus, should be synonymized. Our refined Bayes factor tests, in contrast to standard analyses, show that there is strong support for Suphrodytes nesting inside Hydroporus, and the genera are therefore synonymized.
23485420|We develop a Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm for estimating divergence times using sequentially sampled molecular sequences. This type of data is commonly collected during viral epidemics and is sometimes available from different species in ancient DNA studies. We derive the distribution of ages of nodes in the tree under a birthdeath-sequential-sampling (BDSS) model and use it as the prior for divergence times in the dating analysis. We implement the prior in the MCMCtree program in the PAML package for divergence dating. The BDSS prior is very flexible and, with different parameters, can generate trees of very different shapes, suitable for examining the sensitivity of posterior time estimates. We apply the method to a data set of SIV/HIV-2 genes in comparison with a likelihood-based dating method, and to a data set of influenza H1 genes from different hosts in comparison with the Bayesian program BEAST. We examined the impact of tree topology on time estimates and suggest that multifurcating consensus trees should be avoided in dating analysis. We found posterior time estimates for old nodes to be sensitive to the priors on times and rates and suggest that previous Bayesian dating studies may have produced overconfident estimates.
23485418|Taxonomic descriptions are unparalleled sources of knowledge of life's phenotypic diversity. As natural language prose, these data sets are largely refractory to computation and integration with other sources of phenotypic data. By formalizing taxonomic descriptions using ontology-based semantic representation, we aim to increase the reusability and computability of taxonomists' primary data. Here, we present a revision of the ensign wasp (Hymenoptera: Evaniidae) fauna of New Caledonia using this new model for species description. Descriptive matrices, specimen data, and taxonomic nomenclature are gathered in a unified Web-based application, mx, then exported as both traditional taxonomic treatments and semantic statements using the OWL Web Ontology Language. Character:character-state combinations are then annotated following the entityquality phenotype model, originally developed to represent mutant model organism phenotype data; concepts of anatomy are drawn from the Hymenoptera Anatomy Ontology and linked to phenotype descriptors from the Phenotypic Quality Ontology. The resulting set of semantic statements is provided in Resource Description Framework format. Applying the model to real data, that is, specimens, taxonomic names, diagnoses, descriptions, and redescriptions, provides us with a foundation to discuss limitations and potential benefits such as automated data integration and reasoner-driven queries. Four species of ensign wasp are now known to occur in New Caledonia: Szepligetella levipetiolata, Szepligetella deercreeki Deans and Mik sp. nov., Szepligetella irwini Deans and Mik sp. nov., and the nearly cosmopolitan Evania appendigaster. A fifth species, Szepligetella sericea, including Szepligetella impressa, syn. nov., has not yet been collected in New Caledonia but can be found on islands throughout the Pacific and so is included in the diagnostic key.
23485426|Non-homogeneous processes and, in particular, base compositional non-stationarity have long been recognized as a critical source of systematic error. But only a small fraction of current molecular systematic studies methodically examine and effectively account for the potentially confounding effect of non-stationarity. The problem is especially overlooked in multi-locus or phylogenomic scale analyses, in part because no efficient tools exist to accommodate base composition heterogeneity in large data sets. We present a detailed analysis of a data set with 20 genes and 214 taxa to study the phylogeny of flatfishes (Pleuronectiformes) and their position among percomorphs. Most genes vary significantly in base composition among taxa and fail to resolve flatfish monophyly and other emblematic groups, suggesting that non-stationarity may be causing systematic error. We show a strong association between base compositional bias and topological discordance among individual gene partitions and their inferred trees. Phylogenetic methods applying non-homogeneous models to accommodate non-stationarity have relatively minor effect to reduce gene tree discordance, suggesting that available computer programs applying these methods do not scale up efficiently to the data set of modest size analysed in this study. By comparing phylogenetic trees obtained with species tree (STAR) and concatenation approaches, we show that gene tree discordance in our data set is most likely due to base compositional biases than to incomplete lineage sorting. Multi-locus analyses suggest that the combined phylogenetic signal from all loci in a concatenated data set overcomes systematic biases induced by non-stationarity at each partition. Finally, relationships among flatfishes and their relatives are discussed in the light of these results. We find support for the monophyly of flatfishes and confirm findings from previous molecular phylogenetic studies suggesting their close affinity with several carangimorph groups (i.e., jack and allies, barracuda, archerfish, billfish and swordfish, threadfin, moonfish, beach salmon, and snook and barramundi).
23485424|Hybridization plays an important evolutionary role in several groups of organisms. A phylogenetic approach to detect hybridization entails sequencing multiple loci across the genomes of a group of species of interest, reconstructing their gene trees, and taking their differences as indicators of hybridization. However, methods that follow this approach mostly ignore population effects, such as incomplete lineage sorting (ILS). Given that hybridization occurs between closely related organisms, ILS may very well be at play and, hence, must be accounted for in the analysis framework. To address this issue, we present a parsimony criterion for reconciling gene trees within the branches of a phylogenetic network, and a local search heuristic for inferring phylogenetic networks from collections of gene-tree topologies under this criterion. This framework enables phylogenetic analyses while accounting for both hybridization and ILS. Further, we propose two techniques for incorporating information about uncertainty in gene-tree estimates. Our simulation studies demonstrate the good performance of our framework in terms of identifying the location of hybridization events, as well as estimating the proportions of genes that underwent hybridization. Also, our framework shows good performance in terms of efficiency on handling large data sets in our experiments. Further, in analysing a yeast data set, we demonstrate issues that arise when analysing real data sets. Although a probabilistic approach was recently introduced for this problem, and although parsimonious reconciliations have accuracy issues under certain settings, our parsimony framework provides a much more computationally efficient technique for this type of analysis. Our framework now allows for genome-wide scans for hybridization, while also accounting for ILS.
23485421|Phylogenetic relationships among recently diverged species are often difficult to resolve due to insufficient phylogenetic signal in available markers and/or conflict among gene trees. Here we explore the use of reduced-representation genome sequencing, specifically in the form of restriction-site associated DNA (RAD), for phylogenetic inference and the detection of ancestral hybridization in non-model organisms. As a case study, we investigate Pedicularis section Cyathophora, a systematically recalcitrant clade of flowering plants in the broomrape family (Orobanchaceae). Two methods of phylogenetic inference, maximum likelihood and Bayesian concordance, were applied to data sets that included as many as 40,000 RAD loci. Both methods yielded similar topologies that included two major clades: a "rex-thamnophila" clade, composed of two species and several subspecies with relatively low floral diversity, and geographically widespread distributions at lower elevations, and a "superba" clade, composed of three species characterized by relatively high floral diversity and isolated geographic distributions at higher elevations. Levels of molecular divergence between subspecies in the rex-thamnophila clade are similar to those between species in the superba clade. Using Patterson's D-statistic test, including a novel extension of the method that enables finer-grained resolution of introgression among multiple candidate taxa by removing the effect of their shared ancestry, we detect significant introgression among nearly all taxa in the rex-thamnophila clade, but not between clades or among taxa within the superba clade. These results suggest an important role for geographic isolation in the emergence of species barriers, by facilitating local adaptation and differentiation in the absence of homogenizing gene flow.
23485422|DNA barcoding-type studies assemble single-locus data from large samples of individuals and species, and have provided new kinds of data for evolutionary surveys of diversity. An important goal of many such studies is to delimit evolutionarily significant species units, especially in biodiversity surveys from environmental DNA samples. The Generalized Mixed Yule Coalescent (GMYC) method is a likelihood method for delimiting species by fitting within- and between-species branching models to reconstructed gene trees. Although the method has been widely used, it has not previously been described in detail or evaluated fully against simulations of alternative scenarios of true patterns of population variation and divergence between species. Here, we present important reformulations to the GMYC method as originally specified, and demonstrate its robustness to a range of departures from its simplifying assumptions. The main factor affecting the accuracy of delimitation is the mean population size of species relative to divergence times between them. Other departures from the model assumptions, such as varying population sizes among species, alternative scenarios for speciation and extinction, and population growth or subdivision within species, have relatively smaller effects. Our simulations demonstrate that support measures derived from the likelihood function provide a robust indication of when the model performs well and when it leads to inaccurate delimitations. Finally, the so-called single-threshold version of the method outperforms the multiple-threshold version of the method on simulated data: we argue that this might represent a fundamental limit due to the nature of evidence used to delimit species in this approach. Together with other studies comparing its performance relative to other methods, our findings support the robustness of GMYC as a tool for delimiting species when only single-locus information is available.
23485425|Rooting phylogenies is critical for understanding evolution, yet the importance, intricacies and difficulties of rooting are often overlooked. For rooting, polymorphic characters among the group of interest (ingroup) must be compared to those of a relative (outgroup) that diverged before the last common ancestor (LCA) of the ingroup. Problems arise if an outgroup does not exist, is unknown, or is so distant that few characters are shared, in which case duplicated genes originating before the LCA can be used as proxy outgroups to root diverse phylogenies. Here, we describe a genome-wide expansion of this technique that can be used to solve problems at the other end of the evolutionary scale: where ingroup individuals are all very closely related to each other, but the next closest relative is very distant. We used shared orthologous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from 10 whole genome sequences of Coxiella burnetii, the causative agent of Q fever in humans, to create a robust, but unrooted phylogeny. To maximize the number of characters informative about the rooting, we searched entire genomes for polymorphic duplicated regions where orthologs of each paralog could be identified so that the paralogs could be used to root the tree. Recent radiations, such as those of emerging pathogens, often pose rooting challenges due to a lack of ingroup variation and large genomic differences with known outgroups. Using a phylogenomic approach, we created a robust, rooted phylogeny for C. burnetii.
23485423|The growth of phylogenetic trees in scope and in size is promising from the standpoint of understanding a wide variety of evolutionary patterns and processes. With trees comprised of larger, older, and globally distributed clades, it is likely that the lability of a binary character will differ significantly among lineages, which could lead to errors in estimating transition rates and the associated inference of ancestral states. Here we develop and implement a new method for identifying different rates of evolution in a binary character along different branches of a phylogeny. We illustrate this approach by exploring the evolution of growth habit in Campanulidae, a flowering plant clade containing some 35,000 species. The distribution of woody versus herbaceous species calls into question the use of traditional models of binary character evolution. The recognition and accommodation of changes in the rate of growth form evolution in different lineages demonstrates, for the first time, a robust picture of growth form evolution across a very large, very old, and very widespread flowering plant clade.
23485201|Long-term specialization may limit the ability of a species to respond to new environmental conditions and lead to a higher likelihood of extinction. For permanent parasites and other symbionts, the most intriguing question is whether these organisms can return to a free-living lifestyle and, thus, escape an evolutionary "dead end." This question is directly related to Dollo's law, which stipulates that a complex trait (such as being free living vs. parasitic) cannot re-evolve again in the same form. Here, we present conclusive evidence that house dust mites, a group of medically important free-living organisms, evolved from permanent parasites of warm-blooded vertebrates. A robust, multigene topology (315 taxa, 8942 nt), ancestral character state reconstruction, and a test for irreversible evolution (Dollo's law) demonstrate that house dust mites have abandoned a parasitic lifestyle, secondarily becoming free living, and then speciated in several habitats. Hence, as exemplified by this model system, highly specialized permanent parasites may drastically de-specialize to the extent of becoming free living and, thus escape from dead-end evolution. Our phylogenetic and historical ecological framework explains the limited cross-reactivity between allergens from the house dust mites and "storage" mites and the ability of the dust mites to inhibit host immune responses. It also provides insights into how ancestral features related to parasitism (frequent ancestral shifts to unrelated hosts, tolerance to lower humidity, and pre-existing enzymes targeting skin and keratinous materials) played a major role in reversal to the free-living state. We propose that parasitic ancestors of pyroglyphids shifted to nests of vertebrates. Later the nest-inhabiting pyroglyphids expanded into human dwellings to become a major source of allergens.
23485198|Despite being the objects of numerous macroevolutionary studies, many of the best represented constituents of the fossil recordincluding diverse examples such as foraminifera, brachiopods, and molluskshave mineralized skeletons with limited discrete characteristics, making morphological phylogenies difficult to construct. In contrast to their paucity of phylogenetic characters, the mineralized structures (tests and shells) of these fossil groups frequently have distinctive shapes that have long proved useful for their classification. The recent introduction of methodologies for including continuous data directly in a phylogenetic analysis has increased the number of available characters, making it possible to produce phylogenies based, in whole or part, on continuous character data collected from such taxa. Geometric morphometric methods provide tools for accurately characterizing shape variation and can produce quantitative data that can therefore now be included in a phylogenetic matrix in a nonarbitrary manner. Here, the marine gastropod genus Conus is used to evaluate the ability of continuous charactersgenerated from a geometric morphometric analysis of shell shapeto contribute to a total evidence phylogenetic hypothesis constructed using molecular and morphological data. Furthermore, the ability of continuous characters derived from geometric morphometric analyses to place fossil taxa with limited discrete characters into a phylogeny with their extant relatives was tested by simulating the inclusion of fossil taxa. This was done by removing the molecular partition of individual extant species to produce a "cladistic pseudofossil" with only the geometric morphometric derived characters coded. The phylogenetic position of each cladistic pseudofossil taxon was then compared with its placement in the total evidence tree and a symmetric resampling tree to evaluate the degree to which morphometric characters alone can correctly place simulated fossil species. In 3345% of the test cases (depending upon the approach used for measuring success), it was possible to place the pseudofossil taxon into the correct regions of the phylogeny using only the morphometric characters. This suggests that the incorporation of extinct Conus taxa into phylogenetic hypotheses will be possible, permitting a wide range of macroevolutionary questions to be addressed within this genus. This methodology also has potential to contribute to phylogenetic reconstructions for other major components of the fossil record that lack numerous discrete characters.
23485202|Genome-scale data offer the opportunity to clarify phylogenetic relationships that are difficult to resolve with few loci, but they can also identify genomic regions with evolutionary history distinct from that of the species history. We collected whole-genome sequence data from 29 taxa in the legume genus Medicago, then aligned these sequences to the Medicago truncatula reference genome to confidently identify 87 596 variable homologous sites. We used this data set to estimate phylogenetic relationships among Medicago species, to investigate the number of sites needed to provide robust phylogenetic estimates and to identify specific genomic regions supporting topologies in conflict with the genome-wide phylogeny. Our full genomic data set resolves relationships within the genus that were previously intractable. Subsampling the data reveals considerable variation in phylogenetic signal and power in smaller subsets of the data. Even when sampling 5000 sites, no random sample of the data supports a topology identical to that of the genome-wide phylogeny. Phylogenetic relationships estimated from 500-site sliding windows revealed genome regions supporting several alternative species relationships among recently diverged taxa, consistent with the expected effects of deep coalescence or introgression in the recent history of Medicago.
23485205|Polyploidy is an important speciation mechanism, particularly in land plants. Allopolyploid species are formed after hybridization between otherwise intersterile parental species. Recent theoretical progress has led to successful implementation of species tree models that take population genetic parameters into account. However, these models have not included allopolyploid hybridization and the special problems imposed when species trees of allopolyploids are inferred. Here, 2 new models for the statistical inference of the evolutionary history of allopolyploids are evaluated using simulations and demonstrated on 2 empirical data sets. It is assumed that there has been a single hybridization event between 2 diploid species resulting in a genomic allotetraploid. The evolutionary history can be represented as a species network or as a multilabeled species tree, in which some pairs of tips are labeled with the same species. In one of the models (AlloppMUL), the multilabeled species tree is inferred directly. This is the simplest model and the most widely applicable, since fewer assumptions are made. The second model (AlloppNET) incorporates the hybridization event explicitly which means that fewer parameters need to be estimated. Both models are implemented in the BEAST framework. Simulations show that both models are useful and that AlloppNET is more accurate if the assumptions it is based on are valid. The models are demonstrated on previously analyzed data from the genera Pachycladon (Brassicaceae) and Silene (Caryophyllaceae).
23485199|In phylogenetic studies, the evolution of molecular sequences is assumed to have taken place along the phylogeny traced by the ancestors of extant species. In the presence of lateral gene transfer, however, this may not be the case, because the species lineage from which a gene was transferred may have gone extinct or not have been sampled. Because it is not feasible to specify or reconstruct the complete phylogeny of all species, we must describe the evolution of genes outside the represented phylogeny by modeling the speciation dynamics that gave rise to the complete phylogeny. We demonstrate that if the number of sampled species is small compared with the total number of existing species, the overwhelming majority of gene transfers involve speciation to and evolution along extinct or unsampled lineages. We show that the evolution of genes along extinct or unsampled lineages can to good approximation be treated as those of independently evolving lineages described by a few global parameters. Using this result, we derive an algorithm to calculate the probability of a gene tree and recover the maximum-likelihood reconciliation given the phylogeny of the sampled species. Examining 473 near-universal gene families from 36 cyanobacteria, we find that nearly a third of transfer events (28%) appear to have topological signatures of evolution along extinct species, but only approximately 6% of transfers trace their ancestry to before the common ancestor of the sampled cyanobacteria.
23485203|The branching structure of biological evolution confers statistical dependencies on phenotypic trait values in related organisms. For this reason, comparative macroevolutionary studies usually begin with an inferred phylogeny that describes the evolutionary relationships of the organisms of interest. The probability of the observed trait data can be computed by assuming a model for trait evolution, such as Brownian motion, over the branches of this fixed tree. However, the phylogenetic tree itself contributes statistical uncertainty to estimates of rates of phenotypic evolution, and many comparative evolutionary biologists regard the tree as a nuisance parameter. In this article, we present a framework for analytically integrating over unknown phylogenetic trees in comparative evolutionary studies by assuming that the tree arises from a continuous-time Markov branching model called the Yule process. To do this, we derive a closed-form expression for the distribution of phylogenetic diversity (PD), which is the sum of branch lengths connecting the species in a clade. We then present a generalization of PD which is equivalent to the expected trait disparity in a set of taxa whose evolutionary relationships are generated by a Yule process and whose traits evolve by Brownian motion. We find expressions for the distribution of expected trait disparity under a Yule tree. Given one or more observations of trait disparity in a clade, we perform fast likelihood-based estimation of the Brownian variance for unresolved clades. Our method does not require simulation or a fixed phylogenetic tree. We conclude with a brief example illustrating Brownian rate estimation for 12 families in the mammalian order Carnivora, in which the phylogenetic tree for each family is unresolved.
23485204|Public DNA databases are becoming too large and too complex for manual methods to generate phylogenetic supermatrices from multiple gene sequences. Delineating the terminals based on taxonomic labels is no longer practical because species identifications are frequently incomplete and gene trees are incongruent with Linnaean binomials, which results in uncertainty about how to combine species units among unlinked loci. We developed a procedure that minimizes the problem of forming multilocus species units in a large phylogenetic data set using algorithms from graph theory. An initial step established sequence clusters for each locus that broadly correspond to the species level. These clusters frequently include sequences labeled with various binomials and specimen identifiers that create multiple alternatives for concatenation. To choose among these possibilities, we minimize taxonomic conflict among the species units globally in the data set using a multipartite heuristic algorithm. The procedure was applied to all available GenBank data for Coleoptera (beetles) including > 10 500 taxon labels and > 23 500 sequences of 4 loci, which were grouped into 11 241 clusters or divergent singletons by the BlastClust software. Within each cluster, unidentified sequences could be assigned to a species name through the association with fully identified sequences, resulting in 510 new identifications (13.9% of total unidentified sequences) of which nearly half were "trans-locus" identifications by clustering of sequences at a secondary locus. The limits of DNA-based clusters were inconsistent with the Linnaean binomials for 1518 clusters (13.5%) that contained more than one binomial or split a single binomial among multiple clusters. By applying a scoring scheme for full and partial name matches in pairs of clusters, a maximum weight set of 7366 global species units was produced. Varying the match weights for partial matches had little effect on the number of units, although if partial matches were disallowed, the number increased greatly. Trees from the resulting supermatrices generally produced tree topologies in good agreement with the higher taxonomy of Coleoptera, with fewer terminals compared with trees generated according to standard filtering of sequences using species labels. The study illustrates a strategy for assembling the tree-of-life from an ever more complex primary database.
23485200|Understanding factors driving diversity across biodiversity hotspots is critical for formulating conservation priorities in the face of ongoing and escalating environmental deterioration. While biodiversity hotspots encompass a small fraction of Earth's land surface, more than half the world's plants and two-thirds of terrestrial vertebrate species are endemic to these hotspots. Tropical Southeast (SE) Asia displays extraordinary species richness, encompassing four biodiversity hotspots, though disentangling multiple potential drivers of species richness is confounded by the region's dynamic geological and climatic history. Here, we use multilocus molecular genetic data from dense multispecies sampling of freshwater fishes across three biodiversity hotspots, to test the effect of Quaternary climate change and resulting drainage rearrangements on aquatic faunal diversification. While Cenozoic geological processes have clearly shaped evolutionary history in SE Asian halfbeak fishes, we show that paleo-drainage re-arrangements resulting from Quaternary climate change played a significant role in the spatiotemporal evolution of lowland aquatic taxa, and provide priorities for conservation efforts.
23485197|Despite African rivers containing high species diversity, continental-scale studies investigating the mechanisms generating biological diversity of African riverine faunas are limited compared with lacustrine systems. To investigate the build-up of diversity in a tropical aquatic continental radiation, we test different models of lineage diversification and reconstruct the biogeographic history in a species-rich siluriform genus, Synodontis (130 species), with a broad distribution across all major tropical African drainage basins. The resulting robust species-level phylogeny (60% complete, based on a multigene data set) exhibits a near constant rate of lineage accumulation throughout the mid-Cenozoic to recent, irrespective of missing species and despite the changing environmental conditions that were prevalent during this time period. This pattern contrasts with the findings for species-level diversification of large clades that commonly show an early burst of cladogenesis followed by declining rates through time. The identification of distinct biogeographic clades demonstrates a correlation between river hydrology and cladogenesis, although there is evidence of recent repeat dispersal into the southern range of the focal group. We conclude that diverse freshwater fish radiations with tropical continental distributions represent important organisms to test hypotheses of diversification and investigate the effects of palaeo-landscapes and climates on present day biodiversity.
20142996|Mobile elements have been recognized as powerful tools for phylogenetic and population-level analyses. However, issues regarding potential sources of homoplasy and other misleading events have been raised. We have collected available data for all phylogenetic and population level studies of primates utilizing Alu insertion data and examined them for potentially homoplasious and other misleading events. Very low levels of each potential confounding factor in a phylogenetic or population analysis (i.e., lineage sorting, parallel insertions, and precise excision) were found. Although taxa known to be subject to high levels of these types of events may indeed be subject to problems when using SINE analysis, we propose that most taxa will respond as the order Primates has--by the resolution of several long-standing problems observed using sequence-based methods.
20142997|Transposed elements constitute an attractive, useful source of phylogenetic markers to elucidate the evolutionary history of their hosts. Frequent and successive amplifications over evolutionary time are important requirements for utilizing their presence or absence as landmarks of evolution. Although transposed elements are well distributed in rodent taxa, the generally high degree of genomic sequence divergence among species complicates our access to presence/absence data. With this in mind we developed a novel, high-throughput computational strategy, called CPAL (Conserved Presence/Absence Locus-finder), to identify genome-wide distributed, phylogenetically informative transposed elements flanked by highly conserved regions. From a total of 232 extracted chromosomal mouse loci we randomly selected 14 of these plus 2 others from previous test screens and attempted to amplify them via PCR in representative rodent species. All loci were amplifiable and ultimately contributed 31 phylogenetically informative markers distributed throughout the major groups of Rodentia.
20142995|The family Geoemydidae is one of three in the superfamily Testudinoidea and is the most diversified family of extant turtle species. The phylogenetic relationships in this family and among related families have been vigorously investigated from both morphological and molecular viewpoints. The evolutionary history of Geoemydidae, however, remains controversial. Therefore, to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships of Geoemydidae and related species, we applied the SINE insertion method to investigate 49 informative SINE loci in 28 species. We detected four major evolutionary lineages (Testudinidae, Batagur group, Siebenrockiella group, and Geoemyda group) in the clade Testuguria (a clade of Geoemydidae + Testudinidae). All five specimens of Testudinidae form a monophyletic clade. The Batagur group comprises five batagurines. The Siebenrockiella group has one species, Siebenrockiella crassicollis. The Geoemyda group comprises 15 geoemydines (including three former batagurines, Mauremys reevesii, Mauremys sinensis, and Heosemys annandalii). Among these four groups, the SINE insertion patterns were inconsistent at four loci, suggesting that an ancestral species of Testuguria radiated and rapidly diverged into the four lineages during the initial stage of its evolution. Furthermore, within the Geoemyda group we identified three evolutionary lineages, namely Mauremys, Cuora, and Heosemys. The Heosemys lineage comprises Heosemys, Sacalia, Notochelys, and Melanochelys species, and its monophyly is a novel assemblage in Geoemydidae. Our SINE phylogenetic tree demonstrates extensive convergent morphological evolution between the Batagur group and the three species of the Geoemyda group, M. reevesii, M. sinensis, and H. annandalii.
20143000|The number of nuclear small subunit (SSU) ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences for Nematoda has increased dramatically in recent years, and although their use in constructing phylogenies has also increased, relatively little attention has been given to their alignment. Here we examined the sensitivity of the nematode SSU data set to different alignment parameters and to the removal of alignment ambiguous regions. Ten alignments were created with CLUSTAL W using different sets of alignment parameters (10 full alignments), and each alignment was examined by eye and alignment ambiguous regions were removed (creating 10 reduced alignments). These alignment ambiguous regions were analyzed as a third type of data set, culled alignments. Maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining, and parsimony bootstrap analyses were performed. The resulting phylogenies were compared to each other by the symmetric difference distance tree comparison metric (SymD). The correlation of the phylogenies with the alignment parameters was tested by comparing matrices from SymD with corresponding matrices of Manhattan distances representing the alignment parameters. Differences among individual parsimony trees from the full alignments were frequently correlated with the differences among alignment parameters (580/1000 tests), as were trees from the culled alignments (403/1000 tests). Differences among individual parsimony trees from the reduced alignments were less frequently correlated with the differences among alignment parameters (230/1000 tests). Differences among majority-rule consensus trees (50%) from the parsimony analysis of the full alignments were significantly correlated with the differences among alignment parameters, whereas consensus trees from the reduced and culled analyses were not correlated with the alignment parameters. These patterns of correlation confirm that choice of alignment parameters has the potential to bias the resultant phylogenies for the nematode SSU data set, and suggest that the removal of alignment ambiguous regions reduces this effect. Finally, we discuss the implications of conservative phylogenetic hypotheses for Nematoda produced by exploring alignment space and removing alignment ambiguous regions for SSU rDNA.
20142994|It is unlikely that taxonomically diverse phylogenetic studies will be completed rapidly in the near future for nonmodel organisms on a whole-genome basis. However, one approach to advancing the field of "phylogenomics" is to estimate the structure of poorly known genomes by mining libraries of clones from suites of taxa, rather than from single species. The present analysis adopts this approach by taking advantage of megabase-scale end-sequence scanning of reptilian genomic clones to characterize diversity of CR1-like LINEs, the dominant family of transposable elements (TEs) in the sister group of mammals. As such, it helps close an important gap in the literature on the molecular systematics and evolution of retroelements in nonavian reptiles. Results from aligning more than 14 Mb of sequence from the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), painted turtle (Chrysemys picta), Bahamian green anole (Anolis smaragdinus.), Tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus), Emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae), and Zebra Finch (Taeniopygia guttata) against a comprehensive library 3000 TE-encoding peptides reflect an increasing abundance of LINE and non-long-terminal-repeat (non-LTR) retrotransposon repeat types with the age of common ancestry among exemplar reptilian clades. The hypothesis that repeat diversity is correlated with basal metabolic rate was tested using comparative methods and a significant nonlinear relationship was indicated. This analysis suggests that the age of divergence between an exemplary clade and its sister group as well as metabolic correlates should be considered in addition to genome size in explaining patterns of retroelement diversity. The first phylogenetic analysis of the largely unexplored chicken repeat 1 (CR1) 3 reverse transcriptase (RT) conserved domains 8 and 9 in nonavian reptiles reveals a pattern of multiple lineages with variable branch lengths, suggesting presence of both old and young elements and the existence of several distinct well-supported clades not apparent from previous characterization of CR1 subfamily structure in birds and the turtle. This mode of CR1 evolution contrasts with historical patterns of LINE 1 diversification in mammals and hints toward the existence of a rich but still largely unexplored diversity of nonavian retroelements of importance to advancing both comparative vertebrate genomics and amniote systematics.
20142998|Short interspersed elements (SINEs) are a class of dispersed mobile sequences that use RNA as an intermediate in an amplification process called retroposition. The presence-absence of a SINE at a given locus has been used as a meaningful classification criterion to evaluate phylogenetic relations among species. We review here recent developments in the characterisation of plant SINEs and their use as molecular makers to retrace phylogenetic relations among wild and cultivated Oryza and Brassica species. In Brassicaceae, further use of SINE markers is limited by our partial knowledge of endogenous SINE families (their origin and evolution histories) and by the absence of a clear classification. To solve this problem, phylogenetic relations among all known Brassicaceae SINEs were analyzed and a new classification, grouping SINEs in 15 different families, is proposed. The relative age and size of each Brassicaceae SINE family was evaluated and new phylogenetically supported subfamilies were described. We also present evidence suggesting that new potentially active SINEs recently emerged in Brassica oleracea from the shuffling of preexisting SINE portions. Finally, the comparative evolution history of SINE families present in Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica oleracea revealed that SINEs were in general more active in the Brassica lineage. The importance of these new data for the use of Brassicaceae SINEs as molecular markers in future applications is discussed.
20142991|The emerging field of phylogenomics is influencing both the amount and type of characters being brought to bear on long-standing problems in systematic biology. Moreover, the proliferation of sequence information from genome projects in concert with the development of new informatics tools is widening access to comparative data on retroelements to a broad cross section of investigators. Motivated by this, the Society of Systematic Biologists sponsored a symposium entitled "Genome Analysis and the Molecular Systematics of Retroelements," and the resulting papers illustrate this theme of new discoveries and cover three basic areas of research: (i) the taxonomic distribution and phylogenetic structure of families of retroelements; (ii) the use of SINE and LINE insertions for phylogenetic inference; and (iii) the informatics and classification of repetitive elements. Contributions of each article are briefly discussed in this context and particularly fruitful directions for future research illuminated by results of this symposium are reviewed.
20142999|The evolution of species traits along a phylogeny can be examined through an increasing number of possible, but not necessarily complementary, approaches. In this paper, we assess whether deriving ancestral states of discrete morphological characters from a model whose parameters are (i) optimized by ML on a most likely tree; (ii) optimized by ML onto each of a Bayesian sample of trees; and (iii) sampled by a MCMC visiting the space of a Bayesian sample of trees affects the reconstruction of ancestral states in the moss genus Brachytheciastrum. In the first two methods, the choice of a single- or two-rate model and of a genetic distance (wherein branch lengths are used to determine the probabilities of change) or speciational (wherein changes are only driven by speciation events) model based upon a likelihood-ratio test strongly depended on the sampled trees. Despite these differences in model selection, reconstructions of ancestral character states were strongly correlated to each others across nodes, often at r &gt 0.9, for all the characters. The Bayesian approach of ancestral character state reconstruction offers, however, a series of advantages over the single-tree approach or the ML model optimization on a Bayesian sample of trees because it does not involve restricting model parameters prior to reconstructing ancestral states, but rather allows a range of model parameters and ancestral character states to be sampled according to their posterior probabilities. From the distribution of the latter, conclusions on trait evolution can be made in a more satisfactorily way than when a substantial part of the uncertainty of the results is obscured by the focus on a single set of model parameters and associated ancestral states. The reconstructions of ancestral character states in Brachytheciastrum reveal rampant parallel morphological evolution. Most species previously described based on phenetic grounds are thus resolved of polyphyletic origin. Species polyphylly has been increasingly reported among mosses, raising severe reservations regarding current species definition.
20142993|L1 retrotransposons constitute the largest single component of mammalian genomes. In contrast to the single remaining lineage of L1 retrotransposons in mammalian genomes, some teleost fishes contain a highly diverse L1 retrotransposon repertoire. Major evolutionary changes in L1 retrotransposon repertoires have therefore taken place in the land vertebrates (Tetrapoda). The lack of sequence data for L1 retrotransposons in the basal living Tetrapoda lineages prompted an investigation of their distribution and evolution in the genomes of the key tetrapod lineages, amphibians and reptiles, and in lungfishes. In this study, we combined genome database searches with PCR analysis to demonstrate that L1 retrotransposons are present in the genomes of lungfishes, amphibians, and lepidosaurs. Phylogenomic analysis shows that the genomes of Deuterostomia possess three highly divergent groups of L1 retrotransposons, with distinct distribution patterns. The analysis of L1 diversity shows the presence of a very large number of diverse L1 families, each with very low copy numbers, at the time of the origin of tetrapods. During the evolution of synapsids, all but one L1 lineage have been lost. This study establishes that the loss of L1 diversity and explosion in copy numbers occurred in the synapsid ancestors of mammals, and was most probably caused by severe population bottlenecks.
20142992|Penelope-like elements (PLEs) are a relatively little studied class of eukaryotic retroelements, distinguished by the presence of the GIY-YIG endonuclease domain, the ability of some representatives to retain introns, and the similarity of PLE-encoded reverse transcriptases to telomerases. Although these retrotransposons are abundant in many animal genomes, the reverse transcriptase moiety can also be found in several protists, fungi, and plants, indicating its ancient origin. A comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of PLEs was conducted, based on extended sequence alignments and a considerably expanded data set. PLEs exhibit the pattern of evolution similar to that of non-LTR retrotransposons, which form deep-branching clades dating back to the Precambrian era. However, PLEs seem to have experienced a much higher degree of lineage losses than non-LTR retrotransposons. It is suggested that PLEs and non-LTR retrotransposons are included into a larger eTPRT (eukaryotic target-primed) group of retroelements, characterized by 5 truncation, variable target-site duplication, and the potential of the 3 end to participate in formation of non-autonomous derivatives.
20142904|Australasian marsupials include three major radiations, the insectivorous/carnivorous Dasyuromorphia, the omnivorous bandicoots (Peramelemorphia), and the largely herbivorous diprotodontians. Morphologists have generally considered the bandicoots and diprotodontians to be closely related, most prominently because they are both syndactylous (with the 2nd and 3rd pedal digits being fused). Molecular studies have been unable to confirm or reject this Syndactyla hypothesis. Here we present new mitochondrial (mt) genomes from a spiny bandicoot (Echymipera rufescens) and two dasyurids, a fat-tailed dunnart (Sminthopsis crassicaudata) and a northern quoll (Dasyurus hallucatus). By comparing trees derived from pairwise base-frequency differences between taxa with standard (absolute, uncorrected) distance trees, we infer that composition bias among mt protein-coding and RNA sequences is sufficient to mislead tree reconstruction. This can explain incongruence between trees obtained from mt and nuclear data sets. However, after excluding major sources of compositional heterogeneity, both the "reduced-bias" mt and nuclear data sets clearly favor a bandicoot plus dasyuromorphian association, as well as a grouping of kangaroos and possums (Phalangeriformes) among diprotodontians. Notably, alternatives to these groupings could only be confidently rejected by combining the mt and nuclear data. Elsewhere on the tree, Dromiciops appears to be sister to the monophyletic Australasian marsupials, whereas the placement of the marsupial mole (Notoryctes) remains problematic. More generally, we contend that it is desirable to combine mt genome and nuclear sequences for inferring vertebrate phylogeny, but as separately modeled process partitions. This strategy depends on detecting and excluding (or accounting for) major sources of nonhistorical signal, such as from compositional nonstationarity.
20142898|We describe some new and recent results that allow for the analysis and representation of reticulate evolution by nontree networks. In particular, we (1) present a simple result to show that, despite the presence of reticulation, there is always a well-defined underlying tree that corresponds to those parts of life that do not have a history of reticulation; (2) describe and apply new theory for determining the smallest number of hybridization events required to explain conflicting gene trees; and (3) present a new algorithm to determine whether an arbitrary rooted network can be realized by contemporaneous reticulation events. We illustrate these results with examples.
20142896|It is now well known that incomplete lineage sorting can cause serious difficulties for phylogenetic inference, but little attention has been paid to methods that attempt to overcome these difficulties by explicitly considering the processes that produce them. Here we explore approaches to phylogenetic inference designed to consider retention and sorting of ancestral polymorphism. We examine how the reconstructability of a species (or population) phylogeny is affected by (a) the number of loci used to estimate the phylogeny and (b) the number of individuals sampled per species. Even in difficult cases with considerable incomplete lineage sorting (times between divergences less than 1
20142903|Using a four-taxon example under a simple model of evolution, we show that the methods of maximum likelihood and maximum posterior probability (which is a Bayesian method of inference) may not arrive at the same optimal tree topology. Some patterns that are separately uninformative under the maximum likelihood method are separately informative under the Bayesian method. We also show that this difference has impact on the bootstrap frequencies and the posterior probabilities of topologies, which therefore are not necessarily approximately equal. Efron et al. (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93:13429-13434, 1996) stated that bootstrap frequencies can, under certain circumstances, be interpreted as posterior probabilities. This is true only if one includes a noninformative prior distribution of the possible data patterns, and most often the prior distributions are instead specified in terms of topology and branch lengths.
20142900|The 22 genera and 64 species of rodents (Muridae: Murinae) distributed in the Philippine Islands provide a unique opportunity to study patterns and processes of diversification in island systems. Over 90% of these rodent species are endemic to the archipelago, but the relative importance of dispersal from the mainland, dispersal within the archipelago, and in situ differentiation as explanations of this diversity remains unclear, as no phylogenetic hypothesis for these species and relevant mainland forms is currently available. Here we report the results of phylogenetic analyses of the endemic Philippine murines and a wide sampling of murine diversity from outside the archipelago, based on the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene and the nuclear-encoded IRBP exon 1. Analysis of our combined gene data set consistently identified five clades comprising endemic Philippine genera, suggesting multiple invasions of the archipelago. Molecular dating analyses using parametric and semiparametric methods suggest that colonization occurred in at least two stages, one ca. 15 Mya, and another 8 to 12 million years later, consistent with the previous recognition of "Old" and "New" endemic rodent faunas. Ancestral area analysis suggests that the Old Endemics invaded landmasses that are now part of the island of Luzon, whereas the three New Endemic clades may have colonized through either Mindanao, Luzon, or both. Further, our results suggest that most of the diversification of Philippine murines took place within the archipelago. Despite heterogeneity between nuclear and mitochondrial genes in most model parameters, combined analysis of the two data sets using both parsimony and likelihood increased phylogenetic resolution; however, the effect of data combination on support for resolved nodes was method dependent. In contrast, our results suggest that combination of mitochondrial and nuclear data to estimate relatively ancient divergence times can severely compromise those estimates, even when specific methods that account for rate heterogeneity among genes are employed.
20142899|Nuclear introns are commonly used as phylogenetic markers, but a number of issues related to alignment strategies, indel treatments, and the incorporation of length-variant heterozygotes (LVHs) are not routinely addressed when generating phylogenetic hypotheses. Topological congruence in relation to an extensive mitochondrial DNA multigene phylogeny (derived from 2423 bp of 12S, 16S, ND4, and CYTB genes) of the Asian pitviper "Trimeresurus" radiation was used to compare combinations of "by eye" and edited and unedited ClustalX 1.8 alignments of two nuclear introns. Indels were treated as missing data, fifth character states, and assigned simple and multistate codes. Upon recovery of the optimal alignment and indel treatment strategy, a total evidence approach was used to investigate the phylogenetic utility of the indels and test new generic arrangements within Trimeresurus. Approximately one third of the intron data partitions exhibited LVHs, suggesting that they are common in introns. Furthermore, a simple concatenation approach can facilitate the incorporation of LVHs into phylogenetic analyses to make use of all available data and investigate mechanisms of molecular evolution. Analyses of ClustalX 1.8-assisted alignments were generally more congruent than the "by eye" alignment and the analysis of a simple coded, edited ClustalX 1.8 (gap opening cost 5, gap extension cost 1) alignment revealed the most congruent tree. The total evidence approach supported the new arrangements within Trimeresurus, suggesting that the phylogeny should be considered as a working benchmark in Asian pitviper systematics. Finally, a critical appraisal of the diverse array of indels (56 to 57 per intron, ranging from 1 to 151 bp in length) suggested that they are a combination of Hennigian and homoplasious events unrelated to indel size or location within the intron.
20142897|Previous phylogenetic studies of the bee tribe Allodapini suggested a puzzling biogeographic problem: one of the key basal divergences involved separation of the southern African and southern Australian clades at a very early stage in allodapine evolution, but no taxa occur in the Palaearctic or Asian regions that might suggest a Laurasian dispersal route. However, these studies lacked sufficient sequence data and appropriate maximum likelihood partition models to provide reliable phylogenetic estimates and enable alternative biogeographic hypotheses to be distinguished. Using Bayesian and penalized likelihood approaches and an expanded sequence and taxon set we examine phylogenetic relationships between the Australian, African, and Malagasy groups and estimate divergence times for key nodes. We show that divergence of the three basal Australian clades (known as the exoneurines) occurred at least 25 Mya following a single colonization event, and that this group diverged from the African + Madagascan clade at least 30 Mya, but actual divergence dates are likely to be much older than these very conservative limits. The bifurcation order of the exoneurine clades was not resolved and analyses could not rule out the existence of a hard polytomy, suggesting rapid radiation after colonization of Australia. Their divergence involved major transitions in life history traits and these placed constraints on the kinds of social organization that subsequently evolved in each lineage. Early divergence between the African, Malagasy, and Australian clades presents a major puzzle for historical biogeography: node ages are too recent for Gondwanan vicariance hypotheses, but too early for Laurasian dispersal scenarios. We suggest a scenario involving island hopping across the Indian Ocean via a series of now largely submerged elements of the Kergulen Plateau and Broken Ridge provinces, both of which are known to have had subaerial formations during the Cenozoic.
20142901|Reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (RJ-MCMC) is a technique for simultaneously evaluating multiple related (but not necessarily nested) statistical models that has recently been applied to the problem of phylogenetic model selection. Here we use a simulation approach to assess the performance of this method and compare it to Akaike weights, a measure of model uncertainty that is based on the Akaike information criterion. Under conditions where the assumptions of the candidate models matched the generating conditions, both Bayesian and AIC-based methods perform well. The 95% credible interval contained the generating model close to 95% of the time. However, the size of the credible interval differed with the Bayesian credible set containing approximately 25% to 50% fewer models than an AIC-based credible interval. The posterior probability was a better indicator of the correct model than the Akaike weight when all assumptions were met but both measures performed similarly when some model assumptions were violated. Models in the Bayesian posterior distribution were also more similar to the generating model in their number of parameters and were less biased in their complexity. In contrast, Akaike-weighted models were more distant from the generating model and biased towards slightly greater complexity. The AIC-based credible interval appeared to be more robust to the violation of the rate homogeneity assumption. Both AIC and Bayesian approaches suggest that substantial uncertainty can accompany the choice of model for phylogenetic analyses, suggesting that alternative candidate models should be examined in analysis of phylogenetic data.
20142902|A newly compiled data set of nearly complete sequences of the large subunit of the nuclear ribosome (LSU or 28S) sampled from 31 diverse medusozoans greatly clarifies the phylogenetic history of Cnidaria. These data have substantial power to discern among many of the competing hypotheses of relationship derived from prior work. Moreover, LSU data provide strong support at key nodes that were equivocal based on other molecular markers. Combining LSU sequences with those of the small subunit of the nuclear ribosome (SSU or 18S), we present a detailed working hypothesis of medusozoan relationships and discuss character evolution within this diverse clade. Stauromedusae, comprising the benthic, so-called stalked jellyfish, appears to be the sister group of all other medusozoans, implying that the free-swimming medusa stage, the motor nerve net, and statocysts of ecto-endodermal origin are features derived within Medusozoa. Cubozoans, which have had uncertain phylogenetic affinities since the elucidation of their life cycles, form a clade--named Acraspeda--with the scyphozoan groups Coronatae, Rhizostomeae, and Semaeostomeae. The polyps of both cubozoans and hydrozoans appear to be secondarily simplified. Hydrozoa is comprised by two well-supported clades, Trachylina and Hydroidolina. The position of Limnomedusae within Trachylina indicates that the ancestral hydrozoan had a biphasic life cycle and that the medusa was formed via an entocodon. Recently hypothesized homologies between the entocodon and bilaterian mesoderm are therefore suspect. Laingiomedusae, which has often been viewed as a close ally of the trachyline group Narcomedusae, is instead shown to be unambiguously a member of Hydroidolina. The important model organisms of the Hydra species complex are part of a clade, Aplanulata, with other hydrozoans possessing direct development not involving a ciliated planula stage. Finally, applying phylogenetic mixture models to our data proved to be of little additional value over a more traditional phylogenetic approach involving explicit hypothesis testing and bootstrap analyses under multiple optimality criteria.
20142895|Even though relationships within Annelida are poorly understood, Eunicida is one of only a few major annelid lineages well supported by morphology. The seven recognized eunicid families possess sclerotized jaws that include mandibles and a maxillary apparatus. The maxillary apparatuses vary in shape and number of elements, and three main types are recognized in extant taxa: ctenognath, labidognath, and prionognath. Ctenognath jaws are usually considered to represent the plesiomorphic state of Eunicida, whereas taxa with labidognath and prionognath are thought to form a derived monophyletic assemblage. However, this hypothesis has never been tested in a statistical framework even though it holds considerable importance for understanding annelid phylogeny and possibly lophotrochozoan evolution because Eunicida has the best annelid fossil record. Therefore, we used maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference approaches to reconstruct Eunicida phylogeny using sequence data from nuclear 18S and 28S rDNA genes and mitochondrial 16S rDNA and cytochrome c oxidase subunit I genes. Additionally, we conducted three different tests to investigate suitability of combining data sets. Incongruence length difference (ILD) and Shimodaira-Hasegawa (SH) test comparisons of resultant trees under different data partitions have been widely used previously but do not give a good indication as to which nodes may be causing the conflict. Thus, we developed a partition addition bootstrap alteration (PABA) approach that evaluates congruence or conflict for any given node by determining how bootstrap scores are altered when different data partitions are added. PABA shows the contribution of each partition to the phylogeny obtained in the combined analysis. Generally, the ILD test performed worse than the other approaches in detecting incongruence. Both PABA and the SH approach indicated the 28S and COI data sets add conflicting signal, but PABA is more informative for elucidating which data partition may be misleading at a given node. All our analyses indicate that the monophyly of the labidognath/prionognath taxa and even a labidognath clade (i.e., a "Eunicidae"/Onuphidae/Lumbrineridae clade) is significantly rejected. We show that the definition of both the labidognath and ctenognath jaw type does not address adequately the variation within Eunicida and thus misleads our current evolutionary understanding. Based on the presented results a symmetric maxillary apparatus with a carrier and four to six maxillae is most likely the plesiomorphic condition for Eunicida.
20142954| Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) is a methodology that is gaining widespread use in the phylogenetics community and is central to phylogenetic software packages such as MrBayes. An important issue for users of MCMC methods is how to select appropriate values for adjustable parameters such as the length of the Markov chain or chains, the sampling density, the proposal mechanism, and, if Metropolis-coupled MCMC is being used, the number of heated chains and their temperatures. Although some parameter settings have been examined in detail in the literature, others are frequently chosen with more regard to computational time or personal experience with other data sets. Such choices may lead to inadequate sampling of tree space or an inefficient use of computational resources. We performed a detailed study of convergence and mixing for 70 randomly selected, putatively orthologous protein sets with different sizes and taxonomic compositions. Replicated runs from multiple random starting points permit a more rigorous assessment of convergence, and we developed two novel statistics,  and , for this purpose. Although likelihood values invariably stabilized quickly, adequate sampling of the posterior distribution of tree topologies took considerably longer. Our results suggest that multimodality is common for data sets with 30 or more taxa and that this results in slow convergence and mixing. However, we also found that the pragmatic approach of combining data from several short, replicated runs into a "metachain" to estimate bipartition posterior probabilities provided good approximations, and that such estimates were no worse in approximating a reference posterior distribution than those obtained using a single long run of the same length as the metachain. Precision appears to be best when heated Markov chains have low temperatures, whereas chains with high temperatures appear to sample trees with high posterior probabilities only rarely. 
20142957|Cataloging the very large number of undescribed species of insects could be greatly accelerated by automated DNA based approaches, but procedures for large-scale species discovery from sequence data are currently lacking. Here, we use mitochondrial DNA variation to delimit species in a poorly known beetle radiation in the genus Rivacindela from arid Australia. Among 468 individuals sampled from 65 sites and multiple morphologically distinguishable types, sequence variation in three mtDNA genes (cytochrome oxidase subunit 1, cytochrome b, 16S ribosomal RNA) was strongly partitioned between 46 or 47 putative species identified with quantitative methods of species recognition based on fixed unique ("diagnostic") characters. The boundaries between groups were also recognizable from a striking increase in branching rate in clock-constrained calibrated trees. Models of stochastic lineage growth (Yule models) were combined with coalescence theory to develop a new likelihood method that determines the point of transition from species-level (speciation and extinction) to population-level (coalescence) evolutionary processes. Fitting the location of the switches from speciation to coalescent nodes on the ultrametric tree of Rivacindela produced a transition in branching rate occurring at 0.43 Mya, leading to an estimate of 48 putative species (confidence interval for the threshold ranging from 47 to 51 clusters within 2 logL units). Entities delimited in this way exhibited biological properties of traditionally defined species, showing coherence of geographic ranges, broad congruence with morphologically recognized species, and levels of sequence divergence typical for closely related species of insects. The finding of discontinuous evolutionary groupings that are readily apparent in patterns of sequence variation permits largely automated species delineation from DNA surveys of local communities as a scaffold for taxonomy in this poorly known insect group.
20142960|The node-density effect is an artifact of phylogeny reconstruction that can cause branch lengths to be underestimated in areas of the tree with fewer taxa. Webster, Payne, and Pagel (2003, Science 301:478) introduced a statistical procedure (the "delta" test) to detect this artifact, and here we report the results of computer simulations that examine the test's performance. In a sample of 50,000 random data sets, we find that the delta test detects the artifact in 94.4% of cases in which it is present. When the artifact is not present (n = 10,000 simulated data sets) the test showed a type I error rate of approximately 1.69%, incorrectly reporting the artifact in 169 data sets. Three measures of tree shape or "balance" failed to predict the size of the node-density effect. This may reflect the relative homogeneity of our randomly generated topologies, but emphasizes that nearly any topology can suffer from the artifact, the effect not being confined only to highly unevenly sampled or otherwise imbalanced trees. The ability to screen phylogenies for the node-density artifact is important for phylogenetic inference and for researchers using phylogenetic trees to infer evolutionary processes, including their use in molecular clock dating.
20142953| We revisit statistical tests for branches of evolutionary trees reconstructed upon molecular data. A new, fast, approximate likelihood-ratio test (aLRT) for branches is presented here as a competitive alternative to nonparametric bootstrap and Bayesian estimation of branch support. The aLRT is based on the idea of the conventional LRT, with the null hypothesis corresponding to the assumption that the inferred branch has length 0. We show that the LRT statistic is asymptotically distributed as a maximum of three random variables drawn from the  +  distribution. The new aLRT of interior branch uses this distribution for significance testing, but the test statistic is approximated in a slightly conservative but practical way as 2( - ), i.e., double the difference between the maximum log-likelihood values corresponding to the best tree and the second best topological arrangement around the branch of interest. Such a test is fast because the log-likelihood value  is computed by optimizing only over the branch of interest and the four adjacent branches, whereas other parameters are fixed at their optimal values corresponding to the best ML tree. The performance of the new test was studied on simulated 4-, 12-, and 100-taxon data sets with sequences of different lengths. The aLRT is shown to be accurate, powerful, and robust to certain violations of model assumptions. The aLRT is implemented within the algorithm used by the recent fast maximum likelihood tree estimation program PHYML (Guindon and Gascuel, 2003). 
20142958|Most implementations of molecular clocks require resolved topologies. However, one of the Bayesian relaxed clock approaches accepts input topologies that include polytomies. We explored the effects of resolved and polytomous input topologies in a rate-heterogeneous sequence data set for Gnetum, a member of the seed plant lineage Gnetales. Gnetum has 10 species in South America, 1 in tropical West Africa, and 20 to 25 in tropical Asia, and explanations for the ages of these disjunctions involve long-distance dispersal and/or the breakup of Gondwana. To resolve relationships within Gnetum, we sequenced most of its species for six loci from the chloroplast (rbcL, matK, and the trnT-trnF region), the nucleus (rITS/5.8S and the LEAFY gene second intron), and the mitochondrion (nad1 gene second intron). Because Gnetum has no fossil record, we relied on fossils from other Gnetales and from the seed plant lineages conifers, Ginkgo, cycads, and angiosperms to constrain a molecular clock and obtain absolute times for within-Gnetum divergence events. Relationships among Gnetales and the other seed plant lineages are still unresolved, and we therefore used differently resolved topologies, including one that contained a basal polytomy among gymnosperms. For a small set of Gnetales exemplars (n = 13) in which rbcL and matK satisfied the clock assumption, we also obtained time estimates from a strict clock, calibrated with one outgroup fossil. The changing hierarchical relationships among seed plants (and accordingly changing placements of distant fossils) resulted in small changes of within-Gnetum estimates because topologically closest constraints overrode more distant constraints. Regardless of the seed plant topology assumed, relaxed clock estimates suggest that the extant clades of Gnetum began diverging from each other during the Upper Oligocene. Strict clock estimates imply a mid-Miocene divergence. These estimates, together with the phylogeny for Gnetum from the six combined data sets, imply that the single African species of Gnetum is not a remnant of a once Gondwanan distribution. Miocene and Pliocene range expansions are inferred for the Asian subclades of Gnetum, which stem from an ancestor that arrived from Africa. These findings fit with seed dispersal by water in several species of Gnetum, morphological similarities among apparently young species, and incomplete concerted evolution in the nuclear ITS region.
20142963|The estimation of ever larger phylogenies requires consideration of alternative inference strategies, including divide-and-conquer approaches that decompose the global inference problem to a set of smaller, more manageable component problems. A prominent locus of research in this area is the development of supertree methods, which estimate a composite tree by combining a set of partially overlapping component topologies. Although promising, the use of component tree topologies as the primary data dissociates supertrees from complexities within the underling character data and complicates the evaluation of phylogenetic uncertainty. We address these issues by exploring three approaches that variously incorporate nonparametric bootstrapping into a common supertree estimation algorithm (matrix representation with parsimony, although any algorithm might be used), including bootstrap-weighting, source-tree bootstrapping, and hierarchical bootstrapping. We illustrate these procedures by means of hypothetical and empirical examples. Our preliminary experiments suggest that these methods have the potential to improve the correspondence of supertree estimates to those derived from simultaneous analysis of the combined data and to allow uncertainty in supertree topologies to be quantified. The ability to increase the transparency of supertrees to the underlying character data has several practical implications and sheds new light on an old debate. These methods have been implemented in the freely available program, tREeBOOT.
20142956| Ranidae is a large anuran group with a nearly cosmopolitan distribution. We investigated the phylogenetic relationships and early biogeographic history of ranid frogs, using 104 representatives of all subfamilies and families, sampled from throughout their distribution. Analyses of 1570 bp of nuclear gene fragments (Rag-1, rhod, Tyr) and 2100 bp of the mitochondrial genome (12S rRNA,
20142959|Allelic variation within individuals holds information regarding the relationships of organisms, which is expected to be particularly important for reconstructing the evolutionary history of closely related taxa. However, little effort has been committed to incorporate such information for reconstructing the phylogeny of organisms. Haplotype trees represent a solution when one nonrecombinant marker is considered, but there is no satisfying method when multiple genes are to be combined. In this paper, we propose an algorithm that converts a distance matrix of alleles to a distance matrix among organisms. This algorithm allows the incorporation of allelic variation for reconstructing the phylogeny of organisms from one ore more genes. The method is applied to reconstruct the phylogeny of the seven native diploid species of Rosa sect. Cinnamomeae in North America. The glyceralgehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), the triose phosphate isomerase (TPI), and the malate synthase (MS) genes were sequenced for 40 individuals from these species. The three genes had little genetic variation, and most species showed incomplete lineage sorting, suggesting these species have a recent origin. Despite these difficulties, the networks (NeighborNet) of organisms reconstructed from the matrix obtained with the algorithm recovered groups that more closely match taxonomic boundaries than did the haplotype trees. The combined network of individuals shows that species west of the Rocky Mountains, Rosa gymnocarpa and R. pisocarpa, form exclusive groups and that together they are distinct from eastern species. In the east, three groups were found to be exclusive: R. nitida-R. palustris, R. foliolosa, and R. blanda-R. woodsii. These groups are congruent with the morphology and the ecology of species. The method is also useful for representing hybrid individuals when the relationships are reconstructed using a phylogenetic network.
20142962|This article presents a new way to quantify the descriptive ability of tree shape statistics. Where before, tree shape statistics were chosen by their ability to distinguish between macroevolutionary models, the resolution presented in this paper quantifies the ability of a statistic to differentiate between similar and different trees. This is termed the geometric approach to differentiate it from the model-based approach previously explored. A distinct advantage of this perspective is that it allows evaluation of multiple tree shape statistics describing different aspects of tree shape. After developing the methodology, it is applied here to make specific recommendations for a suite of three statistics that may prove useful in applications. The article ends with an application of the statistics of clarify the impact of taxa omission on tree shape.
20142955|Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed among chironemid fishes based on morphological and molecular (lrRNA, NADH4, S7 ribosomal protein) characters. Two sympatric species from Juan Fernndez in the southeast Pacific are not sister taxa, but rather exhibit independent relationships to Australian/New Zealand chironemids. The most plausible explanation for these relationships and contemporary distributions is an Australian/New Zealand origin of the family, followed by two trans-Pacific dispersal and colonization events, facilitated by larval entrapment within the West Wind Drift. This study demonstrates that the diversity of taxa on an island can reflect multiple colonizations, rather than in situ diversification, even in the case of very small, isolated, and geologically recent islands. When taken in conjunction with studies of related taxa, our results indicate that transoceanic dispersal of temperate cirrhitoid fishes in the South Pacific has been frequent and unidirectional. Molecular estimates of divergence time between southeast Pacific chironemids and their western relatives predate the emergence of Juan Fernndez, consistent with hypotheses that much of the marine nearshore faunas of young southeast Pacific islands may be the product of successive transfer from older, now submerged islands.
20142961|The Noah's Ark Problem (NAP) is a comprehensive cost-effectiveness methodology for biodiversity conservation that was introduced by Weitzman (1998) and utilizes the phylogenetic tree containing the taxa of interest to assess biodiversity. Given a set of taxa, each of which has a particular survival probability that can be increased at some cost, the NAP seeks to allocate limited funds to conserving these taxa so that the future expected biodiversity is maximized. Finding optimal solutions using this framework is a computationally difficult problem to which a simple and efficient "greedy" algorithm has been proposed in the literature and applied to conservation problems. We show that, although algorithms of this type cannot produce optimal solutions for the general NAP, there are two restricted scenarios of the NAP for which a greedy algorithm is guaranteed to produce optimal solutions. The first scenario requires the taxa to have equal conservation cost; the second scenario requires an ultrametric tree. The NAP assumes a linear relationship between the funding allocated to conservation of a taxon and the increased survival probability of that taxon. This relationship is briefly investigated and one variation is suggested that can also be solved using a greedy algorithm.
20142924|Phylogenies are often thought to be more dependent upon the specifics of the sequence alignment rather than on the method of reconstruction. Simulation of sequences containing insertion and deletion events was performed in order to determine the role that alignment accuracy plays during phylogenetic inference. Data sets were simulated for pectinate, balanced, and random tree shapes under different conditions (ultrametric equal branch length, ultrametric random branch length, nonultrametric random branch length). Comparisons between hypothesized alignments and true alignments enabled determination of two measures of alignment accuracy, that of the total data set and that of individual branches. In general, our results indicate that as alignment error increases, topological accuracy decreases. This trend was much more pronounced for data sets derived from more pectinate topologies. In contrast, for balanced, ultrametric, equal branch length tree shapes, alignment inaccuracy had little average effect on tree reconstruction. These conclusions are based on average trends of many analyses under different conditions, and any one specific analysis, independent of the alignment accuracy, may recover very accurate or inaccurate topologies. Maximum likelihood and Bayesian, in general, outperformed neighbor joining and maximum parsimony in terms of tree reconstruction accuracy. Results also indicated that as the length of the branch and of the neighboring branches increase, alignment accuracy decreases, and the length of the neighboring branches is the major factor in topological accuracy. Thus, multiple-sequence alignment can be an important factor in downstream effects on topological reconstruction.
20142915|Due in part to scarcity of material, no published study has yet cladistically addressed the systematics of living and fossil Tenrecidae (Mammalia, Afrotheria). Using a noninvasive technique for sampling nuclear DNA from museum specimens, we investigate the evolution of the Tenrecidae and assess the extent to which tenrecids fit patterns of relationships proposed for other terrestrial mammals on Madagascar. Application of several tree-reconstruction techniques on sequences of the nuclear growth hormone receptor gene and morphological data for all recognized tenrecid genera supports monophyly of Malagasy tenrecids to the exclusion of the two living African genera. However, both parsimony and Bayesian methods favor a close relationship between fossil African tenrecs and the Malagasy Geogale, supporting the hypothesis of island paraphyly, but not polyphyly. More generally, the noninvasive extraction technique can be applied with minimal risk to rare/unique specimens and, by better utilizing museum collections for genetic work, can greatly mitigate field expenses and disturbance of natural populations.
20142919|Greater phylogenetic signal is often found in parsimony-based analyses of third codon positions of protein-coding genes relative to their corresponding first and second codon positions, even for early-derived ("basal") clades. We used the Soltis et al. (2000; Bot. J. Linn. Soc. 133:381-461) data matrix of atpB and rbcL from 567 seed plants to quantify how each of six factors (observed character-state space, frequencies of observed character states, substitution probabilities among nucleotides, rate heterogeneity among sites, overall rate of evolution, and number of parsimony-informative characters) contributed to this phenomenon. Each of these six factors was estimated from the original data matrix for parsimony-informative third codon positions considered separately from first and second codon positions combined. One of the most parsimonious trees found was used as the constraint topology; branch lengths were estimated using likelihood-based distances, and characters were simulated on this tree. Differential frequencies of observed character states were found to be the most limiting of the factors simulated for all three codon positions. Differential frequencies of observed character states and differential substitution probabilities among states were relatively advantageous for first and second codon positions. In contrast, differential numbers of observed character states, differential rate heterogeneity among sites, the greater number of parsimony-informative characters, and the higher overall rate of evolution were relatively advantageous for third codon positions. The amount of possible synapomorphy was predictive of the overall success of resolution.
20142918|Platyrrhine primates and caviomorph rodents are clades of mammals that colonized South America during its period of isolation from the other continents, between 100 and 3 million years ago (Mya). Until now, no molecular study investigated the timing of the South American colonization by these two lineages with the same molecular data set. Using sequences from three nuclear genes (ADRA2B, vWF, and IRBP, both separate and combined) from 60 species, and eight fossil calibration constraints, we estimated the times of origin and diversification of platyrrhines and caviomorphs via a Bayesian relaxed molecular clock approach. To account for the possible effect of an accelerated rate of evolution of the IRBP gene along the branch leading to the anthropoids, we performed the datings with and without IRBP (3768 sites and 2469 sites, respectively). The time window for the colonization of South America by primates and by rodents is demarcated by the dates of origin (upper bound) and radiation (lower bound) of platyrrhines and caviomorphs. According to this approach, platyrrhine primates colonized South America between 37.0  3.0 Mya (or 38.9  4.0 Mya without IRBP) and 16.8  2.3 (or 20.1  3.3) Mya, and caviomorph rodents between 45.4  4.1 (or 43.7  4.8) Mya and 36.7  3.7 (or 35.8  4.3) Mya. Considering both the fossil record and these molecular datings, the favored scenarios are a trans-Atlantic migration of primates from Africa at the end of the Eocene or beginning of the Oligocene, and a colonization of South America by rodents during the Middle or Late Eocene. Based on our nuclear DNA data, we cannot rule out the possibility of a concomitant arrival of primates and rodents in South America. The caviomorphs radiated soon after their arrival, before the Oligocene glaciations, and these early caviomorph lineages persisted until the present. By contrast, few platyrrhine fossils are known in the Oligocene, and the present-day taxa are the result of a quite recent, Early Miocene diversification.
20142925| Nuclear DNA sequence data for diploid organisms are potentially a rich source of phylogenetic information for disentangling the evolutionary relationships of closely related organisms, but present special phylogenetic problems owing to difficulties arising from heterozygosity and recombination. We analyzed allelic relationships for two nuclear gene regions (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and elongation factor-1), along with a mitochondrial gene region (NADH dehydrogenase subunit5), for an assemblage of closely related species of carabid beetles (Carabus subgenus Ohomopterus). We used a network approach to examine whether the nuclear gene sequences provide substantial phylogenetic information on species relationships and evolutionary history. The mitochondrial gene genealogy strongly contradicted the morphological species boundary as a result of introgression of heterospecific mitochondria. Two nuclear gene regions showed high allelic diversity within species, and this diversity was partially attributable to recombination between various alleles and high variability in the intron region. Shared nuclear alleles among species were rare and were considered to represent shared ancestral polymorphism. Despite the presence of recombination, nuclear allelic networks recovered species monophyly more often and presented genetic differentiation patterns (low to high) among species more clearly. Overall, nuclear gene networks provide clear evidence for separate biological species and information on the phylogenetic relationships among closely related carabid beetles. 
20142922| The mitochondrial genome is one of the most frequently used loci in phylogenetic and phylogeographic analyses, and it is becoming increasingly possible to sequence and analyze this genome in its entirety from diverse taxa. However, sequencing the entire genome is not always desirable or feasible. Which genes should be selected to best infer the evolutionary history of the mitochondria within a group of organisms, and what properties of a gene determine its phylogenetic performance? The current study addresses these questions in a Bayesian phylogenetic framework with reference to a phylogeny of plethodontid and related salamanders derived from 27 complete mitochondrial genomes; this topology is corroborated by nuclear DNA and morphological data. Evolutionary rates for each mitochondrial gene and divergence dates for all nodes in the plethodontid mitochondrial genome phylogeny were estimated in both Bayesian and maximum likelihood frameworks using multiple fossil calibrations, multiple data partitions, and a clock-independent approach. Bayesian analyses of individual genes were performed, and the resulting trees compared against the reference topology. Ordinal logistic regression analysis of molecular evolution rate, gene length, and the -shape parameter  demonstrated that slower rate of evolution and longer gene length both increased the probability that a gene would perform well phylogenetically. Estimated rates of molecular evolution vary 84-fold among different mitochondrial genes and different salamander lineages, and mean rates among genes vary 15-fold. Despite having conserved amino acid sequences, cox1, cox2, cox3, and cob have the fastest mean rates of nucleotide substitution, and the greatest variation in rates, whereas rrnS and rrnL have the slowest rates. Reasons underlying this rate variation are discussed, as is the extensive rate variation in cox1 in light of its proposed role in DNA barcoding. 
20142923|A recent molecular phylogeny of the mammalian order Carnivora implied large body size as the ancestral condition for the caniform subclade Arctoidea using the distribution of species mean body sizes among living taxa. "Extant taxa--only" approaches such as these discount character state observations for fossil members of living clades and completely ignore data from extinct lineages. To more rigorously reconstruct body sizes of ancestral forms within the Caniformia, body size and first appearance data were collected for 149 extant and 367 extinct taxa. Body sizes were reconstructed for four ancestral nodes using weighted squared-change parsimony on log-transformed body mass data. Reconstructions based on extant taxa alone favored large body sizes (on the order of 10 to 50 kg) for the last common ancestors of both the Caniformia and Arctoidea. In contrast, reconstructions incorporating fossil data support small body sizes (&lt5 kg) for the ancestors of those clades. When the temporal information associated with fossil data was discarded, body size reconstructions became ambiguous, demonstrating that incorporating both character state and temporal information from fossil taxa unambiguously supports a small ancestral body size, thereby falsifying hypotheses derived from extant taxa alone. Body size reconstructions for Caniformia, Arctoidea, and Musteloidea were not sensitive to potential errors introduced by uncertainty in the position of extinct lineages relative to the molecular topology, or to missing body size data for extinct members of an entire major clade (the aquatic Pinnipedia). Incorporating character state observations and temporal information from the fossil record into hypothesis testing has a significant impact on the ability to reconstruct ancestral characters and constrains the range of potential hypotheses of character evolution. Fossil data here provide the evidence to reliably document trends of both increasing and decreasing body size in several caniform clades. More generally, including fossils in such analyses incorporates evidence of directional trends, thereby yielding more reliable ancestral character state reconstructions.
20142921|Typically, supertree methods combine a collection of source trees in which just the leaves are labeled by taxa. In such methods the resulting supertree is also leaf labeled. An underlying assumption in these methods is that across all trees in the collection, no two of the taxa are nested; for example, "buttercups" and "plants" are nested taxa. Motivated by Page, the first supertree algorithm for allowing the source trees to collectively have nested taxa is called AncestralBuild. Here, in addition to taxa labeling the leaves, the source trees may have taxa labeling some of their interior nodes. Taxa-labeling interior nodes are at a higher taxonomic level than that of their descendants (for example, genera versus species). Analogous to the supertree method Build for deciding the compatibility of a collection of source trees in which just the leaves are labeled, AncestralBuild is a polynomial-time algorithm for deciding the compatibility of a collection of source trees in which some of the interior nodes are also labeled by taxa. Although a more general method, in this paper we show that the original description of AncestralBuild can be modified so that the running time is as fast as the current fastest running time for Build. Fast computation for deciding compatibility is essential if one is to make use of phylogenetic databases that contain thousands of trees on tens of thousands of taxa. This is particularly so as AncestralBuild is incorporated as a basic tool inside more general supertree methods (that is, methods that always output a tree regardless of the compatibility of the source trees). We apply the method to propose a comprehensive phylogeny of the strepsirrhines, a major group of the primates.
20142920|A new method is developed for calculating sequence substitution probabilities using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. The basic strategy is to use uniformization to transform the original continuous time Markov process into a Poisson substitution process and a discrete Markov chain of state transitions. An efficient MCMC algorithm for evaluating substitution probabilities by this approach using a continuous gamma distribution to model site-specific rates is outlined. The method is applied to the problem of inferring branch lengths and site-specific rates from nucleotide sequences under a general time-reversible (GTR) model and a computer program BYPASSR is developed. Simulations are used to examine the performance of the new program relative to an existing program BASEML that uses a discrete approximation for the gamma distributed prior on site-specific rates. It is found that BASEML and BYPASSR are in close agreement when inferring branch lengths, regardless of the number of rate categories used, but that BASEML tends to underestimate high site-specific substitution rates, and to overestimate intermediate rates, when fewer than 50 rate categories are used. Rate estimates obtained using BASEML agree more closely with those of BYPASSR as the number of rate categories increases. Analyses of the posterior distributions of site-specific rates from BYPASSR suggest that a large number of taxa are needed to obtain precise estimates of site-specific rates, especially when rates are very high or very low. The method is applied to analyze 45 sequences of the alpha 2B adrenergic receptor gene (A2AB) from a sample of eutherian taxa. In general, the pattern expected for regions under negative selection is observed with third codon positions having the highest inferred rates, followed by first codon positions and with second codon positions having the lowest inferred rates. Several sites show exceptionally high substitution rates at second codon positions that may represent the effects of positive selection.
20142917|The fossil record indicates that Myzostomida, an enigmatic group of marine worms, traditionally considered as annelids, have exhibited a symbiotic relationship with echinoderms, especially crinoids, for nearly 350 million years. All known extant myzostomids are associated with echinoderms and infest their integument, gonads, celom, or digestive system. Using nuclear (18S rDNA) and mitochondrial (16S and COI) DNA sequence data from 37 myzostomid species representing nine genera, we report here the first molecular phylogeny of the Myzostomida and investigate the evolution of their various symbiotic associations. Our analyses indicate that the two orders Proboscidea and Pharyngidea do not constitute natural groupings. Character reconstruction analyses strongly suggest that (1) the ancestor of all extant myzostomids was an ectocommensal that first infested crinoids, and then asteroids and ophiuroids, and (2) parasitism in myzostomids emerged multiple times independently.
20142916|In the Bayesian paradigm, a common method for comparing two models is to compute the Bayes factor, defined as the ratio of their respective marginal likelihoods. In recent phylogenetic works, the numerical evaluation of marginal likelihoods has often been performed using the harmonic mean estimation procedure. In the present article, we propose to employ another method, based on an analogy with statistical physics, called thermodynamic integration. We describe the method, propose an implementation, and show on two analytical examples that this numerical method yields reliable estimates. In contrast, the harmonic mean estimator leads to a strong overestimation of the marginal likelihood, which is all the more pronounced as the model is higher dimensional. As a result, the harmonic mean estimator systematically favors more parameter-rich models, an artefact that might explain some recent puzzling observations, based on harmonic mean estimates, suggesting that Bayes factors tend to overscore complex models. Finally, we apply our method to the comparison of several alternative models of amino-acid replacement. We confirm our previous observations, indicating that modeling pattern heterogeneity across sites tends to yield better models than standard empirical matrices.
20142980|We investigate the impact of past climates on plant diversification by tracking the "footprint" of climate change on a phylogenetic tree. Diversity within the cosmopolitan carnivorous plant genus Drosera (Droseraceae) is focused within Mediterranean climate regions. We explore whether this diversity is temporally linked to Mediterranean-type climatic shifts of the mid-Miocene and whether climate preferences are conservative over phylogenetic timescales. Phyloclimatic modeling combines environmental niche (bioclimatic) modeling with phylogenetics in order to study evolutionary patterns in relation to climate change. We present the largest and most complete such example to date using Drosera. The bioclimatic models of extant species demonstrate clear phylogenetic patterns; this is particularly evident for the tuberous sundews from southwestern Australia (subgenus Ergaleium). We employ a method for establishing confidence intervals of node ages on a phylogeny using replicates from a Bayesian phylogenetic analysis. This chronogram shows that many clades, including subgenus Ergaleium and section Bryastrum, diversified during the establishment of the Mediterranean-type climate. Ancestral reconstructions of bioclimatic models demonstrate a pattern of preference for this climate type within these groups. Ancestral bioclimatic models are projected into palaeo-climate reconstructions for the time periods indicated by the chronogram. We present two such examples that each generate plausible estimates of ancestral lineage distribution, which are similar to their current distributions. This is the first study to attempt bioclimatic projections on evolutionary time scales. The sundews appear to have diversified in response to local climate development. Some groups are specialized for Mediterranean climates, others show wide-ranging generalism. This demonstrates that Phyloclimatic modeling could be repeated for other plant groups and is fundamental to the understanding of evolutionary responses to climate change.
20142983| Collections of phylogenetic trees are usually summarized using consensus methods. These methods build a single tree, supposed to be representative of the collection. However, in the case of heterogeneous collections of trees, the resulting consensus may be poorly resolved (strict consensus, majority-rule consensus,...), or may perform arbitrary choices among mutually incompatible clades, or splits (greedy consensus). Here, we propose an alternative method, which we call the multipolar consensus (MPC). Its aim is to display all the splits having a support above a predefined threshold, in a minimum number of consensus trees, or poles. We show that the problem is equivalent to a graph-coloring problem, and propose an implementation of the method. Finally, we apply the MPC to real data sets. Our results indicate that, typically, all the splits down to a weight of 10% can be displayed in no more than 4 trees. In addition, in some cases, biologically relevant secondary signals, which would not have been present in any of the classical consensus trees, are indeed captured by our method, indicating that the MPC provides a convenient exploratory method for phylogenetic analysis. The method was implemented in a package freely available at http://www.lirmm.fr/cbonnard/MPC.html. 
20142979|A combination approach between the rules and recommendations from the Linnean (rank-based) and phylogenetic nomenclature is proposed, with a review of the debate. Advantages and drawbacks of both systems are discussed. Too often the debates are biased and unconstructive, and there is a need for dialogue and compromise. Our recommendations for the future of biological classification, to be considered by new editions of all codes of nomenclature, would enable the Linnean and the phylogenetic nomenclatural systems to coexist, or be combined. (1) We see it as essential that species binomen, including the formal rank of genus, are retained, and (2) species should continue to be linked to type specimens. (3) The use of other formal ranks should be minimized; however, we suggest retaining the classical supergeneric ranks (family, class, order, phylum, kingdom) for purely practical reasons. (4) For these ranks and any formally defined clades, type taxa (species, genera) should be replaced by phylogenetic definitions that explicitly hypothesize monophyly. (5) In contrast, species monophyly should not be required, because theory predicts that many species are not monophyletic. (6) It should be stressed that equal ranks do not imply comparable evolutionary histories.
20142981|The ancestral distance test is introduced to detect correlated evolution between two binary traits in large phylogenies that may lack resolved subclades, branch lengths, and/or comparative data. We define the ancestral distance as the time separating a randomly sampled taxon from its most recent ancestor (MRA) with extant descendants that have an independent trait. The sampled taxon either has (target sample) or lacks (nontarget sample) a dependent trait. Modeled as a Markov process, we show that the distribution of ancestral distances for the target sample is identical to that of the nontarget sample when characters are uncorrelated, whereas ancestral distances are smaller on average for the target sample when characters are correlated. Simulations suggest that the ancestral distance can be estimated using the time, total branch length, taxonomic rank, or number of speciation events between a sampled taxon and the MRA. These results are shown to be robust to deviations from Markov assumptions. A Monte Carlo technique estimates P-values when fully resolved phylogenies with branch lengths are available, and we evaluate the Monte Carlo approach using a data set with known correlation. Measures of relatedness were found to provide a robust means to test hypotheses of correlated character evolution.
20142978|We consider a (phylogenetic) tree with n labeled leaves, the taxa, and a length for each branch in the tree. For any subset of k taxa, the phylogenetic diversity is defined as the sum of the branch-lengths of the minimal subtree connecting the taxa in the subset. We introduce two time-efficient algorithms (greedy and pruning) to compute a subset of size k with maximal phylogenetic diversity in O(n log k) and O[n + (n - k) log(n - k)] time, respectively. The greedy algorithm is an efficient implementation of the so-called greedy strategy (Steel, 2005; Pardi and Goldman, 2005), whereas the pruning algorithm provides an alternative description of the same problem. Both algorithms compute within seconds a subtree with maximal phylogenetic diversity for trees with 100,000 taxa or more.
20142976|Phylogenomic studies aim to build phylogenies from large sets of homologous genes. Such "genome-sized" data require fast methods, because of the typically large numbers of taxa examined. In this framework, distance-based methods are useful for exploratory studies and building a starting tree to be refined by a more powerful maximum likelihood (ML) approach. However, estimating evolutionary distances directly from concatenated genes gives poor topological signal as genes evolve at different rates. We propose a novel method, named super distance matrix (SDM), which follows the same line as average consensus supertree (ACS; Lapointe and Cucumel, 1997) and combines the evolutionary distances obtained from each gene into a single distance supermatrix to be analyzed using a standard distance-based algorithm. SDM deforms the source matrices, without modifying their topological message, to bring them as close as possible to each other; these deformed matrices are then averaged to obtain the distance supermatrix. We show that this problem is equivalent to the minimization of a least-squares criterion subject to linear constraints. This problem has a unique solution which is obtained by resolving a linear system. As this system is sparse, its practical resolution requires
20142982|A comprehensive phylogeny of papilionoid legumes was inferred from sequences of 2228 taxa in GenBank release 147. A semiautomated analysis pipeline was constructed to download, parse, assemble, align, combine, and build trees from a pool of 11,881 sequences. Initial steps included all-against-all BLAST similarity searches coupled with assembly, using a novel strategy for building length-homogeneous primary sequence clusters. This was followed by a combination of global and local alignment protocols to build larger secondary clusters of locally aligned sequences, thus taking into account the dramatic differences in length of the heterogeneous coding and noncoding sequence data present in GenBank. Next, clusters were checked for the presence of duplicate genes and other potentially misleading sequences and examined for combinability with other clusters on the basis of taxon overlap. Finally, two supermatrices were constructed: a "sparse" matrix based on the primary clusters alone (1794 taxa  53,977 characters), and a somewhat more "dense" matrix based on the secondary clusters (2228 taxa  33,168 characters). Both matrices were very sparse, with 95% of their cells containing gaps or question marks. These were subjected to extensive heuristic parsimony analyses using deterministic and stochastic heuristics, including bootstrap analyses. A "reduced consensus" bootstrap analysis was also performed to detect cryptic signal in a subtree of the data set corresponding to a "backbone" phylogeny proposed in previous studies. Overall, the dense supermatrix appeared to provide much more satisfying results, indicated by better resolution of the bootstrap tree, excellent agreement with the backbone papilionoid tree in the reduced bootstrap consensus analysis, few problematic large polytomies in the strict consensus, and less fragmentation of conventionally recognized genera. Nevertheless, at lower taxonomic levels several problems were identified and diagnosed. A large number of methodological issues in supermatrix construction at this scale are discussed, including detection of annotation errors in GenBank sequences; the shortage of effective algorithms and software for local multiple sequence alignment; the difficulty of overcoming effects of fragmentation of data into nearly disjoint blocks in sparse supermatrices; and the lack of informative tools to assess confidence limits in very large trees.
20142975|With increasing force, genetic divergence of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is being argued as the primary tool for discovery of animal species. Two thresholds of single-gene divergence have been proposed: reciprocal monophyly, and 10 times greater genetic divergence between than within species (the "10 rule"). To explore quantitatively the utility of each approach, we couple neutral coalescent theory and the classical Bateson-Dobzhansky-Muller (BDM) model of speciation. The joint stochastic dynamics of these two processes demonstrate that both thresholds fail to "discover" many reproductively isolated lineages under a single incompatibility BDM model, especially when BDM loci have been subject to divergent selection. Only when populations have been isolated for &gt4 million generations did these thresholds achieve error rates of &lt10% under our model that incorporates variable population sizes. The high error rate evident in simulations is corroborated with six empirical data sets. These properties suggest that single-gene, high-throughput approaches to discovering new animal species will bias large-scale biodiversity surveys, particularly toward missing reproductively isolated lineages that have emerged by divergent selection or other mechanisms that accelerate reproductive isolation. Because single-gene thresholds for species discovery can result in substantial error at recent divergence times, they will misrepresent the correspondence between recently isolated populations and reproductively isolated lineages (= species).
20142974|DNA barcoding and DNA taxonomy have recently been proposed as solutions to the crisis of taxonomy and received significant attention from scientific journals, grant agencies, natural history museums, and mainstream media. Here, we test two key claims of molecular taxonomy using 1333 mitochondrial COI sequences for 449 species of Diptera. We investigate whether sequences can be used for species identification ("DNA barcoding") and find a relatively low success rate (&lt70%) based on tree-based and newly proposed species identification criteria. Misidentifications are due to wide overlap between intra- and interspecific genetic variability, which causes 6.5% of all query sequences to have allospecific or a mixture of allo- and conspecific (3.6%) best-matching barcodes. Even when two COI sequences are identical, there is a 6% chance that they belong to different species. We also find that 21% of all species lack unique barcodes when consensus sequences of all conspecific sequences are used. Lastly, we test whether DNA sequences yield an unambiguous species-level taxonomy when sequence profiles are assembled based on pairwise distance thresholds. We find many sequence triplets for which two of the three pairwise distances remain below the threshold, whereas the third exceeds it; i.e., it is impossible to consistently delimit species based on pairwise distances. Furthermore, for species profiles based on a 3% threshold, only 47% of all profiles are consistent with currently accepted species limits, 20% contain more than one species, and 33% only some sequences from one species; i.e., adopting such a DNA taxonomy would require the redescription of a large proportion of the known species, thus worsening the taxonomic impediment. We conclude with an outlook on the prospects of obtaining complete barcode databases and the future use of DNA sequences in a modern integrative taxonomy.
20142977|Recent advances in heuristics have made maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree estimation tractable for hundreds of sequences. Noticeably, these algorithms are currently limited to reversible models of evolution, in which Felsenstein's pulley principle applies. In this paper we show that by reorganizing the way likelihood is computed, one can efficiently compute the likelihood of a tree from any of its nodes with a nonreversible model of DNA sequence evolution, and hence benefit from cutting-edge heuristics. This computational trick can be used with reversible models of evolution without any extra cost. We then introduce nhPhyML, the adaptation of the nonhomogeneous nonstationary model of Galtier and Gouy (1998; Mol. Biol. Evol. 15:871-879) to the structure of PhyML, as well as an approximation of the model in which the set of equilibrium frequencies is limited. This new version shows good results both in terms of exploration of the space of tree topologies and ancestral G+C content estimation. We eventually apply it to rRNA sequences slowly evolving sites and conclude that the model and a wider taxonomic sampling still do not plead for a hyperthermophilic last universal common ancestor.
20142973|The study of the historical biogeography of butterflies has been hampered by a lack of well-resolved phylogenies and a good estimate of the temporal span over which butterflies have evolved. Recently there has been surge of phylogenetic hypotheses for various butterfly groups, but estimating ages of divergence is still in its infancy for this group of insects. The main problem has been the sparse fossil record for butterflies. In this study I have used a surprisingly good fossil record for the subfamily Nymphalinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) to estimate the ages of diversification of major lineages using Bayesian relaxed clock methods. I have investigated the effects of varying priors on posterior estimates in the analyses. For this data set, it is clear that the prior of the rate of molecular evolution at the ingroup node had the largest effect on the results. Taking this into account, I have been able to arrive at a plausible history of lineage splits, which appears to be correlated with known paleogeological events. The subfamily appears to have diversified soon after the K/T event about 65 million years ago. Several splits are coincident with major paleogeological events, such as the connection of the African and Asian continents about 21 million years ago and the presence of a peninsula of land connecting the current Greater Antilles to the South American continent 35 to 33 million years ago. My results suggest that the age of Nymphalidae is older than the 70 million years speculated to be the age of butterflies as a whole.
20142936|The interaction between yuccas and yucca moths has been central to understanding the origin and loss of obligate mutualism and mutualism reversal. Previous systematic research using mtDNA sequence data and characters associated with genitalic morphology revealed that a widespread pollinator species in the genus Tegeticula was in fact a complex of pollinator species that differed in host use and the placement of eggs into yucca flowers. Within this mutualistic clade two nonpollinating "cheater" species evolved. Cheaters feed on yucca seeds but lack the tentacular mouthparts necessary for yucca pollination. Previous work suggested that the species complex formed via a rapid radiation within the last several million years. In this study, we use an expanded mtDNA sequence data set and AFLP markers to examine the phylogenetic relationships among this rapidly diverging clade of moths and compare these relationships to patterns in genitalic morphology. Topologies obtained from analyses of the mtDNA and AFLP data differed significantly. Both data sets, however, corroborated the hypothesis of a rapid species radiation and suggested that there were likely two independent species radiations. Morphological analyses based on oviposition habit produced species groupings more similar to the AFLP topology than the mtDNA topology and suggested the two radiations coincided with differences in oviposition habit. The evolution of cheating was reaffirmed to have evolved twice and the closest pollinating relative for one cheater species was identified by both mtDNA and AFLP markers. For the other cheater species, however, the closest pollinating relative remains ambiguous, and mtDNA, AFLP, and morphological data suggest this cheater species may be diverged based on host use. Much of the divergence in the species complex can be explained by geographic isolation associated with the evolution of two oviposition habits.
20142937| Lineage sorting and introgression can lead to incongruence among gene phylogenies, complicating the inference of species trees for large groups of taxa that have recently and rapidly radiated. In addition, it can be difficult to determine which of these processes is responsible for this incongruence. We explore these issues with the radiation of New Zealand alpine cicadas of the genus Maoricicada Dugdale. Gene trees were estimated from four putative independent loci: mitochondrial DNA (2274 nucleotides), elongation factor 1- (1275 nucleotides), period (1709 nucleotides), and calmodulin (678 nucleotides). We reconstructed phylogenies using maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods from 44 individuals representing the 19 species and subspecies of Maoricicada and two outgroups. Species-level relationships were reconstructed using a novel extension of gene tree parsimony, whereby gene trees were weighted by their Bayesian posterior probabilities. The inferred gene trees show marked incongruence in the placement of some taxa, especially the enigmatic forest and scrub dwelling species, M. iolanthe. Using the species tree estimated by gene tree parsimony, we simulated coalescent gene trees in order to test the null hypothesis that the nonrandom placement of M. iolanthe among gene trees has arisen by chance. Under the assumptions of constant population size, known generation time, and panmixia, we were able to reject this null hypothesis. Furthermore, because the two alternative placements of M. iolanthe are in each case with species that share a similar song structure, we conclude that it is more likely that an ancient introgression event rather than lineage sorting has caused this incongruence. 
20142944|The ages of first appearance of fossil taxa in the stratigraphic record are inherently associated to an interval of error or uncertainty, rather than being precise point estimates. Contrasting this temporal information with topologies of phylogenetic relationships is relevant to many aspects of evolutionary studies. Several indices have been proposed to compare the ages of first appearance of fossil taxa and phylogenies. For computing most of these indices, the ages of first appearance of fossil taxa are currently used as point estimates, ignoring their associated errors or uncertainties. The effect of age uncertainty on measures of stratigraphic fit to phylogenies is explored here for two indices based on the extension of ghost lineages (MSM* and GER). A solution based on randomization of the ages of terminal taxa is implemented, resulting in a range of possible values for measures of stratigraphic fit to phylogenies, rather than in a precise but arbitrary stratigraphic fit value. Sample cases show that ignoring the age uncertainty of fossil taxa can produce misleading results when comparing the stratigraphic fit of competing phylogenetic hypotheses. Empirical test cases of alternative phylogenies of two dinosaur groups are analyzed through the randomization procedure proposed here.
20142935|Labyrinth fishes (Perciformes: Anabantoidei) are primary freshwater fishes with a disjunct African-Asian distribution that exhibit a wide variety of morphological and behavioral traits. These intrinsic features make them particularly well suited for studying patterns and processes of evolutionary diversification. We reconstructed the first molecular-based phylogenetic hypothesis of anabantoid intrarelationships using both mitochondrial and nuclear nucleotide sequence data to address anabantoid evolution. The mitochondrial data set included the complete cytochrome b, partial 12S rRNA, complete tRNA Val, and partial 16S rRNA genes (3332 bp) of 57 species representing all 19 anabantoid genera. The nuclear data set included the partial RAG1 gene (1494 bp) of 21 representative species. The phylogenetic analyses of a combined (mitochondrial + nuclear) data set recovered almost fully resolved trees at the intrafamily level with different methods of phylogenetic inference. Phylogenetic relationships at this taxonomic level were compared with previous morphology-based hypotheses. In particular, the enigmatic pike-head (Luciocephalus) was confidently placed within the "spiral egg" clade, thus resolving the long-standing controversy on its relative phylogenetic position. The molecular phylogeny was used to study the evolution of the different forms of parental care within the suborder. Our results suggest that the evolution of breeding behavior in anabantoids is highly correlated with phylogeny, and that brood care evolved three times independently from an ancestral free spawning condition without parental care. Ancestral character state reconstructions under maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood further indicated that both bubble nesting and mouthbrooding have evolved recurrently during anabantoid evolution. The new phylogenetic framework was also used to test alternative biogeographic hypotheses that account for the disjunct African-Asian distribution. Molecular divergence time estimates support either a drift vicariance linked to the breakup of Gondwana or Late Mesozoic Early Tertiary dispersal from Africa to Asia or vice versa.
20142942|The rate of molecular evolution is not constant across the Tree of Life. Characterizing rate discrepancies and evaluating the relative roles of time and rate along branches through the past are both critical to a full understanding of evolutionary history. In this study, we explore the interactions of time and rate in filmy ferns (Hymenophyllaceae), a lineage with extreme branch length differences between the two major clades. We test for the presence of significant rate discrepancies within and between these clades, and we separate time and rate across the filmy fern phylogeny to simultaneously yield an evolutionary time scale of filmy fern diversification and reconstructions of ancestral rates of molecular evolution. Our results indicate that the branch length disparity observed between the major lineages of filmy ferns is indeed due to a significant difference in molecular evolutionary rate. The estimation of divergence times reveals that the timing of crown group diversification was not concurrent for the two lineages, and the reconstruction of ancestral rates of molecular evolution points to a substantial rate deceleration in one of the clades. Further analysis suggests that this may be due to a genome-wide deceleration in the rate of nucleotide substitution.
20142934|Taxonomic indexing refers to a new array of taxonomically intelligent network services that use nomenclatural principles and elements of expert taxonomic knowledge to manage information about organisms. Taxonomic indexing was introduced to help manage the increasing amounts of digital information about biology. It has been designed to form a near basal layer in a layered cyberinfrastructure that deals with biological information. Taxonomic Indexing accommodates the special problems of using names of organisms to index biological material. It links alternative names for the same entity (reconciliation), and distinguishes between uses of the same name for different entities (disambiguation), and names are placed within an indefinite number of hierarchical schemes. In order to access all information on all organisms, Taxonomic indexing must be able to call on a registry of all names in all forms for all organisms. NameBank has been developed to meet that need. Taxonomic indexing is an area of informatics that overlaps with taxonomy, is dependent on the expert input of taxonomists, and reveals the relevance of the discipline to a wide audience.
20142943|For the first time the phylogenetic relationships of early eureptiles, consisting of captorhinids, diapsids, and protorothyridids, are investigated in a modern phylogenetic context using both parsimony and Bayesian approaches. Ninety parsimony-informative characters and 25 taxa were included in the analyses. The Bayesian analysis was run with and without a gamma-shape parameter allowing for variable rates across characters. In addition, we ran two more Bayesian analyses that included 42 autapomorphies and thus parsimony-uninformative characters in order to test the effect of variable branch lengths. The different analyses largely converged to the same topology, suggesting that the "protorothyridid" Coelostegus is the sister taxon of all other eureptiles and that the remaining "protorothyridids" are paraphyletic. Also, there is a close relationship between diapsids and Anthracodromeus, Cephalerpeton, and Protorothyris, a grouping of Thuringothyris with captorhinids, and a variable position of the "protorothyridids" Brouffia, Hylonomus, and Paleothyris. The lack of resolution in some parts of the tree might be due to "hard polytomies" and short divergence times between the respective taxa. The tree topology is consistent with the hypothesis that the temporal fenestrations of diapsid reptiles appear to be the consequence of a more lightly built skeleton, indicating a significant ecological shift in the early stages of diapsid evolution. Bayesian analysis is a very useful additional approach in studies of fossil taxa in which more traditional statistical support like the bootstrap is often weak. However, the exclusive use of the Mk model appears suitable only if autapomorphic characters are included, whereas the Mk+gamma model performed well with or without autapomorphies.
20142941|The evolutionary history of gains and losses of vegetative reproductive propagules (soredia) in Porpidia s.l., a group of lichen-forming ascomycetes, was clarified using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) approaches to monophyly tests and a combined MCMC and maximum likelihood approach to ancestral character state reconstructions. The MCMC framework provided confidence estimates for the reconstructions of relationships and ancestral character states, which formed the basis for tests of evolutionary hypotheses. Monophyly tests rejected all hypotheses that predicted any clustering of reproductive modes in extant taxa. In addition, a nearest-neighbor statistic could not reject the hypothesis that the vegetative reproductive mode is randomly distributed throughout the group. These results show that transitions between presence and absence of the vegetative reproductive mode within Porpidia s.l. occurred several times and independently of each other. Likelihood reconstructions of ancestral character states at selected nodes suggest that--contrary to previous thought--the ancestor to Porpidia s.l. already possessed the vegetative reproductive mode. Furthermore, transition rates are reconstructed asymmetrically with the vegetative reproductive mode being gained at a much lower rate than it is lost. A cautious note has to be added, because a simulation study showed that the ancestral character state reconstructions were highly dependent on taxon sampling. However, our central conclusions, particularly the higher rate of change from vegetative reproductive mode present to absent than vice versa within Porpidia s.l., were found to be broadly independent of taxon sampling.
20142939|Phylogenies based on gene content rely on statements of primary homology to characterize gene presence or absence. These statements (hypotheses) are usually determined by techniques based on threshold similarity or distance measurements between genes. This fundamental but problematic step can be examined by evaluating each homology hypothesis by the extent to which it is corroborated by the rest of the data. Here we test the effects of varying the stringency for making primary homology statements using a range of similarity (e-value) cutoffs in 166 fully sequenced and annotated genomes spanning the tree of life. By evaluating each resulting data set with tree-based measurements of character consistency and information content, we find a set of homology statements that optimizes overall corroborration. The resulting data set produces well-resolved and well-supported trees of life and greatly ameliorates previously noted inconsistencies such as the misclassification of small genomes. The method presented here, which can be used to test any technique for recognizing primary homology, provides an objective framework for evaluating phylogenetic hypotheses and data sets for the tree of life. It also can serve as a technique for identifying well-corroborated sets of homologous genes for functional genomic applications.
20142938|Nonparamtric bootstrapping methods may be useful for assessing confidence in a supertree inference. We examined the performance of two supertree bootstrapping methods on four published data sets that each include sequence data from more than 100 genes. In "input tree bootstrapping," input gene trees are sampled with replacement and then combined in replicate supertree analyses; in "stratified bootstrapping," trees from each gene's separate (conventional) bootstrap tree set are sampled randomly with replacement and then combined. Generally, support values from both supertree bootstrap methods were similar or slightly lower than corresponding bootstrap values from a total evidence, or supermatrix, analysis. Yet, supertree bootstrap support also exceeded supermatrix bootstrap support for a number of clades. There was little overall difference in support scores between the input tree and stratified bootstrapping methods. Results from supertree bootstrapping methods, when compared to results from corresponding supermatrix bootstrapping, may provide insights into patterns of variation among genes in genome-scale data sets.
20142940|Previous hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships among Neotropical parrots were based on limited taxon sampling and lacked support for most internal nodes. In this study we increased the number of taxa (29 species belonging to 25 of the 30 genera) and gene sequences (6388 base pairs of RAG-1, cyt b, NADH2, ATPase 6, ATPase 8, COIII, 12S rDNA, and 16S rDNA) to obtain a stronger molecular phylogenetic hypothesis for this group of birds. Analyses of the combined gene sequences using maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods resulted in a well-supported phylogeny and indicated that amazons and allies are a sister clade to macaws, conures, and relatives, and these two clades are in turn a sister group to parrotlets. Key morphological and behavioral characters used in previous classifications were mapped on the molecular tree and were phylogenetically uninformative. We estimated divergence times of taxa using the molecular tree and Bayesian and penalized likelihood methods that allow for rate variation in DNA substitutions among sites and taxa. Our estimates suggest that the Neotropical parrots shared a common ancestor with Australian parrots 59 Mya (million of years ago; 95% credibility interval (CrI) 66, 51 Mya), well before Australia separated from Antarctica and South America, implying that ancestral parrots were widespread in Gondwanaland. Thus, the divergence of Australian and Neotropical parrots could be attributed to vicariance. The three major clades of Neotropical parrots originated about 50 Mya (95% CrI 57, 41 Mya), coinciding with periods of higher sea level when both Antarctica and South America were fragmented with transcontinental seaways, and likely isolated the ancestors of modern Neotropical parrots in different regions in these continents. The correspondence between major paleoenvironmental changes in South America and the diversification of genera in the clade of amazons and allies between 46 and 16 Mya suggests they diversified exclusively in South America. Conversely, ancestors of parrotlets and of macaws, conures, and allies may have been isolated in Antarctica and/or the southern cone of South America, and only dispersed out of these southern regions when climate cooled and Antarctica became ice-encrusted about 35 Mya. The subsequent radiation of macaws and their allies in South America beginning about 28 Mya (95% CrI 22, 35 Mya) coincides with the uplift of the Andes and the subsequent formation of dry, open grassland habitats that would have facilitated ecological speciation via niche expansion from forested habitats.
41677992|Among models of nucleotide evolution, the Barry and Hartigan (BH) model (also known as the General Markov Model) is very flexible as it allows separate arbitrary substitution matrices along edges. For a given tree, the estimates of the BH model are a set of joint probability matrices, each giving the pairwise frequencies of nucleotides at the ends of the edge. We have previously shown that, due to an identifiability problem, these cannot be expected to consistently estimate the actual pairwise frequencies. A further consequence is that internal node frequency estimates are likely to be incorrect. Here we define a nonstationary GTR model for each edge that we refer to as the NSGTR model. We fit the NSGTR model by minimizing the sums of squares between the estimates of transition probabilities under the NSGTR model and the estimates provided by a fitted BH model. This NSGTR model provides estimates that avoid the identifiability difficulties of the BH model while closely fitting it. With the best-fitting NSGTR estimates, we are able to get interpretable frequency vectors at internal nodes as well as edge length estimates that are otherwise not yielded by the BH model. These edge lengths are interpretable as the expected number of substitutions along an edge for the model. We also show that for a nonstationary continuous-time model these are not the same as the edge length parameters for conventional substitution matrices that are output by nonstationary model phylogenetic estimation programs such as nhPhyML.
41677995|Phylogenies are usually dated by calibrating interior nodes against the fossil record. This relies on indirect methods that, in the worst case, misrepresent the fossil information. Here, we contrast such node dating with an approach that includes fossils along with the extant taxa in a Bayesian total-evidence analysis. As a test case, we focus on the early radiation of the Hymenoptera, mostly documented by poorly preserved impression fossils that are difficult to place phylogenetically. Specifically, we compare node dating using nine calibration points derived from the fossil record with total-evidence dating based on 343 morphological characters scored for 45 fossil (4-20% complete) and 68 extant taxa. In both cases we use molecular data from seven markers (~5 kb) for the extant taxa. Because it is difficult to model speciation, extinction, sampling, and fossil preservation realistically, we develop a simple uniform prior for clock trees with fossils, and we use relaxed clock models to accommodate rate variation across the tree. Despite considerable uncertainty in the placement of most fossils, we find that they contribute significantly to the estimation of divergence times in the total-evidence analysis. In particular, the posterior distributions on divergence times are less sensitive to prior assumptions and tend to be more precise than in node dating. The total-evidence analysis also shows that four of the seven Hymenoptera calibration points used in node dating are likely to be based on erroneous or doubtful assumptions about the fossil placement. With respect to the early radiation of Hymenoptera, our results suggest that the crown group dates back to the Carboniferous, ~309 Ma (95% interval: 291-347 Ma), and diversified into major extant lineages much earlier than previously thought, well before the Triassic.
41677994|The success of model-based methods in phylogenetics has motivated much research aimed at generating new, biologically informative models. This new computer-intensive approach to phylogenetics demands validation studies and sound measures of performance. To date there has been little practical guidance available as to when and why the parameters in a particular model can be identified reliably. Here, we illustrate how Data Cloning (DC), a recently developed methodology to compute the maximum likelihood estimates along with their asymptotic variance, can be used to diagnose structural parameter nonidentifiability (NI) and distinguish it from other parameter estimability problems, including when parameters are structurally identifiable, but are not estimable in a given data set (INE), and when parameters are identifiable, and estimable, but only weakly so (WE). The application of the DC theorem uses well-known and widely used Bayesian computational techniques. With the DC approach, practitioners can use Bayesian phylogenetics software to diagnose nonidentifiability. Theoreticians and practitioners alike now have a powerful, yet simple tool to detect nonidentifiability while investigating complex modeling scenarios, where getting closed-form expressions in a probabilistic study is complicated. Furthermore, here we also show how DC can be used as a tool to examine and eliminate the influence of the priors, in particular if the process of prior elicitation is not straightforward. Finally, when applied to phylogenetic inference, DC can be used to study at least two important statistical questions: assessing identifiability of discrete parameters, like the tree topology, and developing efficient sampling methods for computationally expensive posterior densities.
41677990|Recognition of evolutionary units (species, populations) requires integrating several kinds of data, such as genetic or phenotypic markers or spatial information in order to get a comprehensive view concerning the differentiation of the units. We propose a statistical model with a double original advantage: (i) it incorporates information about the spatial distribution of the samples, with the aim to increase inference power and to relate more explicitly observed patterns to geography and (ii) it allows one to analyze genetic and phenotypic data within a unified model and inference framework, thus opening the way to robust comparisons between markers and possibly combined analyses. We show from simulated data as well as real data that our method estimates parameters accurately and is an improvement over alternative approaches in many situations. The power of this method is exemplified using an intricate case of inter-and intraspecies differentiation based on an original data set of georeferenced genetic and morphometric markers obtained on Myodes voles from Sweden. A computer program is made available as an extension of the R package Geneland.
41677999|Dendroscope 3 is a new program for working with rooted phylogenetic trees and networks. It provides a number of methods for drawing and comparing rooted phylogenetic networks, and for computing them from rooted trees. The program can be used interactively or in command-line mode. The program is written in Java, use of the software is free, and installers for all 3 major operating systems can be downloaded from www.dendroscope.org.
41677996|The perciform group Labroidei includes approximately 2600 species and comprises some of the most diverse and successful lineages of teleost fishes. Composed of four major clades, Cichlidae, Labridae (wrasses, parrotfishes, and weed whitings), Pomacentridae (damselfishes), and Embiotocidae (surfperches); labroids have been an icon for studies of biodiversity, adaptive radiation, and sexual selection. The success and diversification of labroids have been largely attributed to the presence of a major innovation in the pharyngeal jaw apparatus, pharyngognathy, which is hypothesized to increase feeding capacity and versatility. We present results of large-scale phylogenetic analyses and a survey of pharyngeal jaw functional morphology that allow us to examine the evolution of pharyngognathy in a historical context. Phylogenetic analyses were based on a sample of 188 acanthomorph (spiny-rayed fish) species, primarily percomorphs (perch-like fishes), and DNA sequence data collected from 10 nuclear loci that have been previously used to resolve higher level ray-finned fish relationships. Phylogenies inferred from this dataset using maximum likelihood, Bayesian, and species tree analyses indicate polyphyly of the traditional Labroidei and clearly separate Labridae from the remainder of the traditional labroid lineages (Cichlidae, Embiotocidae, and Pomacentridae). These three "chromide" families grouped within a newly discovered clade of 40 families and more than 4800 species (> 27% of percomorphs and > 16% of all ray-finned fishes), which we name Ovalentaria for its characteristic demersal, adhesive eggs with chorionic filaments. This fantastically diverse clade includes some of the most species-rich lineages of marine and freshwater fishes, including all representatives of the Cichlidae, Embiotocidae, Pomacentridae, Ambassidae, Gobiesocidae, Grammatidae, Mugilidae, Opistognathidae, Pholidichthyidae, Plesiopidae (including Notograptus), Polycentridae, Pseudochromidae, Atherinomorpha, and Blennioidei. Beyond the discovery of Ovalentaria, this study provides a surprising, but well-supported, hypothesis for a convictblenny (Pholidichthys) sister group to the charismatic cichlids and new insights into the evolution of pharyngognathy. Bayesian stochastic mapping ancestral state reconstructions indicate that pharyngognathy has evolved at least six times in percomorphs, including four separate origins in members of the former Labroidei, one origin in the Centrogenyidae, and one origin within Beloniformes. Our analyses indicate that all pharyngognathous fishes have a mechanically efficient biting mechanism enabled by the muscular sling and a single lower jaw element. However, a major distinction exists between Labridae, which lacks the widespread, generalized percomorph pharyngeal biting mechanism, and all other pharyngognathous clades, which possess this generalized biting mechanism in addition to pharyngognathy. Our results reveal a remarkable history of pharyngognathy: far from a single origin, it appears to have evolved at least six times, and its status as a major evolutionary innovation is reinforced by it being a synapomorphy for several independent major radiations, including some of the most species rich and ecologically diverse percomorph clades of coral reef and tropical freshwater fishes, Labridae and Cichlidae.
41677993|Missing data are an unavoidable problem in biological data sets and the performance of missing data deletion and estimation techniques in morphometric data sets is poorly understood. Here, a novel method is used to measure the introduced error of multiple techniques on a representative sample. A large sample of extant crocodilian skulls was measured and analyzed with principal component analysis (PCA). Twenty-three different proportions of missing data were introduced into the data set, estimated, analyzed, and compared with the original result using Procrustes superimposition. Previous work investigating the effects of missing data input missing values randomly, a non-biological phenomenon. Here, missing data were introduced into the data set using three methodologies: purely at random, as a function of the Euclidean distance between respective measurements (simulating anatomical regions), and as a function of the portion of the sample occupied by each taxon (simulating unequal missing data in rare taxa). Gower's distance was found to be the best performing non-estimation method, and Bayesian PCA the best performing estimation method. Specimens of the taxa with small sample sizes and those most morphologically disparate had the highest estimation error. Distribution of missing data had a significant effect on the estimation error for almost all methods and proportions. Taxonomically biased missing data tended to show similar trends to random, but with higher error rates. Anatomically biased missing data showed a much greater deviation from random than the taxonomic bias, and with magnitudes dependent on the estimation method.
41677998|Phylogenetic mixture models, in which the sites in sequences undergo different substitution processes along the same or different trees, allow the description of heterogeneous evolutionary processes. As data sets consisting of longer sequences become available, it is important to understand such models, for both theoretical insights and use in statistical analyses. Some recent articles have highlighted disturbing "mimicking" behavior in which a distribution from a mixture model is identical to one arising on a different tree or trees. Other works have indicated such problems are unlikely to occur in practice, as they require very special parameter choices. After surveying some of these works on mixture models, we give several new results. In general, if the number of components in a generating mixture is not too large and we disallow zero or infinite branch lengths, then it cannot mimic the behavior of a nonmixture on a different tree. On the other hand, if the mixture model is locally overparameterized, it is possible for a phylogenetic mixture model to mimic distributions of another tree model. Although theoretical questions remain, these sorts of results can serve as a guide to when the use of mixture models in either maximum likelihood or Bayesian frameworks is likely to lead to statistically consistent inference, and when mimicking due to heterogeneity should be considered a realistic possibility.
41677991|The estimation of phylogenetic relationships is an essential component of understanding evolution. Accurate phylogenetic estimation is difficult, however, when internodes are short and old, when genealogical discordance is common due to large ancestral effective population sizes or ancestral population structure, and when homoplasy is prevalent. Inference of divergence times is also hampered by unknown and uneven rates of evolution, the incomplete fossil record, uncertainty in relationships between fossil and extant lineages, and uncertainty in the age of fossils. Ideally, these challenges can be overcome by developing large "phylogenomic" data sets and by analyzing them with methods that accommodate features of the evolutionary process, such as genealogical discordance, recurrent substitution, recombination, ancestral population structure, gene flow after speciation among sampled and unsampled taxa, and variation in evolutionary rates. In some phylogenetic problems, it is possible to use information that is independent of fossils, such as the geological record, to identify putative triggers for diversification whose associated estimated divergence times can then be compared a posteriori with estimated relationships and ages of fossils. The history of diversification of pipid frog genera Pipa, Hymenochirus, Silurana, and Xenopus, for instance, is characterized by many of these evolutionary and analytical challenges. These frogs diversified dozens of millions of years ago, they have a relatively rich fossil record, their distributions span continental plates with a well characterized geological record of ancient connectivity, and there is considerable disagreement across studies in estimated evolutionary relationships. We used high throughput sequencing and public databases to generate a large phylogenomic data set with which we estimated evolutionary relationships using multilocus coalescence methods. We collected sequence data from Pipa, Hymenochirus, Silurana, and Xenopus and the outgroup taxon Rhinophrynus dorsalis from coding sequence of 113 autosomal regions, averaging ~300 bp in length (range: 102-1695 bp) and also a portion of the mitochondrial genome. Analysis of these data using multiple approaches recovers strong support for the ((Xenopus, Silurana)(Pipa, Hymenochirus)) topology, and geologically calibrated divergence time estimates that are consistent with ages and phylogenetic affinities of many fossils. These results provide new insights into the biogeography and chronology of pipid diversification during the breakup of Gondwanaland and illustrate how phylogenomic data may be necessary to tackle tough problems in molecular systematics.
41677997|It is thought that speciation in phytophagous insects is often due to colonization of novel host plants, because radiations of plant and insect lineages are typically asynchronous. Recent phylogenetic comparisons have supported this model of diversification for both insect herbivores and specialized pollinators. An exceptional case where contemporaneous plant-insect diversification might be expected is the obligate mutualism between fig trees (Ficus species, Moraceae) and their pollinating wasps (Agaonidae, Hymenoptera). The ubiquity and ecological significance of this mutualism in tropical and subtropical ecosystems has long intrigued biologists, but the systematic challenge posed by > 750 interacting species pairs has hindered progress toward understanding its evolutionary history. In particular, taxon sampling and analytical tools have been insufficient for large-scale cophylogenetic analyses. Here, we sampled nearly 200 interacting pairs of fig and wasp species from across the globe. Two supermatrices were assembled: on an average, wasps had sequences from 77% of 6 genes (5.6 kb), figs had sequences from 60% of 5 genes (5.5 kb), and overall 850 new DNA sequences were generated for this study. We also developed a new analytical tool, Jane 2, for event-based phylogenetic reconciliation analysis of very large data sets. Separate Bayesian phylogenetic analyses for figs and fig wasps under relaxed molecular clock assumptions indicate Cretaceous diversification of crown groups and contemporaneous divergence for nearly half of all fig and pollinator lineages. Event-based cophylogenetic analyses further support the codiversification hypothesis. Biogeographic analyses indicate that the present-day distribution of fig and pollinator lineages is consistent with a Eurasian origin and subsequent dispersal, rather than with Gondwanan vicariance. Overall, our findings indicate that the fig-pollinator mutualism represents an extreme case among plant-insect interactions of coordinated dispersal and long-term codiversification.
41515174|The rapidly growing availability of multigene sequence data during the past decade has enabled phylogeny estimation at phylogenomic scales. However, dealing with evolutionary process heterogeneity across the genome becomes increasingly challenging. Here we develop a mixture model approach that uses reversible jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) estimation to permit as many distinct models as the data require. Each additional model considered may be a fully parametrized general time-reversible model or any of its special cases. Furthermore, we expand the usual proposal mechanisms for topology changes to permit hard polytomies (i.e., zero-length internal branches). This new approach is implemented in the Crux software toolkit. We demonstrate the feasibility of using reversible jump MCMC on mixture models by reexamining a well-known 44-taxon mammalian data set comprising 22 concatenated genes. We are able to reproduce the results of the original analysis (with respect to bipartition support) when we make identical assumptions, but when we allow for polytomies and/or use data-driven mixture model estimation, we infer much lower bipartition support values for several key bipartitions.
41515173|Increasingly, large data sets pose a challenge for computationally intensive phylogenetic methods such as Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). Here, we investigate the performance of common MCMC proposal distributions in terms of median and variance of run time to convergence on 11 data sets. We introduce two new Metropolized Gibbs Samplers for moving through "tree space." MCMC simulation using these new proposals shows faster average run time and dramatically improved predictability in performance, with a 20-fold reduction in the variance of the time to estimate the posterior distribution to a given accuracy. We also introduce conditional clade probabilities and demonstrate that they provide a superior means of approximating tree topology posterior probabilities from samples recorded during MCMC.
41515182|The use of fossil evidence to calibrate divergence time estimation has a long history. More recently, Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo has become the dominant method of divergence time estimation, and fossil evidence has been reinterpreted as the specification of prior distributions on the divergence times of calibration nodes. These so-called "soft calibrations'' have become widely used but the statistical properties of calibrated tree priors in a Bayesian setting have not been carefully investigated. Here, we clarify that calibration densities, such as those defined in BEAST 1.5, do not represent the marginal prior distribution of the calibration node. We illustrate this with a number of analytical results on small trees. We also describe an alternative construction for a calibrated Yule prior on trees that allows direct specification of the marginal prior distribution of the calibrated divergence time, with or without the restriction of monophyly. This method requires the computation of the Yule prior conditional on the height of the divergence being calibrated. Unfortunately, a practical solution for multiple calibrations remains elusive. Our results suggest that direct estimation of the prior induced by specifying multiple calibration densities should be a prerequisite of any divergence time dating analysis.
41515181|Defining biogeographic provinces to understand the history and evolution of communities associated with a given kind of ecosystem is challenging and usually requires a priori assumptions to be made. We applied network theory, a holistic and exploratory method, to the most complete database of faunal distribution available on oceanic hydrothermal vents, environments which support fragmented and unstable ecosystems, to infer the processes driving their worldwide biogeography Besides the identification of robust provinces, the network topology allowed us to identify preferential pathways that had hitherto been overlooked. These pathways are consistent with the previously proposed hypothesis of a role of plate tectonics in the biogeographical history of hydrothermal vent communities. A possible ancestral position of the Western Pacific is also suggested for the first time. Finally, this work provides an innovative example of the potential of network tools to unravel the biogeographic history of faunal assemblages and to supply comprehensive information for the conservation and management of biodiversity.
41515175|Evolutionary and biogeographic studies increasingly rely on calibrated molecular clocks to date key events. Although there has been significant recent progress in development of the techniques used for molecular dating, many issues remain. In particular, controversies abound over the appropriate use and placement of fossils for calibrating molecular clocks. Several methods have been proposed for evaluating candidate fossils; however, few studies have compared the results obtained by different approaches. Moreover, no previous study has incorporated the effects of nucleotide saturation from different data types in the evaluation of candidate fossils. In order to address these issues, we compared three approaches for evaluating fossil calibrations: the single-fossil cross-validation method of Near, Meylan, and Shaffer (2005. Assessing concordance of fossil calibration points in molecular clock studies: an example using turtles. Am. Nat. 165:137-146), the empirical fossil coverage method of Marshall (2008. A simple method for bracketing absolute divergence times on molecular phylogenies using multiple fossil calibration points. Am. Nat. 171:726-742), and the Bayesian multicalibration method of Sanders and Lee (2007. Evaluating molecular clock calibrations using Bayesian analyses with soft and hard bounds. Biol. Lett. 3:275-279) and explicitly incorporate the effects of data type (nuclear vs. mitochondrial DNA) for identifying the most reliable or congruent fossil calibrations. We used advanced (Caenophidian) snakes as a case study; however, our results are applicable to any taxonomic group with multiple candidate fossils, provided appropriate taxon sampling and sufficient molecular sequence data are available. We found that data type strongly influenced which fossil calibrations were identified as outliers, regardless of which method was used. Despite the use of complex partitioned models of sequence evolution and multiple calibrations throughout the tree, saturation severely compressed basal branch lengths obtained from mitochondrial DNA compared with nuclear DNA. The effects of mitochondrial saturation were not ameliorated by analyzing a combined nuclear and mitochondrial data set. Although removing the third codon positions from the mitochondrial coding regions did not ameliorate saturation effects in the single-fossil cross-validations, it did in the Bayesian multicalibration analyses. Saturation significantly influenced the fossils that were selected as most reliable for all three methods evaluated. Our findings highlight the need to critically evaluate the fossils selected by data with different rates of nucleotide substitution and how data with different evolutionary rates affect the results of each method for evaluating fossils. Our empirical evaluation demonstrates that the advantages of using multiple independent fossil calibrations significantly outweigh any disadvantages.
41515183|Although great progress has been made in resolving the relationships of placental mammals, the position of several clades in Laurasiatheria remain controversial. In this study, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of 97 orthologs (46,152 bp) for 15 taxa, representing all laurasiatherian orders. Additionally, phylogenetic trees of laurasiatherian mammals with draft genome sequences were reconstructed based on 1608 exons (2,175,102 bp). Our reconstructions resolve the interordinal relationships within Laurasiatheria and corroborate the clades Scrotifera, Fereuungulata, and Cetartiodactyla. Furthermore, we tested alternative topologies within Laurasiatheria, and among alternatives for the phylogenetic position of Perissodactyla, a sister-group relationship with Cetartiodactyla receives the highest support. Thus, Pegasoferae (Perissodactyla + Carnivora + Pholidota + Chiroptera) does not appear to be a natural group. Divergence time estimates from these genes were compared with published estimates for splits within Laurasiatheria. Our estimates were similar to those of several studies and suggest that the divergences among these orders occurred within just a few million years.
41515176|The causes and consequences of rapid radiations are major unresolved issues in evolutionary biology. This is in part because phylogeny estimation is confounded by processes such as stochastic lineage sorting and hybridization. Because these processes are expected to be heterogeneous across the genome, comparison among marker classes may provide a means of disentangling these elements. Here we use introns from nuclear-encoded reproductive protein genes expected to be resistant to introgression to estimate the phylogeny of the western chipmunks (Tamias: subgenus: Neotamias), a rapid radiation that has experienced introgressive hybridization of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We analyze the nuclear loci using coalescent-based species-tree estimation methods and concatenation to estimate a species tree and we use parametric bootstraps and coalescent simulations to differentiate between phylogenetic error, coalescent stochasticity and introgressive hybridization. Results indicate that the mtDNA gene tree reflects several introgression events that have occurred between taxa of varying levels of divergence and at different time points in the tree. T. panamintinus and T. speciosus appear to be fixed for ancient mitochondrial introgressions from T. minimus. A southern Rocky Mountains clade appears well sorted (i.e., species are largely monophyletic) at multiple nuclear loci, while five of six taxa are nonmonophyletic based on cytochrome b. Our simulations reject phylogenetic error and coalescent stochasticity as causes. The results represent an advance in our understanding of the processes at work during the radiation of Tamias and suggest that sampling reproductive-protein genes may be a viable strategy for phylogeny estimation of rapid radiations in which reproductive isolation is incomplete. However, a genome-scale survey that can statistically compare heterogeneity of genealogical process at many more loci will be necessary to test this conclusion.
41515180|The phylogenies of allopolyploids take the shape of networks and cannot be adequately represented as bifurcating trees. Especially for high polyploids (i.e., organisms with more than six sets of nuclear chromosomes), the signatures of gene homoeolog loss, deep coalescence, and polyploidy may become confounded, with the result that gene trees may be congruent with more than one species network. Herein, we obtained the most parsimonious species network by objective comparison of competing scenarios involving polyploidization and homoeolog loss in a high-polyploid lineage of violets (Viola, Violaceae) mostly or entirely restricted to North America, Central America, or Hawaii. We amplified homoeologs of the low-copy nuclear gene, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI), by single-molecule polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and the chloroplast trnL-F region by conventional PCR for 51 species and subspecies. Topological incongruence among GPI homoeolog subclades, owing to deep coalescence and two instances of putative loss (or lack of detection) of homoeologs, were reconciled by applying the maximum tree topology for each subclade. The most parsimonious species network and the fossil-based calibration of the homoeolog tree favored monophyly of the high polyploids, which has resulted from allodecaploidization 9-14 Ma, involving sympatric ancestors from the extant Viola sections Chamaemelanium (diploid), Plagiostigma (paleotetraploid), and Viola (paleotetraploid). Although two of the high-polyploid lineages (Boreali-Americanae, Pedatae) remained decaploid, recurrent polyploidization with tetraploids of section Plagiostigma within the last 5 Ma has resulted in two 14-ploid lineages (Mexicanae, Nosphinium) and one 18-ploid lineage (Langsdorffianae). This implies a complex phylogenetic and biogeographic origin of the Hawaiian violets (Nosphinium) than that previously inferred from rDNA data and illustrates the necessity of considering polyploidy in phylogenetic and biogeographic reconstruction.
41515179|Highly accurate estimation of phylogenetic trees for large data sets is difficult, in part because multiple sequence alignments must be accurate for phylogeny estimation methods to be accurate. Coestimation of alignments and trees has been attempted but currently only SAT estimates reasonably accurate trees and alignments for large data sets in practical time frames (Liu K., Raghavan S., Nelesen S., Linder C.R., Warnow T. 2009b. Rapid and accurate large-scale coestimation of sequence alignments and phylogenetic trees. Science. 324: 1561-1564). Here, we present a modification to the original SAT algorithm that improves upon SAT (which we now call SAT-I) in terms of speed and of phylogenetic and alignment accuracy. SAT-II uses a different divide-and-conquer strategy than SAT-I and so produces smaller more closely related subsets than SAT-I; as a result, SAT-II produces more accurate alignments and trees, can analyze larger data sets, and runs more efficiently than SAT-I. Generally, SAT is a metamethod that takes an existing multiple sequence alignment method as an input parameter and boosts the quality of that alignment method. SAT-11-boosted alignment methods are significantly more accurate than their unboosted versions, and trees based upon these improved alignments are more accurate than trees based upon the original alignments. Because SAT-I used maximum likelihood (ML) methods that treat gaps as missing data to estimate trees and because we found a correlation between the quality of tree/alignment pairs and ML scores, we explored the degree to which SAT's performance depends on using ML with gaps treated as missing data to determine the best tree/alignment pair. We present two lines of evidence that using ML with gaps treated as missing data to optimize the alignment and tree produces very poor results. First, we show that the optimization problem where a set of unaligned DNA sequences is given and the output is the tree and alignment of those sequences that maximize likelihood under the Jukes-Cantor model is uninformative in the worst possible sense. For all inputs, all trees optimize the likelihood score. Second, we show that a greedy heuristic that uses GTR+Gamma ML to optimize the alignment and the tree can produce very poor alignments and trees. Therefore, the excellent performance of SAT-II and SAT-I is not because ML is used as an optimization criterion for choosing the best tree/alignment pair but rather due to the particular divide-and-conquer realignment techniques employed.
41515177|The rapid accumulation of multilocus data sets has led to dramatic advances in methodologies for estimating evolutionary relationships among closely related species, but relatively less advancement has been made in methods for discriminating between competing species delimitation hypotheses. Multilocus data sets provide an advantage in testing species delimitation scenarios because they offer a direct test of species monophyly and aid in the biological interpretation of such phenomena as allele-sharing and deep coalescent events. Most species tree estimation methods that are designed to analyze multilocus data sets require the a priori assignment of individuals to species categories and therefore do not provide a strategy to directly test competing species delimitation scenarios. An approach was recently proposed that utilizes a coalescent-based species tree estimation method to inform species delimitation decisions by comparing likelihood scores that measure the fit of gene trees within a given species tree. We use a multilocus nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequence data set to both reexamine a recently proposed species delimitation scenario in the Etheostoma simoterum species complex and test the utility of species tree estimation methods in testing species delimitation hypotheses. Descriptions of species in the E. simoterum species complex of snubnose darters, a group of six teleost freshwater fish species, are based largely on male nuptial coloration. Most of the putative species are nonmonophyletic at every examined locus. Using a novel combination of Bayesian-estimated gene tree topologies, Bayesian phylogenetic species tree inferences, coalescent simulations, and examination of phenotypic variation, we assess the occurrence of shared alleles among species, and we propose that results from our analyses support a three-species rather than a six-species delimitation scenario in the E. simoterum complex. We found that comparing likelihood scores from the species tree estimation approach used across many potential delimitation scenarios resulted in a systematic bias toward over-splitting in the E. simoterum complex and failed to support a species delimitation scenario that was consistent with geography, phenotype, or any previous species delimitation hypothesis. Despite common expectations, we demonstrate that application of molecular approaches to species delimitation can result in the recognition of fewer, instead of a larger number of species. In addition, our analyses highlight the importance of phenotypic character information in providing an independent assessment of alternative species delimitation hypotheses in the E. simoterum species complex.
41515185|Phylogenetic inference is fundamental to our understanding of most aspects of the origin and evolution of life, and in recent years, there has been a concentration of interest in statistical approaches such as Bayesian inference and maximum likelihood estimation. Yet, for large data sets and realistic or interesting models of evolution, these approaches remain computationally demanding. High-throughput sequencing can yield data for thousands of taxa, but scaling to such problems using serial computing often necessitates the use of nonstatistical or approximate approaches. The recent emergence of graphics processing units (GPUs) provides an opportunity to leverage their excellent floating-point computational performance to accelerate statistical phylogenetic inference. A specialized library for phylogenetic calculation would allow existing software packages to make more effective use of available computer hardware, including GPUs. Adoption of a common library would also make it easier for other emerging computing architectures, such as field programmable gate arrays, to be used in the future. We present BEAGLE, an application programming interface (API) and library for high-performance statistical phylogenetic inference. The API provides a uniform interface for performing phylogenetic likelihood calculations on a variety of compute hardware platforms. The library includes a set of efficient implementations and can currently exploit hardware including GPUs using NVIDIA CUDA, central processing units (CPUs) with Streaming SIMD Extensions and related processor supplementary instruction sets, and multicore CPUs via OpenMP. To demonstrate the advantages of a common API, we have incorporated the library into several popular phylogenetic software packages. The BEAGLE library is free open source software licensed under the Lesser GPL and available from http://beagle-lib.googlecode.com. An example client program is available as public domain software.
41515178|Understanding biases that affect how species are partitioned into higher taxa is critical for much of paleobiology, as higher taxa are commonly used to estimate species diversity through time. We test the validity of using higher taxa as a proxy for species diversity for the first time by examining one of the best fossil records we have, that of deep-sea microfossils. Using a new, taxonomically standardized, data set of coccolithophorid species and genera recorded from 143 deep-sea drilling sites in the North Atlantic, Caribbean, and Mediterranean, we show that there is a two-stepped change in the ratio of species to genera over the last 150 myr. This change is highly unexpected and correlates strongly with changes in both the number of deep-sea sites yielding coccolithophorids that have been studied and with the number of taxonomists who have published on those sections. The same pattern is present in both structurally complex heterococcoliths and the simpler nannoliths, suggesting that increasing complexity is not the driving factor. As a stepped species-to-genus ratio exists even after subsampling to standardize either the numbers of sites or numbers of papers, both factors must be contributing substantially to the observed pattern. Although some limited biological signature from major extinction events can be recognized from changes in the species-to-genus ratio, the numbers of sites and the numbers of taxonomists combined explain some 82% of the observed variation over long periods of geological time. Such a strong correlation argues against using raw species-to-genus ratios to infer biological processes without taking sampling into account and suggests that higher taxa cannot be taken as unbiased proxies for species diversity.
41677964|Taxon and character sampling are central to phylogenetic experimental design; yet, we lack general rules. Goldman introduced a method to construct efficient sampling designs in phylogenetics, based on the calculation of expected Fisher information given a probabilistic model of sequence evolution. The considerable potential of this approach remains largely unexplored. In an earlier study, we applied Goldman's method to a problem in the phylogenetics of caecilian amphibians and made an a priori evaluation and testable predictions of which taxon additions would increase information about a particular weakly supported branch of the caecilian phylogeny by the greatest amount. We have now gathered mitogenomic and ragl sequences (some newly determined for this study) from additional caecilian species and studied how information (both expected and observed) and bootstrap support vary as each new taxon is individually added to our previous data set. This provides the first empirical test of specific predictions made using Goldman's method for phylogenetic experimental design. Our results empirically validate the top 3 (more intuitive) taxon addition predictions made in our previous study, but only information results validate unambiguously the 4th (less intuitive) prediction. This highlights a complex relationship between information and support, reflecting that each measures different things: Information is related to the ability to estimate branch length accurately and support to the ability to estimate the tree topology accurately. Thus, an increase in information may be correlated with but does not necessitate an increase in support. Our results also provide the first empirical validation of the widely held intuition that additional taxa that join the tree proximal to poorly supported internal branches are more informative and enhance support more than additional taxa that join the tree more distally. Our work supports the view that adding more data for a single (well chosen) taxon may increase phylogenetic resolution and support in weakly supported parts of the tree without adding more characters/genes. Altogether our results corroborate that, although still underexplored, Goldman's method offers a powerful tool for experimental design in molecular phylogenetic studies. However, there are still several drawbacks to overcome, and further assessment of the method is needed in order to make it better understood, more accessible, and able to assess the addition of multiple taxa.
41677959|Bayesian inference provides an appealing general framework for phylogenetic analysis, able to incorporate a wide variety of modeling assumptions and to provide a coherent treatment of uncertainty. Existing computational approaches to Bayesian inference based on Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) have not, however, kept pace with the scale of the data analysis problems in phylogenetics, and this has hindered the adoption of Bayesian methods. In this paper, we present an alternative to MCMC based on Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC). We develop an extension of classical SMC based on partially ordered sets and show how to apply this frameworkwhich we refer to as PosetSMCto phylogenetic analysis. We provide a theoretical treatment of PosetSMC and also present experimental evaluation of PosetSMC on both synthetic and real data. The empirical results demonstrate that PosetSMC is a very promising alternative to MCMC, providing up to two orders of magnitude faster convergence. We discuss other factors favorable to the adoption of PosetSMC in phylogenetics, including its ability to estimate marginal likelihoods, its ready implementability on parallel and distributed computing platforms, and the possibility of combining with MCMC in hybrid MCMC-SMC schemes. Software for PosetSMC is available at http://www. stat. ubc. ca/bouchard/PosetSMC.
41677963|The first analyses of gene sequence data indicated that the eukaryotic tree of life consisted of a long stem of microbial groups "topped" by a crown-containing plants, animals, and fungi and their microbial relatives. Although more recent multigene concatenated analyses have refined the relationships among the many branches of eukaryotes, the root of the eukaryotic tree of life has remained elusive. Inferring the root of extant eukaryotes is challenging because of the age of the group (~1.7-2.1 billion years old), tremendous heterogeneity in rates of evolution among lineages, and lack of obvious outgroups for many genes. Here, we reconstruct a rooted phylogeny of extant eukaryotes based on minimizing the number of duplications and losses among a collection of gene trees. This approach does not require outgroup sequences or assumptions of orthology among sequences. We also explore the impact of taxon and gene sampling and assess support for alternative hypotheses for the root. Using 20 gene trees from 84 diverse eukaryotic lineages, this approach recovers robust eukaryotic clades and reveals evidence for a eukaryotic root that lies between the Opisthokonta (animals, fungi and their microbial relatives) and all remaining eukaryotes.
41677965|In scientific research, integration and synthesis require a common understanding of where data come from, how much they can be trusted, and what they may be used for. To make such an understanding computer-accessible requires standards for exchanging richly annotated data. The challenges of conveying reusable data are particularly acute in regard to evolutionary comparative analysis, which comprises an ever-expanding list of data types, methods, research aims, and subdisciplines. To facilitate interoperability in evolutionary comparative analysis, we present NeXML, an XML standard (inspired by the current standard, NEXUS) that supports exchange of richly annotated comparative data. NeXML defines syntax for operational taxonomic units, character-state matrices, and phylogenetic trees and networks. Documents can be validated unambiguously. Importantly, any data element can be annotated, to an arbitrary degree of richness, using a system that is both flexible and rigorous. We describe how the use of NeXML by the TreeBASE and Phenoscape projects satisfies user needs that cannot be satisfied with other available file formats. By relying on XML Schema Definition, the design of NeXML facilitates the development and deployment of software for processing, transforming, and querying documents. The adoption of NeXML for practical use is facilitated by the availability of (1) an online manual with code samples and a reference to all defined elements and attributes, (2) programming toolkits in most of the languages used commonly in evolutionary informatics, and (3) input-output support in several widely used software applications. An active, open, community-based development process enables future revision and expansion of NeXML.
41677960|Bursts of diversification are known to have contributed significantly to the extant morphological and species diversity, but evidence for many of the theoretical predictions about adaptive radiations have remained contentious. Despite their tremendous diversity, patterns of evolutionary diversification and the contribution of explosive episodes in fungi are largely unknown. Here, using the genus Coprinellus (Psathyrellaceae, Agaricales) as a model, we report the first explosive fungal radiation and infer that the onset of the radiation correlates with a change from a multilayered to a much simpler defense structure on the fruiting bodies. We hypothesize that this change constitutes a key innovation, probably relaxing constraints on diversification imposed by nutritional investment into the development of protective tissues of fruiting bodies. Fossil calibration suggests that Coprinellus mushrooms radiated during the Miocene coinciding with global radiation of large grazing mammals following expansion of dry open grasslands. In addition to diversification rate-based methods, we test the hard polytomy hypothesis, by analyzing the resolvability of internal nodes of the backbone of the putative radiation using Reversible-Jump MCMC. We discuss potential applications and pitfalls of this approach as well as how biologically meaningful polytomies can be distinguished from alignment shortcomings. Our data provide insights into the nature of adaptive radiations in general by revealing a deceleration of morphological diversification through time. The dynamics of morphological diversification was approximated by obtaining the temporal distribution of state changes in discrete traits along the trees and comparing it with the tempo of lineage accumulation. We found that the number of state changes correlate with the number of lineages, even in parts of the tree with short internal branches, and peaks around the onset of the explosive radiation followed by a slowdown, most likely because of the decrease in available niches.
41677958|Understanding the origin of diversity is a fundamental problem in biology. Evolutionary diversification has been intensely explored during the last years due to the development of molecular tools and the comparative method. However, most studies are conducted using only information from extant species. This approach probably leads to misleading conclusions, especially because of inaccuracy in the estimation of extinction rates. It is critical to integrate the information generated by extant organisms with the information obtained from the fossil record. Unfortunately, this integrative approach has been seldom performed, and thus, our understanding of the factors fueling diversification is still deficient. Ecological interactions are a main factor shaping evolutionary diversification by influencing speciation and extinction rates. Most attention has focused on the effect of antagonistic interactions on evolutionary diversification. In contrast, the role of mutualistic interactions in shaping diversification has been much less explored. In this study, by combining phylogenetic, neontological, and paleontological information, we show that a facultative mutualistic plant-animal interaction emerging from frugivory and seed dispersal has most likely contributed to the diversification of our own lineage, the primates. We compiled diet and seed dispersal ability in 381 extant and 556 extinct primates. Using well-established molecular phylogenies, we demonstrated that mutualistic extant primates had higher speciation rates, lower extinction rates, and thereby higher diversification rates than nonmutualistic ones. Similarly, mutualistic fossil primates had higher geological durations and smaller per capita rates of extinction than nonmutualistic ones. As a mechanism underlying this pattern, we found that mutualistic extinct and extant primates have significantly larger geographic ranges, which promotes diversification by hampering extinction and increasing geographic speciation. All these outcomes together strongly suggest that the establishment of a facultative mutualism with plants has greatly benefited primate evolution and fueled its taxonomic diversification.
41677957|Late Mesozoic palaeobiogeography has been characterized by a distinction between the northern territories of Laurasia and the southern landmasses of Gondwana. The repeated discovery of Gondwanan lineages in Laurasia has led to the proposal of alternative scenarios to explain these anomalous occurrences. A new biogeographical model for late Mesozoic terrestrial ecosystems is here proposed in which Europe and "Gondwanan" territories possessed a common Eurogondwanan fauna during the earliest Cretaceous. Subsequently, following the Hauterivian, the European territories severed from Africa and then connected to Asiamerica resulting in a faunal interchange. This model explains the presence of Gondwanan taxa in Laurasia and the absence of Laurasian forms in the southern territories during the Cretaceous. In order to test this new palaeobiogeographical model, tree reconciliation analyses (TRAs) were performed based on biogeographical signals provided by a supertree of late Mesozoic archosaurs. The TRAs found significant evidence for the presence of an earliest Cretaceous Eurogondwanan fauna followed by a relatively short-term Gondwana-Laurasia dichotomy. The analysis recovered evidence for a biogeographical reconnection of the European territories with Africa and South America-Antarctica during the Campanian to Maastrichtian time-slice. This biogeographical scenario appears to continue through the early Tertiary and sheds light on the trans-Atlantic disjunct distributions of several extant plant and animal groups.
41677961|The insect order Mantophasmatodea was described in 2002. Prior to that time, several generations of entomologists had assumed that all major insect taxa were known; thus, its description was a sensation for zoologists. Since then, a surprising abundance and species diversity of this taxon have been found, particularly in the winter rainfall region of South Africa. To learn more about the evolutionary lineages, speciation, and biogeography of Mantophasmatodea, we applied an unusual peptidomics approach. We collected specimens of almost all known and novel taxa of these insects, developed methods for immediate sample preparation in the field, introduced peptide mass fingerprints for the unambiguous identification of taxa, and subsequently analyzed the most extensive data set on peptide hormones ever compiled for insect taxa. To account for intraspecific variation, we analyzed several individuals per putative species. Increased taxon sampling was preferred over a further increase in the number of characters to optimize the accuracy of phylogenetic analyses. The large data set made it possible to test the validity of using neuropeptide sequences, which coevolve with their respective receptors, to analyze phylogenetic relationships among closely related taxa. Altogether, the data from 71 populations of Mantophasmatodea were sufficient to clearly separate the major clades of Mantophasmatodea, including previously undescribed taxa such as Pachyphasma, Striatophasma, and Austrophasmatidae gen. et sp. nov. "RV." The data confirm monophyly of Austrophasmatidae and show a relatively recent and extensive radiation in the winter rainfall region of South Africa but also suggest that the species-level diversification of Namibian Mantophasma is less marked than previously thought. We discuss the biogeographical and ecological factors that may have resulted in different regional patterns of endemism and species diversity in Mantophasmatodea. The unique development of the neuroendocrine -neurons in the ventral nervous system is described as synapomorphy of Mantophasmatodea + Grylloblattodea and is a further argument for a close relationship between these insect taxa.
41677962|The avian family Timaliidae is a species rich and morphologically diverse component of African and Asian tropical forests. The morphological diversity within the family has attracted interest from ecologists and evolutionary biologists, but systematists have long suspected that this diversity might also mislead taxonomy, and recent molecular phylogenetic work has supported this hypothesis. We produced and analyzed a data set of 6 genes and almost 300 individuals to assess the evolutionary history of the family. Although phylogenetic analysis required extensive adjustment of program settings, we ultimately produced a well-resolved phylogeny for the family. The resulting phylogeny provided strong support for major subclades within the family but extensive paraphyly of genera. Only 3 genera represented by more than 3 species were monophyletic. Biogeographic reconstruction indicated a mainland Asian origin for the family and most major clades. Colonization of Africa, Sundaland, and the Philippines occurred relatively late in the family's history and was mostly unidirectional. Several putative babbler genera, such as Robsonius, Malia, Leonardina, and Micromacronus are only distantly related to the Timaliidae.
41515200|Complex organs such as eyes are commonly lost during evolution, but the timescale on which lost phenotypes could be reactivated is a matter of long-standing debate, with important implications for the molecular mechanisms of trait loss. Two phylogenetic approaches have been used to test whether regain of traits has occurred. One way is by comparison of nested, continuous-time Markov models of trait evolution, approaches that we term tree-based tests. A second way to demonstrate statistical support for trait regain is through use of node-based tests that employ explicit estimation of ancestral node states. Here, we estimate new molecular and morphological phylogenies and use them to examine the possibility of eye regain and dispersal between abyssal and shallow seas during the history of cylindroleberidid ostracods, a family of about 200 species, comprising both eyeless and sighted species. First, we confirmed that eye presence/absence is correlated with habitat depth. Parameter estimates from a phylogenetic model indicate that speciation is more rapid in deep-sea eyeless clades compared with shallow-water sighted clades. In addition, we found that tree-based statistical tests usually indicated reversals, including both transitions from deep to shallow seas and regain of eyes. In contrast, node-based statistical tests usually failed to show significant support for reversals. These results also hold for simulated phylogenies, indicating that they are not unique to the current data set. We recommend that both tree-based and node-based tests should be examined before making conclusions about character reversal and that ideally, alternative character histories should be tested using additional data, besides just the phylogenetic distribution of presence/absence of the characters.
41515192|Diversification is nested, and early models suggested this could lead to a great deal of evolutionary redundancy in the Tree of Life. This result is based on a particular set of branch lengths produced by the common coalescent, where pendant branches leading to tips can be very short compared with branches deeper in the tree. Here, we analyze alternative and more realistic Yule and birth-death models. We show how censoring at the present both makes average branches one half what we might expect and makes pendant and interior branches roughly equal in length. Although dependent on whether we condition on the size of the tree, its age, or both, mese results hold both for the Yule model and for birthdeath models with moderate extinction. Importantly, the rough equivalency in interior and exterior branch lengths means that the loss of evolutionary history with loss of species can be roughly linear. Under these models, the Tree of Life may offer limited redundancy in the face of ongoing species loss.
41515199|Although temporal calibration is widely recognized as critical for obtaining accurate divergence-time estimates using molecular dating methods, few studies have evaluated the variation resulting from different calibration strategies. Depending on the information available, researchers have often used primary calibrations from the fossil record or secondary calibrations from previous molecular dating studies. In analyses of flowering plants, primary calibration data can be obtained from macro- and mesofossils (e.g., leaves, flowers, and fruits) or microfossils (e.g., pollen). Fossil data can vary substantially in accuracy and precision, presenting a difficult choice when selecting appropriate calibrations. Here, we test the impact of eight plausible calibration scenarios for Nothofagus (Nothofagaceae, Fagales), a plant genus with a particularly rich and well-studied fossil record. To do so, we reviewed the phylogenetic placement and geochronology of 38 fossil taxa of Nothofagus and other Fagales, and we identified minimum age constraints for up to 18 nodes of the phylogeny of Fagales. Molecular dating analyses were conducted for each scenario using maximum likelihood (RAxML + r8s) and Bayesian (BEAST) approaches on sequence data from six regions of the chloroplast and nuclear genomes. Using either ingroup or outgroup constraints, or both, led to similar age estimates, except near strongly influential calibration nodes. Using "early but risky" fossil constraints in addition to "safe but late" constraints, or using assumptions of vicariance instead of fossil constraints, led to older age estimates. In contrast, using secondary calibration points yielded drastically younger age estimates. This empirical study highlights the critical influence of calibration on molecular dating analyses. Even in a best-case situation, with many thoroughly vetted fossils available, substantial uncertainties can remain in the estimates of divergence times. For example, our estimates for the crown group age of Nothofagus varied from 13 to 113 Ma across our full range of calibration scenarios. We suggest that increased background research should be made at all stages of the calibration process to reduce errors wherever possible, from verifying the geochronological data on the fossils to critical reassessment of their phylogenetic position.
41515196|An improvement to the Network Analysis Method (NAM) in Biogeography based on weighted inference and dynamic exploration of sympatry networks is proposed. Intricate distributions of species result in a reticulated structure of spatial associations. Species are geographically connected through sympatry links forming an overall natural network in biogeography. Spatial records are the signals that provide evidence to infer these sympatry links in the network. Punctual data are independent of a priori area determination. NAM is oriented to detect groups of species embedded into the global network that are internally sustained by sympatric cohesiveness but weakly connected (or disconnected) to outgroup entities. These groups, called units of co-occurrence (UCs), are segregated through the iterative removal of intermediary species according to their betweenness scores. Instances of analysis of the original NAM are improved through the following changes and extensions: (i) inference of weighted sympatry networks using new measures sensitive to the strength of overlap and topological resemblance between set of points; (ii) construction of a basal network discriminating major from minor sympatry associations; (iii) evaluation of the entire process of iterative removal of intermediary species for the selection of UCs found on different subnetworks; (iv) network partitioning based on the intrinsic cohesiveness of the UCs; (v) production of a graphical tool (cleavogram) depicting the structural changes of the network along the removal process. Improvements are tested using real and hypothetical data sets. Resolution of patterns is notably increased due to a more accurate recognition of allopatric patterns and the possibility of segregating spatially overlapped UCs. As in original NAM, spatial expressions of UCs are building blocks for biogeography supported by strictly endemic and connected species through sympatry paths.
41515193|Phylogenetic trees show a remarkable slowdown in the increase of number of lineages towards the present, a phenomenon which cannot be explained by the standard birthdeath model of diversification with constant speciation and extinction rates. The birthdeath model instead predicts a constant or accelerating increase in the number of lineages, which has been called the pull of the present. The observed slowdown has been attributed to nonconstancy of the speciation and extinction rates due to some form of diversity dependence (i.e., species-level density dependence), but the mechanisms underlying this are still unclear. Here, we propose an alternative explanation based on the simple concept that speciation takes time to complete. We show that this idea of "protracted" speciation can be incorporated in the standard birth-death model of diversification. The rotracted birthdeath model predicts a realistic slowdown in the rate of increase of number of lineages in the phylogeny and provides a compelling fit to four bird phylogenies with realistic parameter values. Thus, the effect of recognizing the generally accepted fact that speciation is not an instantaneous event is significant; even if it cannot account for all the observed patterns, it certainly contributes substantially and should therefore be incorporated into future studies.
41515198|Molecular phylogenetics has entered a new era in which species trees are estimated from a collection of gene trees using methods that accommodate their heterogeneity and discordance with the species tree. Empirical evaluation of species trees is necessary to assess the performance (i.e., accuracy and precision) of these methods with real data, which consists of gene genealogies likely shaped by different historical and demographic processes. We analyzed 20 loci for 16 species of the South American lizards of the Liolaemus darwinii species group and reconstructed a species tree with *BEAST, then compared the performance of this method under different sampling strategies of loci, individuals, and sequence lengths. We found an increase in the accuracy and precision of species trees with the number of loci, but for any number of loci, accuracy substantially decreased only when using only one individual per species or 25% of the full sequence length (~147 bp). In addition, locus "informativeness" was an important factor in the accuracy/precision of species trees when using a few loci, but it became increasingly irrelevant with additional loci. Our empirical results combined with the previous simulation studies suggest that there is an optimal range of sampling effort of loci, individuals, and sequence lengths for a given speciation history and information content of the data. Future studies should be directed toward further assessment of other factors that can impact performance of species trees, including gene flow, locus "informativeness," tree shape, missing data, and errors in species delimitation.
41515191|Species are commonly delimited on the basis of gaps in patterns of morphological variation, but there seems to be little recent work on methods to objectively assess such gaps. Here, we introduce a statistical approach that uses measurements of continuous morphological characters and geographic variation in those characters to (i) measure the strength of the evidence for the existence of a gap in morphological variation between two hypothesized species and (ii) examine if a gap in morphological variation between two hypothesized species can be explained by an alternative hypothesis of geographic variation within a species. This approach is based on recent developments in analyses of multivariate normal mixtures, estimates of multivariate tolerance regions, and principal coordinates of neighboring matrices. We demonstrate the application of the approach by examining previously proposed hypotheses of species limits in the plant genus Escallonia. We discuss the main features of the method, including potential limitations, in relation to other approaches that use gaps in morphological variation as a criterion for species delimitation. The method we propose can help strengthen the link between the theory and practice of species delimitation by increasing the transparency and consistency of taxonomic decisions based on morphology, thus contributing to integrative approaches for species delimitation that consider morphological and geographic data on an equal footing with other kinds of information.
41515195|Phylogenetic trees are important in many areas of biological research, ranging from systematic studies to the methods used for genome annotation. Finding the best scoring tree under any optimality criterion is an NP-hard problem, which necessitates the use of heuristics for tree-search. Although tree-search plays a major role in obtaining a tree estimate, there remains a limited understanding of its characteristics and how the elements of the statistical inferential procedure interact with the algorithms used. This study begins to answer some of these questions through a detailed examination of maximum likelihood tree-search on a wide range of real genome-scale data sets. We examine all 10,395 trees for each of the 106 genes of an eight-taxa yeast phylogenomic data set, then apply different tree-search algorithms to investigate their performance. We extend our findings by examining two larger genome-scale data sets and a large disparate data set that has been previously used to benchmark the performance of tree-search programs. We identify several broad trends occurring during tree-search that provide an insight into the performance of heuristics and may, in the future, aid their development. These trends include a tendency for the true maximum likelihood (best) tree to also be the shortest tree in terms of branch lengths, a weak tendency for tree-search to recover the best tree, and a tendency for tree-search to encounter fewer local optima in genes that have a high information content. When examining current heuristics for treesearch, we find that nearest-neighbor-interchange performs poorly, and frequently finds trees that are significantly different from the best tree. In contrast, subtree-pruning-and-regrafting tends to perform well, nearly always finding trees that are not significantly different to the best tree. Finally, we demonstrate that the precise implementation of a tree-search strategy, including when and where parameters are optimized, can change the character of tree-search, and that good strategies for tree-search may combine existing tree-search programs.
41515197|We explored the efficacy of species tree methods at the family level in birds, using the Australo-Papuan Fairy-wrens (Passeriformes: Maluridae) as a model system. Fairy-wrens of the genus Malurus are known for high intensities of sexual selection, resulting in some cases in rapid speciation. This history suggests that incomplete lineage sorting (ILS) of neutrally evolving loci could be substantial, a situation that could compromise traditional methods of combining loci in phylogenetic analysis. Using 18 molecular markers (5 anonymous loci, 7 exons, 5 introns, and 1 mitochondrial DNA locus), we show that gene tree monophyly across species could be rejected for 16 of 18 loci, suggesting substantial ILS at the family level in these birds. Using the software Concaterpillar, we also detect three statistically distinct clusters of gene trees among the 18 loci. Despite substantial variation in gene trees, species trees constructed using four different species tree estimation methods (BEST, BUCKy, and STAR) were generally well supported and similar to each other and to the concatenation tree, with a few mild discordances at nodes that could be explained by rapid and recent speciation events. By contrast, minimizing deep coalescences produced a species tree that was topologically more divergent from those of the other methods as measured by multidimensional scaling of trees. Additionally, gene and species trees were topologically more similar in the BEST analysis, presumably because of the species tree prior employed in BEST which appropriately assumes that gene trees are correlated with each other and with the species tree. Among the 18 loci, we also discovered 102 independent indel markers, which also proved phylogenetically informative, primarily among genera, and displayed a ~4-fold bias towards deletions. As suggested in earlier work, the grasswrens (Amytornis) are sister to the rest of the family and the emu-wrens (Stipiturus) are sister to fairy-wrens (Malurus, Clytomyias). Our study shows that ILS is common at the family level in birds yet, despite this, species tree methods converge on broadly similar results for this family.
41515194|Many research groups are estimating trees containing anywhere from a few thousands to hundreds of thousands of species, toward the eventual goal of the estimation of a Tree of Life, containing perhaps as many as several million leaves. These phylogenetic estimations present enormous computational challenges, and current computational methods are likely to fail to run even on data sets in the low end of this range. One approach to estimate a large species tree is to use phylogenetic estimation methods (such as maximum likelihood) on a supermatrix produced by concatenating multiple sequence alignments for a collection of markers; however, the most accurate of these phylogenetic estimation methods are extremely computationally intensive for data sets with more than a few thousand sequences. Supertree methods, which assemble phylogenetic trees from a collection of trees on subsets of the taxa, are important tools for phylogeny estimation where phylogenetic analyses based upon maximum likelihood (ML) are infeasible. In this paper, we introduce SuperFine, a metamethod that utilizes a novel two-step procedure in order to improve the accuracy and scalability of supertree methods. Our study, using both simulated and empirical data, shows that SuperFine-boosted supertree methods produce more accurate trees than standard supertree methods, and run quickly on very large data sets with thousands of sequences. Furthermore, SuperFine-boosted matrix representation with parsimony (MRP, the most well-known supertree method) approaches the accuracy of ML methods on supermatrix data sets under realistic conditions.
41515201|Understanding the evolutionary history of species is at the core of molecular evolution and is done using several inference methods. The critical issue is to quantify the uncertainty of the inference. The posterior probabilities in Bayesian phylogenetic inference and the bootstrap values in frequentist approaches measure the variability of the estimates due to the sampling of sites from genes and the sampling of genes from genomes. However, they do not measure the uncertainty due to taxon sampling. Taxa that experienced molecular homoplasy, recent selection, a spur of evolution, and so forth may disrupt the inference and cause incongruences in the estimated phylogeny. We define a taxon influence index to assess the influence of each taxon on the phylogeny. We found that although most taxa have a weak influence on the phylogeny, a small fraction of influential taxa strongly alter it even in clades only loosely related to them. We conclude that highly influential taxa should be given special attention and sampling them more thoroughly can lead to more dependable phylogenies.
41677977|We modified the phylogenetic program MrBayes 3.1.2 to incorporate the compound Dirichlet priors for branch lengths proposed recently by Rannala, Zhu, and Yang (2012. Tail paradox, partial identifiability and influential priors in Bayesian branch length inference. Mol. Biol. Evol. 29: 325-335.) as a solution to the problem of branch-length overestimation in Bayesian phylogenetic inference. The compound Dirichlet prior specifies a fairly diffuse prior on the tree length (the sum of branch lengths) and uses a Dirichlet distribution to partition the tree length into branch lengths. Six problematic data sets originally analyzed by Brown, Hedtke, Lemmon, and Lemmon (2010. When trees grow too long: investigating the causes of highly inaccurate Bayesian branch-length estimates. Syst. Biol. 59: 145-161) are reanalyzed using the modified version of MrBayes to investigate properties of Bayesian branch-length estimation using the new priors. While the default exponential priors for branch lengths produced extremely long trees, the compound Dirichlet priors produced posterior estimates that are much closer to the maximum likelihood estimates. Furthermore, the posterior tree lengths were quite robust to changes in the parameter values in the compound Dirichlet priors, for example, when the prior mean of tree length changed over several orders of magnitude. Our results suggest that the compound Dirichlet priors may be useful for correcting branchlength overestimation in phylogenetic analyses of empirical data sets.
41677975|One of the major challenges for researchers studying phylogeography and shallow-scale phylogenetics is the identification of highly variable and informative nuclear loci for the question of interest. Previous approaches to locus identification have generally required extensive testing of anonymous nuclear loci developed from genomic libraries of the target taxon, testing of loci of unknown utility from other systems, or identification of loci from the nearest model organism with genomic resources. Here, we present a fast and economical approach to generating thousands of variable, single-copy nuclear loci for any system using next-generation sequencing. We performed Illumina paired-end sequencing of three reduced-representation libraries (RRLs) in chorus frogs (Pseudacris) to identify orthologous, single-copy loci across libraries and to estimate sequence divergence at multiple taxonomic levels. We also conducted PCR testing of these loci across the genus Pseudacris and outgroups to determine whether loci developed for phylogeography can be extended to deeper phylogenetic levels. Prior to sequencing, we conducted in silico digestion of the most closely related reference genome (Xenopus tropicalis) to generate expectations for the number of loci and degree of coverage for a particular experimental design. Using the RRL approach, we: (i) identified more than 100,000 single-copy nuclear loci, 6339 of which were obtained for divergent conspecifics and 904 of which were obtained for heterospecifics; (ii) estimated average nuclear sequence divergence at 0.1% between aleles within an individual, 1.1% between conspecific individuals that represent two different clades, and 1.8% between species; and (iii) determined from PCR testing that 53% of the loci successfully amplify withinspecies and also many amplify to the genus-level and deeper in the phylogeny (16%). Our study effectively identified nuclear loci present in the genome that have levels of sequence divergence on par with mitochondrial loci commonly used in phylogeography. Specifically, we estimated that ~ 7% of loci in the chorus frog genome are > 3% divergent within species; this translates to a prediction of approximately 50,000 single-copy loci in the genome with > 3% divergence. Moreover, successful amplification of many loci at deeper phylogenetic levels indicates that the RRL approach represents an efficient method for rapid identification of informative loci for both phylogenetics and phylogeography. We conclude by making recommendations for minimizing the cost and maximizing the efficiency of locus identification for future studies in this field.
41677983|Eight years after DNA barcoding was formally proposed on a large scale, COI sequences are rapidly accumulating from around the world. While studies to date have mostly targeted local or regional species assemblages, the recent launch of the global iBOL project (International Barcode of Life), highlights the need to understand the effects of geographical scale on Barcoding's goals. Sampling has been central in the debate on DNA Barcoding, but the effect of the geographical scale of sampling has not yet been thoroughly and explicitly tested with empirical data. Here, we present a COI data set of aquatic predaceous diving beetles of the tribe Agabini, sampled throughout Europe, and use it to investigate how the geographic scale of sampling affects 1) the estimated intraspecific variation of species, 2) the genetic distance to the most closely related heterospecific, 3) the ratio of intraspecific and interspecific variation, 4) the frequency of taxonomically recognized species found to be monophyletic, and 5) query identification performance based on 6 different species assignment methods. Intraspecific variation was significantly correlated with the geographical scale of sampling (R-square = 0.7), and more than half of the species with 10 or more sampled individuals (N = 29) showed higher intraspecific variation than 1% sequence divergence. In contrast, the distance to the closest heterospecific showed a significant decrease with increasing geographical scale of sampling. The average genetic distance dropped from > 7% for samples within 1 km, to < 3.5% for samples up to > 6000 km apart. Over a third of the species were not monophyletic, and the proportion increased through locally, nationally, regionally, and continentally restricted subsets of the data. The success of identifying queries decreased with increasing spatial scale of sampling; liberal methods declined from 100% to around 90%, whereas strict methods dropped to below 50% at continental scales. The proportion of query identifications considered uncertain (more than one species < 1% distance from query) escalated from zero at local, to 50% at continental scale. Finally, by resampling the most widely sampled species we show that even if samples are collected to maximize the geographical coverage, up to 70 individuals are required to sample 95% of intraspecific variation. The results show that the geographical scale of sampling has a critical impact on the global application of DNA barcoding. Scale-effects result from the relative importance of different processes determining the composition of regional species assemblages (dispersal and ecological assembly) and global clades (demography, speciation, and extinction). The incorporation of geographical information, where available, will be required to obtain identification rates at global scales equivalent to those in regional barcoding studies. Our result hence provides an impetus for both smarter barcoding tools and sprouting national barcoding initiatives smaller geographical scales deliver higher accuracy.
41677980|We illustrate how recently developed large sequence-length approximations to probabilities of correct phylogenetic reconstruction for maximum likelihood estimation can be used to evaluate experimental design strategies. The specific criterion of interest is the probability of correctly resolving an a priori defined split of interest in a phylogenetic tree. Design strategies considered include increased taxon sampling and increasing sequence length. Our analyses of specific examples strongly suggest that it is better to sample taxa that connect as close as possible to the split of interest. Assuming this can be done, these examples suggest it is better to sample additional taxa than to add a comparable number of sites for the existing taxa. If the rates of evolution in the added taxa are slow, it is better to choose taxa connecting to a long edge, but if rates are comparable to a sister lineage, it is not necessarily the best strategy to sample taxa connected to a long edge. We also examined deleting taxa while increasing the number of sites. Although deleting a small number of taxa distant from the split of interest can be beneficial, deleting too many or making poor choices as to what should be deleted can lead to smaller probabilities of correct reconstruction than for the original sequence data.
41677978|Chronograms from molecular dating are increasingly being used to infer rates of diversification and their change over time. A major limitation in such analyses is incomplete species sampling that moreover is usually nonrandom. While the widely used  statistic with the Monte Carlo constant-rates test or the birth-death likelihood analysis with the AAICrc test statistic are appropriate for comparing the fit of different diversification models in phylogenies with random species sampling, no objective automated method has been developed for fitting diversification models to nonrandomly sampled phylogenies. Here, we introduce a novel approach, CorSiM, which involves simulating missing splits under a constant rate birth-death model and allows the user to specify whether species sampling in the phylogeny being analyzed is random or nonrandom. The completed trees can be used in subsequent model-fitting analyses. This is fundamentally different from previous diversification rate estimation methods, which were based on null distributions derived from the incomplete trees. CorSiM is automated in an R package and can easily be applied to large data sets. We illustrate the approach in two Araceae clades, one with a random species sampling of 52% and one with a nonrandom sampling of 55%. In the latter clade, the CorSiM approach detects and quantifies an increase in diversification rate, whereas classic approaches prefer a constant rate model; in the former clade, results do not differ among methods (as indeed expected since the classic approaches are valid only for randomly sampled phylogenies). The CorSiM method greatly reduces the type I error in diversification analysis, but type II error remains a methodological problem.
41677981|Among the World's most challenging environments for plant life is the Atacama Desert, an arid zone extending over 1300 km and from sea level to 2000/3000 m altitude along the southwestern Andean foothills. Plants there and in the adjacent Mediterranean zone exhibit striking adaptations, and we here address the question whether in a speciesrich clade such adaptations arose in parallel, at different times, or simultaneously. Answering this type of question has been a major concern of evolutionary biology over the past few years, with a growing consensus that lineages tend to be conservative in their vegetative traits and niche requirements. Combined nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences for 112 species of Oxalidales (4900 aligned nucleotides) were used for a fossil-calibrated phylogeny that includes 43 of the 54 species of Chilean Oxalis, and species distribution models (SDMs) incorporating precipitation, temperature, and fog, and the phylogeny were used to reconstruct ancestral habitat preferences, relying on likelihood and Bayesian techniques. Since uneven collecting can reduce the power of SDMs, we compared 3 strategies to correct for collecting effort. Unexpectedly, the Oxalis flora of Chile consists of 7 distant lineages that originated at different times prior to the last Andean uplift pulse; some had features preadapting them to seasonally arid or xeric conditions. Models that incorporated fog and a "collecting activity surface" performed best and identified the Mediterranean zone as a hotspot of Oxalis species as well as lineage diversity because it harbors a mix of ancient and young groups, including insufficiently arid-adapted species. There is no evidence of rapid adaptive radiation.
41677982|A principal objective for phylogenetic experimental design is to predict the power of a data set to resolve nodes in a phylogenetic tree. However, proactively assessing the potential for phylogenetic noise compared with signal in a candidate data set has been a formidable challenge. Understanding the impact of collection of additional sequence data to resolve recalcitrant internodes at diverse historical times will facilitate increasingly accurate and cost-effective phylogenetic research. Here, we derive theory based on the fundamental unit of the phylogenetic tree, the quartet, that applies estimates of the state space and the rates of evolution of characters in a data set to predict phylogenetic signal and phylogenetic noise and therefore to predict the power to resolve internodes. We develop and implement a Monte Carlo approach to estimating power to resolve as well as deriving a nearly equivalent faster deterministic calculation. These approaches are applied to describe the distribution of potential signal, polytomy, or noise for two example data sets, one recent (cytochrome c oxidase I and 28S ribosomal rRNA sequences from Diplazontinae parasitoid wasps) and one deep (eight nuclear genes and a phylogenomic sequence for diverse microbial eukaryotes including Stramenopiles, Alveolata, and Rhizaria). The predicted power of resolution for the loci analyzed is consistent with the historic use of the genes in phylogenetics.
41677974|The field of phylogenetics is on the cusp of a major revolution, enabled by new methods of data collection that leverage both genomic resources and recent advances in DNA sequencing. Previous phylogenetic work has required laborintensive marker development coupled with single-locus polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequencing on clade-by-clade and locus-by-locus basis. Here, we present a new, cost-efficient, and rapid approach to obtaining data from hundreds of loci for potentially hundreds of individuals for deep and shallow phylogenetic studies. Specifically, we designed probes for target enrichment of > 500 loci in highly conserved anchor regions of vertebrate genomes (flanked by less conserved regions) from five model species and tested enrichment efficiency in nonmodel species up to 508 million years divergent from the nearest model. We found that hybrid enrichment using conserved probes (anchored enrichment) can recover a large number of unlinked loci that are useful at a diversity of phylogenetic timescales. This new approach has the potential not only to expedite resolution of deep-scale portions of the Tree of Life but also to greatly accelerate resolution of the large number of shallow clades that remain unresolved. The combination of low cost (~ 1% of the cost of traditional Snger sequencing and ~ 3.5% of the cost of high-throughput amplicon sequencing for projects on the scale of 500 loci  100 individuals) and rapid data collection (~ 2 weeks of laboratory time) are expected to make this approach tractable even for researchers working on systems with limited or nonexistent genomic resources.
41677976|We collected ~29 kb of sequence data using Roche 454 pyrosequencing in order to estimate the timing and pattern of diversification in the carnivorous pitcher plant Sarracenia alata. Utilizing modified protocols for reduced representation library construction, we generated sequence data from 86 individuals across 10 populations from throughout the range of the species. We identified 76 high-quality and high-coverage loci (containing over 500 SNPs) using the bioinformatics pipeline PRGmatic. Results from a Bayesian clustering analysis indicate that populations are highly structured, and are similar in pattern to the topology of a population tree estimated using *BEAST. The pattern of diversification within Sarracenia alata implies that riverine barriers are the primary factor promoting population diversification, with divergence across the Mississippi River occurring more than 60,000 generations before present. Further, significant patterns of niche divergence and the identification of several outlier loci suggest that selection may contribute to population divergence. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of using next-generation sequencing to investigate intraspecific genetic variation in nonmodel species.
41677979|In Bayesian divergence time estimation methods, incorporating calibrating information from the fossil record is commonly done by assigning prior densities to ancestral nodes in the tree. Calibration prior densities are typically parametric distributions offset by minimum age estimates provided by the fossil record. Specification of the parameters of calibration densities requires the user to quantify his or her prior knowledge of the age of the ancestral node relative to the age of its calibrating fossil. The values of these parameters can, potentially, result in biased estimates of node ages if they lead to overly informative prior distributions. Accordingly, determining parameter values that lead to adequate prior densities is not straightforward. In this study, I present a hierarchical Bayesian model for calibrating divergence time analyses with multiple fossil age constraints. This approach applies a Dirichlet process prior as a hyperprior on the parameters of calibration prior densities. Specifically, this model assumes that the rate parameters of exponential prior distributions on calibrated nodes are distributed according to a Dirichlet process, whereby the rate parameters are clustered into distinct parameter categories. Both simulated and biological data are analyzed to evaluate the performance of the Dirichlet process hyperprior. Compared with fixed exponential prior densities, the hierarchical Bayesian approach results in more accurate and precise estimates of internal node ages. When this hyperprior is applied using Markov chain Monte Carlo methods, the ages of calibrated nodes are sampled from mixtures of exponential distributions and uncertainty in the values of calibration density parameters is taken into account.
41677973|Although massively parallel sequencing has facilitated large-scale DNA sequencing, comparisons among distantly related species rely upon small portions of the genome that are easily aligned. Methods are needed to efficiently obtain comparable DNA fragments prior to massively parallel sequencing, particularly for biologists working with nonmodel organisms. We introduce a new class of molecular marker, anchored by ultraconserved genomic elements (UCEs), that universally enable target enrichment and sequencing of thousands of orthologous loci across species separated by hundreds of millions of years of evolution. Our analyses here focus on use of UCE markers in Amniota because UCEs and phylogenetic relationships are well-known in some amniotes. We perform an in silico experiment to demonstrate that sequence flanking 2030 UCEs contains information sufficient to enable unambiguous recovery of the established primate phylogeny. We extend this experiment by performing an in vitro enrichment of 2386 UCE-anchored loci from nine, nonmodel avian species. We then use alignments of 854 of these loci to unambiguously recover the established evolutionary relationships within and among three ancient bird lineages. Because many organismal lineages have UCEs, this type of genetic marker and the analytical framework we outline can be applied across the tree of life, potentially reshaping our understanding of phylogeny at many taxonomic levels.
41677984|We found that trends in the rate of description of 580,000 marine and terrestrial species, in the taxonomically authoritative World Register of Marine Species and Catalogue of Life databases, were similar until the 1950s. Since then, the relative number of marine to terrestrial species described per year has increased, reflecting the less explored nature of the oceans. From the mid-19th century, the cumulative number of species described has been linear, with the highest number of species described in the decade of 1900, and fewer species described and fewer authors active during the World Wars. There were more authors describing species since the 1960s, indicating greater taxonomic effort. There were fewer species described per author since the 1920s, suggesting it has become more difficult to discover new species. There was no evidence of any change in individual effort by taxonomists. Using a nonhomogeneous renewal process model we predicted that 24-31% to 21-29% more marine and terrestrial species remain to be discovered, respectively. We discuss why we consider that marine species comprise only 16% of all species on Earth although the oceans contain a greater phylogenetic diversity than occurs on land. We predict that there may be 1.8-2.0 million species on Earth, of which about 0.3 million are marine, significantly less than some previous estimates.
41515215|The Guiana Shield (GS) is one of the most pristine regions of Amazonia and biologically one of the richest areas on Earth. How and when this massive diversity arose remains the subject of considerable debate. The prevailing hypothesis of Quaternary glacial refugia suggests that a part of the eastern GS, among other areas in Amazonia, served as stable forested refugia during periods of aridity. However, the recently proposed disturbancevicariance hypothesis proposes that fluctuations in temperature on orbital timescales, with some associated aridity, have driven Neotropical diversification. The expectations of the temporal and spatial organization of biodiversity differ between these two hypotheses. Here, we compare the genetic structure of 12 leaf-litter inhabiting frog species from the GS lowlands using a combination of mitochondrial and nuclear sequences in an integrative analytical approach that includes phylogenetic reconstructions, molecular dating, and Geographic Information System methods. This comparative and integrated approach overcomes the well-known limitations of phylogeographic inference based on single species and single loci. All of the focal species exhibit distinct phylogeographic patterns highlighting taxon-specific historical distributions, ecological tolerances to climatic disturbance, and dispersal abilities. Nevertheless, all but one species exhibit a history of fragmentation/isolation within the eastern GS during the Quaternary with spatial and temporal concordance among species. The signature of isolation in northern French Guiana (FG) during the early Pleistocene is particularly clear. Approximate Bayesian Computation supports the synchrony of the divergence between northern FG and other GS lineages. Substructure observed throughout the GS suggests further Quaternary fragmentation and a role for rivers. Our findings support fragmentation of moist tropical forest in the eastern GS during this period when the refuge hypothesis would have the region serving as a contiguous wet-forest refuge.
41515212|Regressions of biological variables across species are rarely perfect. Usually, there are residual deviations from the estimated model relationship, and such deviations commonly show a pattern of phylogenetic correlations indicating that they have biological causes. We discuss the origins and effects of phylogenetically correlated biological variation in regression studies. In particular, we discuss the interplay of biological deviations with deviations due to observational or measurement errors, which are also important in comparative studies based on estimated species means. We show how bias in estimated evolutionary regressions can arise from several sources, including phylogenetic inertia and either observational or biological error in the predictor variables. We show how all these biases can be estimated and corrected for in the presence of phylogenetic correlations. We present general formulas for incorporating measurement error in linear models with correlated data. We also show how alternative regression models, such as major axis and reduced major axis regression, which are often recommended when there is error in predictor variables, are strongly biased when there is biological variation in any part of the model. We argue that such methods should never be used to estimate evolutionary or allometric regression slopes.
41515209|We prove that the slope parameter of the ordinary least squares regression of phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs) conducted through the origin is identical to the slope parameter of the method of generalized least squares (GLSs) regression under a Brownian motion model of evolution. This equivalence has several implications: 1. Understanding the structure of the linear model for GLS regression provides insight into when and why phylogeny is important in comparative studies. 2. The limitations of the PIC regression analysis are the same as the limitations of the GLS model. In particular, phylogenetic covariance applies only to the response variable in the regression and the explanatory variable should be regarded as fixed. Calculation of PICs for explanatory variables should be treated as a mathematical idiosyncrasy of the PIC regression algorithm. 3. Since the GLS estimator is the best linear unbiased estimator (BLUE), the slope parameter estimated using PICs is also BLUE. 4. If the slope is estimated using different branch lengths for the explanatory and response variables in the PIC algorithm, the estimator is no longer the BLUE, so this is not recommended. Finally, we discuss whether or not and how to accommodate phylogenetic covariance in regression analyses, particularly in relation to the problem of phylogenetic uncertainty. This discussion is from both frequentist and Bayesian perspectives.
41515214|Replicate radiations provide powerful comparative systems to address questions about the interplay between opportunity and innovation in driving episodes of diversification and the factors limiting their subsequent progression. However, such systems have been rarely documented at intercontinental scales. Here, we evaluate the hypothesis of multiple radiations in the genus Lupinus (Leguminosae), which exhibits some of the highest known rates of net diversification in plants. Given that incomplete taxon sampling, background extinction, and lineage-specific variation in diversification rates can confound macroevolutionary inferences regarding the timing and mechanisms of cladogenesis, we used Bayesian relaxed clock phylogenetic analyses as well as MEDUSA and BiSSE birthdeath likelihood models of diversification, to evaluate the evolutionary patterns of lineage accumulation in Lupinus. We identified 3 significant shifts to increased rates of net diversification (r) relative to background levels in the genus (r = 0.180.48 lineages/myr). The primary shift occurred approximately 4.6 Ma (r = 0.481.76) in the montane regions of western North America, followed by a secondary shift approximately 2.7 Ma (r = 0.893.33) associated with range expansion and diversification of allopatrically distributed sister clades in the Mexican highlands and Andes. We also recovered evidence for a third independent shift approximately 6.5 Ma at the base of a lower elevation eastern South American grassland and campo rupestre clade (r = 0.361.33). Bayesian ancestral state reconstructions and BiSSE likelihood analyses of correlated diversification indicated that increased rates of speciation are strongly associated with the derived evolution of perennial life history and invasion of montane ecosystems. Although we currently lack hard evidence for "replicate adaptive radiations" in the sense of convergent morphological and ecological trajectories among species in different clades, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that iteroparity functioned as an adaptive key innovation, providing a mechanism for range expansion and rapid divergence in upper elevation regions across much of the New World.
41515213|The study of three island groups of the palm tribe Trachycarpeae (Arecaceae/Palmae) permits both the analysis of each independent radiation and comparisons across the tribe to address general processes that drive island diversification. Phylogenetic relationships of Trachycarpeae were inferred from three plastid and three low-copy nuclear genes. The incongruent topological position of Brahea in CISP5 was hypothesized to be caused by a gene duplication event and was addressed using uninode coding. The resulting phylogenetic trees were well-resolved and the genera were all highly supported except for Johannesteijsmannia and Serenoa. Divergence time analysis estimated the stem of the tribe to be approximately 86 Ma and the crown to be 38 Ma, indicating that significant extinction may have occurred along this branch. Historical biogeographic analysis suggested that Trachycarpeae are of southern North American, Central American, or Caribbean origin and supports previous hypotheses of a Laurasian origin. The biogeography and disjunctions within the tribe were interpreted with respect to divergence times, the fossil record, and geological factors such as the formation of the Greater AntillesAves Ridge, the Bering and the North Atlantic land bridges, tectonic movement in Southeast Asia, climatic shifts between the Eocene and Pliocene, and volcanism in the Pacific basin. In considering the three major island radiations within Trachycarpeae, Miocene dispersal appears to have been the driving force in allopatric speciation and is highlighted here as an emerging pattern across the tree of life.
41515210|All methods proposed to date for mapping landmark configurations on a phylogenetic tree start from an alignment generated by methods that make no use of phylogenetic information, usually by superimposing all configurations against a consensus configuration. In order to properly interpret differences between landmark configurations along the tree as changes in shape, the metric chosen to define the ancestral assignments should also form the basis to superimpose the configurations. Thus, we present here a method that merges both steps, map and align, into a single procedure that (for the given tree) produces a multiple alignment and ancestral assignments such that the sum of the Euclidean distances between the corresponding landmarks along tree nodes is minimized. This approach is an extension of the method proposed by Catalano et al. (2010. Phylogenetic morphometrics (I): the use of landmark data in a phylogenetic framework. Cladistics. 26:539-549) for mapping landmark data with parsimony as optimality criterion. In the context of phylogenetics, this method allows maximizing the degree to which similarity in landmark positions can be accounted for by common ancestry. In the context of morphometrics, this approach guarantees (heuristics aside) that all the transformations inferred on the tree represent changes in shape. The performance of the method was evaluated on different data sets, indicating that the method produces marked improvements in tree score (up to 5% compared with generalized superimpositions, up to 11% compared with ordinary superimpositions). These empirical results stress the importance of incorporating the phylogenetic information into the alignment step.
41515211|The macroevolutionary consequences of recent climate change remain controversial, and there is little paleobotanical or morphological evidence that Pleistocene (1.80.12 Ma) glacial cycles acted as drivers of speciation, especially among lineages with long generation times, such as trees. We combined genetic and ecogeographic data from 2 closely related North American tree species, Populus balsamifera and P. trichocarpa (Salicacaeae), to determine if their divergence coincided with and was possibly caused by Pleistocene climatic events. We analyzed 32 nuclear loci from individuals of P. balsamifera and P. trichocarpa to produce coalescent-based estimates of the divergence time between the 2 species. We coupled the coalescent analyses with paleodistribution models to assess the influence of climate change on species' range. Furthermore, measures of niche overlap were used to investigate patterns of ecological differentiation between species. We estimated the divergence date of P. balsamifera and P. trichocarpa at approximately 75 Ka, which corresponds closely with the onset of Marine Isotope Stage 4 (~76 Ka) and a rapid increase in global ice volume. Significance tests of niche overlap, in conjunction with genetic estimates of migration, suggested that speciation occurred in allopatry, possibly resulting from the environmental effects of Pleistocene glacial cycles. Our results indicate that the divergence of keystone tree species, which have shaped community diversity in northern North American ecosystems, was recent and may have been a consequence of Pleistocene-era glaciation and climate change.
41515217|Most models and algorithms developed to perform statistical inference from DNA data make the assumption that substitution processes affecting distinct nucleotide sites are stochastically independent. This assumption ensures both mathematical and computational tractability but is in disagreement with observed data in many situationsone well-known example being CpG dinucleotide hypermutability in mammalian genomes. In this paper, we consider the class of RN95 + YpR substitution models, which allows neighbor-dependent effectsincluding CpG hypermutabilityto be taken into account, through transitions between pyrimidine-purine dinucleotides. We show that it is possible to adapt inference methods originally developed under the assumption of independence between sites to RN95 + YpR models, using a mathematically rigorous framework provided by specific structural properties of this class of models. We assess how efficient this approach is at inferring the CpG hypermutability rate from aligned DNA sequences. The method is tested on simulated data and compared against several alternatives; the results suggest that it delivers a high degree of accuracy at a low computational cost. We then apply our method to an alignment of 10 DNA sequences from primate species. Model comparisons within the RN95 + YpR class show the importance of taking into account neighbor-dependent effects. An application of the method to the detection of hypomethylated islands is discussed.
41515220|Since its introduction in 2001, MrBayes has grown in popularity as a software package for Bayesian phylogenetic inference using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. With this note, we announce the release of version 3.2, a major upgrade to the latest official release presented in 2003. The new version provides convergence diagnostics and allows multiple analyses to be run in parallel with convergence progress monitored on the fly. The introduction of new proposals and automatic optimization of tuning parameters has improved convergence for many problems. The new version also sports significantly faster likelihood calculations through streaming single-instruction-multiple-data extensions (SSE) and support of the BEAGLE library, allowing likelihood calculations to be delegated to graphics processing units (GPUs) on compatible hardware. Speedup factors range from around 2 with SSE code to more than 50 with BEAGLE for codon problems. Checkpointing across all models allows long runs to be completed even when an analysis is prematurely terminated. New models include relaxed clocks, dating, model averaging across time-reversible substitution models, and support for hard, negative, and partial (backbone) tree constraints. Inference of species trees from gene trees is supported by full incorporation of the Bayesian estimation of species trees (BEST) algorithms. Marginal model likelihoods for Bayes factor tests can be estimated accurately across the entire model space using the stepping stone method. The new version provides more output options than previously, including samples of ancestral states, site rates, site d^/dg rations, branch rates, and node dates. A wide range of statistics on tree parameters can also be output for visualization in FigTree and compatible software.
41515216|Backbone relationships within the large eupolypod II clade, which includes nearly a third of extant fern species, have resisted elucidation by both molecular and morphological data. Earlier studies suggest that much of the phylogenetic intractability of this group is due to three factors: (i) a long root that reduces apparent levels of support in the ingroup; (ii) long ingroup branches subtended by a series of very short backbone internodes (the "ancient rapid radiation" model); and (iii) significantly heterogeneous lineage-specific rates of substitution. To resolve the eupolypod II phylogeny, with a particular emphasis on the backbone internodes, we assembled a data set of five plastid loci (atpA, atpB, matK, rbcL, and trnG-R) from a sample of 81 accessions selected to capture the deepest divergences in the clade. We then evaluated our phylogenetic hypothesis against potential confounding factors, including those induced by rooting, ancient rapid radiation, rate heterogeneity, and the Bayesian star-tree paradox artifact. While the strong support we inferred for the backbone relationships proved robust to these potential problems, their investigation revealed unexpected model-mediated impacts of outgroup composition, divergent effects of methods for countering the star-tree paradox artifact, and gave no support to concerns about the applicability of the unrooted model to data sets with heterogeneous lineage-specific rates of substitution. This study is among few to investigate these factors with empirical data, and the first to compare the performance of the two primary methods for overcoming the Bayesian star-tree paradox artifact. Among the significant phylogenetic results is the near-complete support along the eupolypod II backbone, the demonstrated paraphyly of Woodsiaceae as currently circumscribed, and the well-supported placement of the enigmatic genera Homalosorus, Diplaziopsis, and Woodsia.
41515208|Understanding recent speciation history requires merging phylogenetic and population genetics approaches, taking into account the persistence of ancestral polymorphism and possible introgression. The emergence of a clear phylogeny of hares (genus Lepus) has been hampered by poor genomic sampling and possible occurrence of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) introgression from the arctic/boreal Lepus timidus into several European temperate and possibly American boreal species. However, no formal test of introgression, taking also incomplete lineage sorting into account, has been done. Here, to clarify the yet poorly resolved species phylogeny of hares and test hypotheses of mtDNA introgression, we sequenced 14 nuclear DNA and 2 mtDNA fragments (8205 and 1113 bp, respectively) in 50 specimens from 11 hare species from Eurasia, North America, and Africa. By applying an isolation-with-migration model to the nuclear data on subsets of species, we find evidence for very limited gene flow from L. timidus into most temperate European species, and not into the American boreal ones. Using a multilocus coalescent-based method, we infer the species phylogeny, which we find highly incongruent with mtDNA phylogeny using parametric bootstrap. Simulations of mtDNA evolution under the speciation history inferred from nuclear genes did not support the hypothesis of mtDNA introgression from L. timidus into the American L. townsendii but did suggest introgression from L. timidus into 4 temperate European species. One such event likely resulted in the complete replacement of the aboriginal mtDNA of L. castroviejoi and of its sister species L. corsicanus. It is remarkable that mtDNA introgression in hares is frequent, extensive, and always from the same donor arctic species. We discuss possible explanations for the phenomenon in relation to the dynamics of range expansions and species replacements during the climatic oscillations of the Pleistocene.
4135374|We conducted phylogenetic analyses of Androsace and the closely related genera Douglasia, Pomatosace, and Vitaliana using DNA sequences of the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and the plastid trnL-F region. Analyses using maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference yield congruent relationships among several major lineages found. These lineages largely disagree with previously recognized taxonomic groups. Most notably, (1) Androsace sect. Andraspis, comprising the short-lived taxa, is highly polyphyletic; (2) Pomatosace constitutes a separate phylogenetic lineage within Androsace; and (3) Douglasia and Vitaliana nest within Androsace sect. Aretia. Our results suggest multiple origins of the short-lived lifeform and a possible reversal from annual or biennial to perennial habit at the base of a group that now contains mostly perennial high mountain or arctic taxa. The group containing Androsace sect. Aretia, Douglasia, and Vitaliana includes predominantly high alpine and arctic taxa with an arctic-alpine distribution, but is not found in the European and northeastern American Arctic or in Central and East Asia. This group probably originated in Europe in the Pliocene, from where it reached the amphi-Beringian region in the Pleistocene or late Pliocene.
4135380|Advocates of maximum likelihood (ML) approaches to phylogenetics commonly cite as one of their primary advantages the use of objective statistical criteria for model selection. Currently, a particular implementation of the likelihood ratio test (LRT) is the most commonly used model-selection criterion in phylogenetics. This approach requires the choice of a starting point and a parameter addition (or removal) sequence that can affect all ML inferences (i.e., topology, model, and all evolutionary parameters). Here, several alternative starting points and parameter sequences are tested in empirical data sets to assess their influence on model selection and optimal topology. In the studied data sets, varying model-selection protocols leads to selection of different models that, in some cases, lead to different ML trees. Given the sensitivity of the LRT, some possible solutions to model selection (within the hypothesis testing approach) are outlined, and alternative model-selection criteria are discussed. Some of the suggested alternatives seem to lack these problems, although their behavior and adequacy for phylogenetics needs to be further explored.
4135376|The homobasidiomycetes is a diverse group of macrofungi that includes mushrooms, puffballs, coral fungi, and other forms. This study used maximum likelihood methods to determine if there are general trends (evolutionary tendencies) in the evolution of fruiting body forms in homobasidiomycetes, and to estimate the ancestral forms of the homobasidiomycetes and euagarics clade. Character evolution was modeled using a published 481-species phylogeny under two character-coding regimes: additive binary coding, using DISCRETE, and multistate (five-state) coding, using MULTISTATE. Inferences regarding trends in character evolution made under binary coding were often in conflict with those made under multistate coding, suggesting that the additive binary coding approach cannot serve as a surrogate for multistate methods. MULTISTATE was used to develop a "minimal" model of fruiting body evolution, in which the 20 parameters that specify rates of transformations among character states were grouped into the fewest possible rate categories. The minimal model required only four rate categories, one of which is approaching zero, and suggests the following conclusions regarding trends in evolution of homobasidiomycete fruiting bodies: (1) there is an active trend favoring the evolution of pileate-stipitate forms (those with a cap and stalk); (2) the hypothesis that the evolution of gasteroid forms (those with internal spore production, such as puffballs) is irreversible cannot be rejected; and (3) crustlike resupinate forms are not a particularly labile morphology. The latter finding contradicts the conclusions of a previous study that used binary character coding. Ancestral state reconstructions under binary coding suggest that the ancestor of the homobasidiomycetes was resupinate and the ancestor of the euagarics clade was pileate-stipitate, but ancestral state reconstructions under multistate coding did not resolve the ancestral form of either node. The results of this study illustrate the potential sensitivity of comparative analyses to character state definitions.
4135378|Four low-copy nuclear DNA intron regions from the second largest subunits of the RNA polymerase gene family (RPA2, RPB2, RPD2a, and RPD2b), the internal transcribed spacers (ITSs) from the nuclear ribosomal regions, and the rps16 intron from the chloroplast were sequenced and used in a phylogenetic analysis of 29 species from the tribe Sileneae (Caryophyllaceae). We used a low stringency nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach to overcome the difficulties of constructing specific primers for amplification of the low copy nuclear DNA regions. Maximum parsimony analyses resulted in largely congruent phylogenetic trees for all regions. We tested overall model congruence in a likelihood context using the software PLATO and found that ITSs, RPA2, and RPB2 deviated from the maximum likelihood model for the combined data. The topology parameter was then isolated and topological congruence assessed by nonparametric bootstrapping. No strong topological incongruence was found. The analysis of the combined data sets resolves previously poorly known major relationships within Sileneae. Two paralogues of RPD2 were found, and several independent losses and incomplete concerted evolution were inferred. The among-site rate variation was significantly lower in the RNA polymerase introns than in the rps16 intron and ITSs, a property that is attractive in phylogenetic analyses.
4135377|What does the posterior probability of a phylogenetic tree mean? This simulation study shows that Bayesian posterior probabilities have the meaning that is typically ascribed to them; the posterior probability of a tree is the probability that the tree is correct, assuming that the model is correct. At the same time, the Bayesian method can be sensitive to model misspecification, and the sensitivity of the Bayesian method appears to be greater than the sensitivity of the nonparametric bootstrap method (using maximum likelihood to estimate trees). Although the estimates of phylogeny obtained by use of the method of maximum likelihood or the Bayesian method are likely to be similar, the assessment of the uncertainty of inferred trees via either bootstrapping (for maximum likelihood estimates) or posterior probabilities (for Bayesian estimates) is not likely to be the same. We suggest that the Bayesian method be implemented with the most complex models of those currently available, as this should reduce the chance that the method will concentrate too much probability on too few trees.
4135379|Resource use and phylogeny are often correlated with morphological variation. Moreover, because biological shapes are often complex and evolve depending on several internal constraints, they must be assessed using integrative methods. We analyzed the morphological variation of the turtle skull in the context of an adaptive radiation. Our focus are turtles of the superfamily Testudinoidea, which are remarkably diverse, both in number of species and in ecology. In this study, we depict morphological variation in the turtle skull in three dimensions with respect to diet, phylogeny, and habitat using modern geometric morphometrics. Our study revealed that morphological specialization was related to both diet and habitat. Morphological variation is decomposed in regard of both resource use (habitat and diet) and phylogeny. Feeding mode depending on environment was suggested as a key factor determining morphological evolution and diversification of turtle skulls. Diet (especially durophagy) leads to parallel morphologies in different clades. Phylogeny seemed to constrain only localized features of the skull and remained of minor influence, because overall morphotypes, closely correlated with ecological factors, occurred in both clades. In conclusion, the adaptive radiation of the Testudinoidea is revealed to demonstrate a clear relationship between the skull shape and life style.
4135381|Maximum likelihood (ML) is increasingly used as an optimality criterion for selecting evolutionary trees (Felsenstein, 1981, J. Mol. Evol. 17:368-376), but finding the global optimum is a hard computational task. Because no general analytic solution is known, numeric techniques such as hill climbing or expectation maximization (EM) are used in order to find optimal parameters for a given tree. So far, analytic solutions were derived only for the simplest model-three-taxa, two-state characters, under a molecular clock. Quoting Ziheng Yang (2000, Proc. R. Soc. B 267:109-119), who initiated the analytic approach, "this seems to be the simplest case, but has many of the conceptual and statistical complexities involved in phylogenetic estimation." In this work, we give general analytic solutions for a family of trees with four-taxa, two-state characters, under a molecular clock. The change from three to four taxa incurs a major increase in the complexity of the underlying algebraic system, and requires novel techniques and approaches. We start by presenting the general maximum likelihood problem on phylogenetic trees as a constrained optimization problem, and the resulting system of polynomial equations. In full generality, it is infeasible to solve this system, therefore specialized tools for the molecular clock case are developed. Four-taxa rooted trees have two topologies-the fork (two subtrees with two leaves each) and the comb (one subtree with three leaves, the other with a single leaf). We combine the ultrametric properties of molecular clock fork trees with the Hadamard conjugation (Hendy and Penny, 1993, J. Classif. 10:5-24) to derive a number of topology dependent identities. Employing these identities, we substantially simplify the system of polynomial equations for the fork. We finally employ symbolic algebra software to obtain closed form analytic solutions (expressed parametrically in the input data). In general, four-taxa trees can have multiple ML points (Steel, 1994, Syst. Biol. 43:560-564; Chor et al., 2000, MBE 17:1529-1541). In contrast, we can now prove that each fork topology has a unique (local and global) ML point.
4135373|Conservation biologists rely heavily on taxonomy to set the scope for biological monitoring and recovery planning of rare or threatened species. Yet, taxonomic boundaries are seldom evaluated as falsifiable hypotheses that can be statistically tested. Here, we examine species boundaries in leatherside chub (Teleostei, Cyprinidae), an imperiled desert fish native to the Bonneville Basin and upper Snake River drainages of western North America. Recent molecular data hint that this fish could be composed of two distinct taxa that are geographically separated into northern and southern species. To formally test this hypothesis, we evaluated leatherside chub using several different categories of species concepts, including criteria dependent on phylogenetic, morphological, and ecological data. We found that leatherside chub is composed of two reciprocally monophyletic clades (candidate species) characterized by numerous fixed genetic differences for both mitochondrial and nuclear DNA markers; mtDNA sequence divergence between the two clades approached 8%. The candidate species also showed significant differences in cranial shape, revealed by morphometric analysis. Finally, controlled growth and foraging experiments using representative populations from each clade show that candidate species appear to be locally adapted to the thermal environments where they now occur. Combined, these three lines of evidence support the hypothesis that leatherside chub is composed of two species. Moreover, all lines of evidence place these two species within the genus Lepidomeda, a group consisting of three additional species of endangered spinedace fishes, and one extinct species, all native to the Colorado River system. Hence, we elevate the two clades of leatherside chub to distinct species status (Lepidomeda copei in the north and L. aliciae in the south), and argue that each warrants independent conservation and recovery action.
4135375|Bayesian phylogenetic methods require the selection of prior probability distributions for all parameters of the model of evolution. These distributions allow one to incorporate prior information into a Bayesian analysis, but even in the absence of meaningful prior information, a prior distribution must be chosen. In such situations, researchers typically seek to choose a prior that will have little effect on the posterior estimates produced by an analysis, allowing the data to dominate. Sometimes a prior that is uniform (assigning equal prior probability density to all points within some range) is chosen for this purpose. In reality, the appropriate prior depends on the parameterization chosen for the model of evolution, a choice that is largely arbitrary. There is an extensive Bayesian literature on appropriate prior choice, and it has long been appreciated that there are parameterizations for which uniform priors can have a strong influence on posterior estimates. We here discuss the relationship between model parameterization and prior specification, using the general time-reversible model of nucleotide evolution as an example. We present Bayesian analyses of 10 simulated data sets obtained using a variety of prior distributions and parameterizations of the general time-reversible model. Uniform priors can produce biased parameter estimates under realistic conditions, and a variety of alternative priors avoid this bias.
4135382|The grid-based method to identify areas of endemism proposed by Szumik et al. (Syst. Biol. 51:806-816, 2002) is extended. The improvements include the ability to assign scores of endemicity to sets of disjoint areas, and to have each species contribute more to the score of endemicity of an area, or less, according to how well its distribution matches the area. The modified method also allows for partially overlapping areas; an area partially overlapping with another one of higher score is retained when the set of lower score has a minimum proportion of species endemic to it. Algorithms to evaluate areas of endemism under this criterion are discussed, and implemented in a computer program (NDM; available at www.zmuc.dk/public/phylogeny). The new algorithms allow evaluation of much larger data sets.
4135392|The influence of nonindependence among sites on phylogenetic reconstructions and bootstrap scores was investigated both analytically and empirically. First, the sampling properties of the bootstrap support in the four-species case was derived for the maximum-parsimony method, assuming either independently or nonindependently evolving sites. The influence of various models of departure from the independence assumption was quantified. Second, trees and bootstrap scores estimated from subsets of consecutive (potentially coevolving) versus dispersed (presumably independent) sites of a ribosomal RNA data set were contrasted. The two approaches consistently suggest that a departure from the assumption of independent sites tends to reduce the amount of phylogenetic information contained in the data, but to increase the apparent statistical support for reconstructed trees, as measured by the bootstrap. In particular, nonindependence can lead to strongly supported wrong internal branches.
4135389|Two studies were conducted to explore the use of complex data in character description and hybrid identification. In order to determine if complex data allow the production of better characters, eight groups of plant systematists were given two classes of drawings of plant parts, and asked to divide them into character states (clusters) in two separate experiments. The first class of drawings consisted only of cotyledons. The second class consisted of triplets of drawings: a cotyledon, seedling leaf, and inflorescence bract. The triplets were used to simulate complex data such as might be garnered by looking at a plant. Each experiment resulted in four characters (groups of clusters), one for each group of systematists. Visual and statistical analysis of the data showed that the systematists were able to produce smaller, more precisely defined character states using the more complex drawings. The character states created with the complex drawings also were more consistent across systematists, and agreed more closely with an independent assessment of phylogeny. To investigate the utility of complex data in an applied task, four observers rated 250 hybrids of Dubautia ciliolata X arborea based on the overall form (Gestalt) of the plants, and took measurements of a number of features of the same plants. A composite score of the measurements was created using principal components analysis. The correlation between the scores on the first principal component and the Gestalt ratings was computed. The Gestalt ratings and PC scores were significantly correlated, demonstrating that assessments of overall similarity can be as useful as more conventional approaches in determining the hybrid status of plants.
4135390|We used mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences to test biogeographic hypotheses for Patiriella exigua (Asterinidae), one of the world's most widespread coastal sea stars. This small intertidal species has an entirely benthic life history and yet occurs in southern temperate waters of the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific oceans. Despite its abundance around southern Africa, southeastern Australia, and several oceanic islands, P. exigua is absent from the shores of Western Australia, New Zealand, and South America. Phylogenetic analysis of mtDNA sequences (cytochrome oxidase I, control region) indicates that South Africa houses an assemblage of P. exigua that is not monophyletic (P = 0.04), whereas Australian and Lord Howe Island specimens form an interior monophyletic group. The placement of the root in Africa and small genetic divergences between eastern African and Australian haplotypes strongly suggest Pleistocene dispersal eastward across the Indian Ocean. Dispersal was probably achieved by rafting on wood or macroalgae, which was facilitated by the West Wind Drift. Genetic data also support Pleistocene colonization of oceanic islands (Lord Howe Island, Amsterdam Island, St. Helena). Although many biogeographers have speculated about the role of long-distance rafting, this study is one of the first to provide convincing evidence. The marked phylogeographic structure evident across small geographic scales in Australia and South Africa indicates that gene flow among populations may be generally insufficient to prevent the local evolution of monophyly. We suggest that P. exigua may rely on passive mechanisms of dispersal.
4135403|Historically, comparisons of host and parasite phylogenies have concentrated on cospeciation. However, many of these comparisons have demonstrated that the phylogenies of hosts and parasites are seldom completely congruent, suggesting that phenomena other than cospeciation play an important role in the evolution of host-parasite assemblages. Other coevolutionary phenomena, such as host switching, parasite duplication (speciation on the host), sorting (extinction), and failure to speciate can also influence host-parasite assemblages. Using mitochondrial and nuclear protein-coding DNA sequences, I reconstructed the phylogeny of ectoparasitic toucan chewing lice in the Austrophilopterus cancellosus subspecies complex and compared this phylogeny with the phylogeny of the hosts, the Ramphastos toucans, to reconstruct the history of coevolutionary events in this host-parasite assemblage. Three salient findings emerged. First, reconstructions of host and louse phylogenies indicate that they do not branch in parallel, and their cophylogenetic history shows little or no significant cospeciation. Second, members of monophyletic Austrophilopterus toucan louse lineages are not necessarily restricted to monophyletic host lineages. Often, closely related lice are found on more distantly related but sympatric toucan hosts. Third, the geographic distribution of the hosts apparently plays a role in the speciation of these lice. These results suggest that for some louse lineages biogeography may be more important than host associations in structuring louse populations and species, particularly when host life history (e.g., hole nesting) or parasite life history (e.g., phoresis) might promote frequent host switching events between syntopic host species. These findings highlight the importance of integrating biogeographic information into cophylogenetic studies.
4135400|An increasing number of plant-insect studies using phylogenetic analysis suggest that cospeciation events are rare in plant-insect systems. Instead, nonrandom patterns of phylogenetic congruence are produced by phylogenetically conserved host switching (to related plants) or tracking of particular resources or traits (e.g., chemical). The dominance of host switching in many phytophagous insect groups may make the detection of genuine cospeciation events difficult. One important test of putative cospeciation events is to verify whether reciprocal speciation is temporally plausible. We explored techniques for double-dating of both plant and insect phylogenies. We use dated molecular phylogenies of a psyllid (Hemiptera)-Genisteae (Fabaceae) system, a predominantly monophagous insect-plant association widespread on the Atlantic Macaronesian islands. Phylogenetic reconciliation analysis suggests high levels of parallel cladogenesis between legumes and psyllids. However, dating using molecular clocks calibrated on known geological ages of the Macaronesian islands revealed that the legume and psyllid radiations were not contemporaneous but sequential. Whereas the main plant radiation occurred some 8 million years ago, the insect radiation occurred about 3 million years ago. We estimated that >60% of the psyllid speciation has resulted from host switching between related hosts. The only evidence for true cospeciation is in the much more recent and localized radiation of genistoid legumes in the Canary Islands, where the psyllid and legume radiations have been partially contemporaneous. The identification of specific cospeciation events over this time period, however, is hindered by the phylogenetic uncertainty in both legume and psyllid phylogenies due to the apparent rapidity of the species radiations.
4135402|The African brood parasitic finches (Vidua spp.) are host specialists that mimic the songs and nestling mouth markings of their finch hosts (family Estrildidae). Although recent molecular analyses suggest rapid speciation associated with host switches in some members of this group, the association of different Vidua lineages with particular host genera suggests the possibility of cospeciation at higher levels in the host and parasite phylogenies. We compared a phylogeny of all Vidua species with a phylogeny of their estrildid finch hosts and compared divergence time estimates for the two groups. Basal divergences among extant members of the Vidulidae and among Vidua species are more recent than those among host genera and species, respectively, allowing a model of cospeciation to be rejected at most or all levels of the Vidua phylogeny. Nonetheless, some tests for cospeciation indicated significant congruence between host and parasite tree topologies. This result may be an artifact of clade-limited colonization. Host switches in parasitic finches have most often involved new hosts in the same or a closely related genus, an effect that increases the apparent congruence of host and parasites trees.
4135398|Bacterial endosymbionts are widespread across several insect orders and are involved in interactions ranging from obligate mutualism to reproductive parasitism. Candidatus Blochmannia gen. nov. (Blochmannia) is an obligate bacterial associate of Camponotus and related ant genera (Hymenoptera: Formicidae). The occurrence of Blochmannia in all Camponotus species sampled from field populations and its maternal transmission to host offspring suggest that this bacterium is engaged in a long-term, stable association with its ant hosts. However, evidence for cospeciation in this system is equivocal because previous phylogenetic studies were based on limited gene sampling, lacked statistical analysis of congruence, and have even suggested host switching. We compared phylogenies of host genes (the nuclear
4135404|Phylogenetic congruence is governed by various macroevolutionary events, including cospeciation, host switching, sorting, duplication, and failure to speciate. The relative frequency of these events may be influenced by factors that govern the distribution and abundance of the interacting groups; i.e., ecological factors. If so, it may be possible to predict the degree of phylogenetic congruence between two groups from information about their ecology. Unfortunately, adequate comparative ecological data are not available for many of the systems that have been subjected to cophylogenetic analysis. An exception is provided by chewing lice (Insecta: Phthiraptera), which parasitize birds and mammals. For a few genera of these lice, enough data have now been published to begin exploring the relationship between ecology and congruence. In general, there is a correspondence between important ecological factors and the degree of phylogenetic congruence. Careful comparison of these genera suggests that dispersal is a more fundamental barrier to host switching among related hosts than is establishment. Transfer experiments show that host-specific lice can survive and reproduce on novel hosts that are similar in size to the native host as long as the lice can disperse to these hosts. To date, studies of parasite dispersal have been mainly inferential. A better understanding of the role of dispersal will require more direct data on dispersal frequency and distances.
4135401|This is the first comparative study of correlated evolution between figs (Ficus species, Moraceae) and their pollinators (Hymenoptera: Agaoninae) based on molecular phylogenies of both lineages. Fig relationships based on the internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA and pollinator relationships inferred from mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) sequences enabled the study of correlated evolution based on molecular phylogenies for the largest set of interacting species ever compared. Comparative methods have been applied to tests of adaptation, but the application of these methods in tests of coadaptation, defined as reciprocal evolutionary change in interacting lineages, has received less attention. I have extended tests of correlated evolution between two traits along a phylogeny to the case of interacting lineages, where two traits may or may not share a common phylogenetic history. Independent contrasts and phylogenetic autocorrelation rejected the null hypothesis that trait correlations within lineages are stronger than trait correlations between interacting lineages. Fig style lengths and pollinator ovipositor lengths, for example, were more highly correlated than were pollinator body size and ovipositor length. Mutualistic interactions between figs and their pollinators illustrate the novel ways in which phylogenies and comparative methods can detect patterns of correlated evolution. The most outstanding evidence of correlated evolution between these obligate mutualists is that interacting trait correlations are stronger than within-lineage allometric relationships.
4135391|Recent molecular phylogenetic studies of polyploid plants have successfully clarified complex patterns of reticulate evolution. In this study of Elymus repens, an allohexaploid member of the wheat tribe Triticeae, chloroplast and nuclear DNA data reveal an extreme reticulate pattern, revealing at least five distinct gene lineages coexisting within the species, acquired through a possible combination of allohexaploidy and introgression from both within and beyond the Triticeae. Earlier cytogenetic studies of E. repens suggested that Hordeum (genome H) and Pseudoroegneria (St) were genome donors to E. repens. Chloroplast DNA data presented here (from the rpoA gene and from the region between trnT and trnF) identify three potential maternal genome donors (Pseudoroegneria, Thinopyrum, and Dasypyrum), and information from previous molecular work suggests that, of these, Pseudoroegneria is the most likely maternal donor. Nuclear starch synthase gene data indicate that both Hordeum and Pseudoroegneria have contributed to the nuclear genome of E. repens, in agreement with cytogenetic data. However, these data also show unexpected contributions from Taeniatherum, and from two additional donors of unknown identity. One of the sequences of unknown origin falls within the Triticeae, but is not closely associated with any of the sampled diploid genera. The second falls outside of the clade containing Triticeae and its outgroup Bromus, suggesting the acquisition of genetic material from a surprisingly divergent source. Bias toward the amplification of certain starch synthase variants has complicated attempts to thoroughly sample from within individuals, but the data clearly indicate a complex pattern of reticulate evolution, consistent not only with allohexaploidy, but also with introgression from unexpectedly divergent sources.
4135393|The recent development of Bayesian phylogenetic inference using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques has facilitated the exploration of parameter-rich evolutionary models. At the same time, stochastic models have become more realistic (and complex) and have been extended to new types of data, such as morphology. Based on this foundation, we developed a Bayesian MCMC approach to the analysis of combined data sets and explored its utility in inferring relationships among gall wasps based on data from morphology and four genes (nuclear and mitochondrial, ribosomal and protein coding). Examined models range in complexity from those recognizing only a morphological and a molecular partition to those having complex substitution models with independent parameters for each gene. Bayesian MCMC analysis deals efficiently with complex models: convergence occurs faster and more predictably for complex models, mixing is adequate for all parameters even under very complex models, and the parameter update cycle is virtually unaffected by model partitioning across sites. Morphology contributed only 5% of the characters in the data set but nevertheless influenced the combined-data tree, supporting the utility of morphological data in multigene analyses. We used Bayesian criteria (Bayes factors) to show that process heterogeneity across data partitions is a significant model component, although not as important as among-site rate variation. More complex evolutionary models are associated with more topological uncertainty and less conflict between morphology and molecules. Bayes factors sometimes favor simpler models over considerably more parameter-rich models, but the best model overall is also the most complex and Bayes factors do not support exclusion of apparently weak parameters from this model. Thus, Bayes factors appear to be useful for selecting among complex models, but it is still unclear whether their use strikes a reasonable balance between model complexity and error in parameter estimates.
4135399|We used phylogenetic analyses of cytochrome b sequences of malaria parasites and their avian hosts to assess the coevolutionary relationships between host and parasite lineages. Many lineages of avian malaria parasites have broad host distributions, which tend to obscure cospeciation events. The hosts of a single parasite or of closely related parasites were nonetheless most frequently recovered from members of the same host taxonomic family, more so than expected by chance. However, global assessments of the relationship between parasite and host phylogenetic trees, using Component and ParaFit, failed to detect significant cospeciation. The event-based approach employed by TreeFitter revealed significant cospeciation and duplication with certain cost assignments for these events, but host switching was consistently more prominent in matching the parasite tree to the host tree. The absence of a global cospeciation signal despite conservative host distribution most likely reflects relatively frequent acquisition of new hosts by individual parasite lineages. Understanding these processes will require a more refined species concept for malaria parasites and more extensive sampling of parasite distributions across hosts. If parasites can disperse between allopatric host populations through alternative hosts, cospeciation may not have a strong influence on the architecture of host-parasite relationships. Rather, parasite speciation may happen more often in conjunction with the acquisition of new hosts followed by divergent selection between host lineages in sympatry. Detailed studies of the phylogeographic distributions of hosts and parasites are needed to characterize these events.
4135427|The evolution of body size in tetrapods is assessed using a database that includes 107 early stegocephalian species ranging in time from the Frasnian (Upper Devonian) to the Tatarian (Upper Permian). All analyses use methods that incorporate phylogenetic information (topology and branch lengths). In all tests, the impact of alternative topologies and branch lengths are assessed. Previous reports that raised doubts about the accuracy of squared-change parsimony assessment of ancestral character value appear to have used datasets in which there was no phylogenetic signal. Hence, squared-change parsimony may be more reliable than suggested in recent studies, at least when a phylogenetic signal is present in the datasets of interest. Analysis using random taxon reshuffling on three reference phylogenies shows that cranial and presacral length include a strong phylogenetic signal. Character optimization of body size in stegocephalians using squared-change parsimony on a time-calibrated phylogeny incorporating branch length information is used to test a previously published scenario on the origin of amniotes and of the amniotic egg that implies that the ancestors of amniotes were small (no more than 10 cm in snout-vent length), and that their size increased subsequent to the appearance of the amniotic egg. The optimization suggests that first amniotes were somewhat larger than previously hypothesized; the estimated snout-vent length is about 24 cm, and the lower end of the 95% confidence interval of the phylogeny that yields the smallest inferred size suggests that no ancestor of amniotes measured less than 12 cm in snout-vent length. Character optimization, permutational multiple linear regressions, and independent contrast analyses show that Cope's rule of phyletic size increase applies to early reptiliomorphs but that it does not apply to early stegocephalians globally.
4135425|We describe a general likelihood-based 'mixture model' for inferring phylogenetic trees from gene-sequence or other character-state data. The model accommodates cases in which different sites in the alignment evolve in qualitatively distinct ways, but does not require prior knowledge of these patterns or partitioning of the data. We call this qualitative variability in the pattern of evolution across sites "pattern-heterogeneity" to distinguish it from both a homogenous process of evolution and from one characterized principally by differences in rates of evolution. We present studies to show that the model correctly retrieves the signals of pattern-heterogeneity from simulated gene-sequence data, and we apply the method to protein-coding genes and to a ribosomal 12S data set. The mixture model outperforms conventional partitioning in both these data sets. We implement the mixture model such that it can simultaneously detect rate- and pattern-heterogeneity. The model simplifies to a homogeneous model or a rate-variability model as special cases, and therefore always performs at least as well as these two approaches, and often considerably improves upon them. We make the model available within a Bayesian Markov-chain Monte Carlo framework for phylogenetic inference, as an easy-to-use computer program.
4135423|The muroid rodents are the largest superfamily of mammals, containing nearly one third of all mammal species. We report on a phylogenetic study comprising 53 genera sequenced for four nuclear genes, GHR, BRCA1, RAG1, and c-myc, totaling up to 6400 nucleotides. Most relationships among the subfamilies are resolved. All four genes yield nearly identical phylogenies, differing only in five key regions, four of which may represent particularly rapid radiations. Support is very strong for a fundamental division of the mole rats of the subfamilies Spalacinae and Rhizomyinae from all other muroids. Among the other "core" muroids, a rapid radiation led to at least four distinct lineages: Asian Calomyscus, an African clade of at least four endemic subfamilies, including the diverse Nesomyinae of Madagascar, a hamster clade with maximum diversity in the New World, and an Old World clade including gerbils and the diverse Old World mice and rats (Murinae). The Deomyinae, recently removed from the Murinae, is well supported as the sister group to the gerbils (Gerbillinae). Four key regions appear to represent rapid radiations and, despite a large amount of sequence data, remain poorly resolved: the base of the "core" muroids, among the five cricetid (hamster) subfamilies, within a large clade of Sigmodontinae endemic to South America, and among major geographic lineages of Old World Murinae. Because of the detailed taxon sampling within the Murinae, we are able to refine the fossil calibration of a rate-smoothed molecular clock and apply this clock to date key events in muroid evolution. We calculate rate differences among the gene regions and relate those differences to relative contribution of each gene to the support for various nodes. The among-gene variance in support is greatest for the shortest branches. We present a revised classification for this largest but most unsettled mammalian superfamily.
4135422|The method of character importance ranking (CIR) is proposed here as a means for estimating the relative "importance" of characters in cladistic analyses, especially those based on morphological features. CIR uses the weighting variable to incrementally remove one character at a time from the analysis, and then evaluates the impact of the removal on the shape of the cladogram. The greater the impact, the more important the character. The CIR method for determining which characters drive the shape of a particular cladogram has several applications. It identifies the characters with the strongest (though not necessarily most accurate) signal in a cladistic analysis; it permits the informed prioritization of characters for further investigation via genetic, developmental, and functional approaches; and it highlights characters whose definition, scoring, independence, and variation should be reviewed with particular care. The application of CIR reveals that at least some cladograms depend entirely on a single character.
4135421|Felsenstein (1978, Syst. Zool. 27:401-410) showed that the method of maximum parsimony can be inconsistent, i.e., lead to an incorrect result with an infinite amount of data. The situation in which this inconsistency occurs is often called the "Felsenstein zone," the phenomenon also known as "long-branch attraction." Felsenstein derived a sufficient inconsistency condition from a model for four taxa with only two different parameters for the probability of change on the five branches connecting the four taxa. In the present paper, his approach is used to derive the inconsistency condition of maximum parsimony from the most general model for four taxa, i.e., with five different parameters for the probabilities of change on the five branches and, for the first time, for characters with k states (k = 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,...). This is used to determine the factors that can cause the inconsistency of maximum parsimony. It is shown that the probability of change on all five branches and the number of character states play a role in causing inconsistency.
4135426|Phylogenetic analyses of first and second codon positions (
4135424|The genus Cicindela (Coleoptera: Cicindelidae) is a species-rich cosmopolitan group of tiger beetles useful for comparing clade diversification worldwide. Knowledge about relationships of major groups is important for this analysis but basal nodes in Cicindela have been difficult to resolve with standard mtDNA markers. Here we developed the Mp20 gene, a single-copy nuclear marker coding for a muscle-associated protein in insects, for phylogenetic analysis of basal groups of Cicindela. Nearly full-length sequences were obtained for 51 cicindelids, including major taxonomic groups from all continents. Sequences of Mp20 were between 1.2 and 1.7 kb and spanning three introns. Phylogenetic signal of exon and intron sequences was compared with that from four gene regions of mtDNA (COI, COIII, Cytb, 16S rRNA; 2.4 kb total). Because introns differed in length, sequence alignment was conducted using various procedures of phenetic and parsimony-based character coding of indels to assess their phylogenetic information content, but major nodes were recovered consistently. Mp20 sequences contributed two thirds of the total support of the combined analysis, with most signal from the introns. We found major clades of Cicindela to be geographically largely coincident with continental regions, confined to Australasia, the Holarctic, the Indian subcontinent, Africa, and South and Central America. Clock estimates using various maximum-likelihood (ML) branch length calculations resulted in roughly similar divergence times whether Mp20 exon, introns, or mtDNA were used, and they were not greatly affected by different procedures for coding and optimizing indel characters. Based on existing clock calibrations in Cicindela, basal splits of continental lineages occurred in the mid-Miocene, placing the radiation of basal groups of Cicindela to a period when their open-vegetation habitats expanded globally.
4135428|Alignments of nucleotide or amino acid sequences may contain a variety of different signals, one of which is the historical signal that we often try to recover by phylogenetic analysis. Other signals, such as those arising due to compositional heterogeneities, among-lineage and among-site rate heterogeneities, invariant sites, and covariotides, may interfere adversely with the recovery of the historical signal. The effect of the interaction of these signals on phylogenetic inference is not well understood and may, in many cases, even be underappreciated. In this study, we investigate this matter and present results based on Monte Carlo simulations. We explored the success of four phylogenetic methods in recovering the true tree from data that had evolved under conditions where the equilibrium base frequencies and substitution rates were allowed to vary among lineages. Seven scenarios with increasingly complex conditions were investigated. All of the methods tested, with the exception of neighbor-joining using LogDet distances, were sensitive to compositional convergence in nonsister lineages. Maximum parsimony was also susceptible to attraction between long edges. In many cases, however, phylogenetic inference methods can still recover the true tree when misleading signals are present, in some instances even when the historical signal is no longer dominant. These results highlight the growing need for simple methods to detect violation of the phylogenetic assumptions.
4135407|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA has been widely used by systematists for reconstructing phylogenies of closely related taxa. Although the occurrence of ITS putative pseudogenes is well documented for many groups of animals and plants, the potential utility of these pseudogenes in phylogenetic analyses has often been underestimated or even ignored in part because of deletions that make unambiguous alignment difficult. In addition, long branches often can lead to spurious relationships, particularly in parsimony analyses. We have discovered unusually high levels of ITS polymorphism (up to 30%, 40%, and 14%, respectively) in three tropical tree species of the coffee family (Rubiaceae), Adinauclea fagifolia, Haldina cordifolia, and Mitragyna rubrostipulata. Both secondary structure stability and patterns of nucleotide substitutions in a highly conserved region (5.8S gene) were used for distinguishing presumed functional sequences from putative pseudogenes. The combination of both criteria was the most powerful approach. The sequences from A. fagifolia appear to be a mix of functional genes and highly distinct putative pseudogenes, whereas those from H. cordifolia and M. rubrostipulata were identified as putative pseudogenes. We explored the potential utility of the identified putative pseudogenes in the phylogenetic analyses of Naucleeae sensu lato. Both Bayesian and parsimony trees identified the same monophyletic groups and indicated that the polymorphisms do not transcend species boundaries, implying that they do not predate the divergence of these three species. The resulting trees are similar to those produced by previous analyses of chloroplast genes. In contrast to results of previous studies therefore, divergent putative pseudogenes can be useful for phylogenetic analyses, especially when no sequences of their functional counterparts are available. Our studies clearly show that ITS polymorphism may not necessarily mislead phylogenetic inference. Despite using many different PCR conditions (different primers, higher denaturing temperatures, and absence or presence of DMSO and BSA-TMAC1), we recovered only a few functional ITS copies from A. fagifolia and none from H. cordifolia and M. rubrostipulata, which suggests that PCR selection is occurring and/or the presumed functional alleles are located at minor loci (with few ribosomal DNA copies).
4135411|We studied the importance of proper model assumption in the context of Bayesian phylogenetics by examining >5,000 Bayesian analyses and six nested models of nucleotide substitution. Model misspecification can strongly bias bipartition posterior probability estimates. These biases were most pronounced when rate heterogeneity was ignored. The type of bias seen at a particular bipartition appeared to be strongly influenced by the lengths of the branches surrounding that bipartition. In the Felsenstein zone, posterior probability estimates of bipartitions were biased when the assumed model was underparameterized but were unbiased when the assumed model was overparameterized. For the inverse Felsenstein zone, however, both underparameterization and overparameterization led to biased bipartition posterior probabilities, although the bias caused by overparameterization was less pronounced and disappeared with increased sequence length. Model parameter estimates were also affected by model misspecification. Underparameterization caused a bias in some parameter estimates, such as branch lengths and the gamma shape parameter, whereas overparameterization caused a decrease in the precision of some parameter estimates. We caution researchers to assure that the most appropriate model is assumed by employing both a priori model choice methods and a posteriori model adequacy tests.
4135412| Butterflies in the large Palearctic genus Agrodiaetus (Lepidoptera: Lycaenidae) are extremely uniform and exhibit few distinguishing morphological characters. However, these insects are distinctive in one respect: as a group they possess among the greatest interspecific karyotype diversity in the animal kingdom, with chromosome numbers (n) ranging from 10 to 125. The monophyly of Agrodiaetus and its systematic position relative to other groups within the section Polyommatus have been controversial. Characters from the mitochondrial genes for cytochrome oxidases I and II and from the nuclear gene for elongation factor l were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of Agrodiaetus using maximum parsimony and Bayesian phylogenetic methods. Ninety-one individuals, encompassing most of the taxonomic diversity of Agrodiaetus, and representatives of 14 related genera were included in this analysis. Our data indicate that Agrodiaetus is monophyletic. Representatives of the genus Polyommatus (sensu stricto) are the closest relatives. The sequences of the Agrodiaetus taxa in this analysis are tentatively arranged into 12 clades, only 1 of which corresponds to a species group traditionally recognized in Agrodiaetus. Heterogeneous substitution rates across a recovered topology were homogenized with a nonparametric rate-smoothing algorithm before the application of a molecular clock. Two published estimates of substitution rates dated the origin of Agrodiaetus between 2.51 and 3.85 million years ago. During this time, there was heterogeneity in the rate and direction of karyotype evolution among lineages within the genus. Karyotype instability has evolved independently three times in the section Polyommatus, within the lineages Agrodiaetus, Lysandra, and Plebicula. Rapid karyotype diversification may have played a significant role in the radiation of the genus Agrodiaetus. 
4135409| The Southern Hemisphere has traditionally been considered as having a fundamentally vicariant history. The common trans-Pacific disjunctions are usually explained by the sequential breakup of the supercontinent Gondwana during the last 165 million years, causing successive division of an ancestral biota. However, recent biogeographic studies, based on molecular estimates and more accurate paleogeographic reconstructions, indicate that dispersal may have been more important than traditionally assumed. We examined the relative roles played by vicariance and dispersal in shaping Southern Hemisphere biotas by analyzing a large data set of 54 animal and 19 plant phylogenies, including marsupials, ratites, and southern beeches (1,393 terminals). Parsimony-based tree fitting in conjunction with permutation tests was used to examine to what extent Southern Hemisphere biogeographic patterns fit the breakup sequence of Gondwana and to identify concordant dispersal patterns. Consistent with other studies, the animal data are congruent with the geological sequence of Gondwana breakup: (Africa(New Zealand(southern South America, Australia))). Trans-Antarctic dispersal (Australia  southern South America) is also significantly more frequent than any other dispersal event in animals, which may be explained by the long period of geological contact between Australia and South America via Antarctica. In contrast, the dominant pattern in plants, (southern South America(Australia, New Zealand)), is better explained by dispersal, particularly the prevalence of trans-Tasman dispersal between New Zealand and Australia. Our results also confirm the hybrid origin of the South American biota: there has been surprisingly little biotic exchange between the northern tropical and the southern temperate regions of South America, especially for animals. 
4135413|Supertree methods are used to assemble separate phylogenetic trees with shared taxa into larger trees (supertrees) in an effort to construct more comprehensive phylogenetic hypotheses. In spite of much recent interest in supertrees, there are still few methods for supertree construction. The flip supertree problem is an error correction approach that seeks to find a minimum number of changes (flips) to the matrix representation of the set of input trees to resolve their incompatibilities. A previous flip supertree algorithm was limited to finding exact solutions and was only feasible for small input trees. We developed a heuristic algorithm for the flip supertree problem suitable for much larger input trees. We used a series of 48- and 96-taxon simulations to compare supertrees constructed with the flip supertree heuristic algorithm with supertrees constructed using other approaches, including MinCut (MC), modified MC (MMC), and matrix representation with parsimony (MRP). Flip supertrees are generally far more accurate than supertrees constructed using MC or MMC algorithms and are at least as accurate as supertrees built with MRP. The flip supertree method is therefore a viable alternative to other supertree methods when the number of taxa is large.
4135408| Swallowtail butterflies are recognized as model organisms in ecology, evolutionary biology, genetics, and conservation biology but present numerous unresolved phylogenetic problems. We inferred phylogenetic relationships for 51 of about 205 species of the genus Papilio (sensu lato) from 3.3-Kilobase (kb) sequences of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA (2.3 kb of cytochrome oxidases I and II and 1.0 kb of elongation factor 1). Congruent phylogenetic trees were recovered within Papilio from analyses of combined data using maximum likelihood, Bayesian analysis, and maximum parsimony bootstrap consensus. Several disagreements with the traditional classification of Papilio were found. Five major previously hypothesized subdivisions within Papilio were well supported: Heraclides, Pterourus, Chilasa, Papilio (sensu stricto), and Eleppone. Further studies are required to clarify relationships within traditional "Princeps" which was paraphyletic. Several biologically interesting characteristics of Papilio appear to have polyphyletic origins, including mimetic adults, larval host associations, and larval morphology. Early diversification within Papilio is estimated at 55-65 million years ago based on a combination of biogeographic time constraints rather than fossils. This divergence time suggests that Papilio has slower apparent substitution rates than do Drosophila and fig-pollinating wasps and/or divergences corrected using best-fit substitution models are still being consistently underestimated. The amount of sequence divergence between Papilio subdivisions is equivalent to divergences between genera in other tribes of the Papilionidae, and between genera of moths of the noctuid subfamily Heliothinae. 
4135415|Given a collection of discrete characters (e.g., aligned DNA sites, gene adjacencies), a common measure of distance between taxa is the proportion of characters for which taxa have different character states. Tree reconstruction based on these (uncorrected) distances can be statistically inconsistent and can lead to trees different from those obtained using character-based methods such as maximum likelihood or maximum parsimony. However, in these cases the distance data often reveal their unreliability by some deviation from additivity, as indicated by conflicting support for more than one tree. We describe two results that show how uncorrected (and miscorrected) distance data can be simultaneously perfectly additive and misleading. First, multistate character data can be perfectly compatible and define one tree, and yet the uncorrected distances derived from these characters are perfectly treelike (and obey a molecular clock), only for a completely different tree. Second, under a Markov model of character evolution a similar phenomenon can occur; not only is there statistical inconsistency using uncorrected distances, but there is no evidence of this inconsistency because the distances look perfectly treelike (this does not occur in the classic two-parameter Felsenstein zone). We characterize precisely when uncorrected distances are additive on the true (and on a false) tree for four taxa. We also extend this result to a more general setting that applies to distances corrected according to an incorrect model.
4135414| We analyzed the higher level phylogeny of the bee family Halictidae based on the coding regions of three single-copy nuclear genes (long-wavelength [LW] opsin, wingless, and elongation factor 1- [EF-1]). Our combined data set consisted of 2,234 aligned nucleotide sites (702 base pairs [bp] for LW opsin, 405 bp for wingless, and 1,127 bp for EF-1) and 779 parsimony-informative sites. We included 58 species of halictid bees from 33 genera, representing all subfamilies and tribes, and rooted the trees using seven outgroups from other bee families: Colletidae, Andrenidae, Melittidae, and Apidae. We analyzed the separate and combined data sets by a variety of methods, including equal weights parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods. Analysis of the combined data set produced a strong phylogenetic signal with high bootstrap and Bremer support and high posterior probability well into the base of the tree. The phylogeny recovered the monophyly of the Halictidae and of all four subfamilies and both tribes, recovered relationships among the subfamilies and tribes congruent with morphology, and provided robust support for the relationships among the numerous genera in the tribe Halictini, sensu Michener (2000). Using our combined nucleotide data set, several recently described halictid fossils from the Oligocene and Eocene, and recently developed Bayesian methods, we estimated the antiquity of major clades within the family. Our results indicate that each of the four subfamilies arose well before the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary and suggest that the early radiation of halictid bees involved substantial African-South American interchange roughly coincident with the separation of these two continents in the late Cretaceous. This combination of single-copy nuclear genes is capable of recovering Cretaceous-age divergences in bees with high levels of support. We propose that LW opsin, wingless, and EF-1 (F2 copy) may be useful in resolving relationships among bee families and other Cretaceous-age insect lineages. 
4135410| The Thoracica includes the ordinary barnacles found along the sea shore and is the most diverse and well-studied superorder of Cirripedia. However, although the literature abounds with scenarios explaining the evolution of these barnacles, very few studies have attempted to test these hypotheses in a phylogenetic context. The few attempts at phylogenetic analyses have suffered from a lack of phylogenetic signal and small numbers of taxa. We collected DNA sequences from the nuclear 18S, 28S, and histone H3 genes and the mitochondrial 12S and 16S genes (4,871 bp total) and data for 37 adult and 53 larval morphological characters from 43 taxa representing all the extant thoracican suborders (except the monospecific Brachylepadomorpha). Four Rhizocephala (highly modified parasitic barnacles) taxa and a Rhizocephala + Acrothoracica (burrowing barnacles) hypothetical ancestor were used as the outgroup for the molecular and morphological analyses, respectively. We analyzed these data separately and combined using maximum likelihood (ML) under "hill-climbing" and genetic algorithm heuristic searches, maximum parsimony procedures, and Bayesian inference coupled with Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques under mixed and homogeneous models of nucleotide substitution. The resulting phylogenetic trees answered key questions in barnacle evolution. The four-plated Iblomorpha were shown as the most primitive thoracican, and the plateless Heteralepadomorpha were placed as the sister group of the Lepadomorpha. These relationships suggest for the first time in an invertebrate that exoskeleton biomineralization may have evolved from phosphatic to calcitic. Sessilia (nonpedunculate) barnacles were depicted as monophyletic and appear to have evolved from a stalked (pedunculate) multiplated (5+) scalpelloidlike ancestor rather than a five-plated lepadomorphan ancestor. The Balanomorpha (symmetric sessile barnacles) appear to have the following relationship: (Chthamaloidea(Coronuloidea(Tetraclitoidea, Balanoidea))). Thoracican divergence times were estimated under ML-based local clock, Bayesian, and penalized likelihood approaches using an 18S data set and three calibration points: Heteralepadomorpha = 530 million years ago (MYA), Scalpellomorpha = 340 MYA, and Verrucomorpha = 120 MYA. Estimated dates varied considerably within and between approaches depending on the calibration point. Highly parameterized local clock models that assume independent rates (r  15) for confamilial or congeneric species generated the most congruent estimates among calibrations and agreed more closely with the barnacle fossil record. Reasonable estimates were also obtained under the Bayesian procedure of Kishino et al. (2001, Mol. Biol. Evol. 18:352-361) but using multiple calibrations. Most of the dates estimated under the Bayesian procedure of Aris-Brosou and Yang (2002, Syst. Biol. 51:703-714) and the penalized likelihood method using single and/or multiple calibrations were inconsistent among calibrations and did not fit the fossil record. 
4135360|Species-level phylogenies derived from many independent character sources and wide geographical sampling provide a powerful tool in assessing the importance of various factors associated with cladogenesis. In this study, we explore the relative importance of insular isolation and host plant switching in the diversification of a group of bark beetles (Curculionidae: Scolytinae) feeding and breeding in woody Euphorbia spurges. All species in the genus Aphanarthrum are each associated with only one species group of Euphorbia (succulents or one of three different arborescent groups), and the majority of species are endemic to one or several of the Macaronesian Islands. Hence, putative mechanisms of speciation could be assessed by identifying pairs of sister species in a phylogenetic analysis. We used DNA sequences from two nuclear and two mitochondrial genes, and morphological characters, to reconstruct the genealogical relationships among 92 individuals of 25 species and subspecies of Aphanarthrum and related genera. A stable tree topology was highly dependent on multiple character sources, but much less so on wide population sampling. However, multiple samples per species demonstrated one case of species paraphyly, as well as deep coalescence among three putative subspecies pairs. The phylogenetic analyses consistently placed the arborescent breeding and West African-Lanzarote-distributed species A. armatum in the most basal position in Aphanarthrum, rendering this genus paraphyletic with respect to Coleobothrus. Two major radiations followed, one predominantly African lineage of succulent feeding species, and one island radiation associated with arborescent host plants. Sister comparisons showed that most recent divergences occurred in allopatry on closely related hosts, with subsequent expansions obscuring more ancient events. Only 6 out of 24 cladogenetic events were associated with host switching, rendering geographical factors more important in recent diversification.
4135364|Mesic forests in the North American Pacific Northwest occur in two disjunct areas: along the coastal and Cascade ranges of Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia as well as the Northern Rocky Mountains of Idaho, Montana, and British Columbia. Over 150 species or species complexes have disjunct populations in each area, and a priori hypotheses based on phytogeography and geology potentially explain the disjunction via either dispersal or vicariance. Here, we test these hypotheses in the disjunct salamander complex Plethodon vandykei and P. idahoensis by collecting genetic data (669 bp of Cyt b) from 262 individuals. Maximum likelihood analysis indicated reciprocal monophyly of these species, supporting the ancient vicariance hypothesis, whereas parametric bootstrap and Bayesian hypothesis testing allow rejection of the dispersal hypothesis. The coalescent estimate of the time since population divergence (estimated using MDIV) is
4135357|Biologists frequently attempt to infer the character states at ancestral nodes of a phylogeny from the distribution of traits observed in contemporary organisms. Because phylogenies are normally inferences from data, it is desirable to account for the uncertainty in estimates of the tree and its branch lengths when making inferences about ancestral states or other comparative parameters. Here we present a general Bayesian approach for testing comparative hypotheses across statistically justified samples of phylogenies, focusing on the specific issue of reconstructing ancestral states. The method uses Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques for sampling phylogenetic trees and for investigating the parameters of a statistical model of trait evolution. We describe how to combine information about the uncertainty of the phylogeny with uncertainty in the estimate of the ancestral state. Our approach does not constrain the sample of trees only to those that contain the ancestral node or nodes of interest, and we show how to reconstruct ancestral states of uncertain nodes using a most-recent-common-ancestor approach. We illustrate the methods with data on ribonuclease evolution in the Artiodactyla. Software implementing the methods (BayesMultiState) is available from the authors.
4135363| Recently new heuristic genetic algorithms such as Treefinder and MetaGA have been developed to search for optimal trees in a maximum likelihood (ML) framework. In this study we combined these methods with other standard heuristic approaches such as ML and maximum parsimony hill-climbing searches and Bayesian inference coupled with Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques under homogeneous and mixed models of evolution to conduct an extensive phylogenetic analysis of the most abundant and widely distributed southern South American freshwater "crab," the Aegla (Anomura: Aeglidae). A total of 167 samples representing 64 Aegla species and subspecies were sequenced for one nuclear (28S rDNA) and four mitochondrial (12S and 16S rDNA, COI, and COII) genes (5352 bp total). Additionally, six other anomuran species from the genera Munida, Pachycheles, and Uroptychus (Galatheoidea), Lithodes (Paguroidea), and Lomis (Lomisoidea) and the nuclear 18S rDNA gene (1964 bp) were included in preliminary analyses for rooting the Aegla tree. Nonsignificantly different phylogenetic hypotheses resulted from all the different heuristic methods used here, although the best scored topologies found under the ML hill-climbing, Bayesian, and MetaGA approaches showed considerably better likelihood scores ( > 54) than those found under the MP and Treefinder approaches. Our trees provided strong support for most of the recognized Aegla species except for A. cholchol, A. jarai, A. parana, A. marginata, A. platensis, and A. franciscana, which may actually represent multiple species. Geographically, the Aegla group was divided into a basal western clade (21 species and subspecies) composed of two subclades with overlapping distributions, and a more recent central-eastern clade (43 species) composed of three subclades with fairly well-recognized distributions. This result supports the Pacific-Origin Hypothesis postulated for the group; alternative hypotheses of Atlantic or multiple origins were significantly rejected by our analyses. Finally, we combined our phylogenetic results with previous hypotheses of South American paleodrainages since the Jurassic to propose a biogeographical framework of the Aegla radiation. 
4135359|We present a phylogenetic hypothesis and novel, rank-free classification for all extant species of softshell turtles (Testudines: Trionychidae). Our data set included DNA sequence data from two mitochondrial protein-coding genes and a ~l-kb nuclear intron for 23 of 26 recognized species, and 59 previously published morphological characters for a complimentary set of 24 species. The combined data set provided complete taxonomic coverage for this globally distributed clade of turtles, with incomplete data for a few taxa. Although our taxonomic sampling is complete, most of the modern taxa are representatives of old and very divergent lineages. Thus, due to biological realities, our sampling consists of one or a few representatives of several ancient lineages across a relatively deep phylogenetic tree. Our analyses of the combined data set converge on a set of well-supported relationships, which is in accord with many aspects of traditional softshell systematics including the monophyly of the Cyclanorbinae and Trionychinae. However, our results conflict with other aspects of current taxonomy and indicate that most of the currently recognized tribes are not monophyletic. We use this strong estimate of the phylogeny of softshell turtles for two purposes: (1) as the basis for a novel rank-free lassification, and (2) to retrospectively examine strategies for analyzing highly homoplasious mtDNA data in deep phylogenetic problems where increased taxon sampling is not an option. Weeded and weighted parsimony, and model-based techniques, generally improved the phylogenetic performance of highly homoplasious mtDNA sequences, but no single strategy completely mitigated the problems of associated with these highly homoplasious data. Many deep nodes in the softshell turtle phylogeny were confidently recovered only after the addition of largely nonhomoplasious data from the nuclear intron.
4135358|Likelihood applications have become a central approach for molecular evolutionary analyses since the first computationally tractable treatment two decades ago. Although Felsenstein's original pruning algorithm makes likelihood calculations feasible, it is usually possible to take advantage of repetitive structure present in the data to arrive at even greater computational reductions. In particular, alignment columns with certain similarities have components of the likelihood calculation that are identical and need not be recomputed if columns are evaluated in an optimal order. We develop an algorithm for exploiting this speed improvement via an application of graph theory. The reductions provided by the method depend on both the tree and the data, but typical savings range between 15% and 50%. Real-data examples with time reductions of 80% have been identified. The overhead costs associated with implementing the algorithm are minimal, and they are recovered in all but the smallest data sets. The modifications will provide faster likelihood algorithms, which will allow likelihood methods to be applied to larger sets of taxa and to include more thorough searches of the tree topology space.
4135362|The reliability of molecular clocks has been questioned for several key evolutionary radiations on the basis that the clock might run fast in explosive radiations. Molecular date estimates for the radiations of metazoan phyla (the Cambrian explosion) and modern orders of mammals and birds are in many cases twice as old as the palaeontological evidence would suggest. Could some aspect of explosive radiations speed the molecular clock, making molecular date estimates too old? Here we use 19 independent instances of recent explosive radiations of island endemic taxa as a model system for testing the proposed influence of rapid adaptive radiation on the rate of molecular evolution. These radiations are often characterized by many of the potential mechanisms for fast rates in explosive radiations-such as small population size, elevated speciation rate, rapid rate of morphological change, release from previous ecological constraints, and adaptation to new niches-and represent a wide variety of species, islands, and genes. However, we find no evidence of a consistent increase in rates in island taxa compared to their mainland relatives, and therefore find no support for the hypothesis that the molecular clock runs fast in explosive radiations.
4135361|Squamate reptiles (snakes, lizards, and amphisbaenians) serve as model systems for evolutionary studies of a variety of morphological and behavioral traits, and phylogeny is crucial to many generalizations derived from such studies. Specifically, the traditional dichotomy between Iguania (anoles, iguanas, chameleons, etc.) and Scleroglossa (skinks, geckos, snakes, etc.) has been correlated with major evolutionary shifts within Squamata. We present a molecular phylogenetic study of 69 squamate species using approximately 4600 (2876 parsimony-informative) base pairs (bp) of DNA sequence data from the nuclear genes RAG-1 (~2750 bp) and c-mos (~360 bp) and the mitochondrial ND2 region (~1500 bp), sampling all major clades and most major subclades. Under our hypothesis, species previously placed in Iguania, Anguimorpha, and almost all recognized squamate families form strongly supported monophyletic groups. However, species previously placed in Scleroglossa, Varanoidea, and several other higher taxa do not form monophyletic groups. Iguania, the traditional sister group of Scleroglossa, is actually highly nested within Scleroglossa. This unconventional rooting does not seem to be due to long-branch attraction, base composition biases among taxa, or convergence caused by similar selective forces acting on nonsister taxa. Studies of functional tongue morphology and feeding mode have contrasted the similar states found in Sphenodon (the nearest outgroup to squamates) and Iguania with those of Scleroglossa, but our findings suggest that similar states in Sphenodon and Iguania result from homoplasy. Snakes, amphisbaenians, and dibamid lizards, limbless forms whose phylogenetic positions historically have been impossible to place with confidence, are not grouped together and appear to have evolved this condition independently. Amphisbaenians are the sister group of lacertids, and dibamid lizards diverged early in squamate evolutionary history Snakes are grouped with iguanians, lacertiforms, and anguimorphs, but are not nested within anguimorphs.
4135365|Model selection is a topic of special relevance in molecular phylogenetics that affects many, if not all, stages of phylogenetic inference. Here we discuss some fundamental concepts and techniques of model selection in the context of phylogenetics. We start by reviewing different aspects of the selection of substitution models in phylogenetics from a theoretical, philosophical and practical point of view, and summarize this comparison in table format. We argue that the most commonly implemented model selection approach, the hierarchical likelihood ratio test, is not the optimal strategy for model selection in phylogenetics, and that approaches like the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) and Bayesian methods offer important advantages. In particular, the latter two methods are able to simultaneously compare multiple nested or nonnested models, assess model selection uncertainty, and allow for the estimation of phylogenies and model parameters using all available models (model-averaged inference or multimodel inference). We also describe how the relative importance of the different parameters included in substitution models can be depicted. To illustrate some of these points, we have applied AIC-based model averaging to 37 mitochondrial DNA sequences from the subgenus Ohomopterus (genus Carabus) ground beetles described by Sota and Vogler (2001).
4135346|Pistia stratiotes (water lettuce) and Lemna (duckweeds) are the only free-floating aquatic Araceae. The geographic origin and phylogenetic placement of these unrelated aroids present long-standing problems because of their highly modified reproductive structures and wide geographical distributions. We sampled chloroplast (trnL-trnF and rpl20-rps12 spacers, trnL intron) and mitochondrial sequences (nad1 b/c intron) for all genera implicated as close relatives of Pistia by morphological, restriction site, and sequencing data, and present a hypothesis about its geographic origin based on the consensus of trees obtained from the combined data, using Bayesian, maximum likelihood, parsimony, and distance analyses. Of the 14 genera closest to Pistia, only Alocasia, Arisaema, and Typhonium are species-rich, and the latter two were studied previously, facilitating the choice of representatives that span the roots of these genera. Results indicate that Pistia and the Seychelles endemic Protarum sechellarum are the basalmost branches in a grade comprising the tribes Colocasieae (Ariopsis, Steudnera, Remusatia, Alocasia, Colocasia), Arisaemateae (Arisaema, Pinellia), and Areae (Arum, Biarum, Dracunculus, Eminium, Helicodiceros, Theriophonum, Typhonium). Unexpectedly, all Areae genera are embedded in Typhonium, which throws new light on the geographic history of Areae. A Bayesian analysis of divergence times that explores the effects of multiple fossil and geological calibration points indicates that the Pistia lineage is 90 to 76 million years (my) old. The oldest fossils of the Pistia clade, though not Pistia itself, are 45-my-old leaves from Germany; the closest outgroup, Peltandreae (comprising a few species in Florida, the Mediterranean, and Madagascar), is known from 60-my-old leaves from Europe, Kazakhstan, North Dakota, and Tennessee. Based on the geographic ranges of close relatives, Pistia likely originated in the Tethys region, with Protarum then surviving on the Seychelles, which became isolated from Madagascar and India in the Late Cretaceous (85 my ago). Pistia and Protarum provide striking examples of ancient lineages that appear to have survived in unique or isolated habitats.
4135351|We present a phylogenetic dating of asterids, based on a 111-taxon tree representing all major groups and orders and 83 of the 102 families of asterids, with an underlying data set comprising six chloroplast DNA markers totaling 9914 positions. Phylogenetic dating was done with semiparametric rate smoothing by penalized likelihood. Confidence intervals were calculated by bootstrapping. Six reference fossils were used for calibration. To explore the effects of various sources of error, we repeated the analyses with alternative dating methods (nonparametric rate smoothing and the Langley-Fitch clock-based method), alternative tree topologies, reduced taxon sampling (22 of the 111 taxa deleted), partitioning the data into three genes and three noncoding regions, and calibrating with single reference fossils. The analyses with alternative topologies, reduced taxon sampling, and coding versus noncoding sequences all yielded small or in some cases no deviations. The choice of method influenced the age estimates of a few nodes considerably. Calibration with reference fossils is a critical issue, and use of single reference fossils yielded different results depending on the fossil. The bootstrap confidence intervals were generally small. Our results show that asterids and their major subgroups euasterids, campanulids, and lamiids diversified during the Early Cretaceous. Cornales, Ericales, and Aquifoliales also have crown node ages from the Early Cretaceous. Dipsacales and Solanales are from the Mid-Cretaceous, the other orders of core campanulids and core lamiids from the Late Cretaceous. The considerable diversity exhibited by asterids almost from their first appearance in the fossil record also supports an origin and first phase of diversification in the Early Cretaceous.
4135350|Compositional heterogeneity among lineages can compromise phylogenetic analyses, because models in common use assume compositionally homogeneous data. Models that can accommodate compositional heterogeneity with few extra parameters are described here, and used in two examples where the true tree is known with confidence. It is shown using likelihood ratio tests that adequate modeling of compositional heterogeneity can be achieved with few composition parameters, that the data may not need to be modelled with separate composition parameters for each branch in the tree. Tree searching and placement of composition vectors on the tree are done in a Bayesian framework using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. Assessment of fit of the model to the data is made in both maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian frameworks. In an ML framework, overall model fit is assessed using the Goldman-Cox test, and the fit of the composition implied by a (possibly heterogeneous) model to the composition of the data is assessed using a novel tree- and model-based composition fit test. In a Bayesian framework, overall model fit and composition fit are assessed using posterior predictive simulation. It is shown that when composition is not accommodated, then the model does not fit, and incorrect trees are found; but when composition is accommodated, the model then fits, and the known correct phylogenies are obtained.
4135345| The treehopper subfamily Membracinae (Insecta: Hemiptera: Membracidae) comprises the majority of genera and species diversity in the New World tropics. These treehoppers exhibit a wide range of social behaviors, making them an excellent group for studying patterns of social evolution in insects. However, to date the tribal and generic relationships have remained unclear. We reconstructed the phylogeny of the Membracinae using a combined mitochondrial (COI, COII, tRNA-Leu, and 12S) and nuclear (Wg) gene data set. A total of 2608 aligned nucleotide sites were obtained for 112 species, representing 25 of 38 currently recognized genera and all four tribes. A strict consensus of five equally parsimonious trees recovered the subfamily and three of its four tribes. The majority rule consensus tree derived from the Bayesian analyses based on the GTR+I+G and mixed-models recovered many clades shared with the parsimony trees and is identical to the single best tree inferred from maximum likelihood analysis, aside from the rearrangement of one node. A comparison of mitochondrial and nuclear genes indicated that Wg provided higher consistency index (CI), data decisiveness (DD), partitioned Bremer support (PBS) than any of the mitochondrial genes analyzed. The combined mitochondrial and nuclear DNA provide strong support for the monophyly of the subfamily and three of its four tribes (Aconophorini, Hoplophorionini, and Hypsoprorini). Membracini is paraphyletic with respect to Hoplophorionini and contains two lineages, the Membracini sensu strictu and the newly resurrected tribe Bolbonotini. Our analyses show that there is a strong phylogenetic component to the evolution of maternal care. Given the widespread occurrence of maternal care within the subfamily, this trait is estimated to have 3 origins, two reversals, and one loss. Our results suggest that the evolution of maternal care in insects may not be as evolutionarily labile as previously thought. 
4135352|The nuclear small subunit rRNA (18S) has played a dominant role in the estimation of relationships among insect orders from molecular data. In previous studies, 18S sequences have been aligned by unadjusted automated approaches (computer alignments that are not manually readjusted), most recently with direct optimization (simultaneous alignment and tree building using a program called "POY"). Parsimony has been the principal optimality criterion. Given the problems associated with the alignment of rRNA, and the recent availability of the doublet model for the analysis of covarying sites using Bayesian MCMC analysis, a different approach is called for in the analysis of these data. In this paper, nucleotide sequence data from the 18S small subunit rRNA gene of insects are aligned manually with reference to secondary structure, and analyzed under Bayesian phylogenetic methods with both GTR+I+G and doublet models in MrBayes. A credible phylogeny of Insecta is recovered that is independent of the morphological data and (unlike many other analyses of 18S in insects) not contradictory to traditional ideas of insect ordinal relationships based on morphology. Hexapoda, including Collembola, are monophyletic. Paraneoptera are the sister taxon to a monophyletic Holometabola but weakly supported. Ephemeroptera are supported as the sister taxon of Neoptera, and this result is interpreted with respect to the evolution of direct sperm transfer and the evolution of flight. Many other relationships are well-supported but several taxa remain problematic, e.g., there is virtually no support for relationships among orthopteroid orders. A website is made available that provides aligned 18S data in formats that include structural symbols and Nexus formats.
4135347|The hares and rabbits belonging to the family Leporidae have a nearly worldwide distribution and approximately 72% of the genera have geographically restricted distributions. Despite several attempts using morphological, cytogenetic, and mitochondrial DNA evidence, a robust phylogeny for the Leporidae remains elusive. To provide phylogenetic resolution within this group, a molecular supermatrix was constructed for 27 taxa representing all 11 leporid genera. Five nuclear (SPTBN1, PRKCI, THY, TG, and MGF) and two mitochondrial (cytochrome b and 12S rRNA) gene fragments were analyzed singly and in combination using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference. The analysis of each gene fragment separately as well as the combined mtDNA data almost invariably failed to provide strong statistical support for intergeneric relationships. In contrast, the combined nuclear DNA topology based on 3601 characters greatly increased phylogenetic resolution among leporid genera, as was evidenced by the number of topologies in the 95% confidence interval and the number of significantly supported nodes. The final molecular supermatrix contained 5483 genetic characters and analysis thereof consistently recovered the same topology across a range of six arbitrarily chosen model specifications. Twelve unique insertion-deletions were scored and all could be mapped to the tree to provide additional support without introducing any homoplasy Dispersal-vicariance analyses suggest that the most parsimonious solution explaining the current geographic distribution of the group involves an Asian or North American origin for the Leporids followed by at least nine dispersals and five vicariance events. Of these dispersals, at least three intercontinental exchanges occurred between North America and Asia via the Bering Strait and an additional three independent dispersals into Africa could be identified. A relaxed Bayesian molecular clock applied to the seven loci used in this study indicated that most of the intercontinental exchanges occurred between 14 and 9 million years ago and this period is broadly coincidental with the onset of major Antarctic expansions causing land bridges to be exposed.
4135349|Chromosomal data have been underutilized in phylogenetic investigations despite the obvious potential that cytogenetic studies have to reveal both structural and functional homologies among taxa. In large part this is associated with difficulties in scoring conventional and molecular cytogenetic information for phylogenetic analysis. The manner in which chromosomal data have been used by most authors in the past was often conceptionally flawed in terms of the methods and principles underpinning modern cladistics. We present herein a review of the different methods employed, examine their relative strengths, and then outline a simple approach that considers the chromosomal change as the character, and its presence or absence the character state. We test this using one simulated and several empirical data sets. Features that are unique to cytogenetic investigations, including B-chromosomes, heterochromatic additions/deletions, and the location and number of nucleolar organizer regions (NORs), as well as the weighting of chromosomal characters, are critically discussed with regard to their suitability for phylogenetic reconstruction. We conclude that each of these classes of data have inherent problems that limit their usefulness in phylogenetic analyses and in most of these instances, inclusion should be subject to rigorous appraisal that addresses the criterion of unequivocal homology
4135348|Phylogenetic studies incorporating multiple loci, and multiple genomes, are becoming increasingly common. Coincident with this trend in genetic sampling, model-based likelihood techniques including Bayesian phylogenetic methods continue to gain popularity. Few studies, however, have examined model fit and sensitivity to such potentially heterogeneous data partitions within combined data analyses using empirical data. Here we investigate the relative model fit and sensitivity of Bayesian phylogenetic methods when alternative site-specific partitions of among-site rate variation (with and without autocorrelated rates) are considered. Our primary goal in choosing a best-fit model was to employ the simplest model that was a good fit to the data while optimizing topology and/or Bayesian posterior probabilities. Thus, we were not interested in complex models that did not practically affect our interpretation of the topology under study. We applied these alternative models to a four-gene data set including one protein-coding nuclear gene (c-mos), one protein-coding mitochondrial gene (ND4), and two mitochondrial rRNA genes (12S and 16S) for the diverse yet poorly known lizard family Gymnophthalmidae. Our results suggest that the best-fit model partitioned among-site rate variation separately among the c-mos, ND4, and 12S + 16S gene regions. We found this model yielded identical topologies to those from analyses based on the GTR+I+G model, but significantly changed posterior probability estimates of clade support. This partitioned model also produced more precise (less variable) estimates of posterior probabilities across generations of long Bayesian runs, compared to runs employing a GTR+I+G model estimated for the combined data. We use this three-way gamma partitioning in Bayesian analyses to reconstruct a robust phylogenetic hypothesis for the relationships of genera within the lizard family Gymnophthalmidae. We then reevaluate the higher-level taxonomic arrangement of the Gymnophthalmidae. Based on our findings, we discuss the utility of nontraditional parameters for modeling among-site rate variation and the implications and future directions for complex model building and testing.
4135344|Previous findings on structural rearrangements in the chloroplast genome of Cuscuta (dodder), the only parasitic genus in the morning-glory family, Convolvulaceae, were attributed to its parasitic life style, but without proper comparison to related nonparasitic members of the family. Before molecular evolutionary questions regarding genome evolution can be answered, the phylogenetic problems within the family need to be resolved. However, the phylogenetic position of parasitic angiosperms and their precise relationship to nonparasitic relatives are difficult to infer. Problems are encountered with both morphological and molecular evidence. Molecular data have been used in numerous studies to elucidate relationships of parasitic taxa, despite accelerated rates of sequence evolution. To address the question of the position of the genus Cuscuta within Convolvulaceae, we generated a new molecular data set consisting of mitochondrial (atpA) and nuclear (RPB2) genes, and analyzed these data together with an existing chloroplast data matrix (rbcL, atpB, trnL-F, and psb E-J), to which an additional chloroplast gene (rpl2) was added. This data set was analyzed with an array of phylogenetic methods, including Bayesian analysis, maximum likelihood, and maximum parsimony. Further exploration of data was done by using methods of phylogeny hypothesis testing. At least two nonparasitic lineages are shown to diverge within the Convolvulaceae before Cuscuta. However, the exact sister group of Cuscuta could not be ascertained, even though many alternatives were rejected with confidence. Caution is therefore warranted when interpreting the causes of molecular evolution in Cuscuta. Detailed comparisons with nonparasitic Convolvulaceae are necessary before firm conclusions can be reached regarding the effects of the parasitic mode of life on patterns of molecular evolution in Cuscuta.
4135343|A generic-level phylogeny for the butterfly family Nymphalidae was produced by cladistic analysis of 234 characters from all life stages. The 95 species in the matrix (selected from the 213 studied) represent all important recognized lineages within this family. The analysis showed the taxa grouping into six main lineages. The basal branch is the Libytheinae, with the Danainae and Ithomiinae on the next branch. The remaining lineages are grouped into two main branches: the Heliconiinae-Nymphalinae, primarily flower-visitors (but including the fruit-attracted Coeini); and the Limenitidinae (sensu strictu), Biblidinae, and the satyroid lineage (Apaturinae, Charaxinae, Biinae, Calinaginae, Morphinae, Brassolinae, and Satyrinae), primarily fruit-attracted. Data partitions showed that the two data sets (immatures and adults) are very different, and a partitioned Bremer support analysis showed that the adult characters are the main source of conflict in the nodes of the combined analysis tree. This phylogeny includes the widest taxon coverage of any morphological study on Nymphalid butterflies to date, and supports the monophyly and relationships of most presently recognized subgroups, providing strong evidence for the presently accepted phylogenetic scheme.
20061298|In phylogenetic analyses with combined multigene or multiprotein data sets, accounting for differing evolutionary dynamics at different loci is essential for accurate tree prediction. Existing maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian approaches are computationally intensive. We present an alternative approach that is orders of magnitude faster. The method, Distance Rates (DistR), estimates rates based upon distances derived from gene/protein sequence data. Simulation studies indicate that this technique is accurate compared with other methods and robust to missing sequence data. The DistR method was applied to a fungal mitochondrial data set, and the rate estimates compared well to those obtained using existing ML and Bayesian approaches. Inclusion of the protein rates estimated from the DistR method into the ML calculation of trees as a branch length multiplier resulted in a significantly improved fit as measured by the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC). Furthermore, bootstrap support for the ML topology was significantly greater when protein rates were used, and some evident errors in the concatenated ML tree topology (i.e., without protein rates) were corrected.
20061297|The imbalance of a node in a phylogenetic tree can be defined in terms of the relative numbers of species (or higher taxa) on the branches that originate at the node. Empirically, imbalance also turns out to depend on the absolute total number of species on the branches: in a sample of large trees, nodes with more descendent species tend to be more unbalanced. Subsidiary analyses suggest that this pattern is not a result of errors in tree estimation. Instead, the increase in imbalance with species is consistent with a cumulative effect of differences in diversification rates between branches.
20061296|Adaptive convergence in morphological characters has not been thoroughly investigated, and the processes by which phylogenetic relationships may be misled by morphological convergence remains unclear. We undertook a case study on the morphological evolution of viverrid-like feliformians (Nandinia, Cryptoprocta, Fossa, Eupleres, Prionodon) and built the largest morphological matrix concerning the suborder Feliformia to date. A total of 349 characters grouped into four anatomical partitions were used for all species of Viverridae and viverrid-like taxa plus representatives of the Felidae, Hyaenidae, Herpestidae, and one Malagasy mongoose. Recent molecular phylogenetic analyses suggest that viverrid-like morphotypes appeared independently at least three times during feliformian evolution. We thus used a synthetic molecular tree to assess morphological evolutionary patterns characterizing the viverrid-like taxa. We examined phylogenetic signal, convergence and noise in morphological characters using (a) tree-length distribution (g1), (b) partitioned Bremer support, (c) RI values and their distribution, (d) respective contributions of diagnostic synapomorphies at the nodes for each partition, (e) patterns of shared convergences among viverrid-like taxa and other feliformian lineages, (f) tree-length differences among alternative hypotheses, and (g) the successive removal of convergent character states from the original matrix. In addition, the lability of complex morphological structures was assessed by mapping them onto the synthetic molecular tree. The unconstrained morphological analysis yielded phylogenetic groupings that closely reflected traditional classification. The use of a synthetic molecular tree (constraint) combined with our thorough morphological investigations revealed the mosaics of convergences likely to have contributed to part of the historical uncertainty over viverrid classification. It also showed that complex morphological structures could be subjected to reversible evolutionary trends. The morphological matrix proved useful in characterizing several feliformian clades with diagnostic synapomorphies. These results support the removal from the traditionally held Viverridae of several viverrid-like taxa into three distinct families: Nandiniidae (Nandinia), Prionodontidae (Prionodon), and the newly defined Eupleridae (including Cryptoprocta, Fossa, Eupleres plus all "mongoose-like" Malagasy taxa). No clearly "phylogenetically misleading" data subsets could be identified, and the great majority of morphological convergences appeared to be nonadaptive. The multiple approaches used in this study revealed that the most disruptive element with regards to morphological phylogenetic reconstruction was noise, which blured the expression of phylogenetic signal. This study demonstrates the crucial need to consider independent (molecular) phylogenies in order to produce reliable evolutionary hypotheses and should promote a new approach to the definition of morphological characters in mammals.
20061300|Deserts are not usually considered biodiversity hotspots, but desert microbiotic crust communities exhibit a rich diversity of both eukaryotic and prokaryotic life forms. Like many communities dominated by microscopic organisms, they defy characterization by traditional species-counting approaches to assessing biodiversity. Here we use exclusive molecular phylodiversity (E) to quantify the amount of evolutionary divergence unique to desert-dwelling green algae (Chlorophyta) in microbiotic crust communities. Given a phylogenetic tree with branch lengths expressed in units of expected substitutions per site, E is the total length of all tree segments representing exclusively desert lineages. Using MCMC to integrate over tree topologies and branch lengths provides 95% Bayesian credible intervals for phylodiversity measures. We found substantial exclusive molecular phylodiversity based on 18S rDNA data, showing that desert lineages are distantly related to their nearest aquatic relatives. Our results challenge conventional wisdom, which holds that there was a single origin of terrestrial green plants and that green algae are merely incidental visitors rather than indigenous components of desert communities. We identify examples of lineage diversification within deserts and at least 12 separate transitions from aquatic to terrestrial life apart from the most celebrated transition leading to the embryophyte land plants.
20061299|Siphonophores are a group of pelagic colonial hydrozoans (Cnidaria) that have long been of general interest because of the division of labor between the polyps and medusae that make up these "superorganisms." These polyps and medusae are each homologous to free living animals but are generated by an incomplete asexual budding process that leaves them physiologically integrated. They are functionally specialized for different tasks and are precisely organized within each colony. The number of functional types of polyps and medusae varies across taxa, and different authors have used this character to construct phylogenies polarized in opposite directions, depending on whether they thought siphonophore evolution proceeded by a reduction or an increase in functional specialization. We have collected taxa across all major groups of siphonophores, many of which are found exclusively in the deep sea, using remotely operated underwater vehicles (ROVs) and by SCUBA diving from ships in the open ocean. We have used 52 siphonophores and four outgroup taxa to estimate the siphonophore phylogeny with molecular data from the nuclear small subunit ribosomal RNA gene (18S) and the mitochondrial large subunit ribosomal RNA gene (16S). Parsimony reconstructions indicate that functionally specialized polyps and medusae have been gained and lost across the phylogeny. Maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses of morphological data suggest that the transition rate for decreased functional specialization is greater than the transition rate for increased functional specialization for three out of the four investigated categories of polyps and medusae. The present analysis also bears on several long-standing questions about siphonophore systematics. It indicates that the cystonects are sister to all other siphonophores, a group that we call the Codonophora. We also find that the Calycophorae are nested within the Physonectae, and that the Brachystelia, a historically recognized grouping of short-stemmed taxa, are polyphyletic.
20061216|Phylogenetic tree reconstruction is difficult in the presence of lateral gene transfer and other processes generating conflicting signals. We develop a new approach to this problem using ideas borrowed from algorithmic information theory. It selects the hypothesis that simultaneously minimizes the descriptive complexity of the tree(s) plus the data when encoded using those tree(s). In practice this is the hypothesis that can compress the data the most. We show not only that phylogenetic compression is an efficient method for encoding most phylogenetic data sets and is more efficient than compression schemes designed for single sequences, but also that it provides a clear information theoretic rule for determining when a collection of conflicting trees is a better explanation of the data than a single tree. By casting the parsimony problem in this more general framework, we also conclude that the so-called total-evidence tree--the tree constructed from all the data simultaneously--is not always the most economical explanation of the data.
20061207|Species-level phylogenetic studies require fast-evolving nucleotide positions to resolve relationships among close relatives, but these sites may be highly homoplastic and perhaps uninformative or even misleading deeper in the tree. Here we describe a species-level analysis of tiger beetles in the genus Cicindela (Coleoptera: Cicindelidae) for 132 terminal taxa and 1897 nucleotide positions from three regions of mtDNA, comprising 75% coverage of species occurring in North America. Evenly weighted parsimony analysis recovered four major clades representing radiations confined to North and Central America. Relationships near the tips were well supported but signal was contradictory at deeper nodes. Two major categories (3rd positions and all others) can be distinguished in likelihood analysis of character variation, of which only the fast-changing 3rd position characters were affected by saturation. However, their downweighting under a variety of criteria did not improve the tree topology at basal nodes. There was weak conflict between 3rd and non-3rd position characters deep in the tree, but support levels declined towards the root for all categories, even on trees that were reconstructed from 3rd and non-3rd positions separately. Statistical analysis of parsimony-based character transitions along branches showed a largely homogeneous distribution of change along the root-to-tip axis. The comparison of character transitions among the four major portions of the tree revealed deviations from stochastic distribution for the non-3rd positions, but not for 3rd positions. Hence, variability of functionally constrained non-3rd positions differs between clades and may be dependent on the character states at other sites, consistent with the covarion model of molecular evolution. The results suggest that some properties of 3rd positions are less problematic for phylogenetic reconstruction than other categories despite their high total homoplasy. In densely sampled data sets of closely related species, the disadvantages of weighting schemes according to homoplasy levels outweigh the benefits, showing the difficulty of devising meaningful weighting schemes that are applicable universally throughout the tree.
20061212|The phylogenetic relationships among baleen whales (Order: Cetacea) remain uncertain despite extensive research in cetacean molecular phylogenetics and a potential morphological sample size of over 2 million animals harvested. Questions remain regarding the number of species and the monophyly of genera, as well as higher order relationships. Here, we approach mysticete phylogeny with complete mitochondrial genome sequence analysis. We determined complete mtDNA sequences of 10 extant Mysticeti species, inferred their phylogenetic relationships, and estimated node divergence times. The mtDNA sequence analysis concurs with previous molecular studies in the ordering of the principal branches, with Balaenidae (right whales) as sister to all other mysticetes base, followed by Neobalaenidae (pygmy right whale), Eschrichtiidae (gray whale), and finally Balaenopteridae (rorquals + humpback whale). The mtDNA analysis further suggests that four lineages exist within the clade of Eschrichtiidae + Balaenopteridae, including a sister relationship between the humpback and fin whales, and a monophyletic group formed by the blue, sei, and Bryde's whales, each of which represents a newly recognized phylogenetic relationship in Mysticeti. We also estimated the divergence times of all extant mysticete species, accounting for evolutionary rate heterogeneity among lineages. When the mtDNA divergence estimates are compared with the mysticete fossil record, several lineages have molecular divergence estimates strikingly older than indicated by paleontological data. We suggest this discrepancy reflects both a large amount of ancestral polymorphism and long generation times of ancestral baleen whale populations.
20061209|We evaluated the potential effects of homoplasy, ancestral polymorphism, and hybridization as obstacles to resolving phylogenetic relationships within Nomonyx-Oxyura stiff-tailed ducks (Oxyurinae; subtribe Oxyurina). Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region sequences from 94 individuals supported monophyly of mtDNA haplotypes for each of the six species and provided no evidence of extant incomplete lineage sorting or inter-specific hybridization. The ruddy ducks (O. j. jamaicensis, O. j. andina, O. j. ferruginea) are each others' closest relatives, but the lack of shared haplotypes between O. j. jamaicensis and O. j. ferruginea suggests long-standing historical isolation. In contrast, O. j. andina shares haplotypes with O. j. jamaicensis and O. j. ferruginea, which supports Todd's (1979) and Fjelds's (1986) hypothesis that O. j. andina is an intergrade or hybrid subspecies of O. j. jamaicensis and O. j. ferruginea. Control region data and a much larger data set composed of 8800 base pairs of mitochondrial and nuclear sequence for each species indicate that the two New World species, O. vittata and O. jamaicensis, branch basally within Oxyura. A clade of three Old World species (O. australis, O. maccoa, O. leucocephala) is well supported, but different loci and also different characters within the mtDNA data support three different resolutions of the Old World clade, yielding an essentially unresolved trichotomy. Fundamentally different factors limited the resolution of the mtDNA and nuclear gene trees. Gene trees for most nuclear loci were unresolved due to slow rates of mutation and a lack of informative variation, whereas uncertain resolution of the mtDNA gene tree was due to homoplasy. Within the mtDNA, approximately equal numbers of characters supported each of three possible resolutions. Parametric and nonparametric bootstrap analyses suggest that resolution of the mtDNA tree based on 4300 bp per taxon is uncertain but that complete mtDNA sequences would yield a fully resolved gene tree. A short internode separating O. leucocephala from (O. australis, O. maccoa) in the best mtDNA tree combined with long terminal branches and substantial rate variation among nucleotide sites allowed the small number of changes occurring on the internode to be obscured by homoplasy in a significant portion of simulated data sets. Although most nuclear loci were uninformative, two loci supported a resolution of the Old World clade (O. maccoa, O. leucocephala) that is incongruent with the best mtDNA tree. Thus, incongruence between nuclear and mtDNA trees may be due to random sorting of ancestral lineages during the short internode, homoplasy in the mtDNA data, or both. The Oxyura trichotomy represents a difficult though likely common problem in molecular systematics. Given a short internode, the mtDNA tree has a greater chance of being congruent with the history of speciation because its effective population size (
20061211|Many phylogenetic methods produce large collections of trees as opposed to a single tree, which allows the exploration of support for various evolutionary hypotheses. However, to be useful, the information contained in large collections of trees should be summarized; frequently this is achieved by constructing a consensus tree. Consensus trees display only those signals that are present in a large proportion of the trees. However, by their very nature consensus trees require that any conflicts between the trees are necessarily disregarded. We present a method that extends the notion of consensus trees to allow the visualization of conflicting hypotheses in a consensus network. We demonstrate the utility of this method in highlighting differences amongst maximum likelihood bootstrap values and Bayesian posterior probabilities in the placental mammal phylogeny, and also in comparing the phylogenetic signal contained in amino acid versus nucleotide characters for hexapod monophyly.
20061214|Current models for the early diversification of living frogs inferred from morphological, ontogenetic, or DNA sequence data invoke very different scenarios of character evolution and biogeography. To explore central controversies on the phylogeny of Anura, we analyzed nearly 4000 base pairs of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA for the major frog lineages. Likelihood-based analyses of this data set are congruent with morphological evidence in supporting a paraphyletic arrangement of archaeobatrachian frogs, with an (Ascaphus + Leiopelma) clade as the sister-group of all other living anurans. The stability of this outcome is reinforced by screening for phylogenetic bias resulting from site-specific rate variation, homoplasy, or the obligatory use of distantly related outgroups. Twenty-one alternative branching and rooting hypotheses were evaluated using a nonparametric multicomparison test and parametric bootstrapping. Relaxed molecular clock estimates situate the emergence of crown-group anurans in the Triassic, approximately 55 million years prior to their first appearance in the fossil record. The existence of at least four extant frog lineages on the supercontinent Pangaea before its breakup gains support from the estimation that three early splits between Laurasia- and Gondwana-associated families coincide with the initial rifting of these landmasses. This observation outlines the potential significance of this breakup event in the formation of separate Mesozoic faunal assemblages in both hemispheres.
20061210|Although most often used to represent phylogenetic uncertainty, network methods are also potentially useful for describing the phylogenetic complexity expected to characterize recent species radiations. One network method with particular advantages in this context is split decomposition. However, in its standard implementation this approach is limited by a conservative criterion for branch length estimation. Here we extend the utility of split decomposition by introducing a least squares optimization technique for correcting branch lengths that may be underestimated by the standard implementation. This optimization of branch lengths is generally expected to improve divergence time estimates calculated from splits graphs. We illustrate the effect of least squares optimization on such estimates using the Australasian Myosotis and the Hawaiian silversword alliance as examples. We also discuss the biogeographic interpretation and limitations of splits graphs.
20061215|Paralogy defines similarity caused by duplication rather than common descent and is well known in the case of paralogous gene copies within a single genome. The term is here extended to paralogous lineages of associates within a single host. The phylogenies of four genera within the Herpesviridae were reconciled with host phylogenies using cophylogenetic mapping. The observed correspondence for each pair of phylogenies was evaluated through randomization of the viral phylogeny and demonstrated to be greater than expected by chance. A simulation study was then carried out to assess the influence of paralogous lineages on the efficacy of reconciliation analysis. Combining viral taxa from different genera that infected common hosts introduced incongruence into the cophylogenies and reduced both the minimum and maximum observed number of codivergence events relative to the initial analysis of orthologous clades. However, at an average sample size this did not alter the fundamental significance of observed correspondence. With smaller sample sizes, the number of orthologous taxa selected at random from the pool of taxa was reduced. False-negative results then increased in proportion from 0.02 to 0.33. These results demonstrated that reconciliation analysis is robust under conditions of paralogy at "normal" sample sizes but is adversely affected by a combination of paralogy and low sample size. Consideration of phylogenies for Papillomavirus, Atadenovirus, and Mastadenovirus suggest that paralogous lineages may be a widespread phenomenon among DNA viruses and that duplication irrespective of host speciation is an important cause of viral diversification.
20061213|Evolutionary developmental biology ("evo-devo") has revolutionized evolutionary biology but has had relatively little impact on systematics. We show that similar large-scale developmental changes in distantly related lineages can dramatically mislead phylogenetic analyses based on morphological data. Salamanders are important model systems in many fields of biology and are of special interest in that many species are paedomorphic and thus never complete metamorphosis. A recent study of higher-level salamander phylogeny placed most paedomorphic families in a single clade based on morphological data. Here, we use new molecular and morphological data to show that this result most likely was caused by the misleading effects of paedomorphosis. We also provide a well-supported estimate of higher-level salamander relationships based on combined molecular and morphological data. Many authors have suggested that paedomorphosis may be problematic in studies of salamander phylogeny, but this hypothesis has never been tested with a rigorous phylogenetic analysis. We find that the misleading effects of paedomorphosis on phylogenetic analysis go beyond the sharing of homoplastic larval traits by paedomorphic adults, and the problem therefore is not solved by simply excluding suspected paedomorphic characters. Instead, two additional factors are critically important in causing paedomorphic species to be phylogenetically "misplaced": (1) the absence of clade-specific synapomorphies that develop during metamorphosis in nonpaedomorphic taxa and allow their "correct" placement and (2) parallel adaptive changes associated with the aquatic habitat of the larval stage. Our results suggest that the effects of paedomorphosis on phylogenetic analyses may be complex, difficult to detect, and can lead to results that are both wrong and statistically well supported by parsimony and Bayesian analyses.
20061208|Disjunctive distributions across paleotropical regions in the Indian Ocean Basin (IOB) often invoke dispersal/vicariance debates. Exacum (Gentianaceae, tribe Exaceae) species are spread around the IOB, in Africa, Madagascar, Socotra, the Arabian peninsula, Sri Lanka, India, the Himalayas, mainland Southeast Asia including southern China and Malaysia, and northern Australia. The distribution of this genus was suggested to be a typical example of vicariance resulting from the breakup of the Gondwanan supercontinent. The molecular phylogeny of Exacum is in principle congruent with morphological conclusions and shows a pattern that resembles a vicariance scenario with rapid divergence among lineages, but our molecular dating analysis demonstrates that the radiation is too recent to be associated with the Gondwanan continental breakup. We used our dating analysis to test the results of DIVA and found that the program predicted impossible vicariance events. Ancestral area reconstruction suggests that Exacum originated in Madagascar, and divergence dating suggests its origin was not before the Eocene. The Madagascan progenitor, the most recent common ancestor of Exacum, colonized Sri Lanka and southern India via long-distance dispersals. This colonizer underwent an extensive range expansion and spread to Socotra-Arabia, northern India, and mainland Southeast Asia in the northern IOB when it was warm and humid in these regions. This widespread common ancestor retreated subsequently from most parts of these regions and survived in isolation in Socotra-Arabia, southern India-Sri Lanka, and perhaps mainland Southeast Asia, possibly as a consequence of drastic climatic changes, particularly the spreading drought during the Neogene. Secondary diversification from these surviving centers and Madagascar resulted in the extant main lineages of the genus. The vicariance-like pattern shown by the phylogeny appears to have resulted from long-distance dispersals followed by extensive range expansion and subsequent fragmentation. The extant African species E. oldenlandioides is confirmed to be recently dispersed from Madagascar.
20061258|Given a phylogenetic tree with leaves labeled by a collection of species, and with weighted edges, the "phylogenetic diversity" of any subset of the species is the sum of the edge weights of the minimal subtree connecting the species. This measure is relevant in biodiversity conservation where one may wish to compare different subsets of species according to how much evolutionary variation they encompass. In this note we show that phylogenetic diversity has an attractive mathematical property that ensures that we can solve the following problem easily by the greedy algorithm: find a subset of the species of any given size k of maximal phylogenetic diversity. We also describe an extension of this result that also allows weights to be assigned to species.
20061259|Several mutually exclusive hypotheses have been advanced to explain the phylogenetic position of turtles among amniotes. Traditional morphology-based analyses place turtles among extinct anapsids (reptiles with a solid skull roof), whereas more recent studies of both morphological and molecular data support an origin of turtles from within Diapsida (reptiles with a doubly fenestrated skull roof). Evaluation of these conflicting hypotheses has been hampered by nonoverlapping taxonomic samples and the exclusion of significant taxa from published analyses. Furthermore, although data from soft tissues and anatomical systems such as the integument may be particularly relevant to this problem, they are often excluded from large-scale analyses of morphological systematics. Here, conflicting hypotheses of turtle relationships are tested by (1) combining published data into a supermatrix of morphological characters to address issues of character conflict and missing data; (2) increasing taxonomic sampling by more than doubling the number of operational taxonomic units to test internal relationships within suprageneric ingroup taxa; and (3) increasing character sampling by approximately 25% by adding new data on the osteology and histology of the integument, an anatomical system that has been historically under-represented in morphological systematics. The morphological data set assembled here represents the largest yet compiled for Amniota. Reevaluation of character data from prior studies of amniote phylogeny favors the hypothesis that turtles indeed have diapsid affinities. Addition of new ingroup taxa alone leads to a decrease in overall phylogenetic resolution, indicating that existing characters used for amniote phylogeny are insufficient to explain the evolution of more highly nested taxa. Incorporation of new data from the soft and osseous components of the integument, however, helps resolve relationships among both basal and highly nested amniote taxa. Analysis of a data set compiled from published sources and data original to this study supports monophyly of Amniota, Synapsida, Reptilia, Parareptilia, Eureptilia, Eosuchia, Diapsida, Neodiapsida, Sauria, Lepidosauria, and Archosauriformes, as well as several more highly nested divisions within the latter two clades. Turtles are here resolved as the sister taxon to a monophyletic Lepidosauria (squamates + Sphenodon), a novel phylogenetic position that nevertheless is consistent with recent molecular and morphological studies that have hypothesized diapsid affinities for this clade.
20061266|Phylogenetic relationships among the metazoan phyla are the subject of an ongoing controversy. Analysis of mitochondrial gene arrangements is a powerful tool to investigate these relationships; however, its previous application outside of individual animal phyla has been hampered by the lack of informative out-group data. To address this shortcoming, we determined complete mitochondrial DNA sequences for the demosponges Geodia neptuni and Tethya actinia, two representatives of the most basal animal phylum, the Porifera. With sponges as an outgroup, we investigated phylogenetic relationships of nine bilaterian phyla using both breakpoint analysis of global mitochondrial gene arrangements and maximum parsimony analysis of mitochondrial gene adjacencies. Our results provide strong support for a group that includes protostome (but not deuterostome) coelomate, pseudocoelomate, and acoelomate animals, thus clearly rejecting the Coelomata hypothesis. Two other groups of bilaterian animals, Lophotrochozoa and Ambulacraria, are also supported by our analyses. However, due to the remarkable stability of mitochondrial gene arrangements in Deuterostomia and the Ecdysozoa, conclusions on their evolutionary history cannot be drawn.
20061262|Tertiary macrofossils of the flowering plant family Leguminosae (legumes) were used as time constraints to estimate ages of the earliest branching clades identified in separate plastid matK and rbcL gene phylogenies. Penalized likelihood rate smoothing was performed on sets of Bayesian likelihood trees generated with the AIC-selected GTR++I substitution model. Unequivocal legume fossils dating from the Recent continuously back to about 56 million years ago were used to fix the family stem clade at 60 million years (Ma), and at 1-Ma intervals back to 70 Ma. Specific fossils that showed distinctive combinations of apomorphic traits were used to constrain the minimum age of 12 specific internal nodes. These constraints were placed on stem rather than respective crown clades in order to bias for younger age estimates. Regardless, the mean age of the legume crown clade differs by only 1.0 to 2.5 Ma from the fixed age of the legume stem clade. Additionally, the oldest caesalpinioid, mimosoid, and papilionoid crown clades show approximately the same age range of 39 to 59 Ma. These findings all point to a rapid family-wide diversification, and predict few if any legume fossils prior to the Cenozoic. The range of the matK substitution rate,
20061265|Isolated oceanic archipelagos are excellent model systems to study speciation, biogeography, and evolutionary factors underlying the generation of biological diversity. Despite the wealth of studies documenting insular speciation, few of them focused on marine organisms. Here, we reconstruct phylogenetic relationships among species of the marine venomous gastropod genus Conus from the Cape Verde archipelago. This small island chain located in the Central Atlantic hosts 10% of the worldwide species diversity of Conus. Analyses were based on mtDNA sequences, and a novel nuclear marker, a megalin-like protein, member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene family. The inferred phylogeny recovered two well-defined clades within Conus. One includes Cape Verde endemic species with larger shells, known as the "venulatus" complex together with C. pulcher from the Canary Islands. The other is composed of Cape Verde endemic and West Africa and Canary Island "small" shelled species. In both clades, nonendemic Conus were resolved as sister groups of the Cape Verde endemics, respectively. Our results indicate that the ancestors of "small" and "large" shelled lineages independently colonized Cape Verde. The resulting biogeographical pattern shows the grouping of most Cape Verde endemics in monophyletic island assemblages. Statistical tests supported a recent radiation event within the "small shell" clade. Using a molecular clock, we estimated that the colonization of the islands by the "small" shelled species occurred relatively close to the origin of the islands whereas the arrival of "large" shelled Conus is more recent. Our results suggest that the main factor responsible for species diversity in the archipelago may be allopatric speciation promoted by the reduced dispersal capacity of nonplanktonic lecithotrophic larvae.
20061257|In "The Descent of Man" (1871), Darwin observed "curious parallels" between the processes of biological and linguistic evolution. These parallels mean that evolutionary biologists and historical linguists seek answers to similar questions and face similar problems. As a result, the theory and methodology of the two disciplines have evolved in remarkably similar ways. In addition to Darwin's curious parallels of process, there are a number of equally curious parallels and connections between the development of methods in biology and historical linguistics. Here we briefly review the parallels between biological and linguistic evolution and contrast the historical development of phylogenetic methods in the two disciplines. We then look at a number of recent studies that have applied phylogenetic methods to language data and outline some current problems shared by the two fields.
20061261|In spite of the fact that the potential usefulness of bone histology in systematics has been discussed for over one and a half centuries, the presence of a phylogenetic signal in the variation of histological characters has rarely been assessed. A quantitative assessment of phylogenetic signal in bone histological characters could provide a justification for performing optimizations of these traits onto independently generated phylogenetic trees (as has been done in recent years). Here we present an investigation on the quantification of the phylogenetic signal in the following bone histological, microanatomical, and morphological traits in a sample of femora of 35 species of sauropsids: vascular density, vascular orientation, index of Haversian remodeling, cortical thickness, and cross-sectional area (bone size). For this purpose, we use two methods, regressions on distance matrices tested for significance using permutations (a Mantel test) and random tree length distribution. Within sauropsids, these bone microstructural traits have an optimal systematic value in archosaurs. In this taxon, a Mantel test shows that the phylogeny explains 81.8% of the variation of bone size and 86.2% of the variation of cortical thickness. In contrast, a Mantel test suggests that the phylogenetic signal in histological traits is weak: although the phylogeny explains 18.7% of the variation of vascular density in archosaurs, the phylogenetic signal is not significant either for vascular orientation or for the index of Haversian remodeling. However, Mantel tests seem to underestimate the proportion of variance of the dependent character explained by the phylogeny, as suggested by a PVR (phylogenetic eigenvector) analysis. We also deal with some complementary questions. First, we evaluate the functional dependence of bone vascular density on bone size by using phylogenetically independent contrasts. Second, we perform a variation partitioning analysis and show that the phylogenetic signal in bone vascular density is not a by-product of phylogentic signal in bone size. Finally, we analyze the evolution of cortical thickness in diapsids by using an optimization by squared change parsimony and discuss the functional significance of this character in terms of decreased buoyancy in crocodiles and mass saving in birds. These results are placed in the framework of the constructional morphology model, according to which the variation of a character in a clade has a historical (phylogenetic) component, a functional (adaptive) component, and a structural (architectural) component.
20061263|Phylogenetic taxonomy, like modern Linnean taxonomy, was modeled on a phylogenetic tree rather than a cladogram and, like its predecessor, perpetuates the use of morphology as a means of recognizing clades. Both practices have generated confusion in graphical representation, operational terminology, and definitional rationale in phylogenetic taxonomy, the history of which is traced. The following points are made: (1) cladograms, rather than trees or hybrid cladogram-trees, provide the framework for the simplest graphical depiction of phylogenetic definitions; (2) a complete notational scheme for phylogenetic definitions is presented that distinguishes symbolic notation from shorthand and longhand versions; (3) phylogenetic definitions are composed of three components (paradigm, specifier, qualifier) arranged in two fundamental patterns--node and stem; (4) apomorphies do not constitute a fundamental definitional pattern but rather serve to qualify a stem-based definition (as do time and geographic range); (5) formulation of phylogenetic definitions involves three heuristic criteria (stability, simplicity, prior use); (6) reasoned definitional revision is encouraged and better defined (textual substitution, first- and second-order revision); and (7) a database, TaxonSearch, allows rapid recall of taxonomic and definitional information.
20061264|Long-branch attraction is a well-known source of systematic error that can mislead phylogenetic methods; it is frequently invoked post hoc, upon recovering a different tree from the one expected based on prior evidence. We demonstrate that methods that do not force the data onto a single tree, such as spectral analysis, Neighbor-Net, and consensus networks, can be used to detect conflicting signals within the data, including those caused by long-branch attraction. We illustrate this approach using a set of taxa from three unambiguously monophyletic families within the Pelecaniformes: the darters, the cormorants and shags, and the gannets and boobies. These three families are universally acknowledged as forming a monophyletic group, but the relationship between the families remains contentious. Using sequence data from three mitochondrial genes (12S, ATPase 6, and ATPase 8) we demonstrate that the relationship between these three families is difficult to resolve because they are separated by a short internal branch and there are conflicting signals due to long-branch attraction, which are confounded with nonhomogeneous sequence evolution across the different genes. Spectral analysis, Neighbor-Net, and consensus networks reveal conflicting signals regarding the placement of one of the darters, with support found for darter monophyly, but also support for a conflicting grouping with the outgroup, pelicans. Furthermore, parsimony and maximum-likelihood analyses produced different trees, with one of the two most parsimonious trees not supporting the monophyly of the darters. Monte Carlo simulations, however, were not sensitive enough to reveal long-branch attraction unless the branches are longer than those actually observed. These results indicate that spectral analysis, Neighbor-Net, and consensus networks offer a powerful approach to detecting and understanding the source of conflicint signals within phylogenetic data.
20061260|Although the reconstruction of phylogenetic trees and the computation of multiple sequence alignments are highly interdependent, these two areas of research lead quite separate lives, the former often making use of stochastic modeling, whereas the latter normally does not. Despite the fact that reasonable insertion and deletion models for sequence pairs were already introduced more than 10 years ago, they have only recently been applied to multiple alignment and only in their simplest version. In this paper we present and discuss a strategy based on simulated annealing, which makes use of these models to infer a phylogenetic tree for a set of DNA or protein sequences together with the sequences' indel history, i.e., their multiple alignment augmented with information about the positioning of insertion and deletion events in the tree. Our method is also the first application of the TKF2 model in the context of multiple sequence alignment. We validate the method via simulations and illustrate it using a data set of primate mtDNA.
20061232|Thamnochortus (ca. 32 species) is an ecologically diverse genus of Restionaceae. Restionaceae comprise a major component of the southern African Cape flora, wherein eco-diversification might have been important in the generation of high levels of species richness. In an attempt to reconstruct the macroecological history of Thamnochortus, it was found that standard procedures for character state optimization make two inappropriate assumptions. The first is that ancestors are monomorphic (i.e., ecologically uniform) and the second is that eco-diversification follows, or is slower than, lineage diversification. We demonstrate a variety of coding schemes with which the assumption of monomorphy can be avoided. For unordered discrete ecological characters, presence coding and generalized frequency coding (GFC) are suboptimal because they occasionally yield illogical assignments of no state to ancestors. Polymorphism coding or use of the program DIVA are preferable in this respect but are applicable only with parsimony. For continuous eco-characters (e.g., a rainfall gradient, where individual species occur in ranges), GFC and MaxMin coding provide equally valid solutions to optimizing ranges with parsimony. However, MaxMin can be extended to likelihood approaches and is therefore preferable. With respect to rates and timing, all algorithms currently employed for ancestral ecology reconstruction bias toward slow rates of eco-diversification relative to lineage diversification. An alternative to this bias is provided by DIVA, which biases toward accelerated rates of eco-diversification and thus inferences of ecology-driven speciation. We see no way of choosing between these biases; however, phylogeneticists should be aware of them. Applying these methods to Thamnochortus, we find there to be important differences in details, yet general congruence, regarding the historical ecology of this clade. We infer the most recent common ancestor of Thamnochortus to have been a post-fire resprouting species distributed on rocky, well-drained, sandstone-derived soils at lower-middle elevations, in regions of moderate levels of yearly (primarily winter) rainfall. This species would have been distributed in habitats much like those of the southwestern Cape mountains today. Major ecological trends include shifts to lower rainfall regimes and shifts from sandstone to limestone-derived alkaline soils at lower altitudes.
20061225|AFLP markers provide a potential source of phylogenetic information for molecular systematic studies. However, there are properties of restriction fragment data that limit phylogenetic interpretation of AFLPs. These are (a) possible nonindependence of fragments, (b) problems of homology assignment of fragments, (c) asymmetry in the probability of losing and gaining fragments, and (d) problems in distinguishing heterozygote from homozygote bands. In the present study, AFLP data sets of Lactuca s.l. were examined for the presence of phylogenetic signal. An indication of this signal was provided by carrying out tree length distribution skewness (g) tests, permutation tail probability (PTP) tests, and relative apparent synapomorphy analysis (RASA). A measure of the support for internal branches in the optimal parsimony tree (MPT) was made using bootstrap, jackknife, and decay analysis. Finally, the extent of congruence in MPTs for AFLP and internal transcribed spacer (ITS)-1 data sets for the same taxa was made using the partition homogeneity test (PHT) and the Templeton test. These analytical studies suggested the presence of phylogenetic signal in the AFLP data sets, although some incongruence was found between AFLP and ITS MPTs. An extensive literature survey undertaken indicated that authors report a general congruence of AFLP and ITS tree topologies across a wide range of taxonomic groups, suggesting that the present results and conclusions have a general bearing. In these earlier studies and those for Lactuca s.l., AFLP markers have been found to be informative at somewhat lower taxonomic levels than ITS sequences. Tentative estimates are suggested for the levels of ITS sequence divergence over which AFLP profiles are likely to be phylogenetically informative.
20061230|A number of recent papers have suggested that gene family content can be used to resolve phylogenies, particularly in the case of prokaryotes, in which extensive horizontal gene transfer means that individual gene phylogenies may not mirror the organismal phylogeny. However, no study has yet examined how sensitive such analyses are to the criterion of homology assessment used to assemble multigene families. Using data from 99 completely sequenced prokaryotic genomes, we examined the effect of homology criteria in phylogenetic analyses wherein presence or absence of each family in the genome was used as a cladistic character. Different criteria resulted in evidence for contradictory tree topologies, sometimes with high bootstrap support. A moderately strict criterion seemed best for assembling multigene families in a biologically meaningful way, but it was not necessarily preferable for phylogenetic analysis. Instead, a very strict criterion, which broke up gene families into smaller subfamilies, seemed to have advantages for phylogenetic purposes. The poor performance of gene family content-based phylogenetic analysis in the case of prokaryotes appears to reflect high levels of homoplasy resulting not only from horizontal gene transfer but also, more importantly, from extensive parallel loss of gene families in certain bacteria genomes.
20061233|This study analyzed 76 species of Carnivora using a concatenated sequence of 6243 bp from six genes (nuclear TR-i-I, TBG, and IRBP; mitochondrial ND2, CYTB, and 12S rRNA), representing the most comprehensive sampling yet undertaken for reconstructing the phylogeny of this clade. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian methods were remarkably congruent in topologies observed and in nodal support measures. We recovered all of the higher level carnivoran clades that had been robustly supported in previous analyses (by analyses of morphological and molecular data), including the monophyly of Caniformia, Feliformia, Arctoidea, Pinnipedia, Musteloidea, Procyonidae + Mustelidae sensu stricto, and a clade of (Hyaenidae + (Herpestidae + Malagasy carnivorans)). All of the traditional "families," with the exception of Viverridae and Mustelidae, were robustly supported as monophyletic groups. We further have determined the relative positions of the major lineages within the Caniformia, which previous studies could not resolve, including the first robust support for the phylogenetic position of marine carnivorans (Pinnipedia) within the Arctoidea (as the sister-group to musteloids [sensu lato], with ursids as their sister group). Within the pinnipeds, Odobenidae (walrus) was more closely allied with otariids (sea lions/fur seals) than with phocids ("true" seals). In addition, we recovered a monophyletic clade of skunks and stink badgers (Mephitidae) and resolved the topology of musteloid interrelationships as: Ailurus (Mephitidae (Procyonidae, Mustelidae [sensu stricto])). This pattern of interrelationships of living caniforms suggests a novel inference that large body size may have been the primitive condition for Arctoidea, with secondary size reduction evolving later in some musteloids. Within Mustelidae, Bayesian analyses are unambiguous in supporting otter monophyly (Lutrinae), and in both MP and Bayesian analyses Martes is paraphyletic with respect to Gulo and Eira, as has been observed in some previous molecular studies. Within Feliformia, we have confirmed that Nandinia is the outgroup to all other extant feliforms, and that the Malagasy Carnivora are a monophyletic clade closely allied with the mongooses (Herpestidae [sensu stricto]). Although the monophyly of each of the three major feliform clades (Viverridae sensu stricto, Felidae, and the clade of Hyaenidae + (Herpestidae + Malagasy carnivorans)) is robust in all of our analyses, the relative phylogenetic positions of these three lineages is not resolvable at present. Our analyses document the monophyly of the "social mongooses," strengthening evidence for a single origin of eusociality within the Herpestidae. For a single caniform node, the position of pinnipeds relative to Ursidae and Musteloidea, parsimony analyses of data for the entire Carnivora did not replicate the robust support observed for both parsimony and Bayesian analyses of the caniform ingroup alone. More detailed analyses and these results demonstrate that outgroup choice can have a considerable effect on the strength of support for a particular topology. Therefore, the use of exemplar taxa as proxies for entire clades with diverse evolutionary histories should be approached with caution. The Bayesian analysis likelihood functions generally were better able to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships (increased resolution and more robust support for various nodes) than parsimony analyses when incompletely sampled taxa were included. Bayesian analyses were not immune, however, to the effects of missing data; lower resolution and support in those analyses likely arise from non-overlap of gene sequence data among less well-sampled taxa. These issues are a concern for similar studies, in which different gene sequences are concatenated in an effort to increase resolving power.
20061231|Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences are commonly used for inferring phylogenetic relationships. However, the strand-specific bias in the nucleotide composition of the mtDNA, which is thought to reflect asymmetric mutational constraints, combined with the important compositional heterogeneity among taxa, are known to be highly problematic for phylogenetic analyses. Here, nucleotide composition was compared across 49 species of Metazoa (34 arthropods, 2 annelids, 2 molluscs, and 11 deuterosomes), and analyzed for a mtDNA fragment including six protein-coding genes, i.e., atp6, atp8, cox1, cox2, cox3, and nad2. The analyses show that most metazoan species present a clear strand asymmetry, where one strand is biased in favor of A and C, whereas the other strand has a reverse bias, i.e., in favor of T and G. The origin of this strand bias can be related to asymmetric mutational constraints involving deaminations of A and C nucleotides during the replication and/or transcription processes. The analyses reveal that six unrelated genera are characterized by a reversal of the usual strand bias, i.e., Argiope (Araneae), Euscorpius (Scorpiones), Tigriopus (Maxillopoda), Branchiostoma (Cephalochordata), Florometra (Echinodermata), and Katharina (Mollusca). It is proposed that asymmetric mutational constraints have been independently reversed in these six genera, through an inversion of the control region, i.e., the region that contains most regulatory elements for replication and transcription of the mtDNA. We show that reversals of asymmetric mutational constraints have dramatic consequences on the phylogenetic analyses, as taxa characterized by reverse strand bias tend to group together due to long-branch attraction artifacts. We propose a new method for limiting this specific problem in tree reconstruction under the Bayesian approach. We apply our method to deal with the question of phylogenetic relationships of the major lineages of Arthropoda. This new approach provides a better congruence with nuclear analyses based on 18S rRNA gene sequences. By contrast with some previous studies based on mtDNA sequences our data suggest that Chelicerata, Crustacea, Myriapoda, Pancrustacea, and Paradoxopoda are monophyletic.
20061228|Bayesian phylogenetic analyses are now very popular in systematics and molecular evolution because they allow the use of much more realistic models than currently possible with maximum likelihood methods. There are, however, a growing number of examples in which large Bayesian posterior clade probabilities are associated with very short edge lengths and low values for non-Bayesian measures of support such as nonparametric bootstrapping. For the four-taxon case when the true tree is the star phylogeny, Bayesian analyses become increasingly unpredictable in their preference for one of the three possible resolved tree topologies as data set size increases. This leads to the prediction that hard (or near-hard) polytomies in nature will cause unpredictable behavior in Bayesian analyses, with arbitrary resolutions of the polytomy receiving very high posterior probabilities in some cases. We present a simple solution to this problem involving a reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm that allows exploration of all of tree space, including unresolved tree topologies with one or more polytomies. The reversible-jump MCMC approach allows prior distributions to place some weight on less-resolved tree topologies, which eliminates misleadingly high posteriors associated with arbitrary resolutions of hard polytomies. Fortunately, assigning some prior probability to polytomous tree topologies does not appear to come with a significant cost in terms of the ability to assess the level of support for edges that do exist in the true tree. Methods are discussed for applying arbitrary prior distributions to tree topologies of varying resolution, and an empirical example showing evidence of polytomies is analyzed and discussed.
20061227|Sequence heterochrony (changes in the order in which events occur) is a potentially important, but relatively poorly explored, mechanism for the evolution of development. In part, this is because of the inherent difficulties in inferring sequence heterochrony across species. The event-pairing method, developed independently by several workers in the mid-1990s, encodes sequences in a way that allows them to be examined in a phylogenetic framework, but the results can be difficult to interpret in terms of actual heterochronic changes. Here, we describe a new, parsimony-based method to interpret such results. For each branch of the tree, it identifies the least number of event movements (heterochronies) that will explain all the observed event-pair changes. It has the potential to find all alternative, equally parsimonious explanations, and generate a consensus, containing the movements that form part of every equally most parsimonious explanation. This new technique, which we call Parsimov, greatly increases the utility of the event-pair method for inferring instances of sequence heterochrony.
20061226|A variety of analytical methods is available for branch testing in distance-based phylogenies. However, these methods are rarely used, possibly because the estimation of some of their statistics, especially the covariances, is not always feasible. We show that these difficulties can be overcome if some simplifying assumptions are made, namely distance independence. The weighted least-squares likelihood ratio test (WLS-LRT) we propose is easy to perform, using only the distances and some of their associated variances. If no variances are known, the use of the Felsenstein F-test, also based on weighted least squares, is discussed. Using simulated data and a data set of 43 mammalian mitochondrial sequences we demonstrate that the WLS-LRT performs as well as the generalized least-squares test, and indeed better for a large number of taxa data set. We thus show that the assumption of independence does not negatively affect the reliability or the accuracy of the least-squares approach. The results of the WLS-LRT are no worse than the results of the bootstrap methods, such as the Felsenstein bootstrap selection probability test and the Dopazo test. We also show that WLS-LRT can be applied in instances where other analytical methods are inappropriate. This point is illustrated by analyzing the relationships between human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) sequences isolated from various organs of different individuals.
20061224|Comprehensive phylogenetic trees are essential tools to better understand evolutionary processes. For many groups of organisms or projects aiming to build the Tree of Life, comprehensive phylogenetic analysis implies sampling hundreds to thousands of taxa. For the tree of all life this task rises to a highly conservative 13 million. Here, we assessed the performances of methods to reconstruct large trees using Monte Carlo simulations with parameters inferred from four large angiosperm DNA matrices, containing between 141 and 567 taxa. For each data set, parameters of the HKY85+ model were estimated and used to simulate 20 new matrices for sequence lengths from 100 to 10,000 base pairs. Maximum parsimony and neighbor joining were used to analyze each simulated matrix. In our simulations, accuracy was measured by counting the number of nodes in the model tree that were correctly inferred. The accuracy of the two methods increased very quickly with the addition of characters before reaching a plateau around 1000 nucleotides for any sizes of trees simulated. An increase in the number of taxa from 141 to 567 did not significantly decrease the accuracy of the methods used, despite the increase in the complexity of tree space. Moreover, the distribution of branch lengths rather than the rate of evolution was found to be the most important factor for accurately inferring these large trees. Finally, a tree containing 13,000 taxa was created to represent a hypothetical tree of all angiosperm genera and the efficiency of phylogenetic reconstructions was tested with simulated matrices containing an increasing number of nucleotides up to a maximum of 30,000. Even with such a large tree, our simulations suggested that simple heuristic searches were able to infer up to 80% of the nodes correctly.
20061229|Integrated phylogenetic and developmental analyses should enhance our understanding of morphological evolution and thereby improve systematists' ability to utilize morphological characters, but case studies are few. The eggshell (chorion) of Lepidoptera (Insecta) has proven especially tractable experimentally for such analyses because its morphogenesis proceeds by extracellular assembly of proteins. This study focuses on a morphological novelty, the aeropyle crown, that arises at the end of choriogenesis in the wild silkmoth genus Antheraea. Aeropyle crowns are cylindrical projections, ending in prominent prongs, that surround the openings of breathing tubes (aeropyle channels) traversing the chorion. They occur over the entire egg surface in some species, are localized to a circumferential band in many others, and in some are missing entirely, thus exhibiting variation typical of discrete characters analyzed in morphological phylogenetics. Seeking an integrated developmental-phylogenetic view, we first survey aeropyle crown variation broadly across Antheraea and related genera. We then map these observations onto a robust phylogeny, based on three nuclear genes, to test the adequacy of character codings for aeropyle crown variation and to estimate the frequency and direction of change in those characters. Thirdly, we draw on previous studies of choriogenesis, supplemented by new data on gene expression, to hypothesize developmental-genetic bases for the inferred chorion character transformations. Aeropyle crowns are inferred to arise just once, in the ancestor of Antheraea, but to undergo four or more subsequent reductions without regain, a pattern consistent with Dollo's Law. Spatial distribution shows an analogous trend, though less clear-cut, toward reduction of coverage by aeropyle crowns. These trends suggest either that there is little or no natural selection on the details of the aeropyle crown structure or that evolution toward functional optima is ongoing, although no direct evidence exists for either. Genetic, biochemical, and microscopy studies point to at least two developmental changes underlying the origin of the aeropyle crown, namely, reinitiation of deposition of chorionic lamellae after the end of normal choriogenesis (i.e., heterochrony), and sharply increased production of underlying "filler" proteins that push the nascent final lamellae upward to form the crown (i.e., heteroposy). Identification of a unique putative cis-regulatory element shared by unrelated genes involved in aeropyle crown formation suggests a possible simple mechanism for repeated evolutionary reduction and spatial restriction of aeropyle crowns.
20061279|Taxon sampling may be critically important for phylogenetic accuracy because adding taxa can help to subdivide misleading long branches. Although the idea that added taxa can break up long branches was exemplified by a study of "incomplete" fossil taxa, the issue of taxon completeness (i.e., proportion of missing data) has been largely ignored in most subsequent discussions of taxon sampling and long-branch attraction. In this article, I use simulations to test the ability of incomplete taxa to subdivide long branches and improve phylogenetic accuracy in situations of potential long-branch attraction. The results show that for most methods and conditions examined, adding taxa that are only 50% complete may provide similar benefits to adding the same number of complete taxa (suggesting that the advantages of increased taxon sampling may be obtained with less data than previously considered). For parsimony, taxa that are less complete (5% to 25% complete) may often have limited ability to rescue analyses from long-branch attraction. In contrast, highly incomplete taxa can be surprisingly beneficial when using model-based methods. The results also suggest the importance of model-based methods in phylogenetic analyses that combine molecular and fossil data.
20061281|Phylogenetic relationships among salamander families illustrate analytical challenges inherent to inferring phylogenies in which terminal branches are temporally very long relative to internal branches. We present new mitochondrial DNA sequences, approximately 2100 base pairs from the genes encoding ND1, ND2, COI, and the intervening tRNA genes for 34 species representing all 10 salamander families, to examine these relationships. Parsimony analysis of these mtDNA sequences supports monophyly of all families except Proteidae, but yields a tree largely unresolved with respect to interfamilial relationships and the phylogenetic positions of the proteid genera Necturus and Proteus. In contrast, Bayesian and maximum-likelihood analyses of the mtDNA data produce a topology concordant with phylogenetic results from nuclear-encoded rRNA sequences, and they statistically reject monophyly of the internally fertilizing salamanders, suborder Salamandroidea. Phylogenetic simulations based on our mitochondrial DNA sequences reveal that Bayesian analyses outperform parsimony in reconstructing short branches located deep in the phylogenetic history of a taxon. However, phylogenetic conflicts between our results and a recent analysis of nuclear RAG-1 gene sequences suggest that statistical rejection of a monophyletic Salamandroidea by Bayesian analyses of our mitochondrial genomic data is probably erroneous. Bayesian and likelihood-based analyses may overestimate phylogenetic precision when estimating short branches located deep in a phylogeny from data showing substitutional saturation; an analysis of nucleotide substitutions indicates that these methods may be overly sensitive to a relatively small number of sites that show substitutions judged uncommon by the favored evolutionary model.
20061278|Madagascar harbors four large adaptive radiations of endemic terrestrial mammals: lemurs, tenrecs, carnivorans, and rodents. These rank among the most spectacular examples of evolutionary diversification, but their monophyly and origins are debated. The lack of Tertiary fossils from Madagascar leaves molecular studies as most promising to solve these controversies. We provide a simultaneous reconstruction of phylogeny and age of the four radiations based on a 3.5-kb data set from three nuclear genes (ADRA2B, vWF, and AR). The analysis supports each as a monophyletic clade, sister to African taxa, and thereby identifies four events of colonization out of Africa. To infer the time windows for colonization, we take into account both the divergence from the closest noninsular sister group and the initial intrainsular radiation, which is a novel but conservative approach in studies of the colonization history of Madagascar. We estimate that lemurs colonized Madagascar between 60 million years ago (Mya) (split from lorises) and 50 Mya (lemur radiation) (70-41 Mya taking 95% credibility intervals into account), tenrecs between 42 and 25 Mya (50-20 Mya), carnivorans between 26 and 19 Mya (33-14 Mya), and rodents between 24 and 20 Mya (30-15 Mya). These datings suggest at least two asynchronous colonization events: by lemurs in the Late Cretaceous--Middle Eocene, and by carnivorans and rodents in the Early Oligocene--Early Miocene. The colonization by tenrecs may have taken place simultaneously with either of these two events, or in a third event in the Late Eocene-Oligocene. Colonization by at least lemurs, rodents, and carnivorans appears to have occurred by overseas rafting rather than via a land bridge hypothesized to have existed between 45 and 26 Mya, but the second scenario cannot be ruled out if credibility intervals are taken into account.
20061277|The combination of exceptionally high species diversity, high host specificity, and a complex reproduction system raises many questions about the underlying mechanisms triggering speciation in the flatworm genus Gyrodactylus. The coevolutionary history with their goby hosts was investigated using both topology- and distance-based approaches; phylogenies were constructed of the V4 region of the 18S rRNA and the complete ITS rDNA region for the parasites, and 12S and 16S mtDNA fragments for the hosts. The overall fit between both trees was significant according to the topology-based programs (TreeMap 1.0, 2.0 and TreeFitter), but not according to the timed analysis in TreeMap 2.0 and the distance-based method (ParaFit). An absolute timing of speciation events in host and parasite ruled out the possibility of synchronous speciation for the gill parasites, favouring the distance-based result. Based on this information together with the biological background of host and parasite, the following TreeMap solution was selected. The group of gill parasites evolved from a host switch from G. arcuatus, parasitizing the three-spined stickleback onto the gobies, followed by several host-switching events among the respective goby hosts. The timing of these events is estimated to date back to the Late Pleistocene, suggesting a role for refugia-mediated mixing of parasite species. In contrast, it is suggested that cospeciation in the fin-parasites resulted in several host-associated species complexes. This illustrates that phylogenetically conserved host-switching mimics the phylogenetic signature of cospeciation, confounding topology-based programs.
20061282|How should characters and taxa be sampled to resolve efficiently the phylogeny of ancient and highly speciose groups? We addressed this question empirically in the treefrog family Hylidae, which contains &gt800 species and may be nonmonophyletic with respect to other anuran families. We sampled 81 species (54 hylids and 27 outgroups) for two mitochondrial genes (12S, ND1), two nuclear genes (POMC, c-myc), and morphology (144 characters) in an attempt to resolve higher-level relationships. We then added 117 taxa to the combined data set, many of which were sampled for only one gene (12S). Despite the relative incompleteness of the majority of taxa, the resulting trees placed all taxa in the expected higher-level clades with strong support, despite some taxa being &gt90% incomplete. Furthermore, we found no relationship between the completeness of a taxon and the support (parsimony bootstrap or Bayesian posterior probabilities) for its localized placement on the tree. Separate analysis of the data set with the most taxa (12S) gives a somewhat problematic estimate of higher-level relationships, suggesting that data sets scored only for some taxa (ND1, nuclear genes, morphology) are important in determining the outcome of the combined analysis. The results show that hemiphractine hylids are not closely related to other hylids and should be recognized as a distinct family. They also show that the speciose genus Hyla is polyphyletic, but that its species can be arranged into three monophyletic genera. A new classification of hylid frogs is proposed. Several potentially misleading signals in the morphological data are discussed.
20061283|Models of codon substitution have been commonly used to compare protein-coding DNA sequences and are particularly effective in detecting signals of natural selection acting on the protein. Their utility in reconstructing molecular phylogenies and in dating species divergences has not been explored. Codon models naturally accommodate synonymous and nonsynonymous substitutions, which occur at very different rates and may be informative for recent and ancient divergences, respectively. Thus codon models may be expected to make an efficient use of phylogenetic information in protein-coding DNA sequences. Here we applied codon models to 106 protein-coding genes from eight yeast species to reconstruct phylogenies using the maximum likelihood method, in comparison with nucleotide- and amino acid-based analyses. The results appeared to confirm that expectation. Nucleotide-based analysis, under simplistic substitution models, were efficient in recovering recent divergences whereas amino acid-based analysis performed better at recovering deep divergences. Codon models appeared to combine the advantages of amino acid and nucleotide data and had good performance at recovering both recent and deep divergences. Estimation of relative species divergence times using amino acid and codon models suggested that translation of gene sequences into proteins led to information loss of from 30% for deep nodes to 66% for recent nodes. Although computational burden makes codon models unfeasible for tree search in large data sets, we suggest that they may be useful for comparing candidate trees. Nucleotide models that accommodate the differences in evolutionary dynamics at the three codon positions also performed well, at much less computational cost. We discuss the relationship between a model's fit to data and its utility in phylogeny reconstruction and caution against use of overly complex substitution models.
20061280|In the context of exponential growing molecular databases, it becomes increasingly easy to assemble large multigene data sets for phylogenomic studies. The expected increase of resolution due to the reduction of the sampling (stochastic) error is becoming a reality. However, the impact of systematic biases will also become more apparent or even dominant. We have chosen to study the case of the long-branch attraction artefact (LBA) using real instead of simulated sequences. Two fast-evolving eukaryotic lineages, whose evolutionary positions are well established, microsporidia and the nucleomorph of cryptophytes, were chosen as model species. A large data set was assembled (44 species, 133 genes, and 24,294 amino acid positions) and the resulting rooted eukaryotic phylogeny (using a distant archaeal outgroup) is positively misled by an LBA artefact despite the use of a maximum likelihood--based tree reconstruction method with a complex model of sequence evolution. When the fastest evolving proteins from the fast lineages are progressively removed (up to 90%), the bootstrap support for the apparently artefactual basal placement decreases to virtually 0%, and conversely only the expected placement, among all the possible locations of the fast-evolving species, receives increasing support that eventually converges to 100%. The percentage of removal of the fastest evolving proteins constitutes a reliable estimate of the sensitivity of phylogenetic inference to LBA. This protocol confirms that both a rich species sampling (especially the presence of a species that is closely related to the fast-evolving lineage) and a probabilistic method with a complex model are important to overcome the LBA artefact. Finally, we observed that phylogenetic inference methods perform strikingly better with simulated as opposed to real data, and suggest that testing the reliability of phylogenetic inference methods with simulated data leads to overconfidence in their performance. Although phylogenomic studies can be affected by systematic biases, the possibility of discarding a large amount of data containing most of the nonphylogenetic signal allows recovering a phylogeny that is less affected by systematic biases, while maintaining a high statistical support.
20061276|Reconstructing phylogeny is a crucial target of contemporary biology, now commonly approached through computerized analysis of genetic sequence data. In angiosperms, despite recent progress at the ordinal level, many relationships between families remain unclear. Here we take a case study from Lamiales, an angiosperm order in which interfamilial relationships have so far proved particularly problematic. We examine the effect of changing one factor--the quantity of sequence data analyzed--on phylogeny reconstruction in this group. We use simulation to estimate a priori the sequence data that would be needed to resolve an accurate, supported phylogeny of Lamiales. We investigate the effect of increasing the length of sequence data analyzed, the rate of substitution in the sequences used, and of combining gene partitions. This method could be a valuable technique for planning systematic investigations in other problematic groups. Our results suggest that increasing sequence length is a better way to improve support, resolution, and accuracy than employing sequences with a faster substitution rate. Indeed, the latter may in some cases have detrimental effects on phylogeny reconstruction. Further molecular sequencing--of at least 10,000 bp--should result in a fully resolved and supported phylogeny of Lamiales, but at present the problematic aspects of this tree model remain.
20061242|Establishing the relationships among modern amphibians (lissamphibians) and their ancient relatives is necessary for our understanding of early tetrapod evolution. However, the phylogeny is still intractable because of the highly specialized anatomy and poor fossil record of lissamphibians. Paleobiologists are still not sure whether lissamphibians are monophyletic or polyphyletic, and which ancient group (temnospondyls or lepospondyls) is most closely related to them. In an attempt to address these problems, eight mitochondrial genomes of living amphibians were determined and compared with previously published amphibian sequences. A comprehensive molecular phylogenetic analysis of nucleotide sequences yields a highly resolved tree congruent with the traditional hypotheses (Batrachia). By using a molecular clock--independent approach for inferring dating information from molecular phylogenies, we present here the first molecular timescale for lissamphibian evolution, which suggests that lissamphibians first emerged about 330 million years ago. By observing the fit between molecular and fossil times, we suggest that the temnospondyl-origin hypothesis for lissamphibians is more credible than other hypotheses. Moreover, under this timescale, the potential geographic origins of the main living amphibian groups are discussed: (i) advanced frogs (neobatrachians) may possess an Africa-India origin; (ii) salamanders may have originated in east Asia; (iii) the tropic forest of the Triassic Pangaea may be the place of origin for the ancient caecilians. An accurate phylogeny with divergence times can be also helpful to direct the search for "missing" fossils, and can benefit comparative studies of amphibian evolution.
20061247|The Bayesian method for estimating species phylogenies from molecular sequence data provides an attractive alternative to maximum likelihood with nonparametric bootstrap due to the easy interpretation of posterior probabilities for trees and to availability of efficient computational algorithms. However, for many data sets it produces extremely high posterior probabilities, sometimes for apparently incorrect clades. Here we use both computer simulation and empirical data analysis to examine the effect of the prior model for internal branch lengths. We found that posterior probabilities for trees and clades are sensitive to the prior for internal branch lengths, and priors assuming long internal branches cause high posterior probabilities for trees. In particular, uniform priors with high upper bounds bias Bayesian clade probabilities in favor of extreme values. We discuss possible remedies to the problem, including empirical and full Bayesian methods and subjective procedures suggested in Bayesian hypothesis testing. Our results also suggest that the bootstrap proportion and Bayesian posterior probability are different measures of accuracy, and that the bootstrap proportion, if interpreted as the probability that the clade is true, can be either too liberal or too conservative.
20061245|The effect of taxonomic sampling on phylogenetic accuracy under parsimony is examined by simulating nucleotide sequence evolution. Random error is minimized by using very large numbers of simulated characters. This allows estimation of the consistency behavior of parsimony, even for trees with up to 100 taxa. Data were simulated on 8 distinct 100-taxon model trees and analyzed as stratified subsets containing either 25 or 50 taxa, in addition to the full 100-taxon data set. Overall accuracy decreased in a majority of cases when taxa were added. However, the magnitude of change in the cases in which accuracy increased was larger than the magnitude of change in the cases in which accuracy decreased, so, on average, overall accuracy increased as more taxa were included. A stratified sampling scheme was used to assess accuracy for an initial subsample of 25 taxa. The 25-taxon analyses were compared to 50- and 100-taxon analyses that were pruned to include only the original 25 taxa. On average, accuracy for the 25 taxa was improved by taxon addition, but there was considerable variation in the degree of improvement among the model trees and across different rates of substitution.
20061249|Combined analysis of multiple phylogenetic data sets can reveal emergent character support that is not evident in separate analyses of individual data sets. Previous parsimony analyses have shown that this hidden support often accounts for a large percentage of the overall phylogenetic signal in cladistic studies. Here, reanalysis of a large comparative genomic data set for yeast (genus Saccharomyces) demonstrates that hidden support can be an important factor in maximum likelihood analyses of multiple data sets as well. Emergent signal in a concatenation of 106 genes was responsible for up to 64% of the likelihood support at a particular node (the difference in log likelihood scores between optimal topologies that included and excluded a supported clade). A grouping of four yeast species (S. cerevisiae, S. paradoxus, S. mikatae, and S. kudriavzevii) was robustly supported by combined analysis of all 106 genes, but separate analyses of individual genes suggested numerous conflicts. Forty-eight genes strictly contradicted S. cerevisiae + S. paradoxus + S. mikatae + S. kudriavzevii in separate analyses, but combined likelihood analyses that included up to 45 of the "wrong" data sets supported this group. Extensive hidden support also emerged in a combined likelihood analysis of 41 genes that each recovered the exact same topology in separate analyses of the individual genes. These results show that isolated analyses of individual data sets can mask congruence and distort interpretations of clade stability, even in strictly model-based phylogenetic methods. Consensus and supertree procedures that ignore hidden phylogenetic signals are, at best, incomplete.
20061248|We explored the use of multidimensional scaling (MDS) of tree-to-tree pairwise distances to visualize the relationships among sets of phylogenetic trees. We found the technique to be useful for exploring "tree islands" (sets of topologically related trees among larger sets of near-optimal trees), for comparing sets of trees obtained from bootstrapping and Bayesian sampling, for comparing trees obtained from the analysis of several different genes, and for comparing multiple Bayesian analyses. The technique was also useful as a teaching aid for illustrating the progress of a Bayesian analysis and as an exploratory tool for examining large sets of phylogenetic trees. We also identified some limitations to the method, including distortions of the multidimensional tree space into two dimensions through the MDS technique, and the definition of the MDS-defined space based on a limited sample of trees. Nonetheless, the technique is a useful approach for the analysis of large sets of phylogenetic trees.
20061246|Young polyploid events are easily diagnosed by various methods, but older polyploid events become increasingly difficult to identify as chromosomal rearrangements, tandem gene or partial chromosome duplications, changes in substitution rates among duplicated genes, pseudogenization or locus loss, and interlocus interactions complicate the means of inferring past genetic events. Genomic data have provided valuable information about the polyploid history of numerous species, but on their own fail to show whether related species, each with a polyploid past, share a particular polyploid event. A phylogenetic approach provides a powerful method to determine this but many processes may mislead investigators. These processes can affect individual gene trees, but most likely will not affect all genes, and almost certainly will not affect all genes in the same way. Thus, a multigene approach, which combines the large-scale aspect of genomics with the resolution of phylogenetics, has the power to overcome these difficulties and allow us to infer genomic events further into the past than would otherwise be possible. Previous work using synonymous distances among gene pairs within species has shown evidence for large-scale duplications in the legumes Glycine max and Medicago truncatula. We present a case study using 39 gene families, each with three or four members in G. max and the putative orthologues in M. truncatula, rooted using Arabidopsis thaliana. We tested whether the gene duplications in these legumes occurred separately in each lineage after their divergence (Hypothesis 1), or whether they share a round of gene duplications (Hypothesis 2). Many more gene family topologies supported Hypothesis 2 over Hypothesis 1 (11 and 2, respectively), even after synonymous distance analysis revealed that some topologies were providing misleading results. Only ca. 33% of genes examined support either hypothesis, which strongly suggests that single gene family approaches may be insufficient when studying ancient events with nuclear DNA. Our results suggest that G. max and M. truncatula, along with approximately 7000 other legume species from the same clade, share an ancient round of gene duplications, either due to polyploidy or to some other process.
20061244|Using a simple example and simulations, we explore the impact of input tree shape upon a broad range of supertree methods. We find that input tree shape can affect how conflict is resolved by several supertree methods and that input tree shape effects may be substantial. Standard and irreversible matrix representation with parsimony (MRP), MinFlip, duplication-only Gene Tree Parsimony (GTP), and an implementation of the average consensus method have a tendency to resolve conflict in favor of relationships in unbalanced trees. Purvis MRP and the average dendrogram method appear to have an opposite tendency. Biases with respect to tree shape are correlated with objective functions that are based upon unusual asymmetric tree-to-tree distance or fit measures. Split, quartet, and triplet fit, most similar supertree, and MinCut methods (provided the latter are interpreted as Adams consensus-like supertrees) are not revealed to have any bias with respect to tree shape by our example, but whether this holds more generally is an open problem. Future development and evaluation of supertree methods should consider explicitly the undesirable biases and other properties that we highlight. In the meantime, use of a single, arbitrarily chosen supertree method is discouraged. Use of multiple methods and/or weighting schemes may allow practical assessment of the extent to which inferences from real data depend upon methodological biases with respect to input tree shape or size.
20061240|In intraspecific studies, reticulated graphs are valuable tools for visualization, within a single figure, of alternative genealogical pathways among haplotypes. As available software packages implementing the global maximum parsimony (MP) approach only give the possibility to merge resulting topologies into less-resolved consensus trees, MP has often been neglected as an alternative approach to purely algorithmic (i.e., methods defined solely on the basis of an algorithm) "network" construction methods. Here, we propose to search tree space using the MP criterion and present a new algorithm for uniting all equally most parsimonious trees into a single (possibly reticulated) graph. Using simulated sequence data, we compare our method with three purely algorithmic and widely used graph construction approaches (minimum-spanning network, statistical parsimony, and median-joining network). We demonstrate that the combination of MP trees into a single graph provides a good estimate of the true genealogy. Moreover, our analyses indicate that, when internal node haplotypes are not sampled, the median-joining and MP methods provide the best estimate of the true genealogy whereas the minimum-spanning algorithm shows very poor performances.
20061241|Partitioned Bayesian analyses of 2.2 kb of nucleotide sequence data (mtDNA) were used to elucidate phylogenetic relationships among 30 scincid lizard genera. Few partitioned Bayesian analyses exist in the literature, resulting in a lack of methods to determine the appropriate number of and identity of partitions. Thus, a criterion, based on the Bayes factor, for selecting among competing partitioning strategies is proposed and tested. Improvements in both mean -lnL and estimated posterior probabilities were observed when specific models and parameter estimates were assumed for partitions of the total data set. This result is expected given that the 95% credible intervals of model parameter estimates for numerous partitions do not overlap and it reveals that different data partitions may evolve quite differently. We further demonstrate that how one partitions the data (by gene, codon position, etc.) is shown to be a greater concern than simply the overall number of partitions. Using the criterion of the 2ln Bayes factor &gt10, the phylogenetic analysis employing the largest number of partitions was decisively better than all other strategies. Strategies that partitioned the ND1 gene by codon position performed better than other partition strategies, regardless of the overall number of partitions. Scincidae, Acontinae, Lygosominae, east Asian and North American "Eumeces" + Neoseps; North African Eumeces, Scincus, and Scincopus, and a large group primarily from sub-Saharan Africa, Madagascar, and neighboring islands are monophyletic. Feylinia, a limbless group of previously uncertain relationships, is nested within a "scincine" clade from sub-Saharan Africa. We reject the hypothesis that the nearly limbless dibamids are derived from within the Scincidae, but cannot reject the hypothesis that they represent the sister taxon to skinks. Amphiglossus, Chalcides, the acontines Acontias and Typhlosaurus, and Scincinae are paraphyletic. The globally widespread "Eumeces" is polyphyletic and we make necessary taxonomic changes.
20061239|The calopterygoid superfamily (Calopterygidae + Hetaerinidae) is composed of more than twenty genera in two families: the Calopterygidae (at least 17) and the Hetaerinidae (at least 4). Here, 62 calopterygoid (ingroup) taxa representing 18 genera and 15 outgroup taxa are subjected to phylogenetic analysis using the ribosomal 18S and 5.8S genes and internal transcribed spacers (ITS1, ITS2). The five other families of calopterid affinity (Polythoridae, Dicteriadidae, Amphipterygidae, Euphaeidae, and Chlorocyphidae) are included in the outgroup. For phylogenetic inference, we applied maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and the Bayesian inference methods. A molecular phylogeny combined with a geographic analysis produced a well-supported phylogenetic hypothesis that partly confirms the traditional taxonomy and describes distributional patterns. A monophyletic origin of the calopterygoids emerges, revealing the Hetaerinid clade as sister group to the Calopterygidae sensu strictu. Within Calopterygidae, seven clades of subfamily rank are recognized. Phylogenetic dating was performed with semiparametric rate smoothing by penalized likelihood, using seven reference fossils for calibration. Divergence time based on the ribosomal genes and spacers and fossil constraints indicate that Calopteryginae (10 genera, approximately 50% of all Calopterygid taxa studied here), Vestalinae (1 genus), and Hetaerinidae (1 genus out of 4 studied here) started radiating around 65 Mya (K/T boundary). The South American Iridictyon (without distinctive morphology except for wing venation) and Southeast Asian Noguchiphaea (with distinctive morphology) are older (about 86 My) and may be survivors of old clades with a Gondwanian range that went extinct at the K/T boundary. The same reasoning (and an even older age, ca. 150 My) applies to the amphipterygids Rimanella and Pentaphlebia (South America-Africa). The extant Calopterygidae show particular species and genus richness between west China and Japan, with genera originating between the early Oligocene and Pleistocene. Much of that richness probably extended much wider in preglacial times. The Holarctic Calopteryx, of Miocene age, was deeply affected by the climatic cooling of the Pliocene and by the Pleistocene glaciations. Its North American and Japanese representatives are of Miocene and Pliocene age, respectively, but its impoverished Euro-Siberian taxa are late Pliocene-Pleistocene, showing reinvasion, speciation, and introgression events. The five other calopterid families combine with the Calopterygidae and Hetaerinidae to form the monophyletic cohort Caloptera, with Polythoridae, Dicteriadidae, and Amphipterygidae sister group to Calopterygoidea. The crown node age of the latter three families has an age of about 157 My, but the Dicteriadidae and Polythoridae themselves are of Eocene age, and the same is true for the Euphaeidae and Chlorocyphidae. The cohort Caloptera itself, with about 197 My of age, goes back to the early Jurassic.
20061243|We describe a novel model and algorithm for simultaneously estimating multiple molecular sequence alignments and the phylogenetic trees that relate the sequences. Unlike current techniques that base phylogeny estimates on a single estimate of the alignment, we take alignment uncertainty into account by considering all possible alignments. Furthermore, because the alignment and phylogeny are constructed simultaneously, a guide tree is not needed. This sidesteps the problem in which alignments created by progressive alignment are biased toward the guide tree used to generate them. Joint estimation also allows us to model rate variation between sites when estimating the alignment and to use the evidence in shared insertion/deletions (indels) to group sister taxa in the phylogeny. Our indel model makes use of affine gap penalties and considers indels of multiple letters. We make the simplifying assumption that the indel process is identical on all branches. As a result, the probability of a gap is independent of branch length. We use a Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method to sample from the posterior of the joint model, estimating the most probable alignment and tree and their support simultaneously. We describe a new MCMC transition kernel that improves our algorithm's mixing efficiency, allowing the MCMC chains to converge even when started from arbitrary alignments. Our software implementation can estimate alignment uncertainty and we describe a method for summarizing this uncertainty in a single plot.
10.2307/2413636|Although long-branch attraction, the incorrect grouping of long lineages in a phylogeny because of systematic error, has been identified as a potential source of error in phylogenetic analysis for almost two decades, no empirical examples of the phenomenon exist. Here, I outline several criteria for identifying long-branch attraction and apply these criteria to 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequence data for 13 insects. Parsimony and minimum evolution with p distances group the two longest branches together (those leading to Strepsiptera and Diptera). Simulation studies show that the long branches are long enough to attract. When a tree is assumed in which Strepsiptera and Diptera are separated and many data sets are simulated for that tree (using the parameter estimates for that tree for the original data), parsimony analysis of the simulated data consistently groups Strepsiptera and Diptera. Analyses of the 18S rDNA sequences using methods that are less sensitive to the problem of long-branch attraction estimate trees in which the long branches are separate.
10.2307/2413639|An experimental study on the delimitation of character states in continuous variation indicates that (1) the way data are presented influences the assignment of character states and (2) states in the same data set are delimited in various ways by different individuals. Forty-nine individuals were given a set of graphs denoting variation of 10 characters in the genus Kalmia (Ericaceae) and outgroups, all identification having been removed from the graphs. The variation was represented in one of three ways: as 95% confidence intervals on a linear scale, as 95% confidence intervals on a log<sub>10</sub> scale, or with bars showing SD x 2 on a linear scale. No two individuals scored a set of graphs in the same way, and only one character in one representation was scored identically by all individuals; the scoring for this character was completely different when the ordinate was changed from linear to logarithmic. Together, the 49 individuals delimited states within each character between 9 and 16 different ways. In general, variation represented by 2 x SD bars elicited the largest numbers of different scorings, yet with a relatively low number of states; the complexity of the patterns in the graphs in this representation was greatest. Expert knowledge appears to be of dubious value in delimiting states in such variation, and if such characters are to be used in phylogenetic analyses, states could be delimited by people who know nothing of the details of the study being scored; in any case, presentation of data and an explicit protocol to follow when delimiting states are essential. In converting data of this type into character states, psychological factors are particularly likely to come into play. Other implications of our experiments include the severe underdetermination of some phylogenetic hypotheses by observation and the heterogeneous nature of morphological data.
10.2307/2413637|Phylogenetic relationships among fishes from ostariophysan orders, characiform families, and serrasalmin genera (e.g., "piranhas") were examined using partial mitochondrial ribosomal DNA sequences of the 12S and 16S genes. Phylogenetic information content of these sequences was assessed at three levels of taxonomic inclusiveness by analyzing the patterns of nucleotide substitution using secondary structure models. Conserved and variable regions were identified, mapped onto the structural models, and compared at increasing levels of taxonomic divergence. In general, loop regions (unpaired) exhibited a higher level of variation than did stem regions (paired). A high proportion of compensatory substitutions was observed in stem regions in three data sets, suggesting strong selection to maintain the secondary structure. Saturation due to multiple substitutions was indicated by decreasing transition/transversion ratios and strong structural constraints on variation in comparisons among orders of Ostariophysi but was not obvious among familes of Characiformes and was not detected among serrasalmin genera. Reliable phylogenetic signal successfully reconstructed relationships among serrasalmin genera. However, aside from a few well-supported clades, relationships could not be reconstructed with confidence among characiform families and ostariophysan orders. The reciprocal monophyly of African and Neotropical characiform lineages was rejected (based on maximum likelihood ratio tests), and some support for previous hypotheses based on morphology was provided by the molecular data. The radiation of characiform fishes is discussed in a historical biogeographic context.
10.2307/2413635|Phylogenetic relationships among the holometabolous insect orders were inferred from cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequences of 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) (85 exemplars) and 28S rDNA (52 exemplars) and morphological characters. Exemplar outgroup taxa were Collembola (1 sequence), Archaeognatha (1), Ephemerida (1), Odonata (2), Plecoptera (2), Blattodea (1), Mantodea (1), Dermaptera (1), Orthoptera (1), Phasmatodea (1), Embioptera (1), Psocoptera (1), Phthiraptera (1), Hemiptera (4), and Thysanoptera (1). Exemplar ingroup taxa were Coleoptera: Archostemata (1), Adephaga (2), and Polyphaga (7); Megaloptera (1); Raphidioptera (1); Neuroptera (sensu stricto = Planipennia): Mantispoidea (2), Hemerobioidea (2), and Myrmeleontoidea (2); Hymenoptera: Symphyta (4) and Apocrita (19); Trichoptera: Hydropsychoidea (1) and Limnephiloidea (2); Lepidoptera: Ditrysia (3); Siphonaptera: Pulicoidea (1) and Ceratophylloidea (2); Mecoptera: Meropeidae (1), Boreidae (1), Panorpidae (1), and Bittacidae (2); Diptera: Nematocera (1), Brachycera (2), and Cyclorrhapha (1); and Strepsiptera: Corioxenidae (1), Myrmecolacidae (1), Elenchidae (1), and Stylopidae (3). We analyzed 1 kilobase of 18S rDNA, starting 398 nucleotides downstream of the 5' end, and 400 bp of 28S rDNA in expansion segment D3. Multiple alignment of the 18S and 28S sequences resulted in 1,116 nucleotide positions with 24 insert regions and 398 positions with 14 insert regions, respectively. All Strepsiptera and Neuroptera have large insert regions in 18S and 28S. The secondary structure of 18S insert 23 is composed of long stems that are GC rich in the basal Strepsiptera and AT rich in the more derived Strepsiptera. A matrix of 176 morphological characters was analyzed for holometabolous orders. Incongruence length difference tests indicate that the 28S + morphological data sets are incongruent but that 28S + 18S, 18S + morphology, and 28S + 18S + morphology fail to reject the hypothesis of congruence. Phylogenetic trees were generated by parsimony analysis, and clade robustness was evaluated by branch length, Bremer support, percentage of extra steps required to force paraphyly, and sensitivity analysis using the following parameters: gap weights, morphological character weights, methods of data set combination, removal of key taxa, and alignment region. The following are monophyletic under most or all combinations of parameter values: Holometabola, Polyphaga, Megaloptera + Raphidioptera, Neuroptera, Hymenoptera, Trichoptera, Lepidoptera, Amphiesmenoptera (Trichoptera + Lepidoptera), Siphonaptera, Siphonaptera + Mecoptera, Strepsiptera, Diptera, and Strepsiptera + Diptera (Halteria). Antliophora (Mecoptera + Diptera + Siphonaptera + Strepsiptera), Mecopterida (Antliophora + Amphiesmenoptera), and Hymenoptera + Mecopterida are supported in the majority of total evidence analyses. Mecoptera may be paraphyletic because Boreus is often placed as sister group to the fleas; hence, Siphonaptera may be subordinate within Mecoptera. The 18S sequences for Priacma (Coleoptera: Archostemata), Colpocaccus (Coleoptera: Adephaga), Agulla (Raphidioptera), and Corydalus (Megaloptera) are nearly identical, and Neuropterida are monophyletic only when those two beetle sequences are removed from the analysis. Coleoptera are therefore paraphyletic under almost all combinations of parameter values. Halteria and Amphiesmenoptera have high Bremer support values and long branch lengths. The data do not support placement of Strepsiptera outside of Holometabola nor as sister group to Coleoptera. We reject the notion that the monophyly of Halteria is due to long branch attraction because Strepsiptera and Diptera do not have the longest branches and there is phylogenetic congruence between molecules, across the entire parameter space, and between morphological and molecular data.
10.2307/2413642|Nominally polyphagous species of herbivorous insects sometimes are comprised of multiple morphologically similar biological species with more specialized appetites. When meristic morphological traits cannot be found to distinguish such suspected sibling species, molecular data are increasingly sought as a source of evidence. A role for morphology in distinguishing such taxa might be reclaimed, however, by recent advances in geometric morphometric methods, such as the statistical analysis of partial-warp scores from the thin-plate spline. We employed this method to detect and characterize subtle shape differences among populations and between sexes of the nominal leaf beetle species Neochlamisus bebbianae. Using the thin-plate spline, the shapes of specimens from seven beetle populations collected from five host plants in five eastern North American localities were calculated. These shapes were analyzed by MANOVA, revealing significant variation in both uniform and nonuniform components of shape among test populations. Significant sexual dimorphism in size, shape, and allometric relationships were also documented across these populations. More interestingly, our study provided evidence of sibling species where traditional taxonomic approaches have failed. Individual MANOVAs revealed significant shape variation between sympatric populations from different host plants in each of three localities. Because these sympatric shape differences were significant when adjusted for size, they cannot be attributed to allometric consequences of size variation among test populations. Because certain beetle populations differed significantly in size and shape when reared in a common environment, these morphometric traits may have a genetic basis. Together, these results are consistent with an earlier suggestion that N. bebbianae represents a complex of host-specific races or sibling species, a hypothesis that has received additional support from recent studies on host use traits, sex ratios, and mitochondrial DNA. In sum, these analyses demonstrate the power and utility of the thin-plate spline as a morphological means of discriminating among closely related and anatomically homogeneous taxa.
10.2307/2413641|The evolutionary pathway that has led to male tails of diverse morphology among species of the nematode family Rhabditidae was reconstructed. This family includes the well-studied model species Caenorhabditis elegans. By relating the steps of male tail morphological evolution to the phenotypic changes brought about by developmental mutations induced experimentally in C. elegans, the goal is to identify genes responsible for morphological evolution. The varying morphological characters of the male tails of several rhabditid species have been described previously (Fitch and Emmons, 1995, Dev. Biol. 170:564-582). The developmental events preceding differentiation of the adult structures have also been analyzed; in many cases the origins of varying adult morphological characters were traced to differences during ontogeny. In the present work, the evolutionary changes producing these differences were reconstructed in the context of the four possible phylogenies supported independently by sequences of 18S ribosomal RNA genes (rDNA). Two or more alternative states were defined for 36 developmental and adult morphological characters. These characters alone do not provide sufficient data to resolve most species relationships; however, when combined with the rDNA characters, they provide stronger support for one of the four rDNA phylogenies. Assuming a model of ordered transformations for multistate developmental characters generally results in greater resolution. Transformations between character states can be assigned unequivocally by parsimony to unambiguous branches for most of the characters. Correlations are thereby revealed for some of the developmental characters, indicating a probability of a shared developmental or genetic regulatory pathway. Four of the unequivocal character state changes on unambiguously supported branches closely resemble the phenotypic changes brought about by known mutations in C. elegans. These mutations define genes that are known to act in genetic regulatory hierarchies controlling pattern formation, differentiation, and morphogenesis. Although these studies are still at an early stage, these results strongly suggest that parallel studies of developmental mutants in C. elegans and of morphological and developmental evolution among related nematodes will help define genetic changes underlying the evolution of form.
10.2307/2413643|Quantification in historical biogeography has usually been based on the search for a single branching relationship among areas of endemism. Unlike organisms, however, areas rarely have a unique hierarchical history. Dispersal barriers appear and disappear and may have different effects on different species. As a result, the biota of an area may consist of several components with separate histories, each of which may be reticulate rather than branching. In an attempt to address these problems, I present a new biogeographic method, dispersal-vicariance analysis, which reconstructs the ancestral distributions in a given phylogeny without any prior assumptions about the form of area relationships. A three-dimensional step matrix based on a simple biogeographic model is used in the reconstruction. Speciation is assumed to subdivide the ranges of widespread species into vicariant components; the optimal ancestral distributions are those that minimize the number of implied dispersal and extinction events. Exact algorithms that find the optimal reconstruction(s) are described. In addition to their use in taxon biogeography, the inferred distribution histories of individual groups serve as a basis for the study of general patterns in historical biogeography, particularly if the relative age of the nodes in the source cladograms is known.
10.2307/2413640|Sequence divergence for segments of three mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genes encoding the 12S and 16S ribosomal RNA and cytochrome b was examined in newts belonging to the genus Euproctus (E. asper, E. montanus, E. platycephalus) and in three other species belonging to the same family (Salamandridae), Triturus carnifex, T. vulgaris, and Pleurodeles waltl. The three Euproctus species occur (one species each) in Corsica, Sardinia, and the Pyrenees. This vicariant distribution is believed to have been determined by the disjunction and rotation of the Sardinia-Corsica microplate from the Pyreneean region. Because time estimates are available for the tectonic events that led to the separation of the three landmasses, we used sequence data to estimate rates of evolution for the three gene fragments and investigated whether they conform to the rate-constancy hypothesis. By the Tajima (1993, Genetics 135:599-607) test, we could not detect rate heterogeneities for the ribosomal genes and for transversions in the cytochrome b gene. Assuming that these sites are evolving linearly over time and that cessation of gene flow occurred simultaneously with vicariant events, we compared the time of divergence estimated by molecular distances with the divergence times based on the geological estimates. Because we have two estimates of divergence time from the geological record, the split of Corsica/Sardinia from the Pyrenees and the split of Corsica from Sardinia, we could compare ratios of molecular divergence with the ratio of geological time divergence. The ratios are very similar, indicating that the molecular clock hypothesis cannot be rejected. These geological events also allowed us to calculate absolute rates of evolution for ribosomal and cytochrome b genes and compare them to rates for the same regions in other salamandrids and other vertebrates. Ribosomal mtDNA rates are comparable to those reported for other vertebrates, but cytochrome b rates are 3-7 times lower in salamanders than in other ectotherms. From a phylogenetic perspective, our data suggest that the cladogenic events leading to species formation in Euproctus and Triturus occurred very closely in time, indicating that the two genera may not be monophyletic. A duplication of the cytochrome b gene in T. carnifex was found, and the implications of this finding for mtDNA phylogenetic studies are discussed.
10.2307/2413638|A computational method is presented for minimizing the weighted sum of squares of the differences between observed and expected pairwise distances between species, where the expectations are generated by an additive tree model. The criteria of Fitch and Margoliash (1967, Science 155:279-284) and Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards (1967, Evolution 21:550-570) are both weighted least squares, with different weights. The method presented iterates lengths of adjacent branches in the tree three at a time. The weighted sum of squares never increases during the process of iteration, and the iterates approach a stationary point on the surface of the sum of squares. This iterative approach makes it particularly easy to maintain the constraint that branch lengths never become negative, although negative branch lengths can also be allowed. The method is implemented in a computer program, FITCH, which has been distributed since 1982 as part of the PHYLIP package of programs for inferring phylogenies, and is also implemented in PAUP* The present method is compared, using some simulated data sets, with an implementation of the method of De Soete (1983, Psychometrika 48:621-626); it is slower than De Soete's method but more effective at finding the least squares tree. The relationship of this method to the neighbor-joining method is also discussed.
10.2307/2413498|Despite numerous systematic studies, the relationships among many species within the dog family, Canidae, remain unresolved. Two problems of broad evolutionary significance are the origins of the taxonomically rich canid fauna of South America and the development in three species of the trenchant heel, a unique meat-cutting blade on the lower first molar. The first problem is of interest because the fossil record provides little evidence for the origins of divergent South American species such as the maned wolf and the bush dog. The second issue is problematic because the trenchant heel, although complex in form, may have evolved independently to assist in the processing of meat. We attempted to resolve these two issues and five other specific taxonomic controversies by phylogenetic analysis of 2,001 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence data from 23 canid species. The mtDNA tree topology, coupled with data from the fossil record, and estimates of rates of DNA sequence divergence suggest at least three and possibly four North American invasions of South America. This result implies that an important chapter in the evolution of modern canids remains to be discovered in the fossil record and that the South American canid endemism is as much the result of extinction outside of South America as it is due to speciation within South America. The origin of the trenchant heel is not well resolved by our data, although the maximum parsimony tree is weakly consistent with a single origin followed by multiple losses of the character in several extant species. A combined analysis of the mtDNA data and published morphological data provides unexpected support for a monophyletic South American canid clade. However, the homogeneity partition tests indicate significant heterogeneity between the two data sets.
10.2307/2413501|The empirical performance of the ontogenetic criterion for determining character polarities was tested based on three published and one new data set originating from a study of larval Sepsidae (Diptera). The ontogenetic criterion polarizes about as many characters as does outgroup comparison. However, for the four data sets conflicting polarities were inferred for 4-45% of all characters for which both polarization methods were applicable. Four different versions of the ontogenetic criterion were identified from the literature and were empirically tested. The version used by de Queiroz (1985, Syst. Zool. 34:280-299) and Wheeler (1990, Cladistics 6:225-268) fared best, as determined by low levels of homoplasy and a small number of inferred equally parsimonious tree roots. For three of four empirical data sets, hypothetical ancestors based on outgroup comparison and the ontogenetic criterion resulted in identical tree roots. Hypothetical ancestors based on outgroup comparison implied less homoplasy than did those based on the ontogenetic criterion, so the ougroup method appears to be superior for character polarization. To test whether polarity decisions from both polarization methods should be combined into one hypothetical ancestor, two different "composite" ancestors were reconstructed. One comprised only the plesiomorphic states of the characters for which both criteria predicted the same polarity (consensus). It inferred multiple parsimonious roots without distinctly lowering the level of homoplasy. The second ancestor comprised the plesiomorphic states as predicted by one or both methods (composite). It tended to infer single roots, even for data sets for which very different rooting positions were identified by the two polarization criteria, thereby obscuring conflict between the two methods. High levels of homoplasy in hypothetical ancestors based on the ontogenetic criterion are not due to the inclusion of presence/absence characters in the data set, for which the application of the ontogenetic criterion would require hypotheses of homology for "absent" character states across ontogenetic stages of different species. Instead, the ratio of terminal deletions to terminal additions is a better predictor for the success of the ontogenetic criterion for any particular data set.
10.2307/2413496|An effective method yielding taxon-specific markers from the genome of a single individual would be valuable for many types of scientific investigations, including systematic, forensic, conservation, and evolutionary studies. We explored the use of cosmid libraries, with insert sizes averaging 35 kb, to streamline the process of locating sequences of DNA that can serve as taxonomic markers from the specific to the ordinal levels. By screening approximately 2.6% of the leaf-nosed bat (Macrotus waterhousii) genome, we identified several potential DNA fragments that appear to be synapomorphic for a variety of taxonomic levels. A more thorough analysis of the markers documented that 17 Macrotus-specific clones represent three distinct DNA generic markers, whereas 30 microchiropteran clones represent multiple copies of a single family of repetitive DNA. The Microchiroptera taxon markers hybridize with representatives of most of the Microchiroptera families; however, no hybridization was detected for members of the superfamily Rhinolophoidea. These results demonstrate that cosmid libraries can be a valuable source for isolating taxon-specific markers from mammals even when the insert size is as large as 35 kb.
10.2307/2413502|A phylogenetic analysis of the genus Gonioctena (Coleoptera, Chrysomelidae) based on allozyme data (17 loci) and mitochondrial DNA sequence data (three gene fragments, 1,391 sites) was performed to study the evolutionary history of host-plant shifts among these leaf beetles. This chrysomelid genus is characteristically associated with a high number of different plant families. The diverse molecular data gathered in this study are to a large extent congruent, and the analyses provide a well-supported phylogenetic hypothesis to address questions about the evolution of host-plant shifts in the genus Gonioctena. The most-parsimonious reconstruction of the ancestral host-plant associations, based on the estimated phylogeny, suggests that the Fabaceae was the ancestral host-plant family of the genus. Although most of the host-plant shifts (between different host species) in Gonioctena have occurred within the same plant family or within the same plant genus, at least eight shifts have occurred between hosts belonging to distantly related and chemically dissimilar plant families. In these cases, host shifts may have been simply directed toward plant species available in the environment. Yet, given that two Gonioctena lineages have independently colonized the same three new plant families (Salicaceae, Betulaceae, Rosaceae), including four of the same new genera (Salix, Alnus, Prunus, Sorbus), some constraints are likely to have limited the different possibilities of interfamilial host-plant shifts.
10.2307/2413497|NEXUS is a file format designed to contain systematic data for use by computer programs. The goals of the format are to allow future expansion, to include diverse kinds of information, to be independent of particular computer operating systems, and to be easily processed by a program. To this end, the format is modular, with a file consisting of separate blocks, each containing one particular kind of information, and consisting of standardized commands. Public blocks (those containing information utilized by several programs) house information about taxa, morphological and molecular characters, distances, genetic codes, assumptions, sets, trees, etc., private blocks contain information of relevance to single programs. A detailed description of commands in public blocks is given. Guidelines are provided for reading and writing NEXUS files and for extending the format.
10.2307/2413500|Portions of the large ribosomal subunit RNA gene (28S rDNA) encompassing the D1 and the D7 region were obtained from 16 dipteran species and families to reconstruct early phylogenetic events in the order Diptera. For outgroup comparison, the corresponding sequences were used from representative taxa of the Siphonaptera, Mecoptera, and Lepidoptera. A subset of 488 unambiguously alignable sites was analyzed with respect to important sequence evolution parameters. We found (1) sequence variability is significantly higher in double-stranded sites than in single-stranded sites, (2) transitions are close to saturation in most pairwise sequence comparisons, (3) significant substitution rate heterogeneity exists across sites, and (4) significant substitution rate heterogeneity exists among lineages. Tree reconstruction was carried out with the neighbor joining, maximum parsimony, and maximum likelihood methods. Four major subgroups are consistently and robustly supported: the Brachycera, the Culicomorpha, the Tipulomorpha sensu stricto, and the hitherto controversial Bibionomorpha sensu lato, which includes the families Sciaridae, Mycetophilidae, Cecidomyiidae, Bibionidae, Scatopsidae, and Anisopodidae. The phylogenetic relationships within or among these subclades and the positions of the families Psychodidae and Trichoceridae were not robustly resolved. These results support the view that the mouthparts of extant dipteran larvae evolved from a derived ground state characterized by subdivided and obliquely moving mandibles. Furthermore, sequence divergence and the paleontological record consistently indicate that a period of rapid cladogenesis gave rise to the major dipteran subgroups.
10.2307/2413499|Relationships among representatives of the five major Hawaiian Drosophila species groups were examined using data from eight different gene regions. A simultaneous analysis of these data resulted in a single most-parsimonious tree that (1) places the adiastola picture-winged subgroup as sister taxon to the other picture-winged subgroups, (2) unites the modified-tarsus species group with flies from the Antopocerus species group, and (3) places the white-tip scutellum species group as the most basal taxon. Because of the different gene sources used in this study, numerous process partitions can be erected within this data set. We examined the incongruence among these various partitions and the ramifications of these data for the taxonomic consensus, prior agreement, and simultaneous analysis approaches to phylogenetic reconstruction. Separate analyses and taxonomic consensus appear to be inadequate methods for dealing with the partitions in this study. Although detection of incongruence is possible and helps elucidate particular areas of disagreement among data sets, separation of partitions on the basis of incongruence is problematic for many reasons. First, analyzing all genes separately and then either presenting them all as possible hypotheses or taking their consensus provides virtually no information concerning the relationships among these flies. Second, despite some evidence of incongruence, there are no clear delineations among the various gene partitions that separate only heterogeneous data. Third, to the extent that problematic genes can be identified, these genes have nearly the same information content, within a combined analysis framework, as the remaining nonproblematic genes. Our data suggest that significant incongruence among data partitions may be isolated to specific relationships and the "false" signal creating this incongruence is most likely to be overcome by a simultaneous analysis. We present a new method, partitioned Bremer support, for examining the contribution of a particular data partition to the topological support of the simultaneous analysis tree.
10.2307/2413622|We present phylogenetic analyses of both molecular and morphological data for the 23 major lineages of living turtles and seven key fossil taxa. Nearly 1 kilobase of cytochrome b sequence, 325 base pairs of 12S ribosomal DNA, and 115 morphological characters contained similar phylogenetic information, although each provided unique information on different nodes of chelonian history. A character-based combinability test (implemented in PAUP*) and a nonparametric test of taxonomic congruence indicated no strong evidence for heterogeneity among data sets, and we used a combined approach to estimate a final phylogeny of the major lineages of living turtles. This approach resulted in a very well-resolved tree, with only a few of the deep branches within the Cryptodira left as an unresolved polytomy. The addition of six relatively complete fossils chosen to help resolve this basal polytomy provided little added resolution to the tree and resulted in a sharp decline in bootstrap proportions for nodes near the fossils. Branchlength analysis and independent dates from the fossil record suggest that these unresolved nodes may represent a rapid radiation of the major cryptodiran lineages 90-120 million years ago.
10.2307/2413625|The average consensus procedure, originally proposed to combine dendrograms (i.e., ultrametric trees), is extended here to apply to any type of tree with branch lengths (ultrametric or not) containing identical, inclusive, or overlapping sets of taxa. The method proceeds in two steps. First, the average of the path-length matrices corresponding to the trees to be combined is computed. Then, a least-squares algorithm is applied to this average matrix to obtain a consensus solution. The average consensus tree is a solution that minimizes the sum of squared distances between the consensus and the trees in the input profile. An application of the method to combine phylogenetic hypotheses for kangaroos is presented.
10.2307/2413624|We surveyed mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence variation in short-horned lizards (Phrynosoma douglasi) from throughout western North America and used these data to estimate an intraspecific phylogeny and to assess biogeographic scenarios underlying the geographic structure of lineages in this species. We sequenced 783 base pairs from 38 populations of P. douglasi and three putative outgroups (P. ditmarsi, P. orbiculare, P. platyrhinos). We detected high levels of nucleotide variation among populations and a spatial distribution of mtDNA lineages compatible with major geographic regions. The phylogenetic hypotheses best supported by the data suggest that P. douglasi, as currently described, is paraphyletic with respect to P. ditmarsi. Populations of P. douglasi from the Pacific Northwest (ID, CA, OR, WA) form a monophyletic group that is sister to the subsequent radiation of P. ditmarsi and other P. douglasi clades. These results suggest that divergences within this widespread species are fairly old. We focused on the genetic structure of populations of P. douglasi from a geographic perspective and interpreted the intraspecific phylogeny in light of geologic and climatic changes in western North America during the last 20 million years. The generally high levels of genetic variation found in these population comparisons are in accord with high levels of morphological variation in this species group; however, only in the Pacific Northwest region is there spatial congruence between these phylogenetic results and subspecific ranges based on previous morphological studies. We compared the evolutionary units delineated in this study with previously described subspecies of P. douglasi and evaluated the support (from morphology and mtDNA) for each population lineage in the phylogeny and the implications for the taxonomy of this group.
10.2307/2413627|Intraspecific variation is ubiquitous in systematic characters, yet systematists often do not deal with polymorphism explicity. For example, morphological systematists typically exclude characters in which any or "too much" polymorphism is observed, and molecular systematists often avoid intraspecific variation by sampling a single individual per species. Recent empirical studies have suggested that polymorphic characters contain significant phylogenetic information but are more homoplastic than fixed characters. Given these two observations, should including polymorphic characters increase or decrease accuracy? We addressed this question using simulated data sets that also show a strong relationship between homoplasy and intraspecific variability. Data sets were generated with eight species, two alleles per locus, and a variety of branch lengths, number of loci, and sample sizes (individuals sampled per species). The data sets were analyzed using eight parsimony coding methods (with and without a priori and successive weighting) and different variability thresholds for excluding polymorphic characters. Excluding polymorphic characters decreased accuracy under almost all conditions examined, even when only the more variable characters were excluded. Sampling a single individual per species also consistently decreased accuracy. Thus, two common approaches for dealing with intraspecific variation in morphological and molecular systematics can give relatively poor estimates of phylogeny. In contrast, the unweighted frequency method, including polymorphic characters and sampling a reasonable number of individuals per species (n  5), can give accurate results under a variety of conditions.
10.2307/2413623|The lack of a readily accessible roster of nuclear genes informative at various taxonomic levels is a bottleneck for molecular systematics. In this report, we describe the first phylogenetic application of the sequence that encodes the enzyme dopa decarboxylase (DDC). For 14 test species within the noctuid moth subfamily Heliothinae that represent the previously best-supported groupings, a 690-bp fragment of DDC resolved relationships that are largely concordant with prior evidence from elongation factor-1 (EF-1), morphology, and allozymes. Although both synonymous and nonsynonymous changes occur in DDC substantially more rapidly than they do in EF-1, DDC divergences within Heliothinae are below saturation at all codon positions. Analysis of DDC and EF-1 in combination resulted in increased bootstrap support for several groupings. As a first estimate of previously unresolved relationships, DDC sequences were analyzed from 16 additional heliothines, for a total of 30 heliothine species plus outgroups. Previous relationships based on DDC were generally stable with increased taxon sampling, although a two- to eightfold downweighting of codon position 3 was required for complete concordance with the 14-species result. The weighted strict consensus trees were largely resolved and were congruent with most although not all previous hypotheses based on either morphology or EF-1. The proposed phylogeny suggests that the major agricultural pest heliothines belong to a single clade, characterized by polyphagy and associated life history traits, within this largely host-specific moth subfamily. DDC holds much promise for phylogenetic analysis of Tertiary-age animal groups.
10.2307/2413628|A maximum likelihood method for independently estimating the relative rate of substitution at different nucleotide sites is presented. With this method, the evolution of DNA sequences can be analyzed without assuming a specific distribution of rates among sites. To investigate the pattern of correlation of rates among sites, the method was applied to a data set consisting of the protein-coding regions of the mitochondrial genome from 10 vertebrate species. Rates appear to be strongly correlated at distances up to 40 codons apart. Furthermore, there appears to be some higher order correlation of sites approximately 75 codons apart. The method of site-by-site estimation of the rate of substitution may also be applied to examine other aspects of rate variation along a DNA sequence and to assess the difference in the support of a tree along the sequence.
10.2307/2413626|The family Lamiaceae was used as a case study to compare our current system of nomenclature with a phylogenetic alternative proposed by de Queiroz and Gauthier (1992, Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 23:449-480), with emphasis on nomenclatural stability and efficiency. Comparison of published cladistic analyses revealed 19 suprageneric clades within Lamiaceae that are supported well enough to merit naming, but many genera could not be placed with confidence in any infrafamilial taxon. Two phylogenetic classifications were prepared, one following current nomenclatural rules and conventions and the other following the phylogenetic system of nomenclature. A comparison of the classifications revealed examples of unstable and ambiguous names that resulted from employing current rules and conventions to name clades. Old names based on nomenclatural types of uncertain phylogenetic relationship and infrafamilial taxon names based on the type of the family are particularly prone to instability. The phylogenetic system appears to have fewer problems but may also lead to nomenclatural confusion if taxon names are defined carelessly. The current system produces less efficient classifications because the principle of exhaustive subsidiary taxa leads to inclusion of redundant names (monotypic taxa) when the classification is based on an asymmetrical cladogram. In contrast, the phylogenetic system contains no redundant names. We endorse the recommendation that the principle of exhaustive subsidiary taxa be abandoned. Phylogenetic definitions should be provided for taxon names whenever phylogenies are translated into classifications. The definitions should be accompanied by a list of synapomorphies and a statement of clade membership to facilitate subsequent provisional referral of newly studied species to supraspecific taxa.
10.2307/2413694|Exploration of the relationship between gene trees and their containing species trees leads to consideration of how to reconstruct species trees from gene trees and of the concept of phylogeny as a cloud of gene histories. When gene copies are sampled from various species, the gene tree relating these copies might disagree with the species phylogeny. This discord can arise from horizontal transfer (including hybridization), lineage sorting, and gene duplication and extinction. Lineage sorting could also be called deep coalescence, the failure of ancestral copies to coalesce (looking backwards in time) into a common ancestral copy until deeper than previous speciation events. These events depend on various factors; for instance, deep coalescence is more likely if the branches of the species tree are short (in generations) and wide (in population size). A similar dependence on process is found in historical biogeography and host-parasite relationships. Each of the processes of discord could yield a different parsimony criterion for reconstructing the species tree from a set of gene trees: with horizontal transfer, choose the species tree that minimizes the number of transfer events; with deep coalescence, choose the tree minimizing the number of extra gene lineages that had to coexist along species lineages; with gene duplication, choose the tree minimizing duplication and/or extinction events. Maximum likelihood methods for reconstructing the species tree are also possible because coalescence theory provides the probability that a particular gene tree would occur given a species tree (with branch lengths and widths specified). In considering these issues, one is provoked to reconsider precisely what is phylogeny. Perhaps it is misleading to view some gene trees as agreeing and other gene trees as disagreeing with the species tree; rather, all of the gene trees are part of the species tree, which can be visualized like a fuzzy statistical distribution, a cloud of gene histories. Alternatively, phylogeny might be (and has been) viewed not as a history of what happened, genetically, but as a history of what could have happened, i.e., a history of changes in the probabilities of inter-breeding.
10.2307/2413695|The construction and interpretation of gene trees is fundamental in molecular systematics. If the gene is defined in a historical (coalescent) sense, there can be multiple gene trees within the single contiguous set of nucleotides, and attempts to construct a single tree for such a sequence must deal with homoplasy created by conflict among divergent histories. On a larger scale, incongruence is expected among gene tree topologies at different loci of individuals within sexually reproducing species, and it has been suggested that this discordance can be used to delimit species. A practical concern for such topological methods is that polymorphisms may be maintained through numerous cladogenic events; this polymorphism problem is less of a concern for nontopological approaches to species delimitation using molecular data. Although a central theoretical concern in molecular systematics is discordance between a given gene tree and the true "species tree," the primary empirical problem faced in reconstructing taxic phylogeny is incongruence among the trees inferred from different sequences. Linkage relationships limit character independence and thus have important implications for handling multiple data sets in phylogenetic analysis, particularly at the species level, where incongruence among different historically associated loci is expected. Gene trees can also be reconstructed for loci that influence phenotypic characters, but there is at best a tenuous relationship between phenotypic homoplasy and homoplasy in such gene trees. Nevertheless, expression patterns and orthology relationships of genes involved in the expression of phenotypes can in theory provide criteria for homology assessment of morphological characters.
10.2307/2413690|Mice of the Peromyscus aztecus species group occur at mid to high elevations in several mountain ranges in the highlands of Middle America (Mexico and Central America), a region of high endemicity. We examined the biogeography of this group by conducting phylogenetic analyses of 668 bp of the mitochondrial cytochrome b (cyt b) gene. Phylogenetic analyses under both parsimony and likelihood frameworks produced the same topologies, but estimates of nodal support were artificially high in weighted parsimony analyses. This difference is attributed to the inability of parsimony to optimize branch lengths when evaluating topologies. These data indicate that the P. aztecus-like populations from south and east of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec currently assigned to P. a. oaxacensis represent a distinct species, with genetic distances as high as 0.091. In addition, P. hylocetes is strongly divergent from Mexican populations of P. aztecus (genetic distances of 0.044-0.069), supporting the recognition of this taxon as a distinct species. The history of divergence in this group can be explained by a series of apparently early to middle Pleistocene vicariance events associated with glacial cycles. The Sierra Madre Occidental and Cordillera Transvolcanica each appear to be faunistically isolated, the Isthmus of Tehuantepec appears to have been a strong Pleistocene barrier, and the Sierra Madre Oriental has affinities with the Sierra Madre del Sur and the highlands of central Oaxaca.
10.2307/2413688|As an initial step toward developing a model system to study requirements for and consequences of transitions to mutualism, the phylogeny of a group of closely related lichenized and nonlichenized basidiomycetes (Omphalina) was reconstructed. The phylogenetic analyses are based on four data sets representing different regions of the nuclear ribosomal repeat unit (ITS1, 5.8S, ITS2, and 25S) obtained from 30 species of Omphalina and related genera. The resulting phylogenetic trees from each of these four data sets, when analyzed separately, were not identical. Testing for the combinability of these four data sets suggested that they could not be combined in their entirety. The removal of ambiguous alignments and saturated sites was sufficient, after reapplying the combinability test on the pruned data sets, to explain the topological discrepancies. In this process, the first of two complementary tests developed by Rodrigo et al. (1993, N.Z. J. Bot. 31:257-268) to assess whether two data sets are the result of the same phylogenetic history was found to be biased, rejecting the combinability of two data sets even when they are samples of the same phylogenetic history. Combining the four pruned data sets yielded phylogenies that suggest the five lichen-forming species of Omphalina form a monophyletic group. The sister group to this symbiotic clade consists mostly of dark brown Omphalina species intermixed with species from the genera Arrhenia and Phaeothellus. The genera Omphalina and Gerronema are shown to be polyphyletic. The lichen-forming species O. ericetorum and the nonmutualistic species O. velutipes, O. epichysium, and O. sphagnicola are the best candidates for experimental work designed to gain a better understanding of mechanisms involved in symbiotic interactions and the role symbiosis has played in the evolution of fungi.
10.2307/2413693|Although morphological data have historically favored a basal position for the Indian gharial (Gavialis gangeticus) within Crocodylia and a Mesozoic divergence between Gavialis and all other crocodylians, several recent molecular data sets have argued for a sister-group relationship between Gavialis and the Indonesian false gharial (Tomistoma schlegelii) and a divergence between them no earlier than the Late Tertiary. Fossils were added to a matrix of 164 discrete morphological characters and subjected to parsimony analysis. When morphology was analyzed alone, Gavtalis was the sister taxon of all other extant crocodylians whether or not fossil ingroup taxa were included, and a sister-group relationship between Gavialis and Tomistoma was significantly less parsimonious. In combination with published sequence and restriction site fragment data, Gavialis was the sister taxon of all other living crocodylians, but the position of Tomistoma depended on the inclusion of fossil ingroup taxa; with or without fossils, preferred morphological and molecular topologies were not significantly different. Fossils closer to Gavialis than to Tomistoma can be recognized in the Late Cretaceous, and fossil relatives of Tomistoma are known from the basal Eocene, strongly indicating a divergence long before the Late Tertiary. Comparison of minimum divergence time from the fossil record with different measures of molecular distance indicates evolutionary rate heterogeneity within Crocodylia. Fossils strongly contradict a post-Oligocene divergence between Gavialis and any other living crocodylian, but the phylogenetic placement of Gavialis is best viewed as unresolved.
10.2307/2413692|The relationship between phylogenetic accuracy and congruence between data partitions collected from the same taxa was explored for mitochondrial DNA sequences from two well-supported vertebrate phylogenies. An iterative procedure was adopted whereby accuracy, phylogenetic signal, and congruence were measured before and after modifying a simple reconstruction model, equally weighted parsimony. These modifications included transversion parsimony, successive weighting, and six-parameter parsimony. For the data partitions examined, there is a generally positive relationship between congruence and phylogenetic accuracy. If congruence increased without decreasing resolution or phylogenetic signal, this increased congruence was a good predictor of accuracy. If congruence increased as a result of poor resolution, the degree of congruence was not a good predictor of accuracy. For all sets of data partitions, six-parameter parsimony methods show a consistently positive relationship between congruence and accuracy. Unlike successive weighting, six-parameter parsimony methods were not strongly influenced by the starting tree.
10.2307/2413691|We critically reviewed the homologies of the jaw muscles in tetraodontiform fishes (Triacanthoidea, Balistoidea, Tetraodontoidea), as first described in Winterbottom's phylogenetic monograph (1974, Smithson. Contrib. Zool. 155:1-201), as a case study in structural duplication. Within this order of teleost fishes, the two main adductor mandibulae muscles, A1 and A2, are duplicated one or more times in some subclades. The number of descendant A1 and A2 muscles ranges from as few as the original two muscles in triplespines to as many as eight muscles in some filefishes. As first pointed out by Winterbottom, the homologies of some muscles are unclear, particularly in comparisons between the superfamilies Balistoidea (boxfishes, triggerfishes, filefishes) and Tetraodontoidea (pursefishes, molas, puffers, porcupinefishes). We reassessed the homologies (orthologs and paralogs) of these A1 and A2 muscles based on their origins, insertions, and relative masses in representative taxa and their congruence with a phylogeny for these taxa. New names that reflect the homologies of these muscles are presented. Ten muscle duplications by subdivision and three phylogenetic losses of muscles have occurred in this system. No relationship was found between the number of separate muscles and the relative masses of the A1 or A2 muscles, suggesting that muscle duplication events essentially repackage existing muscle tissue. However, both A1 and A2 muscle masses are correlated with each other and with the feeding ecology of these fishes. Durophagous taxa have relatively larger A1 and A2 muscles, whereas planktivores and benthic grazers have relatively smaller A2 muscles.
10.2307/2413689|Two parsimony analyses based on morphological data of the subtribe Blennospermatinae (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) were performed to generate a hypothesis for the phylogenetic relationships within the subtribe, which comprises four genera and 27 species of both radiate and disciform genera distributed around the Pacific Rim. Heterogeneity of the group is concomitant with coding problems such as absence of organs leading to inapplicable states, also termed missing entries. Morphological data were therefore coded by two differing methods: (1) using the separate state "absent" or (2) using the state "inapplicable." Substantial support for Blennospermatinae monophyly was obtained. A well-supported sister-group relationship, based on floral characters, was established between the two genera Blennosperma and Ischnea. Their ancestor evolved a specialized type of tubeless ray florets and male disc florets. These two genera are confined to the New World and to New Guinea, respectively. Their sister taxon is the monotypic North American genus Crocidium, and its status as a separate genus was supported. Abrotanella is a genus of 19 species confined to alpine habitats in the Southern Hemisphere. Monophyly and the isolated position of Abrotanella was strengthened. One clade of the genus has evolved functionally male central florets with a progressing trend toward cypsela reduction. Different floral colors have evolved in Abrotanella, and the deep yellow color found in the other genera is lost. Among the flowering plants confined to New Zealand, there is a remarkably high ratio of white-flowered species. Results of this study indicate that the white-flowered capitulum is a derived character within Abrotanella originating in New Zealand. A purple-flowered capitulum, also restricted to Abrotanella, is a repeatedly evolved apomorphic character found in species confined to southern South America and the sub-Antarctic Campbell and Auckland islands.
20143100|Genetic data are frequently used to delimit species, where species status is determined on the basis of an exclusivity criterium, such as reciprocal monophyly. Not only are there numerous empirical examples of incongruence between the boundaries inferred from such data compared to other sources like morphology--especially with recently derived species, but population genetic theory also clearly shows that an inevitable bias in species status results because genetic thresholds do not explicitly take into account how the timing of speciation influences patterns of genetic differentiation. This study represents a fundamental shift in how genetic data might be used to delimit species. Rather than equating gene trees with a species tree or basing species status on some genetic threshold, the relationship between the gene trees and the species history is modeled probabilistically. Here we show that the same theory that is used to calculate the probability of reciprocal monophyly can also be used to delimit species despite widespread incomplete lineage sorting. The results from a preliminary simulation study suggest that very recently derived species can be accurately identified long before the requisite time for reciprocal monophyly to be achieved following speciation. The study also indicates the importance of sampling, both with regards to loci and individuals. Withstanding a thorough investigation into the conditions under which the coalescent-based approach will be effective, namely how the timing of divergence relative to the effective population size of species affects accurate species delimitation, the results are nevertheless consistent with other recent studies (aimed at inferring species relationships), showing that despite the lack of monophyletic gene trees, a signal of species divergence persists and can be extracted. Using an explicit model-based approach also avoids two primary problems with species delimitation that result when genetic thresholds are applied with genetic data--the inherent biases in species detection arising from when and how speciation occurred, and failure to take into account the high stochastic variance of genetic processes. Both the utility and sensitivities of the coalescent-based approach outlined here are discussed; most notably, a model-based approach is essential for determining whether incompletely sorted gene lineages are (or are not) consistent with separate species lineages, and such inferences require accurate model parameterization (i.e., a range of realistic effective population sizes relative to potential times of divergence for the purported species). It is the goal (and motivation of this study) that genetic data might be used effectively as a source of complementation to other sources of data for diagnosing species, as opposed to the exclusion of other evidence for species delimitation, which will require an explicit consideration of the effects of the temporal dynamic of lineage splitting on genetic data.
20143103|Being able to efficiently and accurately delimit species is one of the most basic and important aspects of systematics because species are the fundamental unit of analysis in biogeography, ecology, and conservation. We present a rationale and approach for combining ecological niche modeling, spatially explicit analyses of environmental data, and phylogenetics in species delimitation, and we use our methodology in an empirical example focusing on Aneides flavipunctatus, the black salamander (Caudata: Plethodontidae), in California. We assess the relationships between genetic, environmental, and geographic distance among populations. We use 11 climatic variables and point locality data from public databases to create ecological niche models. The suitability of potential contact zones between parapatric lineages is also assessed using the data from ecological niche modeling. Phylogenetic analyses of portions of the mitochondrial genome reveal morphologically cryptic mitochondrial lineages in this species. In addition, we find that patterns of genetic divergence are strongly associated with divergence in the ecological niche. Our work demonstrates the ease and utility of using spatial analyses of environmental data and phylogenetics in species delimitation, especially for groups displaying fine-scaled endemism and cryptic species.
20143101|Despite considerable effort from the systematics community delimiting species boundaries in recent radiations remains a daunting challenge. We argue that genealogical approaches, although sometimes useful, may not solve this important problem, because recently derived species often have not had sufficient time to achieve monophyly. Instead, we suggest that population genetic approaches that rely on large sets of informative markers like single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) provide an alternative framework for delimiting very recently derived species. We address two major challenges in applying such markers to species delimitation: discovering markers in nonmodel systems and using them to delimit recently derived species. Using turtles as a test case, we explore the utility of a single, relatively low-coverage genomic resource as an aid in gene and marker discovery. We exploit an end-sequenced bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library from an individual painted turtle (Chrysemys picta) and outline a novel protocol that efficiently identifies primer pairs that amplify homologous sequences across the tree of living turtles. Preliminary data using this library to discover SNPs in Emydura macquarii, a species that diverged from C. picta 210 million years ago, indicate that sequences identified from the Chrysemys BAC library provide useful SNPs even in this very distantly related taxon. Several recent methods in wide use in the population genetics literature allow one to discover potential species, or test existing species hypotheses, with SNP data and may be particularly informative for very recently derived species. As BAC and other genomic resources become increasingly available for scattered taxa across the tree of life, we are optimistic that these resources will provide abundant, inexpensive markers that will help delimit boundaries in problematic, recent species radiations.
20143105|Although the proposition that higher taxa should correspond to clades is widely accepted, current nomenclature does not distinguish clearly between different clades in nested series. In particular, the same name is often applied to a total clade, its crown clade, and clades originating with various nodes, branches, and apomorphies in between. An integrated system of clade names is described based on categories of clades defined with respect to lineages that have survived to the present time. In this system, the most widely known names are applied to crown clades, the names of total clades are formed by adding a standard prefix to the names of the corresponding crowns, and the names of apomorphy clades describe the specific apomorphies with which they originated. Relative to traditional approaches, this integrated approach to naming clades is both more precise concerning the associations of names with particular clades and more efficient with regard to the cognitive effort required to recognize the names of corresponding crown and total clades. It also seems preferable to five alternatives that could be used to make the same distinctions. The integrated system of clade names has several advantages, including the facilitation of communication among biologists who study distantly related clades, promoting a broader conceptualization of the origins of distinctive clades of extant organisms and emphasizing the continuous nature of evolution.
20143099|The issue of species delimitation has long been confused with that of species conceptualization, leading to a half century of controversy concerning both the definition of the species category and methods for inferring the boundaries and numbers of species. Alternative species concepts agree in treating existence as a separately evolving metapopulation lineage as the primary defining property of the species category, but they disagree in adopting different properties acquired by lineages during the course of divergence (e.g., intrinsic reproductive isolation, diagnosability, monophyly) as secondary defining properties (secondary species criteria). A unified species concept can be achieved by treating existence as a separately evolving metapopulation lineage as the only necessary property of species and the former secondary species criteria as different lines of evidence (operational criteria) relevant to assessing lineage separation. This unified concept of species has several consequences for species delimitation, including the following: First, the issues of species conceptualization and species delimitation are clearly separated; the former secondary species criteria are no longer considered relevant to species conceptualization but only to species delimitation. Second, all of the properties formerly treated as secondary species criteria are relevant to species delimitation to the extent that they provide evidence of lineage separation. Third, the presence of any one of the properties (if appropriately interpreted) is evidence for the existence of a species, though more properties and thus more lines of evidence are associated with a higher degree of corroboration. Fourth, and perhaps most significantly, a unified species concept shifts emphasis away from the traditional species criteria, encouraging biologists to develop new methods of species delimitation that are not tied to those properties.
20143102|Although the systematic utility of ecological niche modeling is generally well known (e.g., concerning the recognition and discovery of areas of endemism for biogeographic analyses), there has been little discussion of applications concerning species delimitation, and to date, no empirical evaluation has been conducted. However, ecological niche modeling can provide compelling evidence for allopatry between populations, and can also detect divergent ecological niches between candidate species. Here we present results for two taxonomically problematic groups of Phelsuma day geckos from Madagascar, where we integrate ecological niche modeling with mitochondrial DNA and morphological data to evaluate species limits. Despite relatively modest levels of genetic and morphological divergence, for both species groups we find divergent ecological niches between closely related species and parapatric ecological niche models. Niche models based on the new species limits provide a better fit to the known distribution than models based upon the combined (lumped) species limits. Based on these results, we elevate three subspecies of Phelsuma madagascariensis to species rank and describe a new species of Phelsuma from the P. dubia species group. Our phylogeny continues to support a major endemic radiation of Phelsuma in Madagascar, with dispersals to Pemba Island and the Mascarene Islands. We conclude that ecological niche modeling offers great potential for species delimitation, especially for taxonomic groups exhibiting low vagility and localized endemism and for groups with more poorly known distributions. In particular, niche modeling should be especially sensitive for detecting recent parapatric speciation driven by ecological divergence, when the environmental gradients driving speciation are represented within the ecological niche models.
20143104|An easily accessible taxonomic knowledge base is critically important for all biodiversity-related sciences. At present, taxonomic information is organized and regulated by a system of rules and conventions that date back to the introduction of binomial nomenclature by Linnaeus. The taxonomy of any particular group of organisms comprises the sum information in the taxonomic literature, supported by designated type specimens in major collections. In this article, the way modern means of disseminating information will change the practice of taxonomy, in particular the Internet, is explored. Basic taxonomic information, such as specimen-level data, location of types, and name catalogues are already available, at least for some groups, on the Web. Specialist taxonomic databases, key-construction programs, and other software useful for systematists are also increasingly available. There has also been a move towards Web-publishing of taxonomic hypotheses, though as yet this is not fully permitted by the Codes of Nomenclature. A further and more radical move would be to transfer taxonomy completely to the Web. A possible model of this is discussed, as well as a pilot project, the "CATE" initiative, which seeks to explore the advantages and disadvantages of such a move. It is argued that taxonomy needs to forge better links with its user-communities to maintain its funding base, and that an important part of this is making the products of its research more accessible through the Internet.
20143106|Substitution rates are one of the most fundamental parameters in a phylogenetic analysis and are represented in phylogenetic models as the branch lengths on a tree. Variation in substitution rates across an alignment of molecular sequences is well established and likely caused by variation in functional constraint across the genes encoded in the sequences. Rate variation across alignment sites is important to accommodate in a phylogenetic analysis; failure to account for across-site rate variation can cause biased estimates of phylogeny or other model parameters. Traditionally, rate variation across sites has been modeled by treating the rate for a site as a random variable drawn from some probability distribution (such as the gamma probability distribution) or by partitioning sites to different rate classes and estimating the rate for each class independently. We consider a different approach, related to site-specific models in which sites are partitioned to rate classes. However, instead of treating the partitioning scheme in which sites are assigned to rate classes as a fixed assumption of the analysis, we treat the rate partitioning as a random variable under a Dirichlet process prior. We find that the Dirichlet process prior model for across-site rate variation fits alignments of DNA sequence data better than commonly used models of across-site rate variation. The method appears to identify the underlying codon structure of protein-coding genes; rate partitions that were sampled by the Markov chain Monte Carlo procedure were closer to a partition in which sites are assigned to rate classes by codon position than to randomly permuted partitions but still allow for additional variability across sites.
20143107|Even when the maximum likelihood (ML) tree is a better estimate of the true phylogenetic tree than those produced by other methods, the result of a poor ML search may be no better than that of a more thorough search under some faster criterion. The ability to find the globally optimal ML tree is therefore important. Here, I compare a range of heuristic search strategies (and their associated computer programs) in terms of their success at locating the ML tree for 20 empirical data sets with 14 to 158 sequences and 411 to 120,762 aligned nucleotides. Three distinct topics are discussed: the success of the search strategies in relation to certain features of the data, the generation of starting trees for the search, and the exploration of multiple islands of trees. As a starting tree, there was little difference among the neighbor-joining tree based on absolute differences (including the BioNJ tree), the stepwise-addition parsimony tree (with or without nearest-neighbor-interchange (NNI) branch swapping), and the stepwise-addition ML tree. The latter produced the best ML score on average but was orders of magnitude slower than the alternatives. The BioNJ tree was second best on average. As search strategies, star decomposition and quartet puzzling were the slowest and produced the worst ML scores. The DPRml, IQPNNI, MultiPhyl, PhyML, PhyNav, and TreeFinder programs with default options produced qualitatively similar results, each locating a single tree that tended to be in an NNI suboptimum (rather than the global optimum) when the data set had low phylogenetic information. For such data sets, there were multiple tree islands with very similar ML scores. The likelihood surface only became relatively simple for data sets that contained approximately 500 aligned nucleotides for 50 sequences and 3,000 nucleotides for 100 sequences. The RAxML and GARLI programs allowed multiple islands to be explored easily, but both programs also tended to find NNI suboptima. A newly developed version of the likelihood ratchet using PAUP* successfully found the peaks of multiple islands, but its speed needs to be improved.
20143007|Genome phylogenies can be inferred from data on the presence and absence of genes across taxa. Logdet distances may be a good method, because they allow expected genome size to vary across the tree. Recently, Lake and Rivera proposed conditioned genome reconstruction (calculation of logdet distances using only those genes present in a conditioning genome) to deal with unobservable genes that are absent from every taxon of interest. We prove that their method can consistently estimate the topology for almost any choice of conditioning genome. Nevertheless, the choice of conditioning genome is important for small samples. For real bacterial genome data, different choices of conditioning genome can result in strong bootstrap support for different tree topologies. To overcome this problem, we developed supertree methods that combine information from all choices of conditioning genome. One of these methods, based on the BIONJ algorithm, performs well on simulated data and may have applications to other supertree problems. However, an analysis of 40 bacterial genomes using this method supports an incorrect clade of parasites. This is a common feature of model-based gene content methods and is due to parallel gene loss.
20143013|Different genes often have different phylogenetic histories. Even within regions having the same phylogenetic history, the mutation rates often vary. We investigate the prospects of phylogenetic reconstruction when all the characters are generated from the same tree topology, but the branch lengths vary (with possibly different tree shapes). Furthering work of Kolaczkowski and Thornton (2004, Nature 431: 980-984) and Chang (1996, Math. Biosci. 134: 189-216), we show examples where maximum likelihood (under a homogeneous model) is an inconsistent estimator of the tree. We then explore the prospects of phylogenetic inference under a heterogeneous model. In some models, there are examples where phylogenetic inference under any method is impossible--despite the fact that there is a common tree topology. In particular, there are nonidentifiable mixture distributions, i.e., multiple topologies generate identical mixture distributions. We address which evolutionary models have nonidentifiable mixture distributions and prove that the following duality theorem holds for most DNA substitution models. The model has either: (i) nonidentifiability--two different tree topologies can produce identical mixture distributions, and hence distinguishing between the two topologies is impossible; or (ii) linear tests--there exist linear tests which identify the common tree topology for character data generated by a mixture distribution. The theorem holds for models whose transition matrices can be parameterized by open sets, which includes most of the popular models, such as Tamura-Nei and Kimura's 2-parameter model. The duality theorem relies on our notion of linear tests, which are related to Lake's linear invariants.
20143006|Although multiple gene sequences are becoming increasingly available for molecular phylogenetic inference, the analysis of such data has largely relied on inference methods designed for single genes. One of the common approaches to analyzing data from multiple genes is concatenation of the individual gene data to form a single supergene to which traditional phylogenetic inference procedures--e.g., maximum parsimony (MP) or maximum likelihood (ML)--are applied. Recent empirical studies have demonstrated that concatenation of sequences from multiple genes prior to phylogenetic analysis often results in inference of a single, well-supported phylogeny. Theoretical work, however, has shown that the coalescent can produce substantial variation in single-gene histories. Using simulation, we combine these ideas to examine the performance of the concatenation approach under conditions in which the coalescent produces a high level of discord among individual gene trees and show that it leads to statistically inconsistent estimation in this setting. Furthermore, use of the bootstrap to measure support for the inferred phylogeny can result in moderate to strong support for an incorrect tree under these conditions. These results highlight the importance of incorporating variation in gene histories into multilocus phylogenetics.
20143008|A major part of the barcoding of life problem is assigning newly sequenced or sampled individuals to existing groups that are preidentified externally (by a taxonomist, for example). This problem involves evaluating the statistical evidence towards associating a sequence from a new individual with one group or another. The main concern of our current research is to perform this task in a fast and accurate manner. To accomplish this we have developed a model-based, decision-theoretic framework based on the coalescent theory. Under this framework, we utilized both distance and the posterior probability of a group, given the sequences from members of this group and the sequence from a newly sampled individual to assign this new individual. We believe that this approach makes efficient use of the available information in the data. Our preliminary results indicated that this approach is more accurate than using a simple measure of distance for assignment.
20143010|Despite the advances in understanding molecular evolution, current phylogenetic methods barely take account of a fraction of the complexity of evolution. We are chiefly constrained by our incomplete knowledge of molecular evolutionary processes and the limits of computational power. These limitations lead to the establishment of either biologically simplistic models that rarely account for a fraction of the complexity involved or overfitting models that add little resolution to the problem. Such oversimplified models may lead us to assign high confidence to an incorrect tree (inconsistency). Rate-across-site (RAS) models are commonly used evolutionary models in phylogenetic studies. These account for heterogeneity in the evolutionary rates among sites but do not account for changing within-site rates across lineages (heterotachy). If heterotachy is common, using RAS models may lead to systematic errors in tree inference. In this work we show possible misleading effects in tree inference when the assumption of constant within-site rates across lineages is violated using maximum likelihood. Using a simulation study, we explore the ways in which gamma stationary models can lead to wrong topology or to deceptive bootstrap support values when the within-site rates change across lineages. More precisely, we show that different degrees of heterotachy mislead phylogenetic inference when the model assumed is stationary. Finally, we propose a geometry-based approach to visualize and to test for the possible existence of bias due to heterotachy.
20143012|The dominance of angiosperms has played a direct role in the diversification of insects, especially Coleoptera. The shift to angiosperm feeding from other diets is likely to have increased the rate of speciation in Phytophaga. However, Phytophaga is only one of many hyperdiverse lineages of beetles and studies of host-shift proliferation have been somewhat limited to groups that primitively feed on plants. We have studied the diet-diverse beetle family Erotylidae (Cucujoidea) to determine if diet is correlated with high diversification rates and morphological evolution by first reconstructing ancestral diets and then testing for associations between diet and species number and diet and ovipositor type. A Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of morphological data that was previously published in Leschen (2003, Pages 1-108 in Fauna of New Zealand, 47; 53 terminal taxa and 1 outgroup, 120 adult characters and 1 diet character) yielded results that are similar to the parsimony analyses of Leschen (2003). Ancestral state reconstructions based on Bayesian and parsimony inference were largely congruent and both reconstructed microfungal feeding (the diet of the outgroup Biphyllidae) at the root of the Erotylidae tree. Shifts among microfungal, saprophagous, and phytophagous diets were most frequent. The largest numbers of species are contained in lineages that are macrofungal feeders (subfamily Erotylinae) and phytophagous (derived Languriinae), although the Bayesian posterior predictive tests of character state correlation were unable to detect any significant associations. Ovipositor morphology correlated with diet (i.e., acute forms were associated with phytophagy and unspecialized forms were associated with a mixture of diets). Although there is a general trend to increased species number associated with the shift from microfungal feeding to phytophagy (based on character mapping and mainly restricted to shifts in Languriinae), there is a large radiation of taxa feeding on macrofungi. Cycad feeding is scattered in more deeply diverged taxa and may have preceded the evolution of angiosperm feeding in some groups. Preliminary analysis of diet mapped onto higher beetle phylogenies suggests that about half of the major Coleoptera lineages may have had fungus-feeding ancestors. We discuss the roles of stochastic models and prior distributions of the reconstruction of ancestral character states in the context of the current data.
20143009|Inferring species phylogenies is an important part of understanding molecular evolution. Even so, it is well known that an accurate phylogenetic tree reconstruction for a single gene does not always necessarily correspond to the species phylogeny. One commonly accepted strategy to cope with this problem is to sequence many genes; the way in which to analyze the resulting collection of genes is somewhat more contentious. Supermatrix and supertree methods can be used, although these can suppress conflicts arising from true differences in the gene trees caused by processes such as lineage sorting, horizontal gene transfer, or gene duplication and loss. In 2004, Huson et al. (IEEE/ACM Trans. Comput. Biol. Bioinformatics 1:151-158) presented the Z-closure method that can circumvent this problem by generating a supernetwork as opposed to a supertree. Here we present an alternative way for generating supernetworks called Q-imputation. In particular, we describe a method that uses quartet information to add missing taxa into gene trees. The resulting trees are subsequently used to generate consensus networks, networks that generalize strict and majority-rule consensus trees. Through simulations and application to real data sets, we compare Q-imputation to the matrix representation with parsimony (MRP) supertree method and Z-closure, and demonstrate that it provides a useful complementary tool.
20143011|Although theoretical studies have suggested that base-compositional heterogeneity can adversely affect phylogenetic reconstruction, only a few empirical examples of this phenomenon, mostly among ancient lineages (with divergence dates &gt100 Mya), have been reported. In the course of our phylogenetic research on the New World marsupial family Didelphidae, we sequenced 2790 bp of the RAG1 exon from exemplar species of most extant genera. Phylogenetic analysis of these sequences recovered an anomalous node consisting of two clades previously shown to be distantly related based on analyses of other molecular data. These two clades show significantly increased GC content at RAG1 third codon positions, and the resulting convergence in base composition is strong enough to overwhelm phylogenetic signal from other genes (and morphology) in most analyses of concatenated datasets. This base-compositional convergence occurred relatively recently (over tens rather than hundreds of millions of years), and the affected gene region is still in a state of evolutionary disequilibrium. Both mutation rate and substitution rate are higher in GC-rich didelphid taxa, observations consistent with RAG1 sequences having experienced a higher rate of recombination in the convergent lineages.
20143005|The increasing availability of complete genome sequences and the development of new, faster methods for phylogenetic reconstruction allow the exploration of the set of evolutionary trees for each gene in the genome of any species. This has led to the development of new phylogenomic methods. Here, we have compared different phylogenetic and phylogenomic methods in the analysis of the monophyletic origin of insect endosymbionts from the -Proteobacteria, a hotly debated issue with several recent, conflicting reports. We have obtained the phylogenetic tree for each of the 579 identified protein-coding genes in the genome of the primary endosymbiont of carpenter ants, Blochmannia floridanus, after determining their presumed orthologs in 20 additional Proteobacteria genomes. A reference phylogeny reflecting the monophyletic origin of insect endosymbionts was further confirmed with different approaches, which led us to consider it as the presumed species tree. Remarkably, only 43 individual genes produced exactly the same topology as this presumed species tree. Most discrepancies between this tree and those obtained from individual genes or by concatenation of different genes were due to the grouping of Xanthomonadales with -Proteobacteria and not to uncertainties over the monophyly of insect endosymbionts. As previously noted, operational genes were more prone to reject the presumed species tree than those included in information-processing categories, but caution should be exerted when selecting genes for phylogenetic inference on the basis of their functional category assignment. We have obtained strong evidence in support of the monophyletic origin of -Proteobacteria insect endosymbionts by a combination of phylogenetic and phylogenomic methods. In our analysis, the use of concatenated genes has shown to be a valuable tool for analyzing primary phylogenetic signals coded in the genomes. Nevertheless, other phylogenomic methods such as supertree approaches were useful in revealing alternative phylogenetic signals and should be included in comprehensive phylogenomic studies.
20143070|How much horizontal gene transfer (HGT) between species influences bacterial phylogenomics is a controversial issue. This debate, however, lacks any quantitative assessment of the impact of HGT on phylogenies and of the ability of tree-building methods to cope with such events. I introduce a Markov model of genome evolution with HGT, accounting for the constraints on time--an HGT event can only occur between concomitantly living species. This model is used to simulate multigene sequence data sets with or without HGT. The consequences of HGT on phylogenomic inference are analyzed and compared to other well-known phylogenetic artefacts. It is found that supertree methods are quite robust to HGT, keeping high levels of performance even when gene trees are largely incongruent with each other. Gene tree incongruence per se is not indicative of HGT. HGT, however, removes the (otherwise observed) positive relationship between sequence length and gene tree congruence to the estimated species tree. Surprisingly, when applied to a bacterial and a eukaryotic multigene data set, this criterion rejects the HGT hypothesis for the former, but not the latter data set.
20143065|Alignment quality may have as much impact on phylogenetic reconstruction as the phylogenetic methods used. Not only the alignment algorithm, but also the method used to deal with the most problematic alignment regions, may have a critical effect on the final tree. Although some authors remove such problematic regions, either manually or using automatic methods, in order to improve phylogenetic performance, others prefer to keep such regions to avoid losing any information. Our aim in the present work was to examine whether phylogenetic reconstruction improves after alignment cleaning or not. Using simulated protein alignments with gaps, we tested the relative performance in diverse phylogenetic analyses of the whole alignments versus the alignments with problematic regions removed with our previously developed Gblocks program. We also tested the performance of more or less stringent conditions in the selection of blocks. Alignments constructed with different alignment methods (ClustalW, Mafft, and Probcons) were used to estimate phylogenetic trees by maximum likelihood, neighbor joining, and parsimony. We show that, in most alignment conditions, and for alignments that are not too short, removal of blocks leads to better trees. That is, despite losing some information, there is an increase in the actual phylogenetic signal. Overall, the best trees are obtained by maximum-likelihood reconstruction of alignments cleaned by Gblocks. In general, a relaxed selection of blocks is better for short alignment, whereas a stringent selection is more adequate for longer ones. Finally, we show that cleaned alignments produce better topologies although, paradoxically, with lower bootstrap. This indicates that divergent and problematic alignment regions may lead, when present, to apparently better supported although, in fact, more biased topologies.
20143069|We describe two new methods to partition phylogenetic data sets of discrete characters based on pairwise compatibility. The partitioning methods make no assumptions regarding the phylogeny, model of evolution, or characteristics of the data. The methods first build a compatibility graph, in which each node represents a character in the data set. Edges in the compatibility graph may represent strict compatibility of characters or they may be weighted based on a fractional compatibility scoring procedure that measures how close the characters are to being compatible. Given the desired number of partitions, the partitioning methods then seek to cluster the characters with the highest average pairwise compatibility, so that characters in each cluster are more compatible with each other than they are with characters in the other cluster(s). Partitioning according to these criteria is computationally intractable (NP-hard); however, spectral methods can quickly provide high-quality solutions. We demonstrate that the spectral partitioning effectively identifies characters with different evolutionary histories in simulated data sets, and it is better at highlighting phylogenetic conflict within empirical data sets than previously used partitioning methods.
20143072|Phylogenetic relationships among genera of pigeons and doves (Aves, Columbiformes) have not been fully resolved because of limited sampling of taxa and characters in previous studies. We therefore sequenced multiple nuclear and mitochondrial DNA genes totaling over 9000 bp from 33 of 41 genera plus 8 outgroup taxa, and, together with sequences from 5 other pigeon genera retrieved from GenBank, recovered a strong phylogenetic hypothesis for the Columbiformes. Three major clades were recovered with the combined data set, comprising the basally branching New World pigeons and allies (clade A) that are sister to Neotropical ground doves (clade B), and the Afro-Eurasian and Australasian taxa (clade C). None of these clades supports the monophyly of current families and subfamilies. The extinct, flightless dodo and solitaires (Raphidae) were embedded within pigeons and doves (Columbidae) in clade C, and monophyly of the subfamily Columbinae was refuted because the remaining subfamilies were nested within it. Divergence times estimated using a Bayesian framework suggest that Columbiformes diverged from outgroups such as Apodiformes and Caprimulgiformes in the Cretaceous before the mass extinction that marks the end of this period. Bayesian and maximum likelihood inferences of ancestral areas, accounting for phylogenetic uncertainty and divergence times, respectively, favor an ancient origin of Columbiformes in the Neotropical portion of what was then Gondwana. The radiation of modern genera of Columbiformes started in the Early Eocene to the Middle Miocene, as previously estimated for other avian groups such as ratites, tinamous, galliform birds, penguins, shorebirds, parrots, passerine birds, and toucans. Multiple dispersals of more derived Columbiformes between Australasian and Afro-Eurasian regions are required to explain current distributions.
20143066|Bayesian inference of phylogeny is unique among phylogenetic reconstruction methods in that it produces a posterior distribution of trees rather than a point estimate of the best tree. The most common way to summarize this distribution is to report the majority-rule consensus tree annotated with the marginal posterior probabilities of each partition. Reporting a single tree discards information contained in the full underlying distribution and reduces the Bayesian analysis to simply another method for finding a point estimate of the tree. Even when a point estimate of the phylogeny is desired, the majority-rule consensus tree is only one possible method, and there may be others that are more appropriate for the given data set and application. We present a method for summarizing the distribution of trees that is based on identifying agreement subtrees that are frequently present in the posterior distribution. This method provides fully resolved binary trees for subsets of taxa with high marginal posterior probability on the entire tree and includes additional information about the spread of the distribution.
20143067|Although recent methodological advances have allowed the incorporation of rate variation in molecular dating analyses, the calibration procedure, performed mainly through fossils, remains resistant to improvements. One source of uncertainty pertains to the assignment of fossils to specific nodes in a phylogeny, especially when alternative possibilities exist that can be equally justified on morphological grounds. Here we expand on a recently developed fossil cross-validation method to evaluate whether alternative nodal assignments of multiple fossils produce calibration sets that differ in their internal consistency. We use an enlarged Crypteroniaceae-centered phylogeny of Myrtales, six fossils, and 72 combinations of calibration points, termed calibration sets, to identify (i) the fossil assignments that produce the most internally consistent calibration sets and (ii) the mean ages, derived from these calibration sets, for the split of the Southeast Asian Crypteroniaceae from their West Gondwanan sister clade (node X). We found that a correlation exists between s values, devised to measure the consistency among the calibration points of a calibration set (Near and Sanderson, 2004), and nodal distances among calibration points. By ranking all sets according to the percent deviation of s from the regression line with nodal distance, we identified the sets with the highest level of corrected calibration-set consistency. These sets generated lower standard deviations associated with the ages of node X than sets characterized by lower corrected consistency. The three calibration sets with the highest corrected consistencies produced mean age estimates for node X of 79.70, 79.14, and 78.15 My. These timeframes are most compatible with the hypothesis that the Crypteroniaceae stem lineage dispersed from Africa to the Deccan plate as it drifted northward during the Late Cretaceous.
20143064|A phylogeny of tetrapods is inferred from nearly complete sequences of the nuclear RAG-1 gene sampled across 88 taxa encompassing all major clades, analyzed via parsimony and Bayesian methods. The phylogeny provides support for Lissamphibia, Theria, Lepidosauria, a turtle-archosaur clade, as well as most traditionally accepted groupings. This tree allows simultaneous molecular clock dating for all tetrapod groups using a set of well-corroborated calibrations. Relaxed clock (PLRS) methods, using the amniote = 315 Mya (million years ago) calibration or a set of consistent calibrations, recovers reasonable divergence dates for most groups. However, the analysis systematically underestimates divergence dates within archosaurs. The bird-crocodile split, robustly documented in the fossil record as being around 245 Mya, is estimated at only 190 Mya, and dates for other divergences within archosaurs are similarly underestimated. Archosaurs, and particulary turtles have slow apparent rates possibly confounding rate modeling, and inclusion of calibrations within archosaurs (despite their high deviances) not only improves divergence estimates within archosaurs, but also across other groups. Notably, the monotreme-therian split (210 Mya) matches the fossil record; the squamate radiation (190 Mya) is younger than suggested by some recent molecular studies and inconsistent with identification of 220 and 165 Myo (million-year-old) fossils as acrodont iguanians and 95 Myo fossils colubroid snakes; the bird-lizard (reptile) split is considerably older than fossil estimates (285 Mya); and Sphenodon is a remarkable phylogenetic relic, being the sole survivor of a lineage more than a quarter of a billion years old. Comparison with other molecular clock studies of tetrapod divergences suggests that the common practice of enforcing most calibrations as minima, with a single liberal maximal constraint, will systematically overestimate divergence dates. Similarly, saturation of mitochondrial DNA sequences, and the resultant greater compression of basal branches means that using only external deep calibrations will also lead to inflated age estimates within the focal ingroup.
20143071|As larger, more complex data sets are being used to infer phylogenies, accuracy of these phylogenies increasingly requires models of evolution that accommodate heterogeneity in the processes of molecular evolution. We investigated the effect of improper data partitioning on phylogenetic accuracy, as well as the type I error rate and sensitivity of Bayes factors, a commonly used method for choosing among different partitioning strategies in Bayesian analyses. We also used Bayes factors to test empirical data for the need to divide data in a manner that has no expected biological meaning. Posterior probability estimates are misleading when an incorrect partitioning strategy is assumed. The error was greatest when the assumed model was underpartitioned. These results suggest that model partitioning is important for large data sets. Bayes factors performed well, giving a 5% type I error rate, which is remarkably consistent with standard frequentist hypothesis tests. The sensitivity of Bayes factors was found to be quite high when the across-class model heterogeneity reflected that of empirical data. These results suggest that Bayes factors represent a robust method of choosing among partitioning strategies. Lastly, results of tests for the inclusion of unexpected divisions in empirical data mirrored the simulation results, although the outcome of such tests is highly dependent on accounting for rate variation among classes. We conclude by discussing other approaches for partitioning data, as well as other applications of Bayes factors.
20143068|Accurate phylogenetic inference is a topic of intensive research and debate and has been studied in response to many different factors: for example, differences in the method of reconstruction, the shape of the underlying tree, the substitution model, and varying quantities and types of data. Investigating whether the conditions used might lead to inaccurate inference has been attempted through elaborate data exploration but less attention has been given to creating a unified methodology to enable experimental designs in phylogenetic analysis to be improved and so avoid suboptimal conditions. Experimental design has been part of the field of statistics since the seminal work of Fisher in the early 20th century and a large body of literature exists on how to design optimum experiments. Here we investigate the use of the Fisher information matrix to decide between candidate positions for adding a taxon to a fixed topology, and introduce a parameter transformation that permits comparison of these different designs. This extension to Goldman (1998. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B. 265: 1779-1786) thus allows investigation of "where to add taxa" in a phylogeny. We compare three different measures of the total information for selecting the position to add a taxon to a tree. Our methods are illustrated by investigating the behavior of the three criteria when adding a branch to model trees, and by applying the different criteria to two biological examples: a simplified taxon-sampling problem in the balsaminoid Ericales and the phylogeny of seed plants.
20143025|Traditionally, phylogenetic analyses over many genes combine data into a contiguous block. Under this concatenated model, all genes are assumed to evolve at the same rate. However, it is clear that genes evolve at very different rates and that accounting for this rate heterogeneity is important if we are to accurately infer phylogenies from heterogeneous multigene data sets. There remain open questions regarding how best to incorporate gene rate parameters into phylogenetic models and which properties of real data correlate with improved fit over the concatenated model. In this study, two methods of accounting for gene rate heterogeneity are compared: the n-parameter method, which allows for each of the n gene partitions to have a gene rate parameter, and the -parameter method, which fits a distribution to the gene rates. Results demonstrate that the n-parameter method is both computationally faster and in general provides a better fit over the concatenated model than the -parameter method. Furthermore, improved model fit over the concatenated model is highly correlated with the presence of a gene with a slow relative rate of evolution.
20143026|The process of inferring phylogenetic trees from molecular sequences almost always starts with a multiple alignment of these sequences but can also be based on methods that do not involve multiple sequence alignment. Very little is known about the accuracy with which such alignment-free methods recover the correct phylogeny or about the potential for increasing their accuracy. We conducted a large-scale comparison of ten alignment-free methods, among them one new approach that does not calculate distances and a faster variant of our pattern-based approach; all distance-based alignment-free methods are freely available from http://www.bioinformatics.org.au (as Python package decaf+py). We show that most methods exhibit a higher overall reconstruction accuracy in the presence of high among-site rate variation. Under all conditions that we considered, variants of the pattern-based approach were significantly better than the other alignment-free methods. The new pattern-based variant achieved a speed-up of an order of magnitude in the distance calculation step, accompanied by a small loss of tree reconstruction accuracy. A method of Bayesian inference from k-mers did not improve on classical alignment-free (and distance-based) methods but may still offer other advantages due to its Bayesian nature. We found the optimal word length k of word-based methods to be stable across various data sets, and we provide parameter ranges for two different alphabets. The influence of these alphabets was analyzed to reveal a trade-off in reconstruction accuracy between long and short branches. We have mapped the phylogenetic accuracy for many alignment-free methods, among them several recently introduced ones, and increased our understanding of their behavior in response to biologically important parameters. In all experiments, the pattern-based approach emerged as superior, at the expense of higher resource consumption. Nonetheless, no alignment-free method that we examined recovers the correct phylogeny as accurately as does an approach based on maximum-likelihood distance estimates of multiply aligned sequences.
20143022|The models of nucleotide substition used by most maximum likelihood--based methods assume that the evolutionary process is stationary, reversible, and homogeneous. We present an extension of the Barry and Hartigan model, which can be used to estimate parameters by maximum likelihood (ML) when the data contain invariants sites and there are violations of the assumptions of stationarity, reversibility, and homogeneity. Unlike most ML methods for estimating invariant sites, we estimate the nucleotide composition of invariant sites separately from that of variable sites. We analyze a bacterial data set where problems due to lack of stationarity and homogeneity have been previously well noted and use the parametric bootstrap to show that the data are consistent with our general Markov model. We also show that estimates of invariant sites obtained using our method are fairly accurate when applied to data simulated under the general Markov model.
20143029|Most phylogenetically based statistical methods for the analysis of quantitative or continuously varying phenotypic traits assume that variation within species is absent or at least negligible, which is unrealistic for many traits. Within-species variation has several components. Differences among populations of the same species may represent either phylogenetic divergence or direct effects of environmental factors that differ among populations (phenotypic plasticity). Within-population variation also contributes to within-species variation and includes sampling variation, instrument-related error, low repeatability caused by fluctuations in behavioral or physiological state, variation related to age, sex, season, or time of day, and individual variation within such categories. Here we develop techniques for analyzing phylogenetically correlated data to include within-species variation, or "measurement error" as it is often termed in the statistical literature. We derive methods for (i) univariate analyses, including measurement of "phylogenetic signal," (ii) correlation and principal components analysis for multiple traits, (iii) multiple regression, and (iv) inference of "functional relations," such as reduced major axis (RMA) regression. The methods are capable of incorporating measurement error that differs for each data point (mean value for a species or population), but they can be modified for special cases in which less is known about measurement error (e.g., when one is willing to assume something about the ratio of measurement error in two traits). We show that failure to incorporate measurement error can lead to both biased and imprecise (unduly uncertain) parameter estimates. Even previous methods that are thought to account for measurement error, such as conventional RMA regression, can be improved by explicitly incorporating measurement error and phylogenetic correlation. We illustrate these methods with examples and simulations and provide Matlab programs.
20143023|Phylogenetic relationships among Pinus species from subgenus Strobus remain unresolved despite combined efforts based on nrITS and cpDNA. To provide greater resolution among these taxa, a 900-bp intron from a late embryogenesis abundant (LEA)-like gene (IFG8612) was sequenced from 39 pine species, with two or more alleles representing 33 species. Nineteen of 33 species exhibited allelic nonmonphyly in the strict consensus tree, and 10 deviated significantly from allelic monophyly based on topology incongruence tests. Intraspecific nucleotide diversity ranged from 0.0 to 0.0211, and analysis of variance shows that nucleotide diversity was strongly associated (P &lt 0.0001) with the degree of species monophyly. Although species nonmonophyly complicates phylogenetic interpretations, this nuclear locus offers greater topological support than previously observed for cpDNA or nrITS. Lacking evidence for hybridization, recombination, or imperfect taxonomy, we feel that incomplete lineage sorting remains the best explanation for the polymorphisms shared among species. Depending on the species, coalescent expectations indicate that reciprocal monophyly will be more likely than paraphyly in 1.71 to 24.0  10 years, and that complete genome-wide coalescence in these species may require up to 76.3  10 years. The absence of allelic coalescence is a severe constraint in the application of phylogenetic methods in Pinus, and taxa sharing similar life history traits with Pinus are likely to show species nonmonophyly using nuclear markers.
20143032|In a series of articles, Rieppel (2005, Biol. Philos. 20:465-487; 2006a, Cladistics 22:186-197; 2006b, Systematist 26:5-9), Keller et al. (2003, Bot. Rev. 69:93-110), and Nixon and Carpenter (2000, Cladistics 16:298-318) criticize the philosophical foundations of the PhyloCode. They argue that species and higher taxa are not individuals, and they reject the view that taxon names are rigid designators. Furthermore, they charge supporters of the individuality thesis and rigid designator theory with assuming essentialism, committing logical inconsistencies, and offering proposals that render taxonomy untestable. These charges are unsound. Such charges turn on confusions over rigid designator theory and the distinction between kinds and individuals. In addition, Rieppel's, Keller et al.'s, and Nixon and Carpenter's proposed alternatives are no better and have their own problems. The individuality thesis and rigid designator theory should not be quickly abandoned.
20143030|We highlight a novel molecular clock calibration system based on geologically dated river reversal and river capture events. Changes in drainage pattern may effect vicariant isolation of freshwater taxa, and thus provide a predictive framework for associated phylogeographic study. As a case in point, New Zealand's Pelorus and Kaituna rivers became geologically isolated from the larger Wairau River system 70 to 130 kyr BP. We conducted mitochondrial DNA phylogeographic analyses of two unrelated freshwater-limited fish taxa native to these river systems (Gobiomorphus breviceps, n = 63; Galaxias divergens, n = 95). Phylogenetic analysis of combined control region and cytochrome b sequences yielded reciprocally monophyletic clades of Pelorus-Kaituna and Wairau haplotypes for each species. Calibrated rates of molecular change based on this freshwater vicariant event are substantially faster than traditionally accepted rates for fishes but consistent with other recent inferences based on geologically young calibration points. A survey of freshwater phylogeographic literature reveals numerous examples in which the ages of recent evolutionary events may have been substantially over-estimated through the use of "accepted" calibrations. We recommend that--wherever possible--biologists should start to reassess the conclusions of such studies by using more appropriate molecular calibrations derived from recent geological events.
20143028|Lice in the genus Pectinopygus parasitize a single order of birds (Pelecaniformes). To examine the degree of congruence between the phylogenies of 17 Pectinopygus species and their pelecaniform hosts, sequences from mitochondrial 12S rRNA, 16S rRNA, COI, and nuclear wingless and EF1- genes (2290 nucleotides) and from mitochondrial 12S rRNA, COI, and ATPases 8 and 6 genes (1755 nucleotides) were obtained for the lice and the birds, respectively. Louse data partitions were analyzed for evidence of incongruence and evidence of long-branch attraction prior to cophylogenetic analyses. Host-parasite coevolution was studied by different methods: TreeFitter, TreeMap, ParaFit, likelihood-ratio test, data-based parsimony method, and correlation of coalescence times. All methods agree that there has been extensive cospeciation in this host-parasite system, but the results are sensitive to the selection of different phylogenetic hypotheses and analytical methods for evaluating cospeciation. Perfect congruence between phylogenies is not found in this association, probably as a result of occasional host switching by the lice. Errors due to phylogenetic reconstruction methods, incorrect or incomplete taxon sampling, or to different loci undergoing different evolutionary histories cannot be rejected, thus emphasizing the need for improved cophylogenetic methodologies.
20143033|Hybridization is a well-documented, natural phenomenon that is common at low taxonomic levels in the higher plants and other groups. In spite of the obvious potential for gene flow via hybridization to cause reticulation in an evolutionary tree, analytical methods based on a strictly bifurcating model of evolution have frequently been applied to data sets containing taxa known to hybridize in nature. Using simulated data, we evaluated the relative performance of phenetic, tree-based, and network approaches for distinguishing between taxa with known reticulate history and taxa that were true terminal monophyletic groups. In all methods examined, type I error (the erroneous rejection of the null hypothesis that a taxon of interest is not monophyletic) was likely during the early stages of introgressive hybridization. We used the gradual erosion of type I error with continued gene flow as a metric for assessing relative performance. Bifurcating tree-based methods performed poorly, with highly supported, incorrect topologies appearing during some phases of the simulation. Based on our model, we estimate that many thousands of gene flow events may be required in natural systems before reticulate taxa will be reliably detected using tree-based methods of phylogeny reconstruction. We conclude that the use of standard bifurcating tree-based methods to identify terminal monophyletic groups for the purposes of defining or delimiting phylogenetic species, or for prioritizing populations for conservation purposes, is difficult to justify when gene flow between sampled taxa is possible. As an alternative, we explored the use of two network methods. Minimum spanning networks performed worse than most tree-based methods and did not yield topologies that were easily interpretable as phylogenies. The performance of NeighborNet was comparable to parsimony bootstrap analysis. NeighborNet and reverse successive weighting were capable of identifying an ephemeral signature of reticulate evolution during the early stages of introgression by revealing conflicting phylogenetic signal. However, when gene flow was topologically complex, the conflicting phylogenetic signal revealed by these methods resulted in a high probability of type II error (inferring that a monophyletic taxon has a reticulate history). Lastly, we present a novel application of an existing nonparametric clustering procedure that, when used against a density landscape derived from principal coordinate data, showed superior performance to the tree-based and network procedures tested.
20143031|Images are paramount in documentation of morphological data. Production and reproduction costs have traditionally limited how many illustrations taxonomy could afford to publish, and much comparative knowledge continues to be lost as generations turn over. Now digital images are cheaply produced and easily disseminated electronically but pose problems in maintenance, curation, sharing, and use, particularly in long-term data sets involving multiple collaborators and institutions. We propose an efficient linkage of images to phylogenetic data sets via an ontology of morphological terms; an underlying, fine-grained database of specimens, images, and associated metadata; fixation of the meaning of morphological terms (homolog names) by ostensive references to particular taxa; and formalization of images as standard views. The ontology provides the intellectual structure and fundamental design of the relationships and enables intelligent queries to populate phylogenetic data sets with images. The database itself documents primary morphological observations, their vouchers, and associated metadata, rather than the conventional data set cell, and thereby facilitates data maintenance despite character redefinition or specimen reidentification. It minimizes reexamination of specimens, loss of information or data quality, and echoes the data models of web-based repositories for images, specimens, and taxonomic names. Confusion and ambiguity in the meanings of technical morphological terms are reduced by ostensive definitions pointing to features in particular taxa, which may serve as reference for globally unique identifiers of characters. Finally, the concept of standard views (an image illustrating one or more homologs in a specific sex and life stage, in a specific orientation, using a specific device and preparation technique) enables efficient, dynamic linkage of images to the data set and automatic population of matrix cells with images independently of scoring decisions.
20143024|Direct optimization frameworks for simultaneously estimating alignments and phylogenies have recently been developed. One such method, implemented in the program POY, is becoming more common for analyses of variable length sequences (e.g., analyses using ribosomal genes) and for combined evidence analyses (morphology + multiple genes). Simulation of sequences containing insertion and deletion events was performed in order to directly compare a widely used method of multiple sequence alignment (ClustalW) and subsequent parsimony analysis in PAUP* with direct optimization via POY. Data sets were simulated for pectinate, balanced, and random tree shapes under different conditions (clocklike, non-clocklike, and ultrametric). Alignment accuracy scores for the implied alignments from POY and the multiple sequence alignments from ClustalW were calculated and compared. In almost all cases (99.95%), ClustalW produced more accurate alignments than POY-implied alignments, judged by the proportion of correctly identified homologous sites. Topological accuracy (distance to the true tree) for POY topologies and topologies generated under parsimony in PAUP* from the ClustalW alignments were also compared. In 44.94% of the cases, Clustal alignment tree reconstructions via PAUP* were more accurate than POY, whereas in 16.71% of the cases POY reconstructions were more topologically accurate (38.38% of the time they were equally accurate). Comparisons between POY hypothesized alignments and the true alignments indicated that, on average, as alignment error increased, topological accuracy decreased.
20143027|The resolution of four controversial topics in phylogenetic experimental design hinges upon the informativeness of characters about the historical relationships among taxa. These controversies regard the power of different classes of phylogenetic character, the relative utility of increased taxonomic versus character sampling, the differentiation between lack of phylogenetic signal and a historical rapid radiation, and the design of taxonomically broad phylogenetic studies optimized by taxonomically sparse genome-scale data. Quantification of the informativeness of characters for resolution of phylogenetic hypotheses during specified historical epochs is key to the resolution of these controversies. Here, such a measure of phylogenetic informativeness is formulated. The optimal rate of evolution of a character to resolve a dated four-taxon polytomy is derived. By scaling the asymptotic informativeness of a character evolving at a nonoptimal rate by the derived asymptotic optimum, and by normalizing so that net phylogenetic informativeness is equivalent for all rates when integrated across all of history, an informativeness profile across history is derived. Calculation of the informativeness per base pair allows estimation of the cost-effectiveness of character sampling. Calculation of the informativeness per million years allows comparison across historical radiations of the utility of a gene for the inference of rapid adaptive radiation. The theory is applied to profile the phylogenetic informativeness of the genes BRCA1, RAG1, GHR, and c-myc from a muroid rodent sequence data set. Bounded integrations of the phylogenetic profile of these genes over four epochs comprising the diversifications of the muroid rodents, the mammals, the lobe-limbed vertebrates, and the early metazonas demonstrate the differential power of these genes to resolve the branching order among ancestral lineages. This measure of phylogenetic informativeness yields a new kind of information for evaluation of phylogenetic experiments. It conveys the utility of the addition of characters a phylogenetic study and it provides a basis for deciding whether appropriate phylogenetic power has been applied to a polytomy that is proposed to be a rapid radiation. Moreover, it provides a quantitative measure of the capacity of a gene to resolve soft polytomies.
20143081|Determining whether speciation and extinction rates depend on the state of a particular character has been of long-standing interest to evolutionary biologists. To assess the effect of a character on diversification rates using likelihood methods requires that we be able to calculate the probability that a group of extant species would have evolved as observed, given a particular model of the character's effect. Here we describe how to calculate this probability for a phylogenetic tree and a two-state (binary) character under a simple model of evolution (the "BiSSE" model, binary-state speciation and extinction). The model involves six parameters, specifying two speciation rates (rate when the lineage is in state 0; rate when in state 1), two extinction rates (when in state 0; when in state 1), and two rates of character state change (from 0 to 1, and from 1 to 0). Using these probability calculations, we can do maximum likelihood inference to estimate the model's parameters and perform hypothesis tests (e.g., is the rate of speciation elevated for one character state over the other?). We demonstrate the application of the method using simulated data with known parameter values.
20143083|Phylogenetic tree estimation plays a critical role in a wide variety of molecular studies, including molecular systematics, phylogenetics, and comparative genomics. Finding the optimal tree relating a set of sequences using score-based (optimality criterion) methods, such as maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony, may require all possible trees to be considered, which is not feasible even for modest numbers of sequences. In practice, trees are estimated using heuristics that represent a trade-off between topological accuracy and speed. I present a series of novel algorithms suitable for score-based phylogenetic tree reconstruction that demonstrably improve the accuracy of tree estimates while maintaining high computational speeds. The heuristics function by allowing the efficient exploration of large numbers of trees through novel hill-climbing and resampling strategies. These heuristics, and other computational approximations, are implemented for maximum likelihood estimation of trees in the program Leaphy, and its performance is compared to other popular phylogenetic programs. Trees are estimated from 4059 different protein alignments using a selection of phylogenetic programs and the likelihoods of the tree estimates are compared. Trees estimated using Leaphy are found to have equal to or better likelihoods than trees estimated using other phylogenetic programs in 4004 (98.6%) families and provide a unique best tree that no other program found in 1102 (27.1%) families. The improvement is particularly marked for larger families (80 to 100 sequences), where Leaphy finds a unique best tree in 81.7% of families.
20143088|This paper focuses on veto supertree methods; i.e., methods that aim at producing a conservative synthesis of the relationships agreed upon by all source trees. We propose desirable properties that a supertree should satisfy in this framework, namely the non-contradiction property (PC) and the induction property (PI). The former requires that the supertree does not contain relationships that contradict one or a combination of the source topologies, whereas the latter requires that all topological information contained in the supertree is present in a source tree or collectively induced by several source trees. We provide simple examples to illustrate their relevance and that allow a comparison with previously advocated properties. We show that these properties can be checked in polynomial time for any given rooted supertree. Moreover, we introduce the PhySIC method (PHYlogenetic Signal with Induction and non-Contradiction). For k input trees spanning a set of n taxa, this method produces a supertree that satisfies the above-mentioned properties in O(kn + n) computing time. The polytomies of the produced supertree are also tagged by labels indicating areas of conflict as well as those with insufficient overlap. As a whole, PhySIC enables the user to quickly summarize consensual information of a set of trees and localize groups of taxa for which the data require consolidation. Lastly, we illustrate the behaviour of PhySIC on primate data sets of various sizes, and propose a supertree covering 95% of all primate extant genera. The PhySIC algorithm is available at http://atgc.lirmm.fr/cgi-bin/PhySIC.
20143086|Phylogenetic mixtures model the inhomogeneous molecular evolution commonly observed in data. The performance of phylogenetic reconstruction methods where the underlying data are generated by a mixture model has stimulated considerable recent debate. Much of the controversy stems from simulations of mixture model data on a given tree topology for which reconstruction algorithms output a tree of a different topology; these findings were held up to show the short-comings of particular tree reconstruction methods. In so doing, the underlying assumption was that mixture model data on one topology can be distinguished from data evolved on an unmixed tree of another topology given enough data and the "correct" method. Here we show that this assumption can be false. For biologists, our results imply that, for example, the combined data from two genes whose phylogenetic trees differ only in terms of branch lengths can perfectly fit a tree of a different topology.
20143089|The modular variation of organismal form during evolution or development can be viewed as the result of dissociated local developmental processes. Whereas studies of modularity often are experimental, morphological integration is a more descriptive concept applying to groups of correlated phenotypic characters. Using simple path models, this paper shows that the classic underlying assumption of modularity (high correlations within modules, lower correlations between modules) is met only when local developmental factors have high effects on the traits relative to all factors' variations of effect (i.e., allometry). Accordingly, many classic approaches to morphological integration are meaningful only when local as well as common growth factors are nearly isometric. We show that morphometric modules might instead be defined more generally as sets of variables with non-zero within-module covariances, even when the covariances due to common factors have been removed, so that the residual between-module covariances are all near zero. Although it is still inherently unreliable to identify modules from phenotypic covariances in nonexperimental data, patterns of integration can sometimes be estimated based on prior identification of the modules themselves. We outline a simple approach for this case using Wright-style factor analysis and demonstrate the relation of its algebra to the more familiar approach via partial least squares.
20143090|Hummingbirds are an important model system in avian biology, but to date the group has been the subject of remarkably few phylogenetic investigations. Here we present partitioned Bayesian and maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses for 151 of approximately 330 species of hummingbirds and 12 outgroup taxa based on two protein-coding mitochondrial genes (ND2 and ND4), flanking tRNAs, and two nuclear introns (AK1 and BFib). We analyzed these data under several partitioning strategies ranging between unpartitioned and a maximum of nine partitions. In order to select a statistically justified partitioning strategy following partitioned Bayesian analysis, we considered four alternative criteria including Bayes factors, modified versions of the Akaike information criterion for small sample sizes ($\text{AIC}_{\text{c}}$), Bayesian information criterion (BIC), and a decision-theoretic methodology (DT). Following partitioned maximum likelihood analyses, we selected a best-fitting strategy using hierarchical likelihood ratio tests (hLRTS), the conventional AICc, BIC, and DT, concluding that the most stringent criterion, the performance-based DT, was the most appropriate methodology for selecting amongst partitioning strategies. In the context of our well-resolved and well-supported phylogenetic estimate, we consider the historical biogeography of hummingbirds using ancestral state reconstructions of (1) primary geographic region of occurrence (i.e., South America, Central America, North America, Greater Antilles, Lesser Antilles), (2) Andean or non-Andean geographic distribution, and (3) minimum elevational occurrence. These analyses indicate that the basal hummingbird assemblages originated in the lowlands of South America, that most of the principle clades of hummingbirds (all but Mountain Gems and possibly Bees) originated on this continent, and that there have been many (at least 30) independent invasions of other primary landmasses, especially Central America.
20143082|In recent years, the advent of Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques, coupled with modern computational capabilities, has enabled the study of evolutionary models without a closed from solution of the likelihood function. However, current Bayesian MCMC applications can incur significant computational costs, as they are based on a full sampling from the posterior probability distribution of the parameters of interest. Here, we draw attention as to how MCMC techniques can be embedded within normal approximation strategies for more economical statistical computation. The overall procedure is based on an estimate of the first and second moments of the likelihood function, as well as a maximum likelihood estimate. Through examples, we review several MCMC-based methods used in the statistical literature for such estimation, applying the approaches to constructing posterior distributions under nonanalytical evolutionary models relaxing the assumptions of rate homogeneity and of independence between sites. Finally, we use the procedures for conducting Bayesian model selection, based on Laplace approximations of Bayes factors, which we find to be accurate and computationally advantageous. Altogether, the methods we expound here, as well as other related approaches from the statistical literature, should prove useful when investigating increasingly complex descriptions of molecular evolution, alleviating some of the difficulties associated with nonanalytical models.
20143087|We use a multigene data set (the mitochondrial locus and nine nuclear gene regions) to test phylogenetic relationships in the South American "lava lizards" (genus Microlophus) and describe a strategy for aligning noncoding sequences that accounts for differences in tempo and class of mutational events. We focus on seven nuclear introns that vary in size and frequency of multibase length mutations (i.e., indels) and present a manual alignment strategy that incorporates insertions and deletions (indels) for each intron. Our method is based on mechanistic explanations of intron evolution that does not require a guide tree. We also use a progressive alignment algorithm (Probabilistic Alignment Kit; PRANK) and distinguishes insertions from deletions and avoids the "gapcost" conundrum. We describe an approach to selecting a guide tree purged of ambiguously aligned regions and use this to refine PRANK performance. We show that although manual alignment is successful in finding repeat motifs and the most obvious indels, some regions can only be subjectively aligned, and there are limits to the size and complexity of a data matrix for which this approach can be taken. PRANK alignments identified more parsimony-informative indels while simultaneously increasing nucleotide identity in conserved sequence blocks flanking the indel regions. When comparing manual and PRANK with two widely used methods (CLUSTAL, MUSCLE) for the alignment of the most length-variable intron, only PRANK recovered a tree congruent at deeper nodes with the combined data tree inferred from all nuclear gene regions. We take this concordance as an objective function of alignment quality and present a strongly supported phylogenetic hypothesis for Microlophus relationships. From this hypothesis we show that (1) a coded indel data partition derived from the PRANK alignment contributed significantly to nodal support and (2) the indel data set permitted detection of significant conflict between mitochondrial and nuclear data partitions, which we hypothesize arose from secondary contact of distantly related taxa, followed by hybridization and mtDNA introgression.
20143085|Systematists disagree whether data from fossils should be included in parsimony analyses. In a handful of well-documented cases, the addition of fossil data radically overturns a hypothesis of relationships based on extant taxa alone. Fossils can break up long branches and preserve character combinations closer in time to deep splitting events. However, fossils usually require more interpretation than extant taxa, introducing greater potential for spurious codings. Moreover, because fossils often have more "missing" codings, they are frequently accused of increasing numbers of MPTs, frustrating resolution and reducing support. Despite the controversy, remarkably little is known about the effects of fossils more generally. Here we provide the first systematic study, investigating empirically the behavior of fossil and extant taxa in 45 published morphological data sets. First-order jackknifing is used to determine the effects that each terminal has on inferred relationships, on the number of MPTs, and on CI' and RI as measures of homoplasy. Bootstrap leaf stabilities provide a proxy for the contribution of individual taxa to the branch support in the rest of the tree. There is no significant difference in the impact of fossil versus extant taxa on relationships, numbers of MPTs, and CI' or RI. However, adding individual fossil taxa is more likely to reduce the total branch support of the tree than adding extant taxa. This must be weighed against the superior taxon sampling afforded by including judiciously coded fossils, providing data from otherwise unsampled regions of the tree. We therefore recommend that investigators should include fossils, in the absence of compelling and case specific reasons for their exclusion.
20143084|A new method, PATHd8, for estimating ultrametric trees from trees with edge (branch) lengths proportional to the number of substitutions is proposed. The method allows for an arbitrary number of reference nodes for time calibration, each defined either as absolute age, minimum age, or maximum age, and the tree need not be fully resolved. The method is based on estimating node ages by mean path lengths from the node to the leaves but correcting for deviations from a molecular clock suggested by reference nodes. As opposed to most existing methods allowing substitution rate variation, the new method smoothes substitution rates locally, rather than simultaneously over the whole tree, thus allowing for analysis of very large trees. The performance of PATHd8 is compared with other frequently used methods for estimating divergence times. In analyses of three separate data sets, PATHd8 gives similar divergence times to other methods, the largest difference being between crown group ages, where unconstrained nodes get younger ages when analyzed with PATHd8. Overall, chronograms obtained from other methods appear smoother, whereas PATHd8 preserves more of the heterogeneity seen in the original edge lengths. Divergence times are most evenly spread over the chronograms obtained from the Bayesian implementation and the clock-based Langley-Fitch method, and these two methods produce very similar ages for most nodes. Evaluations of PATHd8 using simulated data suggest that PATHd8 is slightly less precise compared with penalized likelihood, but it gives more sensible answers for extreme data sets. A clear advantage with PATHd8 is that it is more or less instantaneous even with trees having several thousand leaves, whereas other programs often run into problems when analyzing trees with hundreds of leaves. PATHd8 is implemented in freely available software.
20143052|The amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) technique is being increasingly used in phylogenetic studies, especially in groups of rapidly radiating taxa. One of the key issues in the phylogenetic suitability of this technique is whether the DNA fragments generated via the AFLP method are homologous within and among the taxa being studied. We used a bioinformatics approach to assess homology based on both chromosomal location and sequence similarity of AFLP fragments. The AFLP technique was electronically simulated on genomes from eight organisms that represented a range of genome sizes. The results demonstrated that within a genome, the number of fragments is positively associated with genome size, and the degree of homology decreases with increasing numbers of fragments generated. The average homology of fragments was 89% for small genomes (&lt400 Mb) but decreased to 59% for large genomes (&gt2 Gb). Fragment homology for large genomes can be increased by excluding smaller fragments, although there is no clear upper limit for the size of fragments to exclude. A second approach is to increase the number of selective nucleotides in the final selective amplification step. For strains of the same organism, homology based on chromosome location and sequence similarity of fragments was 100%. Fragment homology for more distantly related taxa, however, decreased with greater time since divergence. We conclude that AFLP data are best suited for examining phylogeographic patterns within species and among very recently diverged species.
20143053|Roshan et al. recently described a "divide-and-conquer" technique for parsimony analysis of large data sets, Rec-I-DCM3, and stated that it compares very favorably to results using the program TNT. Their technique is based on selecting subsets of taxa to create reduced data sets or subproblems, finding most-parsimonious trees for each reduced data set, recombining all parts together, and then performing global TBR swapping on the combined tree. Here, we contrast this approach to sectorial searches, a divide-and-conquer algorithm implemented in TNT. This algorithm also uses a guide tree to create subproblems, with the first-pass state sets of the nodes that join the selected sectors with the rest of the topology; this allows exact length calculations for the entire topology (that is, any solution N steps shorter than the original, for the reduced subproblem, must also be N steps shorter for the entire topology). We show here that, for sectors of similar size analyzed with the same search algorithms, subdividing data sets with sectorial searches produces better results than subdividing with Rec-I-DCM3. Roshan et al.'s claim that Rec-I-DCM3 outperforms the techniques in TNT was caused by a poor experimental design and algorithmic settings used for the runs in TNT. In particular, for finding trees at or very close to the minimum known length of the analyzed data sets, TNT clearly outperforms Rec-I-DCM3. Finally, we show that the performance of Rec-I-DCM3 is bound by the efficiency of TBR implementation for the complete data set, as this method behaves (after some number of iterations) as a technique for cyclic perturbations and improvements more than as a divide-and-conquer strategy.
20143047|It is widely acknowledged that integrating fossils into data sets of extant taxa is imperative for proper placement of fossils, resolution of relationships, and a better understanding of character evolution. The importance of this process has been further magnified because of the crucial role of fossils in dating divergence times. Outstanding issues remain, including appropriate methods to place fossils in phylogenetic trees, the importance of molecules versus morphology in these analyses, as well as the impact of potentially large amounts of missing data for fossil taxa. In this study we used the angiosperm clade Juglandaceae as a model for investigating methods of integrating fossils into a phylogenetic framework of extant taxa. The clade has a rich fossil record relative to low extant diversity, as well as a robust molecular phylogeny and morphological database for extant taxa. After combining fossil organ genera into composite and terminal taxa, our objectives were to (1) compare multiple methods for the integration of the fossils and extant taxa (including total evidence, molecular scaffolds, and molecular matrix representation with parsimony [MRP]); (2) explore the impact of missing data (incomplete taxa and characters) and the evidence for placing fossils on the topology; (3) simulate the phylogenetic effect of missing data by creating "artifical fossils"; and (4) place fossils and compare the impact of single and multiple fossil constraints in estimating the age of clades. Despite large and variable amounts of missing data, each of the methods provided reasonable placement of both fossils and simulated "artificial fossils" in the phylogeny previously inferred only from extant taxa. Our results clearly show that the amount of missing data in any given taxon is not by itself an operational guideline for excluding fossils from analysis. Three fossil taxa (Cruciptera simsonii, Paleoplatycarya wingii, and Platycarya americana) were placed within crown clades containing living taxa for which relationships previously had been suggested based on morphology, whereas Polyptera manningii, a mosaic taxon with equivocal affinities, was placed firmly as sister to two modern crown clades. The position of Paleooreomunnea stoneana was ambiguous with total evidence but conclusive with DNA scaffolds and MRP. There was less disturbance of relationships among extant taxa using a total evidence approach, and the DNA scaffold approach did not provide improved resolution or internal support for clades compared to total evidence, whereas weighted MRP retained comparable levels of support but lost crown clade resolution. Multiple internal minimum age constraints generally provided reasonable age estimates, but the use of single constraints provided by extinct genera tended to underestimate clade ages.
20143055|The desire to infer the evolutionary history of a group of species should be more viable now that a considerable amount of multilocus molecular data is available. However, the current molecular phylogenetic paradigm still reconstructs gene trees to represent the species tree. Further, commonly used methods of combining data, such as the concatenation method, are known to be inconsistent in some circumstances. In this paper, we propose a Bayesian hierarchical model to estimate the phylogeny of a group of species using multiple estimated gene tree distributions, such as those that arise in a Bayesian analysis of DNA sequence data. Our model employs substitution models used in traditional phylogenetics but also uses coalescent theory to explain genealogical signals from species trees to gene trees and from gene trees to sequence data, thereby forming a complete stochastic model to estimate gene trees, species trees, ancestral population sizes, and species divergence times simultaneously. Our model is founded on the assumption that gene trees, even of unlinked loci, are correlated due to being derived from a single species tree and therefore should be estimated jointly. We apply the method to two multilocus data sets of DNA sequences. The estimates of the species tree topology and divergence times appear to be robust to the prior of the population size, whereas the estimates of effective population sizes are sensitive to the prior used in the analysis. These analyses also suggest that the model is superior to the concatenation method in fitting these data sets and thus provides a more realistic assessment of the variability in the distribution of the species tree that may have produced the molecular information at hand. Future improvements of our model and algorithm should include consideration of other factors that can cause discordance of gene trees and species trees, such as horizontal transfer or gene duplication.
20143050|We extend our recently developed Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm for Bayesian estimation of species divergence times to allow variable evolutionary rates among lineages. The method can use heterogeneous data from multiple gene loci and accommodate multiple fossil calibrations. Uncertainties in fossil calibrations are described using flexible statistical distributions. The prior for divergence times for nodes lacking fossil calibrations is specified by use of a birth-death process with species sampling. The prior for lineage-specific substitution rates is specified using either a model with autocorrelated rates among adjacent lineages (based on a geometric Brownian motion model of rate drift) or a model with independent rates among lineages specified by a log-normal probability distribution. We develop an infinite-sites theory, which predicts that when the amount of sequence data approaches infinity, the width of the posterior credibility interval and the posterior mean of divergence times form a perfect linear relationship, with the slope indicating uncertainties in time estimates that cannot be reduced by sequence data alone. Simulations are used to study the influence of among-lineage rate variation and the number of loci sampled on the uncertainty of divergence time estimates. The analysis suggests that posterior time estimates typically involve considerable uncertainties even with an infinite amount of sequence data, and that the reliability and precision of fossil calibrations are critically important to divergence time estimation. We apply our new algorithms to two empirical data sets and compare the results with those obtained in previous Bayesian and likelihood analyses. The results demonstrate the utility of our new algorithms.
20143051|Polyploidy, the duplication of entire genomes, plays a major role in plant evolution. In allopolyploids, genome duplication is associated with hybridization between two or more divergent genomes. Successive hybridization and polyploidization events can build up species complexes of allopolyploids with complicated network-like histories, and the evolutionary history of many plant groups cannot be adequately represented by phylogenetic trees because of such reticulate events. The history of complex genome mergings within a high-polyploid species complex in the genus Cerastium (Caryophyllaceae) is here untangled by the use of a network algorithm and noncoding sequences of a low-copy number gene. The resulting network illustrates how hybridization and polyploidization have acted as key evolutionary processes in creating a plant group where high-level allopolyploids clearly outnumber extant parental genomes.
20143046|Estimating phylogenetic relationships among closely related species can be extremely difficult when there is incongruence among gene trees and between the gene trees and the species tree. Here we show that incorporating a model of the stochastic loss of gene lineages by genetic drift into the phylogenetic estimation procedure can provide a robust estimate of species relationships, despite widespread incomplete sorting of ancestral polymorphism. This approach is applied to a group of montane Melanoplus grasshoppers for which genealogical discordance among loci and incomplete lineage sorting obscures any obvious phylogenetic relationships among species. Unlike traditional treatments where gene trees estimated using standard phylogenetic methods are implicitly equated with the species tree, with the coalescent-based approach the species tree is modeled probabilistically from the estimated gene trees. The estimated species phylogeny (the ESP) is calculated for the grasshoppers from multiple gene trees reconstructed for nuclear loci and a mitochondrial gene. This empirical application is coupled with a simulation study to explore the performance of the coalescent-based approach. Specifically, we test the accuracy of the ESP given the data based on analyses of simulated data matching the multilocus data collected in Melanoplus (i.e., data were simulated for each locus with the same number of base pairs and locus-specific mutational models). The results of the study show that ESPs can be computed using the coalescent-based approach long before reciprocal monophyly has been achieved, and that these statistical estimates are accurate. This contrasts with analyses of the empirical data collected in Melanoplus and simulated data based on concatenation of multiple loci, for which the incomplete lineage sorting of recently diverged species posed significant problems. The strengths and potential challenges associated with incorporating an explicit model of gene-lineage coalescence into the phylogenetic procedure to obtain an ESP, as illustrated by application to Melanoplus, versus concatenation and consensus approaches are discussed. This study represents a fundamental shift in how species relationships are estimated--the relationship between the gene trees and the species phylogeny is modeled probabilistically rather than equating gene trees with a species tree.
20143048|Phylogenetic diversity (PD) is a useful metric for selecting taxa in a range of biological applications, for example, bioconservation and genomics, where the selection is usually constrained by the limited availability of resources. We formalize taxon selection as a conceptually simple optimization problem, aiming to maximize PD subject to resource constraints. This allows us to take into account the different amounts of resources required by the different taxa. Although this is a computationally difficult problem, we present a dynamic programming algorithm that solves it in pseudo-polynomial time. Our algorithm can also solve many instances of the Noah's Ark Problem, a more realistic formulation of taxon selection for biodiversity conservation that allows for taxon-specific extinction risks. These instances extend the set of problems for which solutions are available beyond previously known greedy-tractable cases. Finally, we discuss the relevance of our results to real-life scenarios.
20143044|A review of the paleontological literature shows that the early dates of appearance of Lissamphibia recently inferred from molecular data do not favor an origin of extant amphibians from temnospondyls, contrary to recent claims. A supertree is assembled using new Mesquite modules that allow extinct taxa to be incorporated into a time-calibrated phylogeny with a user-defined geological time scale. The supertree incorporates 223 extinct species of lissamphibians and has a highly significant stratigraphic fit. Some divergences can even be dated with sufficient precision to serve as calibration points in molecular divergence date analyses. Fourteen combinations of minimal branch length settings and 10 random resolutions for each polytomy give much more recent minimal origination times of lissamphibian taxa than recent studies based on a phylogenetic analyses of molecular sequences. Attempts to replicate recent molecular date estimates show that these estimates depend strongly on the choice of calibration points, on the dating method, and on the chosen model of evolution; for instance, the estimate for the date of the origin of Lissamphibia can lie between 351 and 266 Mya. This range of values is generally compatible with our time-calibrated supertree and indicates that there is no unbridgeable gap between dates obtained using the fossil record and those using molecular evidence, contrary to previous suggestions.
20143045|Genome-scale data sets result in an enhanced resolution of the phylogenetic inference by reducing stochastic errors. However, there is also an increase of systematic errors due to model violations, which can lead to erroneous phylogenies. Here, we explore the impact of systematic errors on the resolution of the eukaryotic phylogeny using a data set of 143 nuclear-encoded proteins from 37 species. The initial observation was that, despite the impressive amount of data, some branches had no significant statistical support. To demonstrate that this lack of resolution is due to a mutual annihilation of phylogenetic and nonphylogenetic signals, we created a series of data sets with slightly different taxon sampling. As expected, these data sets yielded strongly supported but mutually exclusive trees, thus confirming the presence of conflicting phylogenetic and nonphylogenetic signals in the original data set. To decide on the correct tree, we applied several methods expected to reduce the impact of some kinds of systematic error. Briefly, we show that (i) removing fast-evolving positions, (ii) recoding amino acids into functional categories, and (iii) using a site-heterogeneous mixture model (CAT) are three effective means of increasing the ratio of phylogenetic to nonphylogenetic signal. Finally, our results allow us to formulate guidelines for detecting and overcoming phylogenetic artefacts in genome-scale phylogenetic analyses.
20143054|The incongruence length difference (ILD) test is prone to suggesting significant conflict between character partitions when these differ only in the amount of undirected homoplasy (noise). This has been shown to be due to nonlinearity in the relationship between tree length and noise. Here we show that by standardizing either tree length or 1-retention index on a 0-to-1 scale, and then taking the arcsine of the value, the resulting value is linearly related to noise except at extremely high noise levels. We then investigate the effect of substituting these values instead of raw tree metrics in a modified ILD test (here called arcsine-ILD) for two types of noise. We show that, using the modified metric instead of the raw length, the results of ILD tests agreed better with desirable properties.
20143049|Most supertree methods proposed to date are essentially ad hoc, rather than designed with particular properties in mind. Although the supertree problem remains difficult, one promising avenue is to develop from better understood consensus methods to the more general supertree setting. Here, we generalize the widely used majority-rule consensus method to the supertree setting. The majority-rule consensus tree is the strict consensus of the median trees under the symmetric-difference metric, so we can generalize the consensus method by generalizing this metric to trees with differing leaf sets. There are two different natural generalizations, based on pruning or grafting leaves to produce comparable trees, and these two generalizations produce two different, but related, majority-rule supertree methods.
10.2307/2413581|The concept of a reconciled tree arose independently in molecular systematics, parasitology, and biogeography as a means of describing historical associations. Examples of historical associations include genes and organisms, host and parasitic organisms, and organisms and areas. A reconciled tree combines the tree for a host and its associate into a single summary of the historical association between the two entities under the assumption that no horizontal transmission of associates has occurred. In this paper, I define reconciled trees, describe an algorithm for their computation, and develop measures to quantify the degree of fit between host and associate trees. Examples are given of applying the method to gene trees and species trees, host-parasite cospeciation, and biogeography. The problem of incorporating horizontal transmission of associates (e.g., dispersal or host switching) is also addressed by introducing the concept of maximizing the amount of codivergence (shared history) between the associates.
10.2307/2413583|Two kinds of characters of reduncine antelopes were analyzed cladistically: (1) quantitative osteological characters treated allometrically to remove the effects of body weight and (2) discretely coded characters. Character congruence was tested by combined cladistic analysis of all the data. We analyzed reduncine ontogeny and addressed the general question of how cladistics can be used together with ontogenetic information to study heterochrony. We tested whether characters of waterbuck evolved by paedomorphosis within the genus Kobus or whether these characters are plesiomorphic retentions. The plesiomorphic hypothesis was falsified and the paedomorphosis hypothesis was supported.
10.2307/2413578|Species definitions are commonly based on documentation either of genetic or ecologic cohesion (biological species models) or of phylogenetic relationship (phylogenetic species concept). However, these philosophical positions are often incompatible with data on genealogical relationship of and genetic/reproductive interactions among member populations. The difficulty in defining species in nature based on either viewpoint is exacerbated when times between divergence events are short, when differentiation among populations prior to speciation is extensive, and when reticulation events persist subsequent to speciation. We illustrate this set of problems with data on mitochondrial DNA sequences and both nuclear sequences and allozyme electromorphs for sets of populations of two currently recognized species of pocket gophers, Thomomys bottae and T. townsendii in the western United States. These molecular perspectives give somewhat conflicting views of polyphyly, paraphyly, and monophyly at the population and species level due, in part, to probable differences in times to monophyly, differential lineage sorting, retention of ancestral polymorphisms, and/or episodes of asymmetrical introgressive hybridization. As a consequence, strict adherence to any species concept in the objective recognition of evolutionary units within this complex is difficult at best.
10.2307/2413579|Three classes of metataxa are recognized-metaspecies, mixotaxa, and ambitaxa. Until such time that a metaspecies is shown to be monophyletic, paraphyletic, polyphyletic, or a mixotaxon or ambitaxon, it is considered to include organisms that are potential direct (but not necessarily the closest) ancestors to taxa subsequent to it on the cladogram. Metaspecies are recognized only at the species level, where potential ancestry must be from some group of organisms within this taxonomic level. The constituent members of a metaspecies are always organisms; if not, any larger clusters such as populations would dissolve to organisms because such clusters in a metaspecies (and a potential ancestor) do not possess autapomorphies. Mixotaxa and ambitaxa can occur at any level in the taxonomic hierarchy At the species level, however, they are rejected as potential direct ancestors because constituent members either have autapomorphies that preclude them from potential ancestry (mixospecies) or incongruously share character states with other members (ambispecies). Because they represent incomplete or incongruous information pertaining to phylogeny, mixotaxa and ambitaxa are restricted to previously named taxa and are denoted by two (**) or three (***) asterisks, respectively. Examples of all three kinds of metataxa are given: (1) metaspecies, e.g., various member species within the extinct archaic ungulates "Anisonchus" and Oxyacodon**, and (sub)species within the extant long-nosed snake Rhinocheilus; (2) mixotaxon, e.g., the extinct archaic ungulate Oxyacodon**, and (3) ambitaxon, e.g., the extant Iguanidae*** as formerly recognized. Because at least some metaspecies (recognized by a single asterisk) do have historical reality as ancestors, they can be named. Metaspecies should be recognized because they include historically real taxa (some metaspecies that are ancestors) and because they provide clarity of taxonomic usage that is not available with present conventions.
10.2307/2413580|The larger the sample size per operational taxonomic unit (OTU), the higher the probability of identifying the correct character state for that OTU. Large numbers of characters are essential to assure the accuracy and stability of a phylogenetic reconstruction. Both large sample sizes and large numbers of characters are desirable, but given limited time and resources, cladistic analysis often involves a trade-off between the number of specimens one can study per OTU versus the number of characters one has time to discover. For a given data set, what balance of sample size and character number will yield an acceptably small error (the probability that a recognized clade is false) and yet achieve sufficient power (the probability of recognition of a valid clade)? Myological data compiled for a study of arvicoline rodents were manipulated to determine the effect of character number reduction, the effect of deliberate inclusion of incorrect character states (mistakes), and the interaction of these two effects in an attempt to provide one answer to this question. The results indicate that with sample sizes of four specimens per OTU (some of which were at supraspecific levels), the frequency of mistakes is sufficient to cause unacceptable increases in error and losses of power in resulting cladograms. However, the error and power of the resulting cladogram are more sensitive to reductions in character number than to the inclusion of an occasional incorrect character state. Beyond a minimal increase in sample size (to five specimens per OTU in this example), it is more advantageous to search for new characters than it is to increase the number of specimens surveyed. Because adequate sample size is a function of the taxonomic level of the study and the data structure of the characters, these specific results should not be broadly applied, but the methods used to determine the appropriate sample size for the arvicoline data are applicable to other studies. We must devote more effort to increasing the reliability of our data sets to assure highly reliable cladograms.
10.2307/2413577|Recent literature suggests that a phylogenetic orientation may lead to unique perspectives on homology. An analysis of absence of avian hind limb flexors is used to explore this perspective. This approach suggests that synapomorphy is not equivalent to homology but rather that synapomorphies are hypotheses of homology (otherwise phylogenetic analysis is tautological). Homologies should be viewed as relationships among historical individuals, and we can only discover interorganismic homologies by phylogenetic analysis. Intraorganismic homologies, however, must be studied by other methods, primarily ontogenetic ones. Viewing homologies as (1) genetically and developmentally individualized entities or (2) sets of historical individuals may not always be particularly helpful from an operational perspective, but this is irrelevant because homologies are real entities that must be discovered, yet the process by which they are sought, as in all science, is one that does not yield truths, only hypotheses.
10.2307/2413582|Random sampling probabilities of evolutionary trees have been used to compare taxonomic classifications generated from different data sets, to test biogeographic hypotheses, and to study patterns of speciation. In this paper, I analyze a model in which speciation occurs by random bifurcation of existing lineages. A method of calculating the probability of an evolutionary tree by counting the possible arrangements of its nodes, branches, and terminal taxa is presented. Probabilities that sets of species are distinct clades are also given. The results are applicable to any number of taxa. Probabilities of trees are not altered by the absence of extinct or unstudied taxa. Applications of the results to systematics and further problems in the probability of evolutionary trees are discussed.
10.2307/2413546|Data from sequences of two chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) genes, ndhF and rbcL, and from restriction site mapping studies of the entire chloroplast genome were analyzed for the same set of 17 species of Solanaceae (potato/tomato family) and the outgroup Ipomoea (Convolvulaceae, morning glory family). ndhF is a more rapidly evolving gene and yields more phylogenetic information than does rbcL. The results of analyses of each data source independently are congruent with respect to certain major features of Solanaceae phylogeny but are in conflict with respect to the branching order within the monophyletic subfamily Solanoideae. This conflict resides in a portion of the phylogeny where relatively few characters are available in any of the three data sets. Combining the data into a single analysis yielded a more fully resolved tree, in which some clades are supported that are unique to each individual data set. However, in each such case, these resolved clades also were obtained when the two alternative data sets were analyzed together. The analysis of the combined data set provides substantial support for increased resolution within the Solanoideae and for the rest of the tree. The "X = 12" clade, so called because of a base chromosome number synapomorphy, comprises the subfamily Solanoideae, tribe Anthocercideae, and part of tribe Nicotianeae (Nicotiana) and is the most well-supported clade within the family.
10.2307/2413550|Discriminate compatibility measures are introduced. The character discriminate compatibility and the average character discriminate compatibility measures are used in weighted parsimony analysis in an iterative procedure, the reduction routine, to build trees. The data set discriminate compatibility measure is used to order and polarize characters. The average data set discriminate compatibility measure is used to measure the fit of different data sets and different user trees. Three inadequacies in the Le Quesne compatibility tests (Le Quesne, 1969, Syst. Zool. 18:201-205; 1979, Syst. Zool. 28:92-94) as applied by Penny and Hendy (1985, Cladistics 1:266-272; 1986, Mol. Biol. Evol. 3:403-417) and Sharkey (1989, Cladistics 5:63-86) are discussed.
10.2307/2413548|Current controversies about the definitions of taxon names reflect different underlying philosophical perspectives concerning the nature of definitions. The antithetical perspectives, called methodological essentialism and methodological nominalism (Popper, 1966, The open society and its enemies, Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton, NJ), are exemplified by alternative views in a controversy surrounding the definition of the name "Mammalia." Traditional perspectives on the definition of "Mammalia" are essentialistic in that the definition takes the form of a description stated in terms of the traits of individual organisms, thus implying that taxa are abstract categories, i.e., that taxa have essences. In addition, the extension of the defined term (the set of species or organisms to which the name applies) is logically prior to its intension or defining formula (the property or properties that a species or organism must have to be designated by the name). Consequently, the name is treated as if it had a designation proper to it, which conforms with the essentialistic view that the name is an abbreviated description of the essence. An alternative perspective is manifested in the redefinition of "Mammalia" as the name of the monotreme and therian crown clade. This perspective contrasts with the traditional one in that the definition is stated in terms of common ancestry relationships rather than organismal traits, thus implying that taxa are concrete composite wholes rather than abstract categories. In addition, the defining formula is logically prior to the extension of the defined term, and thus the name is treated only as a convenient label or shorthand symbol for the defining formula that has no proper designation. The replacement of an essentialistic perspective on the definitions of "Mammalia" and other taxon names by a more nominalistic one is associated with the development of a phylogenetic perspective on biological nomenclature and represents an important step in the development of a more broadly scientific approach to that subject.
10.2307/2413551|Analyses of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction sites and sequences were used to estimate phylogenetic relationships in the emydid turtle genus Graptemys. We compared resolution and concordance among four mtDNA data sets: (1) restriction sites, (2) cytochrome b sequences (380 base positions \[bp\]), (3) control region sequences (344 bp), and (4) combined (cytochrome b and control region) sequences. Five of the 12 currently recognized species could not be distinguished on the basis of restriction sites. Cytochrome b sequences provided even less phylogenetic information, whereas control region sequences identified all taxa. Bootstrap consensus trees for the restriction site and control region sequence data resolved three monophyletic clades: a pulchra group, a pseudogeographica group, and the basal G. geographica. Of the four data sets, the control region offered the greatest resolution with respect to species identification and phylogenetic information. However, a character congruence approach, combining both sequence and restriction site characters, significantly bolstered bootstrap support for the major clades and enhanced phylogenetic resolution within them. Sequence divergence estimates (restriction sites: 0.0-3.2%; cytochrome b: 0.0-1.5%) for Graptemys are among the lowest values reported for a generic-level comparison involving vertebrates. These findings are discussed in light of recent drainage isolation events along the Gulf of Mexico and a proposed slow rate of mtDNA evolution in turtles.
10.2307/2413547|Compositional bias, the occurrence of the four bases in unequal proportions, is a common feature of nucleotide sequences. We analyzed patterns of character-state reconstruction using maximum parsimony in two empirical data sets exhibiting compositional bias. For each case in which the inferred reciprocal numbers of changes for a pair of bases differed substantially, the two bases also differed markedly in relative abundance and the asymmetry of reconstructed transformations favored changes from the common state to the rare state. In addition, the compositional biases of the inferred ancestral sequences were more extreme than that seen in the terminal taxa, having an excess of common states relative to the terminals. Both of these features suggested that patterns of character-state reconstruction might be systematically distorted when compositional bias results in unequal representation of character states within a character, a condition we term character-state bias. Character-state bias is essentially compositional bias within a character. Simulation studies showed that highly asymmetric patterns of character-state reconstruction can be produced in the face of an underlying symmetry of character-state transformations in the presence of compositional bias. Rates of change are also important. The asymmetry of transformations produced in the simulations matched the pattern found in empirical data sets, with transformations from the common state to the rare state being more abundant. Rare states tend to be autapomorphic, typically requiring a change to the rare state on a tree. Conversely, changes from rare states to common states are systematically lost. These results are significant for methods that rely on character-state reconstruction using maximum parsimony, for example, to develop weighting schemes for phylogenetic analysis or to study patterns of correlated character evolution. Techniques that rely on character-state reconstruction may often be compromised by the distorting influence of character-state bias.
10.2307/2413549|The phylogenetic information content of five nuclear genes encoding amino acid sequences was assessed on the basis of their character support of well-established "test" phylogenies and their ability to recover these phylogenies using parsimony methods. The five genes encode dopa decarboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, RNA polymerase II (largest subunit), elongation factor-2, and elongation factor-1. The analyses employ the unambiguously alignable portions of all available animal sequences for these genes, representing a range of divergence times from about 10 to >550 million years ago. Separate analyses, including character mappings on the test phylogenies and, when different, on the most-parsimonious trees, were performed with nucleotides separated by codon position and with amino acids. Pairwise sequence divergences were calculated for all comparisons and are related to character information content. Amino acid and most nucleotide character sets recovered the test phylogenies, although with varying degrees of support, homoplasy, and resolution, confirming that these genes contain substantial phylogenetic information. An estimate is provided of the time span over which each character set in each gene will prove phylogenetically most informative. These genes should prove widely useful for systematics.
10.2307/2413464|In the absence of certainty, well-corroborated hypotheses of species relationships serve as the best estimates of the true phylogenies of groups. This approach was extended to linked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences that share the same gene phylogenies because of nonrecombination. This expectation of congruence forms the basis to test the reliability of unequal weighting for different base positions and changes of DNA sequences. The principal data for this test were the mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA (rRNA), 16S rRNA, and cytochrome c oxidase subunit II sequences of five pecoran species (Artiodactyla, Eutheria), as obtained from the same plasmid clones and/or mtDNA isolations of brain, liver, or heart. Heavy weighting for stems and first/second codon positions and for transversions were first evaluated against the molecular evolutionary properties of the three genes and then evaluated by congruence, as measured in terms of both agreement and resolution. With unequal weighting, congruence was increased among the trees that result from separate analyses of the three genes. These results support the reliability of these weighting schemes and illustrate how phylogenetic accuracy can be tested with gene phylogenies for linked sequences (e.g., of mtDNA).
10.2307/2413460|Genes widely used in systematic studies have proven valuable for the resolution of relatively shallow (<50 million years ago [MYA]) and very deep (>300 MYA) divergences, but genes useful for moderately deep divergences have been lacking. Computerized data bases of gene sequences are growing at a rapid pace and provide a rich resource of genes likely to contain phylogenetic information about many levels of divergence. Despite the fact that the chosen gene must be appropriately matched to the phylogenetic divergence(s) of interest, little attention has been given to the estimation and/or evaluation of the likely phylogenetic utility of genes. Knowledge of the phylogenetic relationships and divergence times among organisms for which gene sequences are commonly available provides a powerful tool for estimating this utility. I conducted a survey with the goal of identifying the most promising genes for investigating divergences ranging from approximately 50 to 200 MYA in an amphibian clade. Nine nuclear protein genes were identified. These genes may be useful to systematists working on taxa with similar divergence times, and the general approach may serve as an example of how other such surveys could be conducted.
10.2307/2413463|Because phylogenies play a central role in many evolutionary and population genetic questions, it is vital to have confidence in phylogeny reconstructions for particular data sets. An algorithm recently introduced by Templeton et al. (1992, Genetics 132:619-633) simultaneously estimates cladograms from a given set of restriction site or nucleotide sequence data and calculates a confidence set of alternatives while allowing for the possibility of recombination within the data set. This method was developed for use at the intraspecific level, where mutational differences between operational taxonomic units are few Because of the strengths of this method, it would be desirable to use it at higher levels of phylogenetic analysis. I tested the accuracy of the method of Templeton et al. using a known phylogeny from bacteriophage T7, which simulates higher levels of diversification. This method has greater statistical power and more accurately reconstructs phylogenetic relationships than does maximum parsimony when few molecular characters are available for analysis, even at higher levels of diversification.
10.2307/2413462|In this paper, we describe the development of Hennig's most important phylogenetic concepts, which culminated in the publication of the now famous Phylogenetic Systematics in 1966. Hennig proposed strict definitions of monophyly and phylogenetic relationships as early as 1950 in Grundzuge einer Theorie der phylogenetischen Systematik. However, in this edition of the book, the terms "apomorphic" and "plesiomorphic" were introduced for taxa and not for characters. It was not until 1952 that these terms were consistently applied to characters, hereby for the first time allowing the reconstruction of phylogenetic relationships. But this is not Hennig's sole contribution to systematics, as revealed by a comparison of his Phylogenetic Systematics with publications of the "new systematics" school (e.g., Huxley, 1940, The new systematics, Oxford Univ. Press, Oxford, England; Mayr et al., 1953, Methods and principles of systematic zoology, McGraw-Hill, New York). Hennig was the person who redirected the interest of systematics to the study of supraspecific taxa after years of focusing on species and infraspecific taxa.
10.2307/2413459|Seven contrasting hypotheses of relationships of sarcopterygian groups are compared. The sister-group relationship of tetrapods to different fossil and Recent sarcopterygians is presented in the various hypotheses. Three possible sister-group relationships of tetrapods (to the Recent sarcopterygians, the Dipnoi, and Actinistia) are found among the seven hypotheses. The analyses presented here support all three possibilities to different degrees. Analysis of the complete data set drawn from studies that supported all seven hypotheses indicates that fossil taxa are more closely related to tetrapods than are Recent taxa. The Panderichthyida is the sister group of tetrapods, and both groups, together with Osteolepiformes, form the Choanata (the only osteichthyans with a true choana and one external nasal opening). The differences among the seven hypotheses are based on differences in selection of characters, as well as differences in hypotheses of homology. A test for congruence (synapomorphy) supports the initial homologizations. A careful analysis of each character for similarity and congruence is required before we may gain a higher level of reconciliation among the proposed hypotheses.
10.2307/2413461|Phylogenies based on single genes can be discordant with organismal phylogenies. One solution to this problem is to sequence independent genes and combine the data in phylogeny estimates. The mitochondrial gene ND1 was sequenced for representative noctuoid moths to complement a nuclear ribosomal RNA (rRNA) data set. Before combining the two data. sets, the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) data were analyzed under different assumptions of character treatment (unweighted sites, transversion parsimony, third codon site omitted). Although theoretical justifications exist for differentially weighting transversions and codon sites, these approaches did not improve our phylogeny estimates of noctuoid relationships based on only the mtDNA sequences. However, the contribution of the relatively small (25% of total data) but independent nuclear rRNA data set had a substantial impact on our analysis. The trees produced from the combined data do not support the monophyly of the largest family, the cutworms (Noctuidae). We suggest that cutworms are a grade rather than a clade in the superfamily. We mapped the replacement pathways of the ND1 amino acids using transformation series analysis and the most robust noctuoid tree. The resulting cladogram characters show that different amino acid replacement pathways exist for the same set of amino acid residues at different positions in the molecule. These replacement pathways do not conform to models proposed for protein evolution.
10.2307/2413675|A 2,479-base pair mitochondrial DNA fragment was sequenced for eight chromosome races of Sceloporus grammicus from central Mexico to estimate their phylogenetic relationships. The species S. poinsetti and S. olivaceus were used separately as alternative outgroups. A total of 795 positions varied in three complete protein-coding genes examined (ND3, ND4L, ND4), and 52 of 292 positions varied across five transfer RNAs examined (glycine, argenine, histidine, serine, leucine). Sequence divergence values ranged from 0.0 to 0.23 among the ingroup taxa, and a maximum of 0.26 was observed between ingroup and outgroup taxa. Alternative analyses based upon equally weighted characters and several alternative character-weighting options were used to obtain phylogenetic hypotheses for the complex, and a single most-parsimonious tree was selected from among these on the basis of a new character-weighting method that takes into account the observed frequencies of all 12 possible substitutions for protein genes. The most-parsimonious cladogram showed that chromosomal evolution in this complex has been more complicated than previously hypothesized. Several rearrangements (Robertsonian fissions) have evolved independently on two or more occasions, which corroborates evidence from other studies showing that single rearrangements are not underdominant upon their origin, and their fixation probabilities are enhanced by repeated origins. These observations refute expectations of some general models of chromosome evolution. The same phylogenetic hypothesis was used to test the minimum-interaction model of chromosome evolution and a specific model for the evolution of macrochromosome 2. A clear distinction was also possible among alternative hypotheses of relationship for three chromosome races involved in hybridization, and the consequences for the role of chromosomal rearrangements in reducing gene flow are discussed in this context.
10.2307/2413673|Consensus trees provide a means of representing cladistic information that is common to a set of fundamental trees. An analysis of the logical relations that pertain between different classes of cladistic information was undertaken. A general class of information, n-taxon statements, is recognized as a form of cladistic information in terms of which triplets (three-taxon statements), components, and subset nestings can be described. Disqualifiers (the negations of n-taxon statements) comprise an additional class of cladistic information. As is widely recognized, strict and Adams consensus methods have problems of insensitivity and ambiguity, respectively. New consensus methods were developed that solve these problems. The reduced Adams consensus method was developed to facilitate the unambiguous interpretation of Adams consensus trees. The reduced cladistic consensus method provides a solution to the problem of graphically representing all n-taxon statements that are common to a set of fundamental trees. A means of representing common disqualifiers using disqualifier-faithful subtrees is also suggested. The utility of consensus methods is discussed in the light of the development of the new methods, including the use of consensus trees in the measure of support and in support-based randomization tests.
10.2307/2413671|Molecular developmental genetics and systematics appear to have much to offer one another, but the phylogenetic perspective of systematics has yet to be applied consistently to molecular developmental problems. Yet phylogenetic analysis of the genes involved in the regulation of development is an important approach to elucidating orthologous relationships among the members of multigene families. Recognizing orthologues, in turn, is a prerequisite for the identification of general development mechanisms underlying the diversity of observed morphologies. Gene phylogenies also provide objectively based hypotheses for studying the evolution of gene structure and expression. This approach is explored with the MADS-box family of plant genes, many of whose members are involved in the regulation of floral development. Topologies of reconstructed phylogenies are used to address questions concerning intron evolution and expression patterns in the family. Detailed understanding of the molecular basis of developmental pathways should offer systematists new criteria for assessing the homologies of morphological characters used in phylogenetic analysis. This approach suggests a future direction for "molecular" systematics, complementing its current role in inferring organismal phylogenies directly from gene trees. Such a research program is likely to be time consuming but justifiable for certain classes of morphological characters, particularly those marking ancient origins of major groups.
10.2307/2413674|This paper presents an analysis of data from two published phylogenies of North American dabbling ducks (Anas), one based on mitochondrial DNA restriction fragments (Kessler and Avise, 1984, Syst. Zool. 33:370-380) and one based on morphology (Livezey, 1991, Auk 108:471-508). Although the published phylogenies differ greatly in topology, most of the apparent disagreement stems from the phenetic rooting method used in the molecular study. Rooting by outgroup and using the same taxa from both data sets revealed that the most-parsimonious trees for the two data sets differ only in the placement of one clade. Furthermore, several lines of evidence show that there is greater character congruence between the molecular and morphological data sets for these ducks than for most other taxa for which data are published: (1) an incongruence index (I<sub>MF</sub>; Mickevich and Farris, 1981, Syst. Zool. 30:351-370) demonstrates that only 1.35% of the character incongruence in the combined data is due to incongruence between the data sets; (2) for each data set, trees only a few steps longer than the shortest tree match the most-parsimonious tree from the other data set; and (3) a way of applying correlation coefficients to branch lengths reveals a high correlation in branch lengths (r<sub>BL</sub> = 0.78) and total evolutionary changes (r<sub>TE</sub> = 0.68) between matching phylograms from the two data sets. These correlations also show that the two character types evolved at similar relative rates in any given lineage, even though there were real rate differences between lineages. The high degree of character congruence means that the discrepancy between the most-parsimonious trees are due to insufficient data, not real disagreement. This situation warrants combining the data sets, and the resulting shortest cladogram is more strongly supported than is either of the shortest trees from the individual data sets. The correspondence between the data sets validates the soundness of the inferred trees, showing that they are a reliable basis for classification and studies of character evolution.
10.2307/2413672|A proof is presented that the maximum likelihood (ML) method of phylogenetic estimation from DNA sequences (Felsenstein, 1981, J. Mol. Evol. 17:368-376) is statistically consistent despite the irregularity of the parameter space of the estimation problem. The distance matrix method using the least squares (LS) criterion is also consistent, but disconnection of two steps in the method, i.e., estimation of sequence divergence and construction of the tree topology, appears to lead to both theoretical contradictions and practical problems. Comparison of the ML and LS methods shows that the ML method is much more, indeed extremely, tolerant to violation of its assumptions and also has smaller sampling errors caused by limited data. This conclusion should be general, independent of particular models, tree topologies, and number of species in the data set. The problem of evaluating the reliability of the estimated tree topology was examined. The test of positivity of the interior branch length in the estimated tree is not a test of the significance of the ML tree but may be taken as a test of the significance of the LS tree.
3070871|Evolutionary biologists have adopted simple likelihood models for purposes of estimating ancestral states and evaluating character independence on specified phylogenies; however, for purposes of estimating phylogenies by using discrete morphological data, maximum parsimony remains the only option. This paper explores the possibility of using standard, well-behaved Markov models for estimating morphological phylogenies (including branch lengths) under the likelihood criterion. An important modification of standard Markov models involves making the likelihood conditional on characters being variable, because constant characters are absent in morphological data sets. Without this modification, branch lengths are often overestimated, resulting in potentially serious biases in tree topology selection. Several new avenues of research are opened by an explicitly model-based approach to phylogenetic analysis of discrete morphological data, including combined-data likelihood analyses (morphology + sequence data), likelihood ratio tests, and Bayesian analyses.
3070867|Although the phylogenetic position of brachiopods has always been subject to debate, many authors place them as a sister group to deuterostomes on the basis of morphological and developmental characters. However, molecular phylogeny consistently places them among protostomes. More precisely; brachiopods are predicted to branch inside the lophotrochozoan assemblage, together with annelids, molluscs, nemerteans, flatworms, and others. That result has been criticized on the basis of (1) prior knowledge of brachiopod morphology and (2) the known limitations of molecular phylogenies. Here I review recent data of molecular origin, particularly those displaying qualitative properties close to those of morphological characters. The complement of Hox genes present in all metazoa tested to date has proved to be a powerful tool for broad phylogenetic reconstruction. The mitochondrial genome also provides qualitative characters, showing discrete events of gene rearrangements. After discussing the data and the way they should be interpreted in the perspective of several hypotheses for metazoan phylogeny, I conclude that they argue strongly in favor of the protostome (and lophotrochozoan) affinity of the brachiopods. There is therefore a need for a reinterpretation of brachiopod morphological and developmental characters. I also identify some research axes on brachiopod morphology.
3070864| The possibility of gene tree incongruence in a species-level phylogenetic analysis of the genus Ips (Coleoptera: Scolytidae) was investigated based on mitochondrial 16S rRNA (16S) and nuclear elongation factor-1 (EF-1) sequences, and existing cytochrome oxidase I (COI) and non-molecular data sets. Separate cladistic analyses of the data partitions resulted in partially discordant most-parsimonious trees but revealed only low conflict of the phylogenetic signal. Interactions among data partitions, which differed in the extent of sequence divergence (COI > 16S > EF-1), base composition, and homoplasy, revealed that much of the branch support emerges only in the simultaneous analysis, particularly for deeper nodes in the tree, which are almost entirely supported through" hidden support" (sensu Gatesy et al., Cladistics 15:271-313, 1999). Apparent incongruence between data partitions is in part due to suboptimal alignments and bias of character transformations, but little evidence supports invoking incongruent phylogenetic histories of genetic loci. There is also no justification for eliminating or downweighting gene partitions on the basis of their apparent homoplasy or incongruence with other partitions, because the signal emerges only in the interaction of all data. In comparison with traditional taxonomy, the pini, plastographus, and perturbatus groups are polyphyletic, whereas the grandicollis group is monophyletic except for inclusion of the (monophyletic) calligraphus group. The latidens group and some European species are distantly related and closer to other genera within Ipini. Our robust cladogram was used to revise the classification of Ips. We provide new diagnoses for Ips and four subgeneric taxa. 
3070869|For more than 10 years, systematists have been debating the superiority of character or taxonomic congruence in phylogenetic analysis. In this paper, we demonstrate that the competing approaches can converge to the same solution when a consensus method that accounts for branch lengths is selected. Thus, we propose to use both methods in combination, as a way to corroborate the results of combined and separate analyses. This so-called "global congruence" approach is tested with a wide variety of examples sampled from the literature, and the results are compared with those obtained by standard consensus methods. Our analyses show that when the total evidence and consensus trees differ topologically, collapsing weakly supported nodes with low bootstrap support usually improves "global congruence."
3070870|Areas of endemism are central to cladistic biogeography. The concept has been much debated in the past, and from this has emerged the generally accepted definition as an area to which at least two species are endemic. Protocols for locating areas of endemism have been neglected, and to date no attempt has been made to develop optimality criteria against which to evaluate competing hypotheses of areas of endemism. Here various protocols for finding areas of endemism are evaluated-protocols based on both phenetic and parsimony analyses, on both unweighted data and data weighted by various criteria. The optimality criteria used to compare the performance of the methods include the number of species included in the areas of endemism, the number of areas delimited, and the degree of distributional congruency of the species restricted to each area of endemism. These methods are applied to the African Restionaceae in the Cape Floristic Region. Parsimony methods using weighted data are shown to perform best on the combination of all three optimality criteria. By varying the weighting parameters, the size of the areas of endemism can be varied. This provides a very useful tool for locating areas of endemism that satisfy prespecified scale criteria.
3070872|The Zingiberales are a tropical group of monocotyledons that includes bananas, gingers, and their relatives. The phylogenetic relationships among the eight families currently recognized are investigated here by using parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of four character sets: morphological features (1), and sequence data of the (2) chloroplast rbcL gene, (3) chloroplast atpB gene, and (4) nuclear 18S rDNA gene. Outgroups for the analyses include the closely related Commelinaceae + Philydraceae + Haemodoraceae + Pontederiaceae + Hanguanaceae as well as seven more distantly related monocots and paleoherbs. Only slightly different estimates of evolutionary relationships result from the analysis of each character set. The morphological data yield a single fully resolved most-parsimonious tree. None of the molecular datasets alone completely resolves interfamilial relationships. The analyses of the combined molecular dataset provide more resolution than do those of individual genes, and the addition of the morphological data provides a well-supported estimate of phylogenetic relationships: (Musaceae ((Strelitziaceae, Lowiaceae) (Heliconiaceae ((Zingiberaceae, Costaceae) (Cannaceae, Marantaceae))))). Evidence from branch lengths in the parsimony analyses and from the fossil record suggests that the Zingiberales originated in the Early Cretaceous and underwent a rapid radiation in the mid-Cretaceous, by which time most extant family lineages had diverged.
3070868|Fruit type in the genus Lithocarpus (Fagaceae) includes both classic oak acorns and novel modifications. Bornean taxa with modified fruits can be separated into two sections (Synaedrys and Lithocarpus) based on subtle shape differences. By following strict criteria for homology and representation, this variation in shape can be captured and the sections distinguished by using elliptic Fourier or eigenshape analysis. Phenograms of fruit shape, constructed by using restricted maximum likelihood techniques and these morphometric descriptors, were incorporated into combined and comparative analyses with molecular sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the nuclear rDNA, using branch-weighted matrix representation. The combined analysis strongly suggested independent derivation of the novel fruit type in the two sections from different acorn-like ancestors, while the comparative analysis indicated frequent decoupling between the molecular and morphological changes as inferred at well-supported nodes. The acorn fruit type has undergone little modification between ingroup and outgroup, despite large molecular distance. Greater morphological than molecular change was inferred at critical transitions between acorn and novel fruit types, particularly for section Lithocarpus. The combination of these two different types of data improved our understanding of the macroevolution of fruit type in this difficult group, and the comparative analysis highlighted the significant incongruities in evolutionary pattern between the two datasets.
3070866|Rapid, ancient radiations pose one of the most difficult challenges for phylogenetic estimation. We used DNA sequence data of 9,006 aligned base pairs from five genes (chloroplast atpB, matK, rbcL, and 18S and 26S nrDNA) to elucidate relationships among major lineages of Saxifragales (angiosperms, eudicots). These relationships were poorly supported in previous studies, apparently because the lineages originated in rapid succession. Using an array of methods that explicitly incorporate assumptions about evolutionary process (weighted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, LogDet/paralinear transformed distances), we show that the initial diversification of Saxifragales was indeed rapid. We suggest that the poor resolution of our best phylogenetic estimate is not due to violations of assumptions or to combining data partitions having conflicting histories or processes. We show that estimated branch lengths during the initial diversification are exceedingly short, and we estimate that acquiring sufficient sequence data to resolve these relationships would require an extraordinary effort (10<sup>7</sup>bp), assuming a linear increase in branch support with branch length. However, our simulation of much larger data sets containing a distribution of phylogenetic signal similar to that of the five sampled gene sequences suggests a limit to achievable branch support. Using statistical tests of differences in the likelihoods of topologies, we evaluated whether the initial radiation of Saxifragales involved the simultaneous origin of major lineages. Our results are consistent with predictions that resolving the branching order of rapid, ancient radiations requires sampling characters that evolved rapidly at the time of the radiation but have since experienced a slower evolutionary rate.
3070865| Trichoptera are holometabolous insects with aquatic larvae that, together with the Lepidoptera, make up the Amphiesmenoptera. Despite extensive previous morphological work, little phylogenetic agreement has been reached about the relationship among the three suborders-Annulipalpia, Spicipalpia, and Integripalpia-or about the monophyly of Spicipalpia. In an effort to resolve this conflict, we sequenced fragments of the large and small subunit nuclear ribosomal RNAs (1078 nt; D1, D3, V4-5), the nuclear elongation factor 1 gene (EF-1; 1098 nt), and a fragment of mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI; 411 nt). Seventy adult and larval morphological characters were reanalyzed and added to molecular data in a combined analysis. We evaluated signal and homoplasy in each of the molecular datasets and attempted to rank the particular datasets according to how appropriate they were for inferring relationships among suborders. This evaluation included testing for conflict among datasets, comparing tree lengths among alternative hypotheses, measuring the left-skew of tree-length distributions from maximally divergent sets of taxa, evaluating the recovery of expected clades, visualizing whether or not substitutions were accumulating with time, and estimating nucleotide compositional bias. Although all these measures cast doubt on the reliability of the deep-level signal coming from the nucleotides of the COI and EF-1 genes, these data could still be included in combined analyses without overturning the results from the most conservative marker, the rRNA. The different datasets were found to be evolving under extremely different rates. A site-specific likelihood method for dealing with combined data with nonoverlapping parameters was proposed, and a similar weighting scheme under parsimony was evaluated. Among our phylogenetic conclusions, we found Annulipalpia to be the most basal of the three suborders, with Spicipalpia and Integripalpia forming a clade. Monophyly of Annulipalpia and Integripalpia was confirmed, but the relationships among spicipalpians remain equivocal. 
3070873|Current hypotheses regarding family relationships in the suborder Adephaga (Coleoptera) are conflicting. Here we report full-length 18S ribosomal RNA sequences of 39 adephagans and 13 outgroup taxa. Data analysis focused on the impact of sequence alignment on tree topology, using two principally different approaches. Tree alignments, which seek to minimize indels and substitutions on the tree in a single step, as implemented in an approximate procedure by the computer program POY, were contrasted with a more traditional procedure based on alignments followed by phylogenetic inference based on parsimony, likelihood, and distance analyses. Despite substantial differences between the procedures, phylogenetic conclusions regarding basal relationships within Adephaga and relationships between the four suborders of Coleoptera were broadly similar. The analysis weakly supports monophyly of Adephaga, with Polyphaga usually as its sister, and the two small suborders Myxophaga and Archostemata basal to them. In some analyses, however, Polyphaga was reconstructed as having arisen from within Hydradephaga. Adephaga generally split into two monophyletic groups, corresponding to the terrestrial Geadephaga and the aquatic Hydradephaga, as initially proposed by Crowson in 1955, consistent with a single colonization of the aquatic environment by adephagan ancestors and contradicting the recent proposition of three independent invasions. A monophyletic Hydradephaga is consistently, though not strongly, supported under most analyses, and a parametric bootstrapping test significantly rejects an hypothesis of nonmonophyly. The enigmatic Trachypachidae, which exhibit many similarities to aquatic forms but whose species are entirely terrestrial, were usually recovered as a basal lineage within Geadephaga. Strong evidence opposes the view that terrestrial trachypachids are related to the dytiscoid water beetles.
3070956|In this paper we describe a new heuristic strategy designed to find optimal (parsimonious) trees for data sets with large numbers of taxa and characters. This new strategy uses an iterative searching process of branch swapping with equally weighted characters, followed by swapping with reweighted characters. This process increases the efficiency of the search because, after each round of swapping with reweighted characters, the subsequent swapping with equal weights will start from a different group (island) of trees that are only slightly, if at all, less optimal. In contrast, conventional heuristic searching with constant equal weighting can become trapped on islands of suboptimal trees. We test the new strategy against a conventional strategy and a modified conventional strategy and show that, within a given time, the new strategy finds trees that are markedly more parsimonious. We also compare our new strategy with a recent, independently developed strategy known as the Parsimony Ratchet.
3070958|A phylogenetic hypothesis of relationships among 33 species of stalk-eyed flies was generated from a molecular data set comprising three mitochondrial and three nuclear gene regions. A combined analysis of all the data equally weighted produced a single most-parsimonious cladogram with relatively strong support at the majority of nodes. The phylogenetic utility of different classes of molecular data was also examined. In particular, using a number of different measures of utility in both a combined and separate analysis framework, we focused on the distinction between mitochondrial and nuclear genes and between faster-evolving characters and slower-evolving characters. For the first comparison, by nearly any measure of utility, the nuclear genes are substantially more informative for resolving diopsid relationships than are the mitochondrial genes. The nuclear genes exhibit less homoplasy, are less incongruent with one another and with the combined data, and contribute more support to the combined analysis topology than do the mitochondrial genes. Results from the second comparison, however, provide little evidence of a clear difference in utility. Despite indications of rapid divergence and saturation, faster-evolving characters in both the nuclear and mitochondrial data sets still provide substantial phylogenetic signal. In general, inclusion of the more rapidly evolving data consistently improves the congruence among partitions.
3070955|We studied the molecular phylogeny of the carabid subgenus Ohomopterus (genus Carabus), using two mitochondrial (mt) DNA regions (16SrRNA and NADH dehydrogenase subunit 5) and three nuclear DNA regions (wingless, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, and an anonymous locus). We revisited the previously reported incongruence between the distribution of mtDNA markers and morphologically defined species (Su et al., 1996; J. Mol. Evol. 43:662-671), which those authors attributed to "type switching", a concerted change in many morphological characters that results in the repeated evolution of a particular morphological type. Our mtDNA gene tree obtained from 44 individuals representing all 15 currently recognized species of Ohomopterus revealed that haplotypes isolated from individuals of a single "species" were frequently separated into distant clades, confirming the previous report. The three nuclear markers generally conformed better-with the morphologically defined species than did the mitochondrial markers. The phylogenetic signal in mtDNA and nuclear DNA data differed strongly, and these two partitions were significantly incongruent with each other according to the incongruence length difference test of Farris et al. (1994; Cladistics 10:315-320), although the three nuclear partitions were not homogeneous either. Our results did not support the type-switching hypothesis that had been proposed to fit the morphological data to the mitochondrial gene tree: The incongruence of the mtDNA tree with other nuclear markers indicates that the mtDNA-based tree does not reflect species history any better than the morphological data do. Incongruence of gene trees in Ohomopterus may have been promoted by the complex processes of geographic isolation and hybridization in the Japanese Archipelago that have led to occasional gene flow and recombination between separated entities. The occurrence of reticulate patterns in this group is intriguing, because species of Ohomopterus exhibit extremely divergent genitalic structures that represent a highly efficient reproductive isolation mechanism.
3070957|We have investigated the effects of different among-site rate variation models on the estimation of substitution model parameters, branch lengths, topology, and bootstrap proportions under minimum evolution (ME) and maximum likelihood (ML). Specifically, we examined equal rates, invariable sites, gamma-distributed rates, and site-specific rates (SSR) models, using mitochondrial DNA sequence data from three protein-coding genes and one tRNA gene from species of the New Zealand cicada genus Maoricicada. Estimates of topology were relatively insensitive to the substitution model used; however, estimates of bootstrap support, branch lengths, and R-matrices (underlying relative substitution rate matrix) were strongly influenced by the assumptions of the substitution model. We identified one situation where ME and ML tree building became inaccurate when implemented with an inappropriate among-site rate variation model. Despite the fact the SSR models often have a better fit to the data than do invariable sites and gamma rates models, SSR models have some serious weaknesses. First, SSR rate parameters are not comparable across data sets, unlike the proportion of invariable sites or the alpha shape parameter of the gamma distribution. Second, the extreme among-site rate variation within codon positions is problematic for SSR models, which explicitly assume rate homogeneity within each rate class. Third, the SSR models appear to give severe underestimates of R-matrices and branch lengths relative to invariable sites and gamma rates models in this example. We recommend performing phylogenetic analyses under a range of substitution models to test the effects of model assumptions not only on estimates of topology but also on estimates of branch length and nodal support.
3070959| Although it is widely agreed that data from multiple sources are necessary to confidently resolve phylogenetic relationships, procedures for accommodating and incorporating heterogeneity in such data remain underdeveloped. We explored the use of partitioned, model-based analyses of heterogeneous molecular data in the context of a phylogenetic study of swallowtail butterflies (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae). Despite substantial basic and applied study, phylogenetic relationships among the major lineages of this prominent group remain contentious. We sequenced 3.3 kb of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA (2.3 kb of cytochrome oxidase I and II and 1.0 kb of elongation factor-1, respectively) from 22 swallowtails, including representatives of Baroniinae, Parnassiinae, and Papilioninae, and from several moth and butterfly outgroups. Using parsimony, we encountered considerable difficulty in resolving the deepest splits among these taxa. We therefore chose two outgroups with undisputed relationships to each other and to Papilionidae and undertook detailed likelihood analyses of alternative topologies. Following from previous studies that have demonstrated substantial heterogeneity in the evolutionary dynamics among process partitions of these genes, we estimated evolutionary parameters separately for gene-based and codon-based partitions. These values were then used as the basis for examining the likelihoods of possible resolutions and rootings under several partitioned and unpartitioned likelihood models. Partitioned models gave markedly better fits to the data than did unpartitioned models and supported different topologies. However, the most likely topology varied from model to model. The most likely ingroup topology under the best-fitting, six-partition GTR +  model favors a paraphyletic Parnassiinae. However, when examining the likelihoods of alternative rootings of this tree relative to rootings of the classical hypothesis, two rootings of the latter emerge as most likely. Of these two, the most likely rooting is within the Papilioninae, although a rooting between Baronia and the remaining Papilionidae is only nonsignificantly less likely. 
3070953|The maximum likelihood (ML) method of phylogenetic tree construction is not as widely used as other tree construction methods (e.g., parsimony, neighbor-joining) because of the prohibitive amount of time required to find the ML tree when the number of sequences under consideration is large. To overcome this difficulty, we propose a stochastic search strategy for estimation of the ML tree that is based on a simulated annealing algorithm. The algorithm works by moving through tree space by way of a "local rearrangement" strategy so that topologies that improve the likelihood are always accepted, whereas those that decrease the likelihood are accepted with a probability that is related to the proportionate decrease in likelihood. Besides greatly reducing the time required to estimate the ML tree, the stochastic search strategy is less likely to become trapped in local optima than are existing algorithms for ML tree estimation. We demonstrate the success of the modified simulated annealing algorithm by comparing it with two existing algorithms (Swofford's PAUP<sup>*</sup> and Felsenstein's DNAMLK) for several theoretical and real data examples.
3070954|Ecological adaptation within islands may have figured prominently in the insular radiation of black flies (subgenus Inseliellum) in the Society Islands, French Polynesia. To aid in understanding the sequence of ecological shifts in this group, we have constructed a phylogeny by using morphology, the cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene, and the small ribosomal subunit (12S) gene. The strong influence of COI on the combined analysis tree was evident from its contribution to the partitioned Bremer support (62%). The net effect of including 12S was to reduce overall tree support. Different character sets resolved different portions of the combined analysis tree, with COI resolving recent lineages, 12S resolving basal relationships, and morphology supporting the monophyly of taxa having smaller larval feeding fans (oviceps group). The Partition Homogeneity and Kashino-Hasegawa tests indicated significant incongruence between morphological and mitochondrial data. The Templeton test revealed that morphology and the combined (COI + 12S) mitochondrial data were incongruent. This conflict stems primarily from disagreement over the monophyly of taxa having much smaller larval feeding fans. Either convergence in a subset of morphological characters, low phylogenetic signal among mitochondrial sequences, or lineage-sorting causing the mitochondrial data to track an incorrect evolutionary history may be responsible for these results.
3070848|The microbial way of life spans at least 3.8 billion years of evolution. Microbial organisms are pervasive, ubiquitous, and essential components of all ecosystems. The geochemical composition of Earth's biosphere has been molded largely by microbial activities. Yet, despite the predominance of microbes during the course of life's history, general principles and theory of microbial evolution and ecology are not well developed. Until recently, investigators had no idea how accurately cultivated microorganisms represented overall microbial diversity. The development of molecular phylogenetics has recently enabled characterization of naturally occurring microbial biota without cultivation. Free from the biases of culture-based studies, molecular phylogenetic surveys have revealed a vast array of new microbial groups. Many of these new microbes are widespread and abundant among contemporary microbiota and fall within novel divisions that branch deep within the tree of life. The breadth and extent of extant microbial diversity has become much clearer. A remaining challenge for microbial biologists is to better characterize the biological properties of these newly described microbial taxa. This more comprehensive picture will provide much better perspective on the natural history, ecology, and evolution of extant microbial life.
3070849|Unlike crown eukaryotic species, microbial species are created by continual processes of gene loss and acquisition promoted by horizontal genetic transfer. The amounts of foreign DNA in bacterial genomes, and the rate at which this is acquired, are consistent with gene transfer as the primary catalyst for microbial differentiation. However, the rate of successful gene transfer varies among bacterial lineages. The heterogeneity in foreign DNA content is directly correlated with amount of genetic headroom intrinsic to a bacterial species. Genetic headroom reflects the amount of potentially dispensable information-reflected in codon usage bias and codon context bias-that can be transiently sacrificed to allow experimentation with functions introduced by gene transfer. In this way, genetic headroom offers a potential metric for assessing the propensity of a lineage to speciate.
3070854|A set of experiments based on simulation and analysis found that using the parsimony algorithm for ancestral state estimation can benefit from increased sampling of terminal taxa. Estimation at the base of small clades showed strong sensitivity to tree topology and number of descendent tips. These effects were largely driven by the creation and negation of ambiguity across a topology. Root state and internal state estimation showed similar behavior. We conclude that increased taxon sampling density is generally advisable, and attention to topological effects may be advisable in evaluating the confidence placed in state estimation. We also explore the factors affecting ancestral state estimation and conjecture that as taxa are added to a tree, the total amount of information for root state estimation depends on the tree topology and distance to root state of added taxa. For a pure-birth model tree, we conjecture that the addition of N taxa increases root state information in proportion to log(N).
3070850|Prokaryotes have been at the forefront of the genome sequencing revolution. Many genomes have been completely sequenced, revealing much about bacterial and archaeal genome content and organization. Yet, a meaningful evolutionary picture of prokaryotes still eludes us. Much of the problem lies in understanding the mode and tempo of genome evolution. Here phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase is used as an example of the complex interplay among lateral gene transfer, operon recombination, and gene recruitment in the evolution of some prokaryotic genes. Promising new approaches to genomic analyses, which could add to our understanding prokaryotic evolution and help in their classification, are discussed.
3070853|A phylogeny of the mosquito subfamily Anophelinae was inferred from fragments of two protein-coding nuclear genes, G<sub>6pd</sub> (462 bp) and white (801 bp), and from a combined data set (2,136 bp) that included a portion of the mitochondrial gene ND5 and the D2 region of the ribosomal 28S gene. Sixteen species from all three anopheline genera and six Anopheles subgenera were sampled, along with six species of other mosquitoes used as an outgroup. Each of four genes analyzed individually recovered the same well-supported clades; topological incongruence was limited to unsupported or poorly supported nodes. As assessed by the incongruence length difference test, most of the conflicting signal was contributed by third codon positions. Strong structural constraints, as observed in white and G<sub>6pd</sub>, apparently had little impact on phylogenetic inference. Compared with the other genes, white provided a superior source of phylogenetic information. However, white appears to have experienced accelerated rates of evolution in few lineages, the affinities of which are therefore suspect. In combined analyses, most of the inferred relationships were well-supported and in agreement with previous studies: monophyly of Anophelinae, basal position of Chagasia, monophyly of Anopheles subgenera, and subgenera Nyssorhynchus + Kerteszia as sister taxa. The results suggested also monophyletic origin of subgenera Cellia + Anopheles, and the white gene analysis supported genus Bironella as a sister taxon to Anopheles. The present data and other available evidence suggest a South American origin of Anophelinae, probably in the Mesozoic; a rapid diversification of Bironella and basal subgeneric lineages of Anopheles, potentially associated with the breakup of Gondwanaland; and a relatively recent and rapid dispersion of subgenus Anopheles.
3070855|Despite the growing popularity of supertree construction for combining phylogenetic information to produce more inclusive phylogenies, large-scale performance testing of this method has not been done. Through simulation, we tested the accuracy of the most widely used supertree method, matrix representation with parsimony analysis (MRP), with respect to a (maximum parsimony) total evidence solution and a known model tree. When source trees overlap completely, MRP provided a reasonable approximation of the total evidence tree; agreement was usually >85%. Performance improved slightly when using smaller, more numerous, or more congruent source trees, and especially when elements were weighted in proportion to the bootstrap frequencies of the nodes they represented on each source tree ("weighted MRP"). Although total evidence always estimated the model tree slightly better than nonweighted MRP methods, weighted MRP in turn usually outperformed total evidence slightly. When source studies were even moderately nonoverlapping (i.e., sharing only three-quarters of the taxa), the high proportion of missing data caused a loss in resolution that severely degraded the performance for all methods, including total evidence. In such cases, even combining more trees, which had positive effects elsewhere, did not improve accuracy. Instead, "seeding" the supertree or total evidence analyses with a single largely complete study improved performance substantially. This finding could be an important strategy for any studies that seek to combine phylogenetic information. Overall, our results suggest that MRP supertree construction provides a reasonable approximation of a total evidence solution and that weighted MRP should be used whenever possible.
3070856|Despite the relevant role of models of nucleotide substitution in phylogenetics, choosing among different models remains a problem. Several statistical methods for selecting the model that best fits the data at hand have been proposed, but their absolute and relative performance has not yet been characterized. In this study, we compare under various conditions the performance of different hierarchical and dynamic likelihood ratio tests, and of Akaike and Bayesian information methods, for selecting best-fit models of nucleotide substitution. We specifically examine the role of the topology used to estimate the likelihood of the different models and the importance of the order in which hypotheses are tested. We do this by simulating DNA sequences under a known model of nucleotide substitution and recording how often this true model is recovered by the different methods. Our results suggest that model selection is reasonably accurate and indicate that some likelihood ratio test methods perform overall better than the Akaike or Bayesian information criteria. The tree used to estimate the likelihood scores does not influence model selection unless it is a randomly chosen tree. The order in which hypotheses are tested, and the complexity of the initial model in the sequence of tests, influence model selection in some cases. Model fitting in phylogenetics has been suggested for many years, yet many authors still arbitrarily choose their models, often using the default models implemented in standard computer programs for phylogenetic estimation. We show here that a best-fit model can be readily identified. Consequently, given the relevance of models, model fitting should be routine in any phylogenetic analysis that uses models of evolution.
3070851|Bacteria are profoundly different from eukaryotes in their patterns of genetic exchange. Nevertheless, ecological diversity is organized in the same way across all of life: individual organisms fall into more or less discrete clusters on the basis of their phenotypic, ecological, and DNA sequence characteristics. Each sequence cluster in the bacterial world appears to correspond to an "ecotype," defined as a population of cells in the same ecological niche, which would all be out-competed by any adaptive mutant coming from the population. Ecotypes, so defined, share many of the dynamic properties attributed to eukaryotic species: genetic diversity within an ecotype is limited by a force of cohesion (in this case, periodic selection); different ecotypes are free to diverge without constraint from one another; and ecotypes are ecologically distinct. Also, ecotypes can be discovered and classified as DNA sequence clusters, even when we are ignorant of their ecology. Owing to the rarity and promiscuity of bacterial genetic exchange, speciation in the bacterial world is expected to be much less constrained than in the world of animals and plants.
3070838|Different views of the pattern of social evolution among the highly eusocial bees have arisen as a result of discordance between past molecular and morphology-based phylogenies. Here we present new data and taxa for four molecular data sets and reassess the morphological characters available to date. We show there is no significant character incongruence between four molecular data sets (two nuclear and two mitochondrial), but highly significant character incongruence leads to topological incongruence between the molecular and morphological data. We investigate the effects of using different outgroup combinations to root the estimated tree. We also consider various ways in which biases in the sequence data could be misleading, using several maximum likelihood models, LogDet corrections, and spectral analyses. Ultimately, we concede there is strong discordance between the molecular and morphological data partitions and appropriately apply the conditional combination approach in this case. We also find two equally well supported placements of the root for the molecular trees, one supported by 16S and 28S sequences, the other supported by cytochrome b and opsin. The strength of the evidence leads us to accept two equally well supported hypotheses based on analyses of the molecular data sets. These are the most rigorously supported hypotheses of corbiculate bee relationships at this time, and frame our argument that highly eusocial behavior within the corbiculate bees evolved twice independently.
3070840|The obligate mutualism between pollinating fig wasps in the family Agaonidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea) and Ficus species (Moraceae) is often regarded as an example of coevolution but little is known about the history of the interaction, and understanding the origin of functionally dioecious fig pollination has been especially difficult. The phylogenetic relationships of fig wasps pollinating functionally dioecious Ficus were inferred from mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase gene sequences (mtDNA) and morphology. Separate and combined analyses indicated that the pollinators of functionally dioecious figs are not monophyletic. However, pollinator relationships were generally congruent with host phylogeny and support a revised classification of Ficus. Ancestral changes in pollinator ovipositor length also correlated with changes in fig breeding systems. In particular, the relative elongation of the ovipositor was associated with the repeated loss of functionally dioecious pollination. The concerted evolution of interacting morphologies may bias estimates of phylogeny based on female head characters, but homoplasy is not so strong in other morphological traits. The lesser phylogenetic utility of morphology than of mtDNA is not due to rampant convergence in morphology but rather to the greater number of potentially informative characters in DNA sequence data; patterns of nucleotide substitution also limit the utility of mtDNA findings. Nonetheless, inferring the ancestral associations of fig pollinators from the best-supported phylogeny provided strong evidence of host conservatism in this highly specialized mutualism.
3070836|A new method of coding polymorphic multistate characters for phylogenetic analysis is presented. By dividing such characters into subcharacters, their frequency distributions can be represented with discrete states. Differential weighting is used to counter the effect of representing one character with multiple characters. The new method, generalized frequency coding (GFC), is potentially superior to previously used methods in that it incorporates more information and is applicable to both qualitative and quantitative characters. When applied to a previously published data set that includes both types of polymorphic multistate characters, the method performed well, as assessed with g1 and nonparametric bootstrap statistics and giving results congruent with those of other studies. The data set was also used to compare GFC with both gap-weighting and Manhattan distance step matrix coding. On these grounds and for philosophical reasons, we consider GFC to be a better estimator of phylogeny.
3070839|Homobasidiomycetes include the majority of wood-decaying fungi. Two basic forms of wood decay are known in homobasidiomycetes: white rot, in which lignin and cellulose are degraded, and brown rot, in which lignin is not appreciably degraded. An apparent correlation has been noted between production of a brown rot, decay of conifer substrates, and possession of a bipolar mating system (which has a single mating-type locus, in contrast to tetrapolar systems, which have two mating-type loci). The goals of this study were to infer the historical pattern of transformations in decay mode, mating type, and substrate range characters, and to determine if a causal relationship exists among them. Using nuclear and mitochondrial rDNA sequences, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of 130 species of homobasidiomycetes and performed ancestral state reconstructions by using parsimony on a range of trees, with various loss:gain cost ratios. We evaluated pairwise character correlations by using the concentrated changes test (CCT) of Maddison and the maximum likelihood (ML) method of Pagel. White rot, tetrapolar mating systems, and the ability to decay conifers and hardwoods appear to be plesiomorphic in homobasidiomycetes, whereas brown rot, bipolar mating systems, and exclusive decay of conifers appear to have evolved repeatedly. The only significant correlation among characters was that between brown rot (as the independent character) and exclusive decay of conifer substrates (P < 0.03). This correlation was supported by the CCT on a range of plausible trees, although not with every reconstruction of ancestral states, and by the ML test. Our findings suggest that the evolution of brown rot has promoted repeated shifts to specialization for conifer substrates.
3070837|The importance of fossils to phylogenetic reconstruction is well established. However, analyses of fossil data sets are confounded by problems related to the less complete nature of the specimens. Taxa that are incompletely known are problematic because of the uncertainty of their placement within a tree, leading to a proliferation of most-parsimonious solutions and "wild card" behavior. Problematic taxa are commonly deleted based on a priori criteria of completeness. Paradoxically, a taxon's problematic behavior is tree dependent, and levels of completeness are not directly associated with problematic behavior. Exclusion of taxa on the basis of completeness eliminates real character conflict and, by not allowing incomplete taxa to determine tree topology, diminishes the phylogenetic hypothesis. Here, the phylogenetic trunk approach is proposed to allow optimization of taxonomic inclusion and tree stability. The use of this method in an analysis of the Paleozoic Lepospondyli finds a single most-parsimonious tree, or trunk, after the removal of one taxon identified as being problematic. Moreover, the 38 trees found at one additional step from this primary trunk were reduced to 2 by removal of one additional taxon. These trunks are compared with the trees that were found by excluding taxa with various degrees of completeness, and the effects of incomplete taxa are explored with regard to use of the trunk. Correlated characters associated with limblessness are discussed regarding the assumption of character independence; however, inclusion of intermediate taxa is found to be the single best method for breaking down long branches.
3070841| The bee genus Lasioglossum includes >1,000 species of bees distributed on all continents except Antarctica. Lasioglossum is a major component of the bee fauna in the Holarctic, Ethiopian, and Asian regions and is an important group for investigating the evolution of social behavior in bees. Given its cosmopolitan distribution, the historical biogeography of the genus is of considerable interest. We reconstructed phylogenetic relationships among the subgenera and species within Lasioglossum s.s., using DNA sequence data from a slowly evolving nuclear gene, elongation factor-1. The entire data set includes >1,604 aligned nucleotide sites (including three exons plus two introns) for 89 species (17 outgroups plus 72 ingroups). Parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses provide strong evidence that the primarily Indoaustralian subgenera (Homalictus, Chilalictus, Parasphecodes) form a monophyletic group. Bootstrap support for the Australian clade ranged from 73% to 77%, depending on the method of analysis. Monophyly of the Australian Lasioglossum suggests that a single colonization event (by way of Southeast Asia and New Guinea) gave rise to a lineage of >350 native Indoaustralian bees. We discuss the implications of Australian monophyly for resolving the "Australian enigma"-the similarity in social behavior among the Australian halictine bees relative to that of Holarctic groups. 
3070806|Sea hares within the genus Aplysia are important neurobiological model organisms; as more studies based on different Aplysia species are appearing in the literature, a phylogenetic framework has become essential. We present a phylogenetic hypothesis for this genus, based on portions of two mitochondrial genes (12S and 16S). In addition, we reconstruct the evolution of several behavioral characters of interest to neurobiologists to illustrate the potential benefits of a phylogeny for the genus Aplysia. These benefits include determination of ancestral traits, direction and timing of evolution of characters, prediction of the distribution of traits, and identification of cases of independent acquisition of traits within lineages. This last benefit may prove especially useful in understanding the linkage between behaviors and their underlying neurological bases.
3070805|The notion that two characters evolve independently is of interest for two reasons. First, theories of biological integration often predict that change in one character requires complementary change in another. Second, character independence is a basic assumption of most phylogenetic inference methods, and dependent characters might confound attempts at phylogenetic inference. Previously proposed tests of correlated character evolution require a model phylogeny and therefore assume that nonphylogenetic correlation has a negligible effect on initial tree construction. This paper develops "tree-free" methods for testing the independence of cladistic characters. These methods can test the character independence model as a hypothesis before phylogeny reconstruction, or can be used simply to test for correlated evolution. We first develop an approach for visualizing suites of correlated characters by using character compatibility. Two characters are compatible if they can be used to construct a tree without homoplasy. The approach is based on the examination of mutual compatibilities between characters. The number of times two characters i and j share compatibility with a third character is calculated, and a pairwise shared compatibility matrix is constructed. From this matrix, an association matrix analogous to a dissimilarity matrix is derived. Eigenvector analyses of this association matrix reveal suites of characters with similar compatibility patterns. A priori character subsets can be tested for significant correlation on these axes. Monte Carlo tests are performed to determine the expected distribution of mutual compatibilities, given various criteria from the original data set. These simulated distributions are then used to test whether the observed amounts of nonphylogenetic correlation in character suites can be attributed to chance alone. We have applied these methods to published morphological data for caecilian amphibians. The analyses corroborate instances of dependent evolution hypothesized by previous workers and also identify novel partitions. Phylogenetic analysis is performed after reducing correlated suites to single characters. The resulting cladogram has greater topological resolution and implies appreciably less change among the remaining characters than does a tree derived from the raw data matrix.
3070807|Many aspects of morphological phylogenetics are controversial in the theoretical systematics literature and yet are often poorly explained and justified in empirical studies. In this paper, I argue that most morphological characters describe variation that is fundamentally quantitative, regardless of whether they are coded qualitatively or quantitatively by systematists. Given this view, three fundamental problems in morphological character analysis (definition, delimitation, and ordering of character states) may have a common solution: coding morphological characters as continuous quantitative traits. A new parsimony method (step-matrix gap-weighting, a modification of Thiele's approach) is proposed that allows quantitative traits to be analyzed as continuous variables. The problem of scaling or weighting quantitative characters relative to qualitative characters (and to each other) is reviewed, and three possible solutions are described. The new coding method is applied to data from hoplocercid lizards, and the results show the sensitivity of phylogenetic conclusions to different scaling methods. Although some authors reject the use of continuous, overlapping, quantitative characters in phylogenetic analysis, quantitative data from hoplocercid lizards that are coded using the new approach contain significant phylogenetic structure and exhibit levels of homoplasy similar to those seen in data that are coded qualitatively.
3070809| Maximum likelihood estimation of phylogenetic trees from nucleotide sequences is completely consistent when nucleotide substitution is governed by the general time reversible (GTR) model with rates that vary over sites according to the invariable sites plus gamma (I + ) distribution. 
3070808|Siparunaceae comprise Glossocalyx with one species in West Africa and Siparuna with 65 species in the neotropics; all have unisexual flowers, and 15 species are monoecious, 50 dioecious. Parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of combined nuclear ribosomal ITS and chloroplast trnL-trnF intergenic spacer sequences yielded almost identical topologies, which were used to trace the evolution of the two sexual systems. The African species, which is dioecious, was sister to all neotropical species, and the monoecious species formed a grade basal to a large dioecious Andean clade. Dioecy evolved a second time within the monoecious grade. Geographical mapping of 6,496 herbarium collections from all species sorted by sexual system showed that monoecy is confined to low-lying areas (altitude <700 m) in the Amazon basin and southern Central America. The only morphological trait with a strong phylogenetic signal is leaf margin shape (entire or toothed), although this character also correlates with altitude, probably reflecting selection on leaf shapes by temperature and rainfall regimes. The data do not reject the molecular clock, and branch lengths suggest that the shift to dioecy in the lowlands occurred many million years after the shift to dioecy in the ancestor of the Andean clade.
3070804|Ontogenetic trajectories are commonly quantified by characterizing changes in the sizes and shapes of organisms over the course of development. This formulation of ontogenetic transformations can be misleading in that it ignores critical aspects of the biological processes responsible for constructing morphology. Hypothetical examples are used to illustrate some of the shortcomings of methods that rely exclusively on size and shape data for ontogenetic analyses. By characterizing growth as a vector field, and representing growth vectors as complex numbers, one can simultaneously analyze size, shape, and growth processes. The utility of such an approach is demonstrated in a study of shape and growth process variation in turtle shells.
3070803|Statistical randomization tests in evolutionary biology often require a set of random, computer-generated trees. For example, earlier studies have shown how large numbers of computer-generated trees can be used to conduct phylogenetic comparative analyses even when the phylogeny is uncertain or unknown. These methods were limited, however, in that (in the absence of molecular sequence or other data) they allowed users to assume that no phylogenetic information was available or that all possible trees were known. Intermediate situations where only a taxonomy or other limited phylogenetic information (e.g., polytomies) are available are technically more difficult. The current study describes a procedure for generating random samples of phylogenies while incorporating limited phylogenetic information (e.g., four taxa belong together in a subclade). The procedure can be used to conduct comparative analyses when the phylogeny is only partially resolved or can be used in other randomization tests in which large numbers of possible phylogenies are needed.
3070931|Tests for incongruence as an indicator of among-data partition conflict have played an important role in conditional data combination. When such tests reveal significant incongruence, this has been interpreted as a rationale for not combining data into a single phylogenetic analysis. In this study of lorisiform phylogeny, we use the incongruence length difference (ILD) test to assess conflict among three independent data sets. A large morphological data set and two unlinked molecular data sets-the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene and the nuclear interphotoreceptor retinoid binding protein (exon 1)-are analyzed with various optimality criteria and weighting mechanisms to determine the phylogenetic relationships among slow lorises (Primates, Loridae). When analyzed separately, the morphological data show impressive statistical support for a monophyletic Loridae. Both molecular data sets resolve the Loridae as paraphyletic, though with different branching orders depending on the optimality criterion or character weighting used. When the three data partitions are analyzed in various combinations, an inverse relationship between congruence and phylogenetic accuracy is observed. Nearly all combined analyses that recover monophyly indicate strong data partition incongruence (P = 0.00005 in the most extreme case), whereas all analyses that recover paraphyly indicate lack of significant incongruence. Numerous lines of evidence verify that monophyly is the accurate phylogenetic result. Therefore, this study contributes to a growing body of information affirming that measures of incongruence should not be used as indicators of data set combinability.
3070925|Advocates of cladistic parsimony methods have invoked the philosophy of Karl Popper in an attempt to argue for the superiority of those methods over phylogenetic methods based on Ronald Fisher's statistical principle of likelihood. We argue that the concept of likelihood in general, and its application to problems of phylogenetic inference in particular, are highly compatible with Popper's philosophy. Examination of Popper's writings reveals that his concept of corroboration is, in fact, based on likelihood. Moreover, because probabilistic assumptions are necessary for calculating the probabilities that define Popper's corroboration, likelihood methods of phylogenetic inference-with their explicit probabilistic basis-are easily reconciled with his concept. In contrast, cladistic parsimony methods, at least as described by certain advocates of those methods, are less easily reconciled with Popper's concept of corroboration. If those methods are interpreted as lacking probabilistic assumptions, then they are incompatible with corroboration. Conversely, if parsimony methods are to be considered compatible with corroboration, then they must be interpreted as carrying implicit probabilistic assumptions. Thus, the non-probabilistic interpretation of cladistic parsimony favored by some advocates of those methods is contradicted by an attempt by the same authors to justify parsimony methods in terms of Popper's concept of corroboration. In addition to being compatible with Popperian corroboration, the likelihood approach to phylogenetic inference permits researchers to test the assumptions of their analytical methods (models) in a way that is consistent with Popper's ideas about the provisional nature of background knowledge.
3070928|Several methods have been proposed to infer the states at the ancestral nodes on a phylogeny. These methods assume a specific tree and set of branch lengths when estimating the ancestral character state. Inferences of the ancestral states, then, are conditioned on the tree and branch lengths being true. We develop a hierarchical Bayes method for inferring the ancestral states on a tree. The method integrates over uncertainty in the tree, branch lengths, and substitution model parameters by using Markov chain Monte Carlo. We compare the hierarchical Bayes inferences of ancestral states with inferences of ancestral states made under the assumption that a specific tree is correct. We find that the methods are correlated, but that accommodating uncertainty in parameters of the phylogenetic model can make inferences of ancestral states even more uncertain than they would be in an empirical Bayes analysis.
3070927|We defend and expand on our earlier proposal for an inclusive philosophical framework for phylogenetics, based on an interpretation of Popperian corroboration that is decoupled from the popular falsificationist interpretation of Popperian philosophy. Any phylogenetic inference method can provide Popperian "evidence" or "test statements" based on the method's goodness-of-fit values for different tree hypotheses. Corroboration, or the severity of that test, requires that the evidence is improbable without the hypothesis, given only background knowledge that includes elements of chance. This framework contrasts with attempted Popperian justifications for cladistic parsimony-in which evidence is the data, background knowledge is restricted to descent with modification, and "corroboration," as a by-product of nonfalsification, is to be measured by cladistic parsimony. Recognition that cladistic "corroboration" reflects only goodness-of-fit, not corroboration/severity, makes it clear that standard cladistic prohibitions, such as restrictions on the evolutionary models to be included in "background knowledge," have no philosophical status. The capacity to assess Popperian corroboration neither justifies nor excludes any phylogenetic method, but it does provide a framework in phylogenetics for learning from errors-cases where apparent good evidence is probable even without the hypothesis. We explore these issues in the context of corroboration assessments applied to likelihood methods and to a new form of parsimony. These different forms of evidence and corroboration assessment point also to a new way to combine evidence-not at the level of overall fit, but at the level of overall corroboration/severity. We conclude that progress in an inclusive phylogenetics will be well served by the rejection of cladistic philosophy.
3070929|A total of 7,806 nucleotide positions derived from one mitochondrial and eight nuclear DNA segments were used to provide a robust phylogeny for members of the order Artiodactyla. Twenty-four artiodactyl and two cetacean species were included, and the horse (order Perissodactyla) was used as the outgroup. Limited rate heterogeneity was observed among the nuclear genes. The partition homogeneity tests indicated no conflicting signal among the nuclear gene fragments, so the sequence data were analyzed together and as separate loci. Analyses based on the individual nuclear DNA fragments and on 34 unique indels all produced phylogenies largely congruent with the topology from the combined data set. In sharp contrast to the nuclear DNA data, the mtDNA cytochrome b sequence data showed high levels of homoplasy, failed to produce a robust phylogeny, and were remarkably sensitive to taxon sampling. The nuclear DNA data clearly support the paraphyletic nature of the Artiodactyla. Additionally, the family Suidae is diphyletic, and the nonruminating pigs and peccaries (Suiformes) were the most basal cetartiodactyl group. The morphologically derived Ruminantia was always monophyletic; within this group, all taxa with paired bony structures on their skulls clustered together. The nuclear DNA data suggest that the Antilocaprinae account for a unique evolutionary lineage, the Cervidae and Bovidae are sister taxa, and the Giraffidae are more primitive.
3070926|Sir Karl Popper is well known for explicating science in falsificationist terms, for which his degree of corroboration formalism, C(h,e,b), has become little more than a symbol. For example, de Queiroz and Poe in this issue argue that C(h,e,b) reduces to a single relative (conditional) probability, p(e,hb), the likelihood of evidence e, given both hypothesis h and background knowledge b, and in reaching that conclusion, without stating or expressing it, they render Popper a verificationist. The contradiction they impose is easily explained-de Queiroz and Poe fail to take account of the fact that Popper derived C(h,e,b) from absolute (logical) probability and severity of test, S(e,h,b), where critical evidence, p(e,b), is fundamental. Thus, de Queiroz and Poe's conjecture that p(e,hb) = C(h,e,b) is refuted. Falsificationism, not verificationism, remains a fair description of the parsimony method of inference used in phylogenetic systematics, not withstanding de Queiroz and Poe's mistaken understanding that "statistical" probability justifies that method. Although de Queiroz and Poe assert that maximum likelihood has the power "to explain data", they do not successfully demonstrate how causal explanation is achieved or what it is that is being explained. This is not surprising, bearing in mind that what is assumed about character evolution in the accompanying likelihood model M cannot then be explained by the results of a maximum likelihood analysis.
3070932|The conditional probability of reconstruction is a measure of the robustness of cladogram internodes and, unlike Bremer support and bootstrapping values, directly gauges probability. The new method compares the three putative branch lengths (the optimal and two alternatives) obtained through branch recalculation after nearest neighbor interchange and recalculation under constraint. With rooted trees, one switches the two free lineages attached at the distal end of an internal branch with the basal lineage. Probabilistic reconstruction of a branch for small data sets (e.g., morphological) is defined as having no contrary support for the two alternative branches and, when sufficient data are available (e.g., molecular studies), as meeting a selected confidence limit in chi-squared analysis. The exact probability that the internal branch is reconstructed is the same as the preselected confidence level met with chi-squared analysis; alternatively, it is a simple calculation of the length of the optimal branch divided by the sum of the lengths of all three putative branches. This new measure of robustness allows calculation of summary probabilities of subclade and tree reconstruction. The measure is conditional on a particular data set and optimization method but may also compare support from conflicting gene trees. Examples are provided by a morphological data set (the bryophyte Didymodon) and a molecular data set (primates).
3070930|A shift from a traditional biogeographical paradigm in cladistic biogeography to a chronobiogeographical paradigm is proposed. The chronobiogeographical paradigm aims to utilize temporal data in conjunction with spatial data in the detection of discrete historical events, such as vicariance and vicariant speciation, in cladograms. The concepts of primary and secondary congruency are introduced in relation to the distinction between repeated area relationships (primary congruency) and common extrinsic causality (secondary congruency). Simple hypothetical examples demonstrate that area cladograms cannot be safely interpreted purely as representing the sequence of area fragmentation; rather, they reflect recency of biotic interaction. Temporal data are shown to have a direct and potentially profound influence on the results of traditional cladistic biogeographical analyses, indicating the necessity of developing a chronobiogeographical approach. The implementation of the paradigm is considered first from a theoretical viewpoint and then in the context of the type of empirical data usually available. An as yet undevised "time/space algorithm" is deemed necessary for the latter, and guidelines are presented for the development of such an algorithm. Finally, we argue that the most rigorous and philosophically justified approach to the detection of phylogenetic causal events can be found only when temporal and spatial data are considered simultaneously. Consequently, the chronobiogeographical paradigm is seen as a logical elaboration of, not a replacement for, the biogeographical paradigm.
2585305|Modified interactions among developmental regulatory genes and changes in their expression domains are likely to be an important part of the developmental basis for evolutionary changes in morphology. Although developmental regulatory genes are now being studied in an increasing number of taxa, there has been little attempt to analyze the resulting data within an explicit phylogenetic context. Here we present comparative analyses of expression data from regulatory genes in the phylum Echinodermata, considering the implications for understanding both echinoderm evolution as well as the evolution of regulatory genes in general. Reconstructing the independent evolutionary histories of regulatory genes, their expression domains, their developmental roles, and the structures in which they are expressed reveals a number of distinct evolutionary patterns. A few of these patterns correspond to interpretations common in the literature, whereas others have received little prior mention. Together, the analyses indicate that the evolution of echinoderms involved: (1) the appearance of many apomorphic developmental roles and expression domains, some of which have plesiomorphic bilateral symmetry and others of which have apomorphic radial symmetry or left-right asymmetry; (2) the loss of some developmental roles and expression domains thought to be plesiomorphic for Bilateria; and (3) the retention of some developmental roles thought to be plesiomorphic for Bilateria, although with modification in expression domains. Some of the modifications within the Echinodermata concern adult structures; others, transient larval structures. Some changes apparently appeared early in echinoderm evolution (>450 Ma), whereas others probably happened more recently (<50 Ma). Cases of likely convergence in expression domains suggest caution when using developmental regulatory genes to make inferences about homology among morphological structures of distantly related taxa.
2585310|Antarctic waters represent a unique marine environment delimited by an oceanographic barrier, the Polar Front Zone, and characterized by constant subzero temperatures and presence of sea ice. A group of teleost fish, the Notothenioidei, have adapted to these challenging environmental conditions, undergoing a remarkable diversification. In the present study a total of 798 base pairs, generated from partial sequencing of 16S and 12S mitochondrial ribosomal RNA genes, were examined in 33 notothenioid species representative of all families included in the suborder Notothenioidei. Phylogenetic trees, reconstructed on the basis of sequence data by different methods, indicate that traditional hypotheses on notothenioid systematics and biogeography might be in need of reexamination. Molecular evidence suggests that vicariant speciation could be invoked to explain the early divergence of Eleginops maclovinus, a species previously included in the family Nototheniidae, which is now proposed as the closest sister group to all the rest of notothenioids apart from bovichtids. On the other hand, repeated, independent dispersal through the Polar Front is proposed for the divergence of other subantarctic notothenioid species. Likewise, multiple, independent transitions from benthic to pelagic habit are inferred from molecular data, at variance with the more conservative hypothesis based on cladograms reconstructed from morphological data.
2585307|Because phylogenies can be estimated without stratigraphic data and because estimated phylogenies also infer gaps in sampling, some workers have used phylogeny estimates as templates for evaluating sampling from the fossil record and for "correcting" historical diversity patterns. However, it is not known how sampling intensity (the probability of sampling taxa per unit time) and completeness (the proportion of taxa sampled) affect the accuracy of phylogenetic inferences, nor how phylogenetically inferred estimates of sampling and diversity respond to inaccurate estimates of phylogeny. Both issues are addressed with a series of simulations using simple models of character evolution, varying speciation patterns, and various rates of speciation, extinction, character change, and preservation. Parsimony estimates of simulated phylogenies become less accurate as sampling decreases, and inaccurate trees chronically underestimate sampling. Biotic factors such as rates of morphologic change and extinction both affect the accuracy of phylogenetic estimates and thus affect estimated gaps in sampling, indicating that differences in implied sampling need not reflect actual differences in sampling. Errors in inferred diversity are concentrated early in the history of a clade. This, coupled with failure to account for true extinction times (i.e., the Signor-Lipps effect), inflates relative diversity levels early in clade histories. Because factors other than differences in sampling predict differences in the numbers of gaps implied by phylogeny estimates, inferred phylogenies can be misleading templates for evaluating sampling or historical diversity patterns.
2585308|The horseshoe crabs, known as living fossils, have maintained their morphology almost unchanged for the past 150 million years. The little morphological differentiation among horseshoe crab lineages has resulted in substantial controversy concerning the phylogenetic relationship among the extant species of horseshoe crabs, especially among the three species in the Indo-Pacific region. Previous studies suggest that the three species constitute a phylogenetically unresolvable trichotomy, the result of a cladogenetic process leading to the formation of all three Indo-Pacific species in a short geological time. Data from two mitochondrial genes (for 16S ribosomal rRNA and cytochrome oxidase subunit I) and one nuclear gene (for coagulogen) in the four species of horse-shoe crabs and outgroup species were used in a phylogenetic analysis with various substitution models. All three genes yield the same tree topology, with Tachypleus-gigas and Carcinoscorpius-rotundicauda grouped together as a monophyletic taxon. This topology is significantly better than all the alternatives when evaluated with the RELL (resampling estimated log-likelihood) method.
2585309|Functional constraints are often assumed to influence the performance of nucleotide characters in phylogenetic analysis: First and second codon positions and sites of structural importance are considered to show less homoplasy. We investigate the performance of rbcL characters with differential functional constraints in a cladistic analysis of the plant family Apocynaceae s.l. (Sennblad and Bremer, in prep.). Performance is measured as rescaled consistency indices (rc). We show there is no significant difference in performance between parsimony-informative sites constrained by function in the enzyme, and sites that are not. Furthermore, the substitutions in third-codon position performed significantly better than those in first and second. The variation of rc within the different classes was high, however. Consequently, there is no support for routinely applied a priori differential weighting, neither of codon positions, nor of different functional classes from the present analysis of rbcL data in the Apocynaceae s.l.
2585304|Issues concerning transformational and taxic comparisons are central to understanding the impact of the recent proliferation of molecular developmental data on evolutionary biology. More importantly, an understanding of taxism and transformationalism in comparative biology is critical to assessing the impact of the recent developmental data on systematic theory and practice. We examine the philosophical and practical aspects of the transformational approach and the relevance of this approach to recent molecular-based developmental data. We also examine the theoretical basis of the taxic approach to molecular developmental data and suggest that developmental data are perfectly amenable to the taxic approach. Two recent examples from the molecular developmental biology literature-the evolution of insect wings and the evolution of dorsal ventral inversion in vertebrates and invertebrates-are used to compare the taxic and transformational approaches. We conclude that the transformational approach is entirely appropriate for ontogenetic studies and furthermore can serve as an excellent source of hypotheses about the evolution of characters. However, the taxic approach is the ultimate arbiter of these hypotheses.
2585303|Understanding how development varies both inter- and intraspecifically can be important for systematic and evolutionary studies. This review will explore three different ways such understanding can be applied to evolutionary analyses. First, developmental data can be useful for homology determination. Interspecific variation in development has been thought to make developmental data poor candidates for determining homology. However, an updated developmental criterion that is more broadly comparative and mechanistic augments the available criteria used in homology determination. Second, modern cell and molecular biology are providing a better understanding of the many developmental processes involved in a structure's formation and will augment the number of characters available for phylogenetic analyses. Recent work has revealed that what had been thought to be a highly conserved developmental stage, the pharyngula (the phylotypic and zootypic stage of craniates) is highly variable. This variation can be seen in the development of such tissues as neural crest and placodes. These tissues are particularly interesting from a phylogenetic standpoint because they and the structures they form contribute to key synapomorphies of craniates. Finally, understanding developmental processes and how they form the variety of morphologies seen in nature will help in constructing the transformations that occurred during evolution. One such example involves descriptions of how lateral line development is affected in different mutant lines of zebrafish. The many species of teleost fishes express great variation in the patterns of their lateral lines, and this is often an important systematic character. Understanding the genetic basis of lateral line development would help not only in hypothesizing possible transformational series but also in determining how many genes may have been required for these transformations.
2585312|Recent studies based on different types of data (i.e., morphology, molecules) have found strongly conflicting phylogenies for the genera of iguanid lizards but have been unable to explain the basis for this incongruence. We reanalyze published data from morphology and from the mitochondrial ND4, cytochrome b, 12S, and 16S genes to explore the sources of incongruence and resolve these conflicts. Much of the incongruence centers on the genus Cyclura, which is the sister taxon of Iguana, according to parsimony analyses of the morphology and the ribosomal genes, but is the sister taxon of all other Iguanini, according to the protein-coding genes. Maximum likelihood analyses show that there has been an increase in the rate of nucleotide substitution in Cyclura in the two protein-coding genes (ND4 and cytochrome b), although this increase is not as clear when parsimony is used to estimate branch lengths. Parametric simulations suggest that Cyclura may be misplaced by the protein-coding genes as a result of long-branch attraction; even when Cyclura and Iguana are sister taxa in a simulated phylogeny, Cyclura is still placed as the basal member of the Iguanini by parsimony analysis in 55% of the replicates. A similar long-branch attraction problem may also exist in the morphological data with regard to the placement of Sauromalus with the Galapagos iguanas (Amblyrhynchus and Conolophus). The results have many implications for the analysis of diverse data sets, the impact of long branches on parsimony and likelihood methods, and the use of certain protein-coding genes in phylogeny reconstruction.
2585306|Understanding the phylogenetic relationships of the three major urochordate groups within the deuterostomes is central to understanding the evolution of the chordates. We have prepared a detailed phylogenetic analysis of urochordates based on comparisons of 10 new urochordate 18S ribosomal DNA sequences with other urochordate sequences in GenBank. Maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining, minimum evolution, and maximum likelihood analyses of this large urochordate data set are consistent with a topology in which the urochordates are monophyletic within the deuterostomes and there are four separate clades of urochordates. These four distinct clades-styelid + pyurid ascidians, molgulid ascidians, phlebobranch ascidians + thaliaceans, and larvaceans-are mostly consistent with traditional morphological hypotheses and classifications. However, we find that the ascidians may not be a monophyletic group (as they have been considered traditionally) but instead appear paraphyletic. Another disparity with traditional classification is that the thaliaceans do not form a separate urochordate clade but rather cluster with the phlebobranch ascidians. Larvaceans have long branch lengths, which can be problematic for molecular phylogenetic methods, and their position within the urochordates cannot be unequivocally determined with 18S rDNA. This is important because the tadpole morphology of larvacean and ascidian larvae is the key trait of interest that distinguishes urochordates as chordates. Nevertheless, the present data set resolves at least three clades of urochordates and suggests strongly that urochordates form a monophyletic clade within the deuterostomes.
2585311|The phylogeny of the Bilateria and especially the early steps in the evolution of the bilaterian bauplan are still a controversial topic. In this context the relationships of the platyhelminths and the nematodes play a crucial role. Previous molecular studies of the relationships of these groups, which were based on 18S ribosomal DNA sequences, yielded conflicting results. In the present study a new framework is developed for the phylogenetic analysis of bilaterian relationships, using concatenated amino acid sequences of several nuclear genes. In this analysis, the rhabditophoran platyhelminths are probably the sister group of all other analyzed Bilateria, the Eubilateria, which are characterized by a one-way intestine with an anus. The Eubilateria are split into the nematode lineage and the coelomates. The phylogenetic results of the present study indicate that genetic features found in the model organisms Caenorhabditis and Drosophila might be found in all Eubilateria. Estimations of the divergence times show that the major bilaterian phyla did not originate in an explosive radiation during the Cambrian but rather that the Bilateria have a several hundred million years long Precambrian history.
2585291|The relatively new two-block partial least-squares method for analyzing the covariance between two sets of variables is described and contrasted with the well-known method of canonical correlation analysis. Their statistical properties, types of answers, and visualization techniques are discussed. Examples are given to show its usefulness in comparing two sets of variables-especially when one or both of the sets of variables are shape variables from a geometric morphometric study.
2585287|Phylogenetic analyses of large data sets pose special challenges, including the apparent tendency for the bootstrap support for a clade to decline with increased taxon sampling of that clade. We document this decline in data sets with increasing numbers of taxa in Astragalus, the most species-rich angiosperm genus. Support for one subclade, Neo-Astragalus, declined monotonically with increased sampling of taxa inside Neo-Astragalus, irrespective of whether parsimony or neighbor-joining methods were used or of which particular heuristic search algorithm was used (although more stringent algorithms tended to yield higher support). Three possible explanations for this decline were examined, including (1) mistaken assignment of the most recent common ancestor of the taxon sample (and its bootstrap support) with the most recent common ancestor of the clade from which it was sampled; (2) computational limitations of heuristic search strategies; and (3) statistical bias in bootstrap proportions, especially that from random homoplasy distributed among taxa. The best explanation appears to be (3), although computational shortcomings (2) may explain some of the problem. The bootstrap proportion, as currently used in phylogenetic analysis, does not accurately capture the classical notion of confidence assessments on the null hypothesis of nonmonophyly, especially in large data sets. More accurate assessments of confidence as type I error levels (relying on iterated bootstrap methods) remove most of the monotonic decline in confidence with increasing numbers of taxa.
2585289|Community ecologists are increasingly aware that the regional history of taxon diversification can have an important influence on community structure. Likewise, systematists recognize that ecological context can have an important influence on the processes of speciation and extinction that create patterns of descent. We present a phylogenetic analysis of 33 species of a North American radiation of damselflies (Zygoptera: Coenagrionidae: Enallagma Selys), which have been well studied ecologically, to elucidate the evolutionary mechanisms that have contributed to differences in diversity between larval habitats (lakes with and without fish predators). Analysis of molecular variation in 842 bp of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I and II subunit and of the intervening Leu-tRNA and 37 morphological characters resulted in three well-defined clades that are only partially congruent with previous phylogenetic hypotheses. Molecular and morphological data partitions were significantly incongruent (p < .01). Lack of haplotype monophyly within species and small amounts of sequence divergence (<1%) between related species in three of the four clades suggest that recent, and parallel, speciation has been an important source of community diversity. Reconstruction of habitat preference over the phylogeny suggests that the greater species diversity in fish-containing lake habitats reflects the recency of shifts into the fishless lake habit, although a difference in speciation or extinction rates between the two habitats is difficult to exclude as an additional mechanism.
2585288|Landmark-based morphometric methods must estimate the amounts of translation, rotation, and scaling (or, nuisance) parameters to remove nonshape variation from a set of digitized figures. Errors in estimaties of these nuisance variables will be reflected in the covariance structure of the coordinates, such as the residuals from a superimposition, or any linear combination of the coordinates, such as the partial warp and standard uniform scores. A simulation experiment was used to compare the ability of the generalized resistant fit (GRF) and a relative warp analysis (RWA) to estimate known covariance matrices with various correlations and variance structures. Random covariance matrices were perturbed so as to vary the magnitude of the average correlation among coordinates, the number of landmarks with excessive variance, and the magnitude of the excessive variance. The covariance structure was applied to random figures with between 6 and 20 landmarks. The results show the expected performance of GRF and RWA across a broad spectrum of conditions. The performance of both GRF and RWA depended most strongly on the number of landmarks. RWA performance decreased slightly when one or a few landmarks had excessive variance. GRF performance peaked when  25% of the landmarks had excessive variance. In general, both RWA and GRF performed better at estimating the direction of the first principal axis of the covariance matrix than the structure of the entire covariance matrix. RWA tended to outperform GRF when >75% of the coordinates had excessive variance. When <75% of the coordinates had excessive variance, the relative performance of RWA and GRF depended on the magnitude of the excessive variance; when the landmarks with excessive variance had standard deviations ()  4 minimum, GRF regularly out-performed RWA.
2585284|Nucleotide transitions are frequently down-weighted relative to transversions in phylogenetic analysis. This is based on the assumption that transitions, by virtue of their greater evolutionary rate, exhibit relatively more homoplasy and are therefore less reliable phylogenetic characters. Relative amounts of homoplastic and consistent transition and transversion changes in mitochondrial protein coding genes were determined from character-state reconstructions on a highly corroborated phylogeny of mammals. We found that although homoplasy was related to evolutionary rates and was greater for transitions, the absolute number of consistent transitions greatly exceeded the number of consistent transversions. Consequently, transitions provided substantially more useful phylogenetic information than transversions. These results suggest that down-weighting transitions may be unwarranted in many cases. This conclusion was supported by the fact that a range of transition: transversion weighting schemes applied to various mitochondrial genes and genomic partitions rarely provided improvement in phylogenetic estimates relative to equal weighting, and in some cases weighting transitions more heavily than transversions was most effective.
2585293|The galaxiid fishes exhibit a gondwanan distribution. We use mitochondrial DNA sequences to test conflicting vicariant and dispersal biogeographic hypotheses regarding the Southern Hemisphere range of this freshwater group. Although phylogenetic resolution of cytochrome b and 16S rRNA sequences is largely limited to more recent divergences, our data indicate that the radiation can be interpreted as several relatively recent dispersal events superimposed on an ancient gondwanan radiation. Genetic relationships contradict the findings of recent morphological analyses of galaxioid fishes. In particular, we examine several hypotheses regarding phylogenetic placement of the enigmatic Lepidogalaxias. Although most workers consider Lepidogalaxias to be an unusual scaled member of the Southern Hemisphere galaxioids, it has also been suggested that this species is related to the Northern Hemisphere esocoids. Our data strongly suggest that this species is not a galaxiid, and the alternative hypothesized esocoid relationship cannot be rejected. The species-rich genus Galaxias is shown to be polyphyletic and the generic taxonomy of the Galaxiinae is reassessed in the light of phylogenetic relationships. Juvenile saltwater-tolerance is phylogenetically distributed throughout the Galaxiinae, and the loss of this migratory phase may be a major cause of speciation.
2585285|Phylogenetic analyses of non-protein-coding nucleotide sequences such as ribosomal RNA genes, internal transcribed spacers, and introns are often impeded by regions of the alignments that are ambiguously aligned. These regions are characterized by the presence of gaps and their uncertain positions, no matter which optimization criteria are used. This problem is particularly acute in large-scale phylogenetic studies and when aligning highly diverged sequences. Accommodating these regions, where positional homology is likely to be violated, in phylogenetic analyses has been dealt with very differently by molecular systematists and evolutionists, ranging from the total exclusion of these regions to the inclusion of every position regardless of ambiguity in the alignment. We present a new method that allows the inclusion of ambiguously aligned regions without violating homology. In this three-step procedure, first homologous regions of the alignment containing ambiguously aligned sequences are delimited. Second, each ambiguously aligned region is unequivocally coded as a new character, replacing its respective ambiguous region. Third, each of the coded characters is subjected to a specific step matrix to account for the differential number of changes (summing substitutions and indels) needed to transform one sequence to another. The optimal number of steps included in the step matrix is the one derived from the pairwise alignment with the greatest similarity and the least number of steps. In addition to potentially enhancing phylogenetic resolution and support, by integrating previously nonaccessible characters without violating positional homology, this new approach can improve branch length estimations when using parsimony.
2585292|In decay analyses the support for a particular split in most-parsimonious trees is its decay index, that is, the extra steps required of the shortest trees that do not include the split. By focusing solely on the support for splits, traditional decay analysis may provide an incomplete and potentially misleading summary of the support for phylogenetic relationships common to the most-parsimonious tree or trees. Here, we introduce double decay analysis, a new approach to assessing support for phylogenetic relationships. Double decay analysis is the determination of the decay indices of all n-taxon statements/partitions common to the most-parsimonious tree. The results of double decay analyses are presented in a partition table, but various approaches to graphical representation of the results, including the use of reduced consensus support trees, are also discussed. Double decay analysis provides a more comprehensive summary and facilitates a better understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of complex phylogenetic hypotheses than does traditional decay analysis. The limitations of traditional decay analyses and the utility of double decay analyses are illustrated with both contrived data and real data for sauropod dinosaurs.
2585290|Several data partitions, including nuclear and mitochondrial gene sequences, chromosomes, isoenzymes, and morphological characters, were used to propose a new phylogeny and to test previously published hypotheses about the phylogenetic positions of basal clades of the lizard genus Sceloporus and the relationship of Sceloporus to the former genus "Sator". In accord with earlier studies, our results grouped "Sator" as internal to Sceloporus, and both support a hypothesis of transgulfian vicariance for the origin of the former genus "Sator" on islands in the Sea of Cortez. Robustness of support for internal nodes in our best tree was established though widely used indices (bootstrap proportions, decay values) but also through congruence among independent data partitions. Several deep nodes in the tree recovered by several methods, including equally weighted and differentially weighted parsimony and maximum likelihood models, are only weakly supported by the traditional indices. This methodological concordance is taken as evidence for insensitivity of the deep structure of the topology to alternative assumptions.
2585286|Likelihood-based statistical tests of competing evolutionary hypotheses (tree topologies) have been available for approximately a decade. By far the most commonly used is the Kishino-Hasegawa test. However, the assumptions that have to be made to ensure the validity of the Kishino-Hasegawa test place important restrictions on its applicability. In particular, it is only valid when the topologies being compared are specified a priori. Unfortunately, this means that the Kishino-Hasegawa test may be severely biased in many cases in which it is now commonly used: for example, in any case in which one of the competing topologies has been selected for testing because it is the maximum likelihood topology for the data set at hand. We review the theory of the Kishino-Hasegawa test and contend that for the majority of popular applications this test should not be used. Previously published results from invalid applications of the Kishino-Hasegawa test should be treated extremely cautiously, and future applications should use appropriate alternative tests instead. We review such alternative tests, both nonparametric and parametric, and give two examples which illustrate the importance of our contentions.
2585221|Phylogenetic relationships of mushrooms and their relatives within the order Agaricales were addressed by using nuclear large subunit ribosomal DNA sequences. Approximately 900 bases of the 5' end of the nucleus-encoded large subunit RNA gene were sequenced for 154 selected taxa representing most families within the Agaricales. Several phylogenetic methods were used, including weighted and equally weighted parsimony (MP), maximum likelihood (ML), and distance methods (NJ). The starting tree for branch swapping in the ML analyses was the tree with the highest ML score among previously produced MP and NJ trees. A high degree of consensus was observed between phylogenetic estimates obtained through MP and ML. NJ trees differed according to the distance model that was used; however, all NJ trees still supported most of the same terminal groupings as the MP and ML trees did. NJ trees were always significantly suboptimal when evaluated against the best MP and ML trees, by both parsimony and likelihood tests. Our analyses suggest that weighted MP and ML provide the best estimates of Agaricales phylogeny. Similar support was observed between bootstrapping and jackknifing methods for evaluation of tree robustness. Phylogenetic analyses revealed many groups of agaricoid fungi that are supported by moderate to high bootstrap or jackknife values or are consistent with morphology-based classification schemes. Analyses also support separate placement of the boletes and russules, which are basal to the main core group of gilled mushrooms (the Agaricineae of Singer). Examples of monophyletic groups include the families Amanitaceae, Coprinaceae (excluding Coprinus comatus and subfamily Panaeolideae), Agaricaceae (excluding the Cystodermateae), and Strophariaceae pro parte (Stropharia, Pholiota, and Hypholoma); the mycorrhizal species of Tricholoma (including Leucopaxillus, also mycorrhizal); Mycena and Resinomycena; Termitomyces, Podabrella, and Lyophyllum; and Pleurotus with Hohenbuehelia. Several groups revealed by these data to be nonmonophyletic include the families Tricholomataceae, Cortinariaceae, and Hygrophoraceae and the genera Clitocybe, Omphalina, and Marasmius. This study provides a framework for future systematics studies in the Agaricales and suggestions for analyzing large molecular data sets.
2585222|Following (1) the large-scale molecular phylogeny of seed plants based on plastid rbcL gene sequences (published in 1993 by Chase et al., Ann. Missouri Bot. Gard. 80:528-580) and (2) the 18S nuclear phylogeny of flowering plants (published in 1997 by Soltis et al., Ann. Missouri Bot. Gard. 84:1-49), we present a phylogenetic analysis of flowering plants based on a second plastid gene, atpB, analyzed separately and in combination with rbcL sequences for 357 taxa. Despite some discrepancies, the atpB-based phylogenetic trees were highly congruent with those derived from the analysis of rbcL and 18S rDNA, and the combination of atpB and rbcL DNA sequences (comprising 3000 base pairs) produced increased bootstrap support for many major sets of taxa. The angiosperms are divided into two major groups: noneudicots with inaperturate or uniaperturate pollen (monocots plus Laurales, Magnoliales, Piperales, Ceratophyllales, and Amborellaceae-Nymphaeaceae-Illiciaceae) and the eudicots with triaperturate pollen (particularly asterids and rosids). Based on rbcL alone and atpB/rbcL combined, the noneudicots (excluding Ceratophyllum) are monophyletic, whereas in the atpB trees they form a grade. Ceratophyllum is sister to the rest of angiosperms with rbcL alone and in the combined atpB/rbcL analysis, whereas with atpB alone, Amborellaceae, Nymphaeaceae, and Illiciaceae/Schisandraceae form a grade at the base of the angiosperms. The phylogenetic information at each codon position and the different types of substitutions (observed transitions and transversions in the trees vs. pairwise comparisons) were examined; taking into account their respective consistency and retention indices, we demonstrate that third-codon positions and transitions are the most useful characters in these phylogenetic reconstructions. This study further demonstrates that phylogenetic analysis of large matrices is feasible.
2585216|When a data set is partitioned, the resulting subsets may contain phylogenetically conflicting signals if they have different evolutionary histories. In a data set with many taxa, a single taxon that contains multiple phylogenetic histories may result in global incongruence, but no methods are available in a parsimony framework to localize incongruence to specific clades in a phylogeny or to test the significance of incongruence on a local scale. Here we present a new method to quantify the conflict between data partitions for any clade in a phylogeny and to test the statistical significance of that conflict by using a metric called the local incongruence length difference. We apply this method to the evolutionary history of the nuclear receptor superfamily, a large group of transcriptional regulators that play essential roles in metazoan development and physiology. All nuclear receptors are composed of several discrete domains, including one that binds to DNA response elements on specific target genes and another that binds to the appropriate ligand. We have performed combined and separate phylogenetic analyses of these two domains and have tested the hypothesis that nuclear receptors evolved by a simple process of lineage splitting and divergence, without domain shuffling or other forms of sequence transfer between proteins. Our analysis indicates that significant conflict exists between the partitioned domains at a few nodes on the tree, suggesting that several groups of receptors are "hybrid proteins" formed by domain shuffling or other forms of sequence transfer between more ancient nuclear receptors.
2585217|A central question concerning data collection strategy for molecular phylogenies has been, is it better to increase the number of characters or the number of taxa sampled to improve the robustness of a phylogeny estimate? A recent simulation study concluded that increasing the number of taxa sampled is preferable to increasing the number of nucleotide characters, if taxa are chosen specifically to break up long branches. We explore this hypothesis by using empirical data from noctuoid moths, one of the largest superfamilies of insects. Separate studies of two nuclear genes, elongation factor-1 (EF-1) and dopa decarboxylase (DDC), have yielded similar gene trees and high concordance with morphological groupings for 49 exemplar species. However, support levels were quite low for nodes deeper than the subfamily level. We tested the effects on phylogenetic signal of (1) increasing the taxon sampling by nearly 60%, to 77 species, and (2) combining data from the two genes in a single analysis. Surprisingly, the increased taxon sampling, although designed to break up long branches, generated greater disagreement between the two gene data sets and decreased support levels for deeper nodes. We appear to have inadvertently introduced new long branches, and breaking these up may require a yet larger taxon sample. Sampling additional characters (combining data) greatly increased the phylogenetic signal. To contrast the potential effect of combining data from independent genes with collection of the same total number of characters from a single gene, we simulated the latter by bootstrap augmentation of the single-gene data sets. Support levels for combined data were at least as high as those for the bootstrap-augmented data set for DDC and were much higher than those for the augmented EF-1 data set. This supports the view that in obtaining additional sequence data to solve a refractory systematic problem, it is prudent to take them from an independent gene.
2585218|Phylogenetic inference is well known to be problematic if both long and short branches occur together in the underlying tree. With biological data, correcting for this problem may require simultaneous consideration for both substitution biases and rate heterogeneity between lineages and across sequence positions. A particular form of the latter is the presence of invariable sites, which are well known to mislead estimation of genetic divergences. Here we describe a capture-recapture method to estimate the proportion of invariable sites in an alignment of amino acids or nucleotides. We use it to investigate phylogenetic signals in 18S ribosomal DNA sequences from Holometabolus insects. Our results suggest that, as taxa diverged, their 18S rDNA sequences have altered in both their distribution of sites that can vary as well as in their base compositions.
2585220|DNA sequences from 195 squamate reptiles indicate that mitochondrial gene order is the most reliable phylogenetic character establishing monophyly of acrodont lizards and of the snake families Boidae, Colubridae, and Viperidae. Gene order shows no evidence of evolutionary parallelisms or reversals in these taxa. Derived secondary structures of mitochondrial tRNAs also prove to be useful phylogenetic characters showing no reversals. Parallelisms for secondary structures of tRNAs are restricted to deep lineages that are separated by at least 200 million years of independent evolution. Presence of a stem-and-loop structure between the genes encoding tRNA<sup>Asn</sup> and tRNA<sup>Cys</sup>, where the replication origin for light-strand synthesis is typically located in vertebrate mitochondrial genomes, is found to undergo at least three and possibly as many as seven evolutionary shifts, most likely parallel losses. This character is therefore a less desirable phylogenetic marker than the other structural changes examined. Sequencing regions that contain multiple genes, including tRNA genes, may be preferable to the common practice of obtaining single-gene fragments for phylogenetic inference because it permits observation of major structural changes in the mitochondrial genome. Such characters may occasionally provide phylogenetic information on relatively short internal branches for which base substitutional changes are expected to be relatively uninformative.
2585219|A phylogenetic tree for acrodont lizards (Chamaeleonidae and Agamidae) is established based on 1434 bases (1041 informative) of aligned DNA positions from a 1685-1778 base pair region of the mitochondrial genome. Sequences from three protein-coding genes (ND1, ND2, and COI) are combined with sequences from eight intervening tRNA genes for samples of 70 acrodont taxa and two outgroups. Parsimony analysis of nucleotide sequences identifies eight major clades in the Acrodonta. Most agamid lizards are placed into three distinct clades. One clade is composed of all taxa occurring in Australia and New Guinea; Physignathus cocincinus from Southeast Asia is the sister taxon to the Australia-New Guinea clade. A second clade is composed of taxa occurring from Tibet and the Indian Subcontinent east through South and East Asia. A third clade is composed of taxa occurring from Africa east through Arabia and West Asia to Tibet and the Indian Subcontinent. These three clades contain all agamid lizards except Uromastyx, Leiolepis, and Hydrosaurus, which represent three additional clades of the Agamidae. The Chamaeleonidae forms another clade weakly supported as the sister taxon to the Agamidae. All eight clades of the Acrodonta contain members occurring on land masses derived from Gondwanaland. A hypothesis of agamid lizards rafting with Gondwanan plates is examined statistically. This hypothesis suggests that the African/West Asian clade is of African or Indian origin, and the South Asian clade is either of Indian or Southeast Asian origin. The shortest tree suggests a possible African origin for the former and an Indian origin for the latter, but this result is not statistically robust. The Australia-New Guinea clade rafted with the Australia-New Guinea plate and forms the sister group to a Southeast Asian taxon that occurs on plates that broke from northern Australia-New Guinea. Other acrodont taxa are inferred to be associated with the plates of Afro-Arabia and Madagascar (Chamaeleonidae), India (Uromastyx), or southeast Asia (Hydrosaurus and Leiolepis). Introduction of different biotic elements to Asia by way of separate Gondwanan plates may be a major theme of Asian biogeography. Three historical events may be responsible for the sharp faunal barrier between Southeast Asia and Australia-New Guinea, known as Wallace's line: (1) primary vicariance caused by plate separations; (2) secondary contact of Southeast Asian plates with Eurasia, leading to dispersal from Eurasia into Southeast Asia, and (3) dispersal of the Indian fauna (after collision of that subcontinent) to Southeast Asia. Acrodont lizards show the first and third of these biogeographic patterns and anguid lizards exhibit the second pattern. Modern faunal diversity may be influenced primarily by historical events such as tectonic collisions and land bridge connections, which are expected to promote episodic turnover of continental faunas by introducing new faunal elements into an area. Repeated tectonic collisions may be one of the most important phenomena promoting continental biodiversity. Phylogenetics is a powerful method for investigating these processes.
2585389|Nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial protein coding cytochrome b (cyt b; 650 bp) and small-subunit 12S ribosomal RNA (350 bp) genes were used in analyses of phylogenetic relationships among extant phrynosomatid sand lizards, including an examination of competing hypotheses regarding the evolution of "earlessness." Sequences were obtained from all currently recognized species of sand lizards as well as representatives of the first and second outgroups and analyzed using both parsimony and likelihood methods. The cyt b data offer strong support for relationships that correspond with relatively recent divergences and moderate to low support for relationships reflecting more ancient divergences within the clade. These data support monophyly of the "earless" taxa, the placement of Uma as the sister taxon to the other sand lizards, and monophyly of all four taxa traditionally ranked as genera. All well-supported relationships in the 12S phylogeny are completely congruent with well-supported relationships in the cyt b phylogeny; however, the 12S data alone provide very little support for deeper divergences. Phylogenetic relationships within species are concordant with geography and suggest patterns of phylogeographic differentiation, including the conclusion that at least one currently recognized species (Holbrookia maculata) actually consists of more than one species. By independently optimizing likelihood model parameters for various subsets of the data, we found that nucleotide substitution processes vary widely between genes and among the structural and functional regions or classes of sites within each gene. Therefore, we compared competing phylogenetic hypotheses, using parameter estimates specific to those subsets, analyzing the subsets separately and in various combinations. The hypothesis supported by the cyt b data was favored over rival hypotheses in all but one of the five comparisons made with the entire data set, including the set of partitions that best explained the data, although we were unable to confidently reject (P < 0.05) alternative hypotheses. Our results highlight the importance of optimizing models and parameter estimates for different genes or parts thereof-a strategy that takes advantages of the strengths of both combining and partitioning data.
2585384|The complete protein-coding sequences of the c-myc proto-oncogene were determined for five species of four new orders of eutherian (placental) mammals. These newly obtained sequences were aligned to each other and to other available orthologs for the phylogenetic estimation of eutherian interordinal relationships. Several measures of sequence difference and base composition were first calculated to assess the major evolutionary properties of the three codon positions and two protein-coding exons of the gene. On the basis of these calculations, different parsimony, distance, and maximum likelihood approaches were adopted, with the most sophisticated involving the separate, then combined, likelihood analyses of the third codon positions of exon 2 versus all other sites. These phylogenetic approaches provided clear support for the grouping of Chiroptera (bats) with Artiodactyla (ruminants, camels, and pigs) and Carnivora (cats, dogs, and their allies), an interordinal arrangement that receives strong corroboration from other lines of evidence including complete mitochondrial DNA sequences. In contrast, these analyses failed to provide strong to reasonable support for any other interordinal group. This study concludes with specific recommendations about sampling and other strategies for maximizing the phylogenetic contributions of the c-myc gene to the continued resolution of the eutherian ordinal tree.
2585383|Three-taxon statement analysis (3TA) and standard cladistic analysis (SCA) were evaluated relative to propositions of taxic homology. There are definite distinctions between complement relation homologs and paired homologs. The complement relation is discussed, relative to rooting, parsimony, and taxic propositions of homology. The complement relation, as implemented in SCA, makes sense only because SCA is a simple evolutionary model of character-state transformation. 3TA is a method for implementing complement relation data from a taxic perspective. The standard approach to cladistic analysis distinguishes taxa by rooting a tree, which means that that approach is incompatible with taxic propositions of homology, because a taxic homology is a hypothesis of relationship between taxa that possess a homolog relative to taxa that lack a homolog. It is not necessary to treat paired homologs from a transformational perspective to distinguish informative from uninformative data. 3TA yields results markedly different from those of SCA. SCA, which seeks to minimize tree length, may not maximize the relation of homology (congruence) relative to a tree.
2585380|Hybridization is an important evolutionary mechanism in plants and has been increasingly documented in animals. Difficulty in reconstruction of reticulate evolution, however, has been a longstanding problem in phylogenetics. Consequently, hybrid speciation may play a major role in causing topological incongruence between gene trees. The incongruence, in turn, offers an opportunity to detect hybrid speciation. Here we characterized certain distinctions between hybridization and other biological processes, including lineage sorting, paralogy, and lateral gene transfer, that are responsible for topological incongruence between gene trees. Consider two incongruent gene trees with three taxa, A, B, and C, where B is a sister group of A on gene tree 1 but a sister group of C on gene tree 2. With a theoretical model based on the molecular clock, we demonstrate that time of divergence of each gene between taxa A and C is nearly equal in the case of hybridization (B is a hybrid) or lateral gene transfer, but differs significantly in the case of lineage sorting or paralogy. After developing a bootstrap test to test these alternative hypotheses, we extended the model and test to account for incongruent gene trees with numerous taxa. Computer simulation studies supported the validity of the theoretical model and bootstrap test when each gene evolved at a constant rate. The computer simulation also suggested that the model remained valid as long as the rate heterogeneity was occurring proportionally in the same taxa for both genes. Although the model could not test hypotheses of hybridization versus lateral gene transfer as the cause of incongruence, these two processes may be distinguished by comparing phylogenies of multiple unlinked genes.
2585385|The saola, Pseudoryx nghetinhensis, was unknown to science until its formal description in 1993. This endangered species is a member of the ruminant artiodactyl family Bovidae (cattle, sheep, goats, and antelopes). However, given its puzzling combination of morphological traits, the specific affinities of Pseudoryx within Bovidae are controversial. A preliminary genetic investigation suggested that Pseudoryx should be placed in the subfamily Bovinae (cattle, buffaloes, spiral-horned antelopes, and nilgai), but a recent cladistic analysis of skeletal and dental characters allied Pseudoryx with caprine bovids (sheep, goats, musk oxen, goat antelopes, and Pantholops). The morphological and molecular hypotheses differ in assigning the saola to either of the two most divergent clades of Bovidae. In this report, phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences from five genes are used to test these alternatives. Protein coding regions, introns, and ribosomal DNAs from the nuclear and mitochondrial genomes discount the hypothesis that Pseudoryx is a close relative of Caprinae. Instead, combined analyses of the DNA data and published morphological evidence place Pseudoryx with Bovini (cattle and buffaloes), a subclade of Bovinae. In a separate analysis, the matrix of morphological characters links Pseudoryx with caprine bovids, but in the context of the molecular data, the gross anatomical evidence strongly supports a grouping of Pseudoryx with Bovinae. Surprisingly, the morphological partition provides the most character support in the combined analysis. This striking result is obscured by separate analyses of the individual data sets and the taxonomic congruence approach.
2585388|Previous studies of the small Southern Hemisphere family Atherospermataceae have drawn contradictory conclusions regarding the number of transantarctic disjunctions and role of transoceanic dispersal in its evolution. Clarification of intergeneric relationships is critical to resolving (1) whether the two Chilean species, Laurelia sempervirens and Laureliopsis philippiana, are related to different Austral-Pacific species, implying two transantarctic disjunctions as suggested by morphology; (2) where the group is likely to have originated; and (3) whether observed disjunctions reflect the breakup of Gondwana. We analyzed chloroplast DNA sequences from six regions (the rbcL gene, the rpl16 intron, and the trnL-trnF, trnT-trnL, psbA-trnH, and atpB-rbcL spacer regions; for all six regions, 4,372 bp) for all genera and most species of Atherospermataceae, using parsimony and maximum likelihood (ML). The family's sister group, the Chilean endemic Gomortega nitida (Gomortegaceae), was used to root the tree. Parsimony and ML yielded identical single best trees that contain three well-supported clades (75% bootstrap): Daphnandra and Doryphora from south-eastern Australia; Atherosperma and Nemuaron from Australia-Tasmania and New Caledonia, respectively; and Laurelia novae-zelandiae and Laureliopsis philippiana from New Zealand and Chile, respectively. The second Chilean species, Laurelia sempervirens, is sister to this last clade. Likelihood ratio testing did not reject the molecular clock assumption for the rbcL data, which can therefore be used for divergence time estimates. The atherosperm fossil record, which goes back to the Upper Cretaceous, includes pollen, wood, and leaf fossils from Europe, Africa, South America, Antarctica, New Zealand, and Tasmania. Calibration of rbcL substitution rates with the fossils suggests an initial diversification of the family at 100-140 million years ago (MYA), probably in West Gondwana, early entry into Antarctica, and long-distance dispersal to New Zealand and New Caledonia at 50-30 MYA by the ancestors of L. novae-zelandiae and Nemuaron.
2585387|The model of development and evolution of complex morphological structures conceived by Atchley and Hall in 1991 (Biol. Rev. 66:101-157), which establishes that changes at the macroscopic, morphogenetic level can be statistically detected as variation in skeletal units at distinct scales, was applied in combination with the formalism of geometric morphometrics to study variation in mandible shape among populations of the rodent species Thrichomys apereoides. The thin-plate spline technique produced geometric descriptors of shape derived from anatomical landmarks in the mandible, which we used with graphical and inferential approaches to partition the contribution of global and localized components to the observed differentiation in mandible shape. A major pattern of morphological differentiation in T. apereoides is attributable to localized components of shape at smaller geometric scales associated with specific morphogenetic units of the mandible. On the other hand, a clinal trend of variation is associated primarily with localized components of shape at larger geometric scales. Morphogenetic mechanisms assumed to be operating to produce the observed differentiation in the specific units of the mandible include mesenchymal condensation differentiation, muscle hypertrophy, and tooth growth. Perspectives for the application of models of morphological evolution and geometric morphometrics to morphologically based systematic biology are considered.
2585382|Paleontologists frequently contrast clade rank (i.e., nodal or patristic distance from the base of a cladogram) with age rank (i.e., relative first known appearances of the analyzed taxa) to measure the degree of congruence between the estimated phylogeny and the fossil record. Although some potential biases of these methods have been examined (e.g., the effect of tree imbalance), other properties of age rank/clade rank (ARCR) comparisons have not been studied in detail. A basic premise of ARCR metrics is that outgroup taxa diverged earlier than ingroups and thus should first appear in older strata. For example, given phylogeny (A,(B,C)), then taxon A should be sampled before either taxon B or taxon C. We examine this premise in the context of (1) phylogenetic theory, (2) taxonomic practice, (3) sampling intensity (R), and (4) factors other than sampling intensity (including cladogram accuracy). Simulations combining clade evolution and sampling over time indicate a poor relationship between ARCR metrics and R when all taxa are apomorphy-based monophyletic groups. However, a good relationship exists when taxa are either stem-based monophyletic groups or if workers include taxa without a priori decisions about monophyly or paraphyly. These results are not surprising because cladograms predict the order in which lineages diverged (which applies to stem-based monophyletic taxa) and the order in which morphologic grades appeared (which applies to paraphyletic taxa relative to derived monophyletic groups). Other factors that increase ARCR metrics when the average R stays the same include high temporal variation in R, budding instead of bifurcating speciation patterns, low extinction rates, cladogram inaccuracy, and (to a much lesser extent) large clade size. These results suggest several plausible explanations for patterned differences in ARCR metrics among clades, thereby compromising their validity as measures of the quality of the fossil record.
2585386|Triploblastic relationships were examined in the light of molecular and morphological evidence. Representatives for all triploblastic "phyla" (except Loricifera) were represented by both sources of phylogenetic data. The 18S ribosomal (rDNA) sequence data for 145 terminal taxa and 276 morphological characters coded for 36 supraspecific taxa were combined in a total evidence regime to determine the most consistent picture of triploblastic relationships for these data. Only triploblastic taxa are used to avoid rooting with distant outgroups, which seems to happen because of the extreme distance that separates diploblastic from triploblastic taxa according to the 18S rDNA data. Multiple phylogenetic analyses performed with variable analysis parameters yield largely inconsistent results for certain groups such as Chaetognatha, Acoela, and Nemertodermatida. A normalized incongruence length metric is used to assay the relative merit of the multiple analyses. The combined analysis having the least character incongruence yields the following scheme of relationships of four main clades: (1) Deuterostomia [((Echinodermata + Enteropneusta) (Cephalochordata (Urochordata + Vertebrata)))]; (2) Ecdysozoa [(((Priapulida + Kinorhyncha) (Nematoda + Nematomorpha)) ((Onychophora + Tardigrada) Arthropoda))]; (3) Trochozoa [((Phoronida + Brachiopoda) (Entoprocta (Nemertea (Sipuncula (Mollusca (Pogonophora (Echiura + Annelida)))))))]; and (4) Platyzoa [((Gnathostomulida (Cycliophora + Syndermata)) (Gastrotricha + Plathelminthes))]. Chaetognatha, nemertodermatida, and Bryozoa cannot be assigned to any one of these four groups. For the first time, a data analysis recognizes a clade of acoelomates, the Platyzoa (sensu Cavalier-Smith, Biol. Rev. 73:203-266, 1998). Other relationships that corroborate some morphological analyses are the existence of a clade that groups Gnathostomulida + Syndermata (= Gnathifera), which is expanded to include the enigmatic phylum Cycliophora, as sister group to Syndermata.
2585381|Extreme sexual body size dimorphism (SSD), in which males are only a small fraction of the size of the females, occurs only in a few, mostly marine, taxonomic groups. Spiders are the only terrestrial group in which small males are relatively common, particularly among orb-weavers (especially in the families Tetragnathidae and Araneidae) and crab spiders (Thomisidae). We used a taxonomic sample of 80 genera to study the phylogenetic patterns (origins and reversals) of SSD in orb-weaving spiders (Orbiculariae). We collected and compiled male and female size data (adult body length) for 536 species. Size data were treated as a continuous character, and ancestral sizes, for males and females separately, were reconstructed by using Wagner parsimony on a cladogram for the 80 genera used in this study. Of these 80 genera, 24 were female-biased dimorphic (twice or more the body length of the male); the remaining 56 genera were monomorphic. Under parsimony only four independent origins of dimorphism are required: in the theridiid genus Tidarren, in the distal nephilines, in the "argiopoid clade," and in the araneid genus Kaira. Dimorphism has reversed to monomorphism at least seven times, all of them within the large "argiopoid clade." The four independent origins of dimorphism represent two separate instances of an increase in female size coupled with a decrease of male size (involving only two genera), and two separate instances of an increase in female size with male size either remaining the same or increasing, but not as much as females (involving 30 genera). In orb-weaving spiders, far more taxa are sexually dimorphic as a result of female size increase (22 genera) than as a result of male size decrease (two genera). SSD in orb-weaving spiders encompasses several independent evolutionary histories that together suggest a variety of evolutionary pathways. This multiplicity strongly refutes all efforts thus far to find a general explanation for either the origin or maintenance (or both) of SSD, because the different pathways very likely will require distinctly different, possibly unique, explanations. Each pattern must be understood historically before its origin and maintenance can be explained in ecological and evolutionary terms. The most frequently cited example of male dwarfism in spiders, the golden orb-weaving spider genus Nephila (Tetragnathidae), is in fact a case of female giantism, not male dwarfism.
2585378|We investigated the coevolutionary history of seabirds (orders Procellariiformes and Sphenisciformes) and their lice (order Phthiraptera). Independent trees were produced for the seabirds (tree derived from 12S ribosomal RNA, isoenzyme, and behavioral data) and their lice (trees derived from 12S rRNA data). Brook's parsimony analysis (BPA) supported a general history of cospeciation (consistency index = 0.84, retention index = 0.81). We inferred that the homoplasy in the BPA was caused by one intrahost speciation, one potential host-switching, and eight or nine sorting events. Using reconciliation analysis, we quantified the cost of fitting the louse tree onto the seabird tree. The reconciled trees postulated one host-switching, nine cospeciation, three or four intrahost speciation, and 11 to 14 sorting events. The number of cospeciation events was significantly more than would be expected from chance alone (P < 0.01). The sequence data were used to test for rate heterogeneity for both seabirds and lice. Neither data set displayed significant rate heterogeneity. An examination of the codivergent nodes revealed that seabirds and lice have cospeciated synchronously and that lice have evolved at 5.5 times the rate of seabirds. The degree of sequence divergence supported some of the postulated intrahost speciation events (e.g., Halipeurus predated the evolution of their present hosts). The sequence data also supported some of the postulated host-switching events. These results demonstrate the value of sequence data and reconciliation analyses in unraveling complex histories between hosts and their parasites.
2585379|Populations of the jumping spider Habronattus pugillis Griswold isolated on nearby mountain ranges in southern Arizona are differentiated in many features of the males (color, shape, and orientation of setae on face; shape of carapace; markings of palpi and legs; motions during courtship behavior). These features are (mostly) consistent within a range and different between ranges. The concentration of differences in male courtship behavior and body parts exposed to the female during courtship and correlations between form and courtship behavior suggest sexual selection was involved in the differentiation. A phylogenetic analysis of the populations yields a tree that for the most part groups geographic neighbors, but the history of H. pugillis populations may not be adequately described by a tree. Geographic proximity of apparent convergences suggests that populations from at least some of the mountain ranges acquired characteristics through introgression. Lowering of the woodland habitat during the last glacial period probably brought some populations into contact, but it is not clear whether the interrange woodlands would have provided corridors for extensive mixing.
25677548|The "phylogenetic diversity" (PD) measure of biodiversity is evaluated using a phylogenetic tree, usually inferred from morphological or molecular data. Consequently, it is vulnerable to errors in that tree, including those resulting from sampling error, model misspecification, or conflicting signals. To improve the robustness of PD, we can evaluate the measure using either a collection (or distribution) of trees or a phylogenetic network. Recently, it has been shown that these 2 approaches are equivalent but that the problem of maximizing PD in the general concept is NP-hard. In this study, we provide an efficient dynamic programming algorithm for maximizing PD when splits in the trees or network form a circular split system. We illustrate our method using a case study of game birds ("Galliformes") and discuss the different choices of taxa based on our approach and PD.
25677549|Species traits may influence rates of speciation and extinction, affecting both the patterns of diversification among lineages and the distribution of traits among species. Existing likelihood approaches for detecting differential diversification require complete phylogenies; that is, every extant species must be present in a well-resolved phylogeny. We developed 2 likelihood methods that can be used to infer the effect of a trait on speciation and extinction without complete phylogenetic information, generalizing the recent binary-state speciation and extinction method. Our approaches can be used where a phylogeny can be reasonably assumed to be a random sample of extant species or where all extant species are included but some are assigned only to terminal unresolved clades. We explored the effects of decreasing phylogenetic resolution on the ability of our approach to detect differential diversification within a Bayesian framework using simulated phylogenies. Differential diversification caused by an asymmetry in speciation rates was nearly as well detected with only 50% of extant species phylogenetically resolved as with complete phylogenetic knowledge. We demonstrate our unresolved clade method with an analysis of sexual dimorphism and diversification in shorebirds (Charadriiformes). Our methods allow for the direct estimation of the effect of a trait on speciation and extinction rates using incompletely resolved phylogenies.
25677550|We explore the potential impact of conflicting gene trees on inferences of evolutionary history above the species level. When conflict between gene trees is discovered, it is common practice either to analyze the data separately or to combine the data having excluded the conflicting taxa or data partitions for those taxa (which are then recoded as missing). We demonstrate an alternative approach, which involves duplicating conflicting taxa in the matrix, such that each duplicate is represented by one partition only. This allows the combination of all available data in standard phylogenetic analyses, despite reticulations. We show how interpretation of contradictory gene trees can lead to conflicting inferences of both morphological evolution and biogeographic history, using the example of the pampas grasses, Cortaderia. The characteristic morphological syndrome of Cortaderia can be inferred as having arisen multiple times (chloroplast DNA [cpDNA]) or just once (nuclear ribosomal DNA [nrDNA]). The distributions of species of Cortaderia and related genera in Australia/New Guinea, New Zealand, and South America can be explained by few (nrDNA) or several (cpDNA) dispersals between the southern continents. These contradictions can be explained by past hybridization events, which have linked gains of complex morphologies with unrelated chloroplast lineages and have erased evidence of dispersals from the nuclear genome. Given the discrepancies between inferences based on the gene trees individually, we urge the use of approaches such as ours that take multiple gene trees into account.
25677546|In phylogenetic analysis, one possible approach to minimize missing data in DNA supermatrices consists in sampling sequences from different species to obtain a complete sequence for all genes included in the study. We refer to those complete sequences as composite taxa because DNA sequences that are combined belong to different species. An alternative approach is to analyze incomplete supermatrices by coding unavailable DNA sequences as missing. The accuracy of phylogenetic trees estimated using matrices that include composite taxa has recently been questioned, and the best approach for analyzing incomplete supermatrices is highly debated. Through computer simulations, we compared the phylogenetic accuracy of the 2 competing approaches. We explored the effect of composite taxa when inferring higher level relationships, that is, relationships between monophyletic groups. DNA sequences were simulated on a 42-taxon model tree and incomplete supermatrices containing different percentages of missing data were generated. These incomplete supermatrices were analyzed either by coding the missing data with "?" or by reducing the amount of missing data through the combination of 2 or more taxa to generate composite taxa. Of 180 comparisons (18 simulation cases with 2 different inference methods and 5 levels of incompleteness), we observed significantly higher phylogenetic accuracies for composite matrices in 46 comparisons, whereas missing data matrices outperformed composites in 8 comparisons. In all other cases, the phylogenetic accuracy obtained with composite matrices was not significantly different from that of missing data matrices. This study demonstrates that composite taxa represent an interesting approach to minimize the amount of missing data in supermatrices and we suggest that it is the optimal approach to use in phylogenomic studies to reduce computing time.
25677552|Madagascar's flora and fauna are remarkable both for their diversity and supraspecific endemism. Moreover, many taxa contain large numbers of species with limited distributions. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain this high level of microendemism, including 1) riverine barrier, 2) mountain refuge, and 3) watershed contraction hypotheses, the latter 2 of which center on fragmentation due to climatic shifts associated with Pliocene/Pleistocene glaciations. The Malagasy leaf chameleon genus Brookesia is a speciose group with a high proportion of microendemic taxa, thus making it an excellent candidate to test these vicariance scenarios. We used mitochondrial and nuclear sequence data to construct a Brookesia phylogeny, and temporal concordance with Pliocene/Pleistocene speciation scenarios was tested by estimating divergence dates using a relaxed-clock Bayesian method. We strongly reject a role for Pliocene/Pleistocene climatic fluctuations in species-level diversification of Brookesia. We also used simulations to test the spatial predictions of the watershed contraction model in a phylogenetic context, independent of its temporal component, and found no statistical support for this model. The riverine barrier model is likewise a qualitatively poor fit to our data, but some relationships support a more ancient mountain refuge effect. We assessed support for the 3 hypotheses in a nonphylogenetic context by examining altitude and species richness and found a significant positive correlation between these variables. This is consistent with a mountain refuge effect but does not support the watershed contraction or riverine barrier models. Finally, we find repeated higher level east-west divergence patterns 1) between the 2 sister clades comprising the Brookesia minima group and 2) within the clade of larger leaf chameleons, which shows a basal divergence between western and eastern/northern sister clades. Our results highlight the central role of phylogeny in any meaningful tests of species-level diversification theories.
25677547|The remarkable fossil record of whales and dolphins (Cetacea) has made them an exemplar of macroevolution. Although their overall adaptive transition from terrestrial to fully aquatic organisms is well known, this is not true for the radiation of modern whales. Here, we explore the diversification of extant cetaceans by constructing a robust molecular phylogeny that includes 87 of 89 extant species. The phylogeny and divergence times are derived from nuclear and mitochondrial markers, calibrated with fossils. We find that the toothed whales are monophyletic, suggesting that echolocation evolved only once early in that lineage some 3634 Ma. The rorqual family (Balaenopteridae) is restored with the exclusion of the gray whale, suggesting that gulp feeding evolved 1816 Ma. Delphinida, comprising all living dolphins and porpoises other than the Ganges/Indus dolphins, originated about 26 Ma; it contains the taxonomically rich delphinids, which began diversifying less than 11 Ma. We tested 2 hypothesized drivers of the extant cetacean radiation by assessing the tempo of lineage accumulation through time. We find no support for a rapid burst of speciation early in the history of extant whales, contrasting with expectations of an adaptive radiation model. However, we do find support for increased diversification rates during periods of pronounced physical restructuring of the oceans. The results imply that paleogeographic and paleoceanographic changes, such as closure of major seaways, have influenced the dynamics of radiation in extant cetaceans.
25677545|I investigated the impacts of phylogeographic sampling decisions on species tree estimation in the Sceloporus undulatus species group, a recent radiation of small, insectivorous lizards connected by parapatric and peripatric distribution across North America, using a variety of species tree inference methods (Bayesian estimation of species trees, Bayesian untangling of concordance knots, and minimize deep coalescences). Phylogenetic analyses of 16 specimens representing 4 putative species within S. "undulatus" using complete (8 loci, >5.5 kb) and incomplete (29 loci, >23.6 kb) nuclear data sets result in species trees that share features with the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genealogy at the phylogeographic level but provide new insights into the evolutionary history of the species group. The concatenated nuclear data and mtDNA data both recover 4 major clades connecting populations across North America; however, instances of discordance are localized at the contact zones between adjacent phylogeographic groups. A random sub-sampling experiment designed to vary the phylogeographic samples included across hundreds of replicate species tree inferences suggests that inaccurate species assignments can result in inferred phylogenetic relationships that are dependent upon which particular populations are used as exemplars to represent species and can lead to increased estimates of effective population size (). For the phylogeographic data presented here, reassigning specimens with introgressed mtDNA genomes to their prospective species, or excluding them from the analysis altogether, produces species tree topologies that are distinctly different from analyses that utilize mtDNA-based species assignments. Evolutionary biologists working at the interface of phylogeography and phylogenetics are likely to encounter multiple processes influencing gene trees congruence, which increases the relevance of estimating species trees with multilocus nuclear data and models that accommodate deep coalescence.
25677551|Time-calibrated molecular phylogenies provide a valuable window into the tempo and mode of species diversification, especially for the large number of groups that lack adequate fossil records. Molecular phylogenetic data frequently suggest an initial "explosive speciation" phase, leading to widespread speculation that ecological niche-filling processes might govern the dynamics of species diversification during evolutionary radiations. However, these patterns are difficult to reconcile with the fossil record. The fossil record strongly suggests that extinction rates have been high relative to speciation rates, but such elevated background extinction should erase the signal of early, rapid speciation from molecular phylogenies. For this reason, extinction rates in molecular phylogenies are frequently estimated as zero under the widely used birthdeath model. Here, I construct a simple model that combines phylogenetically patterned extinction with pulsed turnover dynamics and constant diversity through time. Using approximate Bayesian methods, I show that heritable extinction can easily explain the phenomenon of explosive early diversification, even when net diversification rates are equal to zero. Several assumptions of the model are more consistent with both the fossil record and neontological data than the standard birthdeath model and it may thus represent a viable alternative interpretation of phylogenetic diversification patterns. These results suggest that variation in the absolute rate of lineage turnover through time, in conjunction with phylogenetically nonrandom extinction, may underlie the apparent diversity-dependent speciation observed in molecular phylogenies.
25677482|Consensus methods provide a useful strategy for summarizing information from a collection of gene trees. An important application of consensus methods is to combine gene trees to estimate a species tree. To investigate the theoretical properties of consensus trees that would be obtained from large numbers of loci evolving according to a basic evolutionary model, we construct consensus trees from rooted gene trees that occur in proportion to gene-tree probabilities derived from coalescent theory. We consider majority-rule, rooted triple (R*), and greedy consensus trees obtained from known, rooted gene trees, both in the asymptotic case as numbers of gene trees approach infinity and for finite numbers of genes. Our results show that for some combinations of species-tree branch lengths, increasing the number of independent loci can make the rooted majority-rule consensus tree more likely to be at least partially unresolved. However, the probability that the R* consensus tree has the species-tree topology approaches 1 as the number of gene trees approaches . Although the greedy consensus algorithm can be the quickest to converge on the correct species-tree topology when increasing the number of gene trees, it can also be positively misleading. The majority-rule consensus tree is not a misleading estimator of the species-tree topology, and the R* consensus tree is a statistically consistent estimator of the species-tree topology. Our results therefore suggest a method for using multiple loci to infer the species-tree topology, even when it is discordant with the most likely gene tree.
25677480|Understanding the mechanisms by which widely disjunct members of a clade came to occupy their current distribution is one of the fundamental challenges of biogeography. Here, we used data from 7 nuclear and 1 mitochondrial gene to examine the phylogenetic and biogeographic history of Emys, a clade of turtles that is broadly disjunct in western and eastern North America and Europe. We found strong disagreement between mitochondrial and nuclear gene trees, with mitochondrial DNA supporting the monophyly of the North American taxa (marmorata + blandingii) to the exclusion of the European orbicularis, and nuclear genes supporting the monophyly of (blandingii + orbicularis) to the exclusion of marmorata. We used fossil-calibrated molecular chronograms, in combination with supporting evidence from the fossil record and paleoclimatology, to identify a potential example of ancient hybridization and mitochondrial gene capture 12 million years ago, which explains this discrepancy. Based on the weight of evidence, we argue that the invasion of Eurasia by Emys orbicularis occurred about 16 Ma via a trans-Beringian land bridge. The case of Emys emphasizes how single-gene trees can be strongly affected by population processes, including hybridization, and that the effects of these processes can persist through long periods of evolutionary history. Given the chaotic state of the current taxonomy of these turtles, our work also emphasizes the care that should be used in implementing taxonomic changes based on 1 or a few gene trees and the importance of taking a conservative approach in renaming or splitting higher taxa based on apparent nonmonophyly.
25677483|Although polyploidy plays a fundamental role in plant evolution, the elucidation of polyploid origins is fraught with methodological challenges. For example, allopolyploid species may confound phylogenetic reconstruction because commonly used methods are designed to trace divergent, rather than reticulate patterns. Recently developed techniques of phylogenetic network estimation allow for a more effective identification of incongruence among trees. However, incongruence can also be caused by incomplete lineage sorting, paralogy, concerted evolution, and recombination. Thus, initial hypotheses of hybridization need to be examined via additional sources of evidence, including the partitioning of infraspecific genetic polymorphisms, morphological characteristics, chromosome numbers, crossing experiments, and distributional patterns. Primula sect. Aleuritia subsect. Aleuritia (Aleuritia) represents an ideal case study to examine reticulation because specific hypotheses have been derived from morphology, karyology, interfertility, and distribution to explain the observed variation of ploidy levels, ranging from diploidy to 14-ploidy. Sequences from 5 chloroplast and 1 nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) markers were analyzed to generate the respective phylogenies and consensus networks. Furthermore, extensive cloning of the nrDNA marker allowed for the identification of shared nucleotides at polymorphic sites, investigation of infraspecific genetic polymorphisms via principal coordinate analyses PCoAs, and detection of recombination between putative progenitor sequences. The results suggest that most surveyed polyploids originated via hybridization and that 2 taxonomic species formed recurrently from different progenitors, findings that are congruent with the expectations of speciation via secondary contact. Overall, the study highlights the importance of using multiple experimental and analytical approaches to disentangle complex patterns of reticulation.
25677481|Random similarity of sequences or sequence sections can impede phylogenetic analyses or the identification of gene homologies. Additionally, randomly similar sequences or ambiguously aligned sequence sections can negatively interfere with the estimation of substitution model parameters. Phylogenomic studies have shown that biases in model estimation and tree reconstructions do not disappear even with large data sets. In fact, these biases can become pronounced with more data. It is therefore important to identify possible random similarity within sequence alignments in advance of model estimation and tree reconstructions. Different approaches have been already suggested to identify and treat problematic alignment sections. We propose an alternative method that can identify random similarity within multiple sequence alignments (MSAs) based on Monte Carlo resampling within a sliding window. The method infers similarity profiles from pairwise sequence comparisons and subsequently calculates a consensus profile. This consensus profile represents a summary of all calculated single similarity profiles. In consequence, consensus profiles identify dominating patterns of non-random similarity or randomness within sections of MSAs. We show that the approach clearly identifies randomness in simulated and real data. After the exclusion of putative random sections, node support drastically improves in tree reconstructions of both data. It thus appears to be a powerful tool to identify possible biases of tree reconstructions or gene identification. The method is currently restricted to nucleotide data but will be extended to protein data in the near future.
25677485|The genomics revolution offers great promise for resolving the phylogeny of living taxa, but does it offer any benefits for reconstructing relationships among extinct (fossil) taxa? Superficially, the answer would seem to be "no," given that molecular data cannot be obtained for most fossil taxa. However, because fossil taxa often interdigitate among living taxa on the Tree of Life, molecular data may indirectly enhance phylogenetic accuracy for fossil taxa in the context of a combined analysis of morphological and molecular data for living and fossil taxa. Here, I use simulations to assess accuracy for fossil taxa in a mixed analysis of living and fossil taxa, before and after addition of molecular data to the living taxa. The results show conditions where the accuracy for fossil taxa is greatly increased by adding molecular data, sometimes by as much as 100%. In other cases, the increase is negligible, such as when fossil taxa greatly outnumber living taxa in the analysis. However, there were few cases where accuracy was significantly decreased by the addition of the molecular data, suggesting that this practice may range from highly beneficial to mostly harmless. Overall, the results suggest that improvements in molecular phylogenetics can potentially benefit phylogeny reconstruction for fossil taxa.
25677486|Several methods have recently been developed that allow the reconstruction of species trees from gene trees, an important achievement in our ongoing quest to obtain reliable species phylogenies. However, considerably less attention has been given to evaluating the accuracy of species trees' estimates. Four methods for measuring branch support of species trees are tested in this study in a gene tree parsimony framework: 1) bootstrap lineages (BL) (sequences) within species, 2) bootstrap characters (BC) within genes (i.e., the standard nonparametric bootstrap), 3) bootstrap lineages and characters (BLC), and 4) posterior probability gene tree sampling (PPGTS) (where, for each resampled data set, gene trees are sampled according to their posterior probability). For each method, n species trees are reconstructed from n resampled data sets and the branch support consists in the percentage of the n species trees in which a branch is recovered. The 4 methods were tested for several species trees and for different sampling efforts (i.e., number of genes and individuals sampled) using coalescent simulations. PPGTS performed best overall with lowest Type I and II error rates, followed by BLC. The BL and BC methods had higher error rates. This suggests that in order to properly measure branch support in a species tree context, it is important to account for the uncertainty involved in reconstructing gene trees from DNA sequences as well as that involved in reconstructing the species tree from individual gene trees. With the parameters used in the simulations, sampling more individuals per species resulted in similar improvements in support values as when sampling more genes. Moreover, sampling more individuals per species appeared to be important for escaping the anomaly zone present when only 1 sequence was sampled. We also apply the 4 methods to obtain branch supports for the species phylogeny of diploid wild roses (Rosa) in North America.
25677487|Phylogenies of closely related animal species are often inferred using mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) gene sequences. The accuracy of mtDNA gene trees is compromised through hybridization that leads to introgression of mitochondrial genomes. Using DNA sequences from 6 single-copy nuclear genes and 2 regions of the mitochondrial genome, we investigated the temporal and geographic signature of mitochondrial and nuclear introgression in the Etheostoma spectabile darter clade. Phylogenetic analyses of the nuclear genes result in the monophyly of the E. spectabile clade; however, with respect to sampled specimens of 5 species (Etheostoma fragi, Etheostoma uniporum, Etheostoma pulchellum, Etheostoma burri, and E. spectabile), the mitochondrial phylogeny is inconsistent with E. spectabile clade monophyly. Etheostoma uniporum and E. fragi are both fixed for heterospecific mitochondrial genomes. Limited nuclear introgression is restricted to E. uniporum. Our analyses show that the pattern of introgression is consistently asymmetric, with movement of heterospecific mitochondrial haplotypes and nuclear alleles into E. spectabile clade species; introgressive hybridization spans broad temporal scales; and introgression is restricted to species and populations in the Ozarks. The introgressed mitochondrial genome observed in E. fragi has an obscure phylogenetic placement among darters, an ancient age, and is possibly a mitochondrial fossil from an Etheostoma species that has subsequently gone extinct. These results indicate that introgression, both ancient and more contemporaneous, characterizes the history of diversification in the E. spectabile species clade and may be relatively common among clades comprising the species-rich North American freshwater fauna.
25677484|Because species names play an important role in scientific communication, it is more important that species be understood to be taxa than that they be equated with functional ecological or evolutionary entities. Although most biologists would agree that taxa are composed of organisms that share a unique common history, 2 major challenges remain in developing a species-as-taxa concept. First, grouping: in the face of genealogical discordance at all levels in the taxonomic hierarchy, how can we understand the nature of taxa? Second, ranking: what criteria should be used to designate certain taxa in a nested series as being species? The grouping problem can be solved by viewing taxa as exclusive groups of organismssets of organisms that form a clade for a plurality of the genome (more than any conflicting set). However, no single objective criterion of species rank can be proposed. Instead, the species rank should be assigned by practitioners based on the semisubjective application of a set of species-ranking criteria. Although these criteria can be designed to yield species taxa that approximately match the ecological, evolutionary, and morphological entities that taxonomists have traditionally associated with the species rank, such a correspondence cannot be enforced without undermining the assumption that species are taxa. The challenge and art of monography is to use genealogical and other kinds of data to assign all organisms to one and only one species-ranked taxon. Various implications of the species-as-ranked-taxa view are discussed, including the synchronic nature of taxa, fossil species, the treatment of hybrids, and species nomenclature. I conclude that, although challenges remain, adopting the view that species are ranked taxa will facilitate a much-needed revolution in taxonomy that will allow it to better serve the biodiversity informatic needs of the 21st century.
25677488|Although an increasing number of phylogenetic data sets are incomplete, the effect of ambiguous data on phylogenetic accuracy is not well understood. We use 4-taxon simulations to study the effects of ambiguous data (i.e., missing characters or gaps) in maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian frameworks. By introducing ambiguous data in a way that removes confounding factors, we provide the first clear understanding of 1 mechanism by which ambiguous data can mislead phylogenetic analyses. We find that in both ML and Bayesian frameworks, among-site rate variation can interact with ambiguous data to produce misleading estimates of topology and branch lengths. Furthermore, within a Bayesian framework, priors on branch lengths and rate heterogeneity parameters can exacerbate the effects of ambiguous data, resulting in strongly misleading bipartition posterior probabilities. The magnitude and direction of the ambiguous data bias are a function of the number and taxonomic distribution of ambiguous characters, the strength of topological support, and whether or not the model is correctly specified. The results of this study have major implications for all analyses that rely on accurate estimates of topology or branch lengths, including divergence time estimation, ancestral state reconstruction, tree-dependent comparative methods, rate variation analysis, phylogenetic hypothesis testing, and phylogeographic analysis.
25677522|Detailed biogeographic studies of pantropical clades are still relatively few, and those conducted to date typically use parsimony or event-based methods to reconstruct ancestral areas. In this study, a recently developed likelihood method for reconstructing ancestral areas (the dispersalextinction cladogenesis [DEC] model) is applied to the angiosperm family Simaroubaceae, a geographically widespread and ecologically diverse clade of pantropical and temperate trees and shrubs. To estimate divergence dates in the family, Bayesian uncorrelated rates analyses and robust fossil calibrations are applied to the well-sampled and strongly supported phylogeny. For biogeographic analyses, the effects of parameter configurations in the DEC model are assessed for different possible ancestral ranges, and the likelihood method is compared with dispersalvicariance analysis (DIVA). Regardless of the parameters used, likelihood analyses show a common pattern of multiple recent range shifts that overshadow reconstruction of events deeper in the family's history. DIVA produced results similar to the DEC model when ancestral ranges were restricted to two areas, but some improbable ancestral ranges were also observed. Simaroubaceae exhibit an early history of range expansion between major continental areas in the Northern Hemisphere, but reconstruction of ancestral areas for lineages diverging in the early Tertiary are sensitive to the parameters of the model used. A North American origin is suggested for the family, with migration via Beringia by ancestral taxa. In contrast to traditional views, long-distance dispersal events are common, particularly in the Late Oligocene and later. Notable dispersals are inferred to have occurred across the Atlantic Ocean in both directions, as well as between Africa and Asia, and around the Indian Ocean basin and Pacific islands.
25677524|In molecular phylogenetic studies, a major aspect of experimental design concerns the choice of markers and taxa. Although previous studies have investigated the phylogenetic performance of different genes and the effectiveness of increasing taxon sampling, their conclusions are partly contradictory, probably because they are highly context specific and dependent on the group of organisms used in each study. Goldman introduced a method for experimental design in phylogenetics based on the expected information to be gained that has barely been used in practice. Here we use this method to explore the phylogenetic utility of mitochondrial (mt) genes, mt genomes, and nuclear rag1 for studies of the systematics of caecilian amphibians, as well as the effect of taxon addition on the stabilization of a controversial branch of the tree. Overall phylogenetic information estimates per gene, specific estimates per branch of the tree, estimates for combined (mitogenomic) data sets, and estimates as a hypothetical new taxon is added to different parts of the caecilian tree are calculated and compared. In general, the most informative data sets are those for mt transfer and ribosomal RNA genes. Our results also show at which positions in the caecilian tree the addition of taxa have the greatest potential to increase phylogenetic information with respect to the controversial relationships of Scolecomorphus, Boulengerula, and all other teresomatan caecilians. These positions are, as intuitively expected, mostly (but not all) adjacent to the controversial branch. Generating whole mitogenomic and rag1 data for additional taxa joining the Scolecomorphus branch may be a more efficient strategy than sequencing a similar amount of additional nucleotides spread across the current caecilian taxon sampling. The methodology employed in this study allows an a priori evaluation and testable predictions of the appropriateness of particular experimental designs to solve specific questions at different levels of the caecilian phylogeny.
25677523|Orthology analysis aims at identifying orthologous genes and gene products from different organisms and, therefore, is a powerful tool in modern computational and experimental biology. Although reconciliation-based orthology methods are generally considered more accurate than distance-based ones, the traditional parsimony-based implementation of reconciliation-based orthology analysis (most parsimonious reconciliation [MPR]) suffers from a number of shortcomings. For example, 1) it is limited to orthology predictions from the reconciliation that minimizes the number of gene duplication and loss events, 2) it cannot evaluate the support of this reconciliation in relation to the other reconciliations, and 3) it cannot make use of prior knowledge (e.g., about species divergence times) that provides auxiliary information for orthology predictions. We present a probabilistic approach to reconciliation-based orthology analysis that addresses all these issues by estimating orthology probabilities. The method is based on the gene evolution model, an explicit evolutionary model for gene duplication and gene loss inside a species tree, that generalizes the standard birthdeath process. We describe the probabilistic approach to orthology analysis using 2 experimental data sets and show that the use of orthology probabilities allows a more informative analysis than MPR and, in particular, that it is less sensitive to taxon sampling problems. We generalize these anecdotal observations and show, using data generated under biologically realistic conditions, that MPR give false orthology predictions at a substantial frequency. Last, we provide a new orthology prediction method that allows an orthology and paralogy classification with any chosen sensitivity/specificity combination from the spectra of achievable combinations. We conclude that probabilistic orthology analysis is a strong and more advanced alternative to traditional orthology analysis and that it provides a framework for sophisticated comparative studies of processes in genome evolution.
25677521|Many published phylogenies are based on methods that assume equal nucleotide composition among taxa. Studies have shown, however, that this assumption is often not accurate, particularly in divergent lineages. Nonstationary sequence evolution, when taxa in different lineages evolve in different ways, can lead to unequal nucleotide composition. This can cause inference methods to fail and phylogenies to be inaccurate. Recent advancements in phylogenetic theory have proposed new models of nonstationary sequence evolution; these models often outperform equivalent stationary models. A variety of new phylogenetic software implementing such models has been developed, but the studies employing the new methodology are still few. We discovered convergence of nucleotide composition within mitochondrial genomes of the insect order Coleoptera (beetles). We found variation in base content both among species and among genes in the genome. To this data set, we have applied a broad range of phylogenetic methods, including some traditional stationary models of evolution and all the more recent nonstationary models. We compare 8 inference methods applied to the same data set. Although the more commonly used methods universally fail to recover established clades, we find that some of the newer software packages are more appropriate for data of this nature. The software packages p4, PHASE, and nhPhyML were able to overcome the systematic bias in our data set, but parsimony, MrBayes, NJ, LogDet, and PhyloBayes were not.
25677499|Statistical models for the evolution of molecular sequences play an important role in the study of evolutionary processes. For the evolutionary analysis of protein-coding sequences, 3 types of evolutionary models are available: 1) nucleotide, 2) amino acid, and 3) codon substitution models. Selecting appropriate models can greatly improve the estimation of phylogenies and divergence times and the detection of positive selection. Although much attention has been paid to the comparisons among the same types of models, relatively little attention has been paid to the comparisons among the different types of models. Additionally, because such models have different data structures, comparison of those models using conventional model selection criteria such as Akaike information criterion (AIC) or Bayesian information criterion (BIC) is not straightforward. Here, we suggest new procedures to convert models of the above-mentioned 3 types to 64-dimensional models with nucleotide triplet substitution. These conversion procedures render it possible to statistically compare the models of these 3 types by using AIC or BIC. By analyzing divergent and conserved interspecific mammalian sequences and intraspecific human population data, we show the superiority of the codon substitution models and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the models of the 3 types.
25677500|The appropriate interpretation of bootstrap support for splits and the question of what constitutes large bootstrap support have received considerable attention. One desirable interpretation, indeed the interpretation that was put forward when bootstrap support for splits was first introduced, is that 1-minus bootstrap support is a P value for the hypothesis that the split is not well resolved. As a P value, bootstrap support has been argued to be first-order correct. By obtaining the limiting distribution of bootstrap support for a split when maximum likelihood estimation is conducted, it is shown that bootstrap support is not first-order correct and insight is provided into the nature of the problem. Borrowing from earlier results, it is also shown that similar results hold when the neighbor-joining algorithm is used. Examples suggest that bootstrap support is generally conservative as a P value and give insight as to why this is usually the case. The analysis indicates that the problem is largely due to the unusual nature of tree space where boundary trees always have at least 2 neighbors.
25677503|Multiple unlinked genetic loci often provide a more comprehensive picture of evolutionary history than any single gene can, but analyzing multigene data presents particular challenges. Differing rates and patterns of nucleotide substitution, combined with the limited information available in any data set, can make it difficult to specify a model of evolution. In addition, conflict among loci can be the result of real differences in evolutionary process or of stochastic variance and errors in reconstruction. We used 6 presumably unlinked nuclear loci to investigate relationships within the mammalian family Tupaiidae (Scandentia), containing all but one of the extant tupaiid genera. We used a phylogenetic mixture model to analyze the concatenated data and compared this with results using partitioned models. We found that more complex models were not necessarily preferred under tests using Bayes factors and that model complexity affected both tree length and parameter variance. We also compared the results of single-gene and multigene analyses and used splits networks to analyze the source and degree of conflict among genes. Networks can show specific relationships that are inconsistent with each other; these conflicting and minority relationships, which are implicitly ignored or collapsed by traditional consensus methods, can be useful in identifying the underlying causes of topological uncertainty. In our data, conflict is concentrated around particular relationships, not widespread throughtout the tree. This pattern is further clarified by considering conflict surrounding the root separately from conflict within the ingroup. Uncertainty in rooting may be because of the apparent evolutionary distance separating these genera and our outgroup, the tupaiid genus Dendrogale. Unlike a previous mitochondrial study, these nuclear data strongly suggest that the genus Tupaia is not monophyletic with respect to the monotypic Urogale, even when uncertainty about rooting is taken into account. These data concur with mitochondrial DNA on other relationships, including the close affinity of Tupaia tana with the enigmatic Tupaia splendidula and of Tupaia belangeri with Tupaia glis. We also discuss the taxonomic and biogeographic implications of these results.
25677501|We present a 6-gene, 420-species maximum-likelihood phylogeny of Ascomycota, the largest phylum of Fungi. This analysis is the most taxonomically complete to date with species sampled from all 15 currently circumscribed classes. A number of superclass-level nodes that have previously evaded resolution and were unnamed in classifications of the Fungi are resolved for the first time. Based on the 6-gene phylogeny we conducted a phylogenetic informativeness analysis of all 6 genes and a series of ancestral character state reconstructions that focused on morphology of sporocarps, ascus dehiscence, and evolution of nutritional modes and ecologies. A gene-by-gene assessment of phylogenetic informativeness yielded higher levels of informativeness for protein genes (RPB1, RPB2, and TEF1) as compared with the ribosomal genes, which have been the standard bearer in fungal systematics. Our reconstruction of sporocarp characters is consistent with 2 origins for multicellular sexual reproductive structures in Ascomycota, once in the common ancestor of Pezizomycotina and once in the common ancestor of Neolectomycetes. This first report of dual origins of ascomycete sporocarps highlights the complicated nature of assessing homology of morphological traits across Fungi. Furthermore, ancestral reconstruction supports an open sporocarp with an exposed hymenium (apothecium) as the primitive morphology for Pezizomycotina with multiple derivations of the partially (perithecia) or completely enclosed (cleistothecia) sporocarps. Ascus dehiscence is most informative at the class level within Pezizomycotina with most superclass nodes reconstructed equivocally. Characterstate reconstructions support a terrestrial, saprobic ecology as ancestral. In contrast to previous studies, these analyses support multiple origins of lichenization events with the loss of lichenization as less frequent and limited to terminal, closely related species.
25677502|Supertree and supermatrix methods have great potential in the quest to build the tree of life and yet they remain controversial, with most workers opting for one approach or the other, but rarely both. Here, we employed both methods to construct phylogenetic trees of all genera of palms (Arecaceae/Palmae), an iconic angiosperm family of great economic importance. We assembled a supermatrix consisting of 16 partitions, comprising DNA sequence data, plastid restriction fragment length polymorphism data, and morphological data for all genera, from which a highly resolved and well-supported phylogenetic tree was built despite abundant missing data. To construct supertrees, we used variants of matrix representation with parsimony (MRP) analysis based on input trees generated directly from subsamples of the supermatrix. All supertrees were highly resolved. Standard MRP with bootstrap-weighted matrix elements performed most effectively in this case, generating trees with the greatest congruence with the supermatrix tree and fewest clades unsupported by any input tree. Nonindependence due to input trees based on combinations of data partitions was an acceptable trade-off for improvements in supertree performance. Irreversible MRP and the use of strictly independent input trees only provided no obvious benefits. Contrary to previous claims, we found that unsupported clades are not infrequent under some MRP implementations, with up to 13% of clades lacking support from any input tree in some irreversible MRP supertrees. To build a formal synthesis, we assessed the cross-corroboration between supermatrix trees and the variant supertrees using semistrict consensus, enumerating shared clades and compatible clades. The semistrict consensus of the supermatrix tree and the most congruent supertree contained 160 clades (of a maximum of 204), 137 of which were present in both trees. The relationships recovered by these trees strongly support the current phylogenetic classification of palms. We evaluate 2 composite supertree support measures (rQS and V) and conclude that it is more informative to report numbers of input trees that support or conflict with a given supertree clade. This study demonstrates that supertree and supermatrix methods can provide effective, explicit, and complimentary mechanisms for synthesizing disjointed phylogenetic evidence while emphasizing the need for further refinement of supertree methods.
25677497|In this paper, we present a new way to describe the timing of branching events in phylogenetic trees. Our description is in terms of the relative timing of diversification events between sister clades; as such it is complementary to existing methods using lineages-through-time plots which consider diversification in aggregate. The method can be applied to look for evidence of diversification happening in lineage-specific "bursts", or the opposite, where diversification between 2 clades happens in an unusually regular fashion. In order to be able to distinguish interesting events from stochasticity, we discuss 2 classes of neutral models on trees with relative timing information and develop a statistical framework for testing these models. These model classes include both the coalescent with ancestral population size variation and global rate speciationextinction models. We end the paper with 2 example applications: first, we show that the evolution of the hepatitis C virus deviates from the coalescent with arbitrary population size. Second, we analyze a large tree of ants, demonstrating that a period of elevated diversification rates does not appear to have occurred in a bursting manner.
25677498|Distinguishing phylogenetic signal from homoplasy (shared similarities among taxa that do not arise by common ancestry) is an implicit goal of any phylogenetic study. Large amounts of homoplasy can interfere with accurate tree inference, and it is expected that common measures of clade support, including bootstrap proportions and Bayesian posterior probabilities, should also be impacted to some degree by homoplasy. Through data simulation and analysis of 38 empirical data sets, we show that high amounts of homoplasy will affect all measures of clade support in a manner that is dependent on clade size. More specifically, the smallest taxon bipartitions in an unrooted tree topology will receive higher support relative to clades of intermediate sizes, even when all clades are supported by the same amount of data. We determine that the ultimate causes of this effect are the inclusion of random trees (due to homoplasy) during bootstrap resampling and Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) topology searching and the higher relative proportion of small taxon bipartitions (i.e., 2 or 3 taxa) to larger sized bipartitions. However, the use of explicit model-based methods, especially Bayesian MCMC methods, effectively overcomes this clade size effect even when very small amounts of phylogenetic signal are present. We develop a post hoc statistic, the clade disparity index (CDI), to measure both the relative magnitude of the clade size effect and its statistical significance. In analyses of both simulated and empirical data, CDI values indicate that Bayesian MCMC analyses are substantially more likely to estimate clade support values that are uncorrelated with clade size than are maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood bootstrap analyses and thus less affected by homoplasy. These results may be especially relevant to "deep" phylogenetic problems, such as reconstructing the tree of life, as they represent the largest possible extremes of time and evolutionary rates, 2 factors that cause homoplasy.
25677536|Several methods have recently been developed to infer multilocus phylogenies by incorporating information from topological incongruence of the individual genes. In this study, we investigate 2 such methods, Bayesian concordance analysis and Bayesian estimation of species trees. Our test data are a collection of genes from cultivated rice (genus Oryza) and the most closely related wild species, generated using a high-throughput sequencing protocol and bioinformatics pipeline. Trees inferred from independent genes display levels of topological incongruence that far exceed that seen in previous data sets analyzed with these species tree methods. We identify differences in phylogenetic results between inference methods that incorporate gene tree incongruence. Finally, we discuss the challenges of scaling these analyses for data sets with thousands of gene trees and extensive levels of missing data.
25677534|The estimation of species trees (phylogenies) is one of the most important problems in evolutionary biology, and recently, there has been greater appreciation of the need to estimate species trees directly rather than using gene trees as a surrogate. A Bayesian method constructed under the multispecies coalescent model can consistently estimate species trees but involves intensive computation, which can hinder its application to the phylogenetic analysis of large-scale genomic data. Many summary statisticsbased approaches, such as shallowest coalescences (SC) and Global LAteSt Split (GLASS), have been developed to infer species phylogenies for multilocus data sets. In this paper, we propose 2 methods, species tree estimation using average ranks of coalescences (STAR) and species tree estimation using average coalescence times (STEAC), based on the summary statistics of coalescence times. It can be shown that the 2 methods are statistically consistent under the multispecies coalescent model. STAR uses the ranks of coalescences and is thus resistant to variable substitution rates along the branches in gene trees. A simulation study suggests that STAR consistently outperforms STEAC, SC, and GLASS when the substitution rates among lineages are highly variable. Two real genomic data sets were analyzed by the 2 methods and produced species trees that are consistent with previous results.
25677535|As DNA sequences have become more readily available, it has become increasingly desirable to infer species phylogenies from multigene data sets. Much recent work has centered around the recognition that substantial incongruence in single-gene phylogenies necessitates the development of statistical procedures to estimate species phylogenies that appropriately model the process of evolution at the level of the individual genes. One process that gives rise to variation in the histories of individual genes is incomplete lineage sorting, which is commonly modeled by the coalescent, and thus much current work is focused on proper estimation of species phylogenies under the coalescent model. A second common source of discord in single-gene phylogenies is hybridization, a process that is ubiquitous in many groups of plants and animals. Although methods to incorporate hybridization into phylogenetic estimation have also been developed, only a handful of methods that address both coalescence and hybridization have been proposed. Here, I propose an extension of an existing model that incorporates both of these processes simultaneously by utilizing gene trees for inference in a likelihood framework. The model allows examination of the evidence for hybridization in the presence of incomplete lineage sorting due to deep coalescence via model selection using standard information criteria (e.g., Akaike information criterion and Bayesian information criterion). The potential of the method is evaluated using simulated data.
25677539|The increasing number of observations of gene trees with discordant topologies in phylogenetic studies has raised awareness about the problems of incongruence between species trees and gene trees. Moreover, theoretical treatments focusing on the impact of coalescent variance on phylogenetic study have also identified situations where the most probable gene trees are ones that do not match the underlying species tree (i.e., anomalous gene trees [AGTs]). However, although the theoretical proof of the existence of AGTs is alarming, the actual risk that AGTs pose to empirical phylogenetic study is far from clear. Establishing the conditions (i.e., the branch lengths in a species tree) for which AGTs are possible does not address the critical issue of how prevalent they might be. Furthermore, theoretical characterization of the species trees for which AGTs may pose a problem (i.e., the anomaly zone or the species histories for which AGTs are theoretically possible) is based on consideration of just one source of variance that contributes to species tree and gene tree discordgene lineage coalescence. Yet, empirical data contain another important stochastic componentmutational variance. Estimated gene trees will differ from the underlying gene trees (i.e., the actual genealogy) because of the random process of mutation. Here, we take a simulation approach to investigate the prevalence of AGTs, among estimated gene trees, thereby characterizing the boundaries of the anomaly zone taking into account both coalescent and mutational variances. We also determine the frequency of realized AGTs, which is critical to putting the theoretical work on AGTs into a realistic biological context. Two salient results emerge from this investigation. First, our results show that mutational variance can indeed expand the parameter space (i.e., the relative branch lengths in a species tree) where AGTs might be observed in empirical data. By exploring the underlying cause for the expanded anomaly zone, we identify aspects of empirical data relevant to avoiding the problems that AGTs pose for species tree inference from multilocus data. Second, for the empirical species histories where AGTs are possible, unresolved treesnot AGTspredominate the pool of estimated gene trees. This result suggests that the risk of AGTs, while they exist in theory, may rarely be realized in practice. By considering the biological realities of both mutational and coalescent variances, the study has refined, and redefined, what the actual challenges are for empirical phylogenetic study of recently diverged taxa that have speciated rapidlyAGTs themselves are unlikely to pose a significant danger to empirical phylogenetic study.
25677537|The understanding that gene trees are often in discord with each other and with the species trees that contain them has led researchers to methods that incorporate the inherent stochasticity of genetic processes in the phylogenetic estimation procedure. Recently developed methods for species-tree estimation that not only consider the retention and sorting of ancestral polymorphism but also quantify the actual probabilities of incomplete lineage sorting are expected to provide an improvement over earlier summary-statistic based approaches that discard much of the information content of gene trees. However, these new methods have yet to be tested on truly challenging evolutionary histories such as those marked by recent rapid speciation where high levels of incomplete lineage sorting and discord among gene trees predominate. Here, we test a new maximum-likelihood method that incorporates stochastic models of both nucleotide substitution and lineage sorting for species-tree estimation. Using a simulation approach, we consider a broad range of species-tree topologies under 2 scenarios representing moderate and severe incomplete lineage sorting. We show that the maximum-likelihood method results in more accurate species trees than a summary-statistic based approach, demonstrating that information contained in discordant gene trees can be effectively extracted using a full probabilistic model. Moreover, we demonstrate that the shape of the original species tree (i.e., the relative lengths of internal branches) has a significant impact on whether the species tree is estimated accurately. In the speciation histories explored here, it is not just the recent origin of species that affects the accuracy of the estimates but the variance in relative species divergence times as well. Additionally, we show that sampling effort (number of individuals and/or loci) and sampling design (ratio of individuals to loci) are both important factors affecting the accuracy of species-tree estimates, which is again affected by the relative timing of divergence among species. The inherent difficulties of estimating relationships when species have undergone a recent radiation are discussed, and in particular, the limitations with maximum-likelihood estimates of species trees that do not consider uncertainty in the estimated gene trees of individual loci. Thus, despite substantial improvements over current summary-statistic based approaches, and the increased sophistication of procedures that incorporate the process of gene lineage coalescence, recent radiations still appear to pose daunting challenges for phylogenetics.
25677538|Two fundamental life cycle types are recognized among hydrozoan cnidarians, the benthic (generally colonial) polyp stage either producing pelagic sexual medusae or directly releasing gametes elaborated from an attached gonophore. The existence of intermediate forms, with polyps producing simple medusoids, has been classically considered compelling evidence in favor of phyletic gradualism. In order to gain insights about the evolution of hydrozoan life history traits, we inferred phylogenetic relationships of 142 species of Thecata (=Leptothecata, Leptomedusae), the most species-rich hydrozoan group, using 3 different ribosomal RNA markers (16S, 18S, and 28S). In conflict with morphology-derived classifications, most thecate species fell in 2 well-supported clades named here Statocysta and Macrocolonia. We inferred many independent medusa losses among Statocysta. Several instances of secondary regain of medusoids (but not of full medusa) from medusa-less ancestors were supported among Macrocolonia. Furthermore, life cycle character changes were significantly correlated with changes affecting colony shape. For both traits, changes did not reflect graded and progressive loss or gain of complexity. They were concentrated in recent branches, with intermediate character states being relatively short lived at a large evolutionary scale. This punctuational pattern supports the existence of 2 alternative stable evolutionary strategies: simple stolonal colonies with medusae (the ancestral strategy, seen in most Statocysta species) versus large complex colonies with fixed gonophores (the derived strategy, seen in most Macrocolonia species). Hypotheses of species selection are proposed to explain the apparent long-term stability of these life history traits despite a high frequency of character change. Notably, maintenance of the medusa across geological time in Statocysta might be due to higher extinction rates for species that have lost this dispersive stage.
25677512|Among the diverse clade of Paleozoic dissorophoid amphibians, the small, terrestrial amphibamids and the neotenic branchiosaurids have frequently been suggested as possible antecedents of either all or some of the modern amphibian clades. Classically, amphibamids and branchiosaurids have been considered to represent distinct, but closely related clades within dissorophoids, but despite their importance for the controversial lissamphibian origins, a comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of small dissorophoids has thus far not been attempted. On the basis of an integrated data set, the relationships of amphibamids and branchiosaurids were analyzed using parsimony and Bayesian approaches. Both groups represent miniaturized forms and it was tested whether similar developmental pathways, associated with miniaturization, lead to an artificial close relationship of branchiosaurids and amphibamids. Moreover, the fit of the resulting tree topologies to the distribution of fossil taxa in the stratigraphic rock record was assessed as an additional source of information. The results show that characters associated with a miniaturized morphology are not responsible for the close clustering of branchiosaurids and amphibamids. Instead, all analyses invariably demonstrate a monophyletic clade of branchiosaurids highly nested within derived amphibamids, indicating that branchiosaurids represent a group of secondarily neotenic amphibamid dissorophoids. This understanding of the phylogenetic relationships of small dissorophoid amphibians provides a new framework for the discussion of their evolutionary history and the evolution of characters shared by branchiosaurids and/or amphibamids with modern amphibian taxa.
25677511|High-throughput DNA sequencing has the potential to accelerate species discovery if it is able to recognize evolutionary entities from sequence data that are comparable to species. The general mixed Yule-coalescent (GMYC) model estimates the species boundary from DNA surveys by identifying independently evolving lineages as a transition from coalescent to speciation branching patterns on a phylogenetic tree. Applied here to 12 families from 4 orders of insects in Madagascar, we used the model to delineate 370 putative species from mitochondrial DNA sequence variation among 1614 individuals. These were compared with data from the nuclear genome and morphological identification and found to be highly congruent (98% and 94%). We developed a modified GMYC that allows for a variable transition from coalescent to speciation among lineages. This revised model increased the congruence with morphology (97%), suggesting that a variable threshold better reflects the clustering of sequence data into biological species. Local endemism was pronounced in all 5 insect groups. Most species (6091%) and haplotypes (8899%) were found at only 1 of the 5 study sites (401000 km apart). This pronounced endemism resulted in a 37% increase in species numbers using diagnostic nucleotides in a population aggregation analysis. Sample sizes between 7 and 10 individuals represented a threshold above which there was minimal increase in genetic diversity, broadly agreeing with coalescent theory and other empirical studies. Our results from >1.4 Mb of empirical data suggest that the GMYC model captures species boundaries comparable to those from traditional methods without the need for prior hypotheses of population coherence. This provides a method of species discovery and biodiversity assessment using single-locus data from mixed or environmental samples while building a globally available taxonomic database for future identifications.
25677510|Fungi associated with photosynthetic organisms are major determinants of terrestrial biomass, nutrient cycling, and ecosystem productivity from the poles to the equator. Whereas most fungi are known because of their fruit bodies (e.g., saprotrophs), symptoms (e.g., pathogens), or emergent properties as symbionts (e.g., lichens), the majority of fungal diversity is thought to occur among species that rarely manifest their presence with visual cues on their substrate (e.g., the apparently hyperdiverse fungal endophytes associated with foliage of plants). Fungal endophytes are ubiquitous among all lineages of land plants and live within overtly healthy tissues without causing disease, but the evolutionary origins of these highly diverse symbionts have not been explored. Here, we show that a key to understanding both the evolution of endophytism and the diversification of the most species-rich phylum of Fungi (Ascomycota) lies in endophyte-like fungi that can be isolated from the interior of apparently healthy lichens. These "endolichenic" fungi are distinct from lichen mycobionts or any other previously recognized fungal associates of lichens, represent the same major lineages of Ascomycota as do endophytes, largely parallel the high diversity of endophytes from the arctic to the tropics, and preferentially associate with green algal photobionts in lichen thalli. Using phylogenetic analyses that incorporate these newly recovered fungi and ancestral state reconstructions that take into account phylogenetic uncertainty, we show that endolichenism is an incubator for the evolution of endophytism. In turn, endophytism is evolutionarily transient, with endophytic lineages frequently transitioning to and from pathogenicity. Although symbiotrophic lineages frequently give rise to free-living saprotrophs, reversions to symbiosis are rare. Together, these results provide the basis for estimating trophic transition networks in the Ascomycota and provide a first set of hypotheses regarding the evolution of symbiotrophy and saprotrophy in the most species-rich fungal phylum.
25677513|We used four potentially unlinked nuclear DNA regions from the gene family encoding the second largest subunit of the RNA polymerases, as well as the psbE-petG spacer and the rps16 intron from the chloroplast genome, to evaluate the origin of and relationships within Heliosperma (Sileneae, Caryophyllaceae). Relative dates of divergence times are used to discriminate between hybridization and gene duplication/loss as alternative explanations for topological conflicts between gene trees. The observed incongruent relationships among the three major lineages of Heliosperma are better explained by homoploid hybridization than by gene duplication/losses because species branching events exceed gene coalescence times under biologically reasonable population sizes and generation times, making lineage sorting an unlikely explanation. The origin of Heliosperma is complex and the gene trees likely reflect both reticulate evolution and sorting events. At least two lineages have been involved in the origin of Heliosperma, one most closely related to the ancestor of Viscaria and Atocion and the other to Eudianthe and/or Petrocoptis.
10.2307/2413483|We assessed the utility of congruence and multiple data sets to test species relationships and the accuracy of phylogenetic methods. The ongoing controversy about whether to combine data sets for phylogenetic analysis was evaluated against the naturalness of different types of data (as commonly recognized by systematists) and character independence. We defend the recommendation that independent data sets (defined in terms of process partitions; sensu Bull et al., 1993, Syst. Biol. 42:384-397) should rarely be combined but should be kept separate for phylogenetic analysis because their independence increases the significance of corroboration. Trees of natural taxa, well supported by many independent lines of evidence, should be used in the same way as the known phylogenies of simulations and of certain laboratory and domesticated groups, i.e., as standards for evaluating the accuracy of different phylogenetic methods. Although compromised by their imperfect reliabilities, such tests using well-supported trees of wild taxa provide important reality checks on the conclusions of the other two approaches by encompassing more of the complexity and diversity of natural systems and their evolutionary processes. In this way, a combination of testing with the well-supported trees of natural groups, with simulations, and with those laboratory and domesticated taxa with known phylogenies is most likely to prove effective in establishing the strengths, weaknesses, and assumptions of different phylogenetic methods.
10.2307/2413481|Computer simulations are useful because they can characterize the expected performance of phylogenetic methods under idealized conditions. However, simulation studies are also subject to several sources of bias that make the results of different simulation studies difficult to interpret and often contradictory. In this study, I examined the performance of 26 commonly used methods of phylogenetic inference for three statistical criteria: consistency, efficiency, and robustness. Methods examined included parsimony (general, weighted, and transversion), maximum likelihood (assuming Jukes-Cantor and Kimura models of DNA substitution), and UPGMA, minimum evolution, and weighted and unweighted least squares (with uncorrected, Jukes-Cantor, Kimura, modified Kimura, and gamma distances). The performance of methods was examined under three models of DNA substitution for four taxa. The branch lengths of the four-taxon trees were varied extensively in this simulation. The results indicate that most methods perform well (i.e., estimate the correct tree 95% of the time) over a large portion of the four-taxon parameter space. In general, maximum likelihood performed best, followed by the additive distance methods and the parsimony methods. Lake's method of invariants and UPGMA are, respectively, inefficient and extremely sensitive to branch-length inequalities. In general, differential weighting of character-state transformations increases the performance of methods when the weighting can be applied appropriately. Although methods differ in their consistency, efficiency, and robustness, additional criteria-mainly falsifiability-are extremely important considerations when choosing a method of phylogenetic inference.
10.2307/2413482|In this article, we review (1) statistical tests of DNA phylogenies inferred by the maximum-parsimony method, including tests that take into account the effect of different base compositions among lineages, (2) statistical tests based on the minimum-evolution criterion, i.e., the best tree is the tree with the smallest sum of branch-length estimates, and (3) the bootstrap technique for estimating the confidence level of a phylogenetic hypothesis based on either the maximum-parsimony or the neighbor-joining method. We explain why the bootstrap technique usually gives biased estimates and how to correct the bias.
10.2307/2413480|Accuracy of phylogenetic methods may be assessed in terms of consistency, efficiency, and robustness. Four principal methods have been used for assessing phylogenetic accuracy: simulation, known phylogenies, statistical analyses, and congruence studies. Simulation studies are useful for studying accuracy of methods under idealized conditions and can be used to make general predictions about the behavior of methods if the limitations of the models are taken into account. Studies of known phylogenies can be used to test predictions from simulation studies, thus providing a check on the robustness of the models (and possibly suggesting refinements for future simulations). Statistical analyses allow general predictions to be applied to specific results, facilitate assessments as to whether or not sufficient data have been collected to formulate a robust conclusion, and indicate whether a given data set is any more structured than random noise. Finally, congruence studies of multiple data sets can be used to assess the degree to which independent results agree and thus the minimum proportion of the findings that can be attributed to an underlying phylogeny. These different methods of assessing phylogenetic accuracy are largely complementary, and the results are consistent in identifying a large class of problems that are amenable to phylogenetic reconstruction.
10.2307/2413655|Parsimony methods are often used to map a character's evolution on a phylogenetic tree by reconstructing the ancestral states at interior nodes of the tree. Although the statistical behavior of methods for reconstructing trees has been studied using stochastic models of evolution, there is little comparable work on methods for reconstructing character evolution. If a discrete character were to begin with an ancestral state at the root of a phylogenetic tree and evolve with specified probabilities of change on the branches of the tree, then the terminal taxa would receive one of many possible distributions of character states. These states in terminal taxa are the data used by parsimony methods in reconstructing character evolution on trees. Given a stochastic model of character evolution that specifies probabilities of change on the branches of a known phylogenetic tree, it is possible to calculate the probabilities of various ancestral state reconstructions at each node in the tree. Exact calculations for these probabilities are presented here. They can be used, for example, to calculate the probability that ancestral states would be reconstructed accurately.
10.2307/2413658|Orthogenetic evolutionary patterns may appear within taxa as a result of developmental constraints on the expression of genetic variation. Metachromism is a theory of variation in mammalian coat color that predicts an orthogenetic evolutionary pattern. This theory was based in part on studies of interspecific and geographic variation in the coat colors of New World monkeys. We tested the theory of metachromism in tamarins (Saguinus) using phylogenetic information derived from mitochondrial DNA sequences. Parsimony analysis of mitochondrial DNA sequences from the D-loop and cytochrome b genes supports recognition of Saguinus as a monophyletic genus composed of two major clades. Coat colors for 16 chromogenetic regions of the tamarin coat were examined using the molecular phylogeny to test predictions of the metachromatic theory. Our results support the hypothesis of an orthogenetic evolutionary pattern for coat color in tamarins.
10.2307/2413657|When cladistic data sets include taxa with abundant missing entries, parsimony analysis may yield multiple equally optimal trees and necessitate the use of consensus methods to summarize relationships that are common to the multiple trees. Determination of those relationships that are common to the equally parsimonious trees and are thus unambiguously supported by the parsimonious interpretation of the data may not be possible using consensus methods that are widely employed by systematists. Thus, missing data may have an obfuscatory effect upon phylogenetic relationships. This problem can be ameliorated or overcome by adopting a strategy of safe taxonomic reduction. In this approach, taxa that can have no effect upon the relationships inferred for other taxa but that may increase the numbers of equally most-parsimonious trees are identified. Eliminating such taxa through the application of a series of safe deletion rules may reduce the number of equally most-parsimonious trees and thereby facilitate the consensus representation of unambiguous relationships supported by the data. The methods are illustrated by reanalysis of cladistic data for the Saurischia.
10.2307/2413654|Although congruence among multiple taxa is accepted as the basis of the cladistic approach to biogeography, seldom has congruence been tested for patterns within continents. Moreover, contiguous land areas are subject to confounding factors that might lead to incongruence, and areas of endemism are difficult to define. Most previous studies have analyzed single taxa and therefore could not test for congruence. Here, we report the first cladistic biogeographic analysis of multiple plant taxa (11 angiosperm groups) within continental Australasia. We have used Page's (1994, Syst. Biol. 43:58-77) new mapping method implemented in his program COMPONENT 2.0, minimizing the optimality criterion "leaves added," which is the number of terminal branches that need to be added to reconcile all input cladograms with the general area cladogram. A randomization test showed significant congruence, and a jackknife test indicated which parts of the general area pattern are robust. Conflicting patterns shown by widespread species may have been influenced by recent range expansions. At least two independent histories are postulated for taxa endemic to the tropics. One appears as a close relationship between the monsoon tropical areas, including southern New Guinea, and the other is a track (a group of areas with a common history) of successive differentiation along the east and south coasts. The Australian wet tropics (the Atherton area), although geographically proximate to the monsoon tropics, are part of the east coast track. Tasmania shows a very early vicariance from the rest of the continent, and the central arid areas appear related to adjacent coastal areas rather than to each other (contra Cracraft, 1991, Aust. Syst. Bot. 4:211-227). The postulated exchange of taxa with southeast Asia following late Miocene contact was not tested because of a lack of suitable taxon cladograms.
10.2307/2413656|The use of discrete, intraspecifically variable characters in parsimony analysis is reviewed. Seven data sets (two from morphology and five from allozymes) were analyzed to (1) compare different methods for treating polymorphic characters, (2) test for phylogenetic information in polymorphic characters, and (3) determine if there is a relationship between homoplasy and intraspecific variability. The performance of eight methods was compared using five criteria (number of characters treated as informative, number of shortest trees, phylogenetic signal, number of nodes supported by bootstrapping, and sensitivity to reduced sample size). Approaches that incorporate explicit frequency information perform best overall for all the criteria, although the "majority" method ties for best for the bootstrapping criterion. Levels of phylogenetic information in the polymorphic characters differed greatly among data sets and methods. Polymorphic characters in most data sets contained significant phylogenetic structure using most methods, but only one, the frequency method, extracted significant signal from the polymorphic characters in all seven data sets. Fixed characters appear to contain more signal than polymorphic characters, and homoplasy is significantly and positively correlated with intraspecific variability. This study supports the traditional view that polymorphic characters are less reliable in inferring phylogeny but does not necessarily support their exclusion. Systematists working with morphological data often do not report intraspecific variation, the frequencies of different traits, or how polymorphic characters are screened and analyzed; this situation should change.
10.2307/2413659|The Felsenstein zone of various tree reconstruction methods for a four-species tree was evaluated for two models of sequence evolution. The first model assumes correlated sequence sites, as suggested by Schoruger and von Haeseler (1994, Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 3:240-247), thereby preserving the nonoverlapping doublet correlations (e.g., within base-paired nucleotides of stem regions of ribosomal RNA). The second model was proposed by Hasegawa, Kishino, and Yano (1985, J. Mol. Evol. 22:160-174) and assumes that the nucleotide sites are evolving independently of each other. The methods examined are maximum likelihood, maximum parsimony, and neighbor joining with uncorrected, Jukes-Cantor-corrected, and Kimura-corrected distances. All methods, including maximum likelihood, are inconsistent for certain model trees. Maximum likelihood only shows a Felsenstein zone if sequence sites are not evolving independently. The location of the border of the Felsenstein zone indicates that maximum likelihood is very robust against violation of the independence assumption. The other tree reconstruction methods are more sensitive to violation of this assumption. Moreover, the addition of dependence to a model of sequence evolution does not change the boundary of the Felsenstein zone very much if tree reconstruction methods that are already inconsistent for certain model trees are applied.
10.2307/2413703|Phylogenetic relationships were examined within the salamander family Salamandridae using 18 species representing 14 salamandrid genera and six outgroup taxa from the families Ambystomatidae, Dicamptodontidae, Plethodontidae, and Proteidae. Mitochondrial DNA sequences encoding the 12S and 16S ribosomal RNA and the intervening valine transfer RNA provided 431 phylogenetically informative nucleotide sequence positions from a multiple alignment of approximately 1,000 bases per species. This variation was analyzed in conjunction with 44 previously reported morphological characters representing primarily hyobranchial myology and osteology, cranial osteology, and reproductive biology. The molecular and morphological character sets were highly congruent, with only 2.8% of the total character incongruence attributable to conflict between them. Parsimony analysis of the combined molecular and morphological data produced a single most-parsimonious tree whose topology was identical to that of the most-parsimonious tree derived from the molecular data alone. This tree suggests that the "true" salamanders (Chioglossa, Mertensiella, and Salamandra) form a monophyletic sister group to the newts (all remaining salamandrid genera). Within the newts, the first phylogenetic split separates Salamandrina from the remaining genera, within which Pleurodeles and Tylototriton form a monophyletic sister group to the remaining taxa. The genus Triturus appears not to be monophyletic. Using a phylogenetic reconstruction of character changes, we tested hypotheses of adaptation in the evolution of aquatic suction feeding and terrestrial feeding featuring tongue protrusion. Phylogenetic trends in the evolution of salamandrid courtship behavior were also examined.
10.2307/2413705|It has been claimed that quantified features are inappropriate for phylogenetic analysis. We consider that claim to be true under most conditions for characters discovered by commonly used morphometric methods, including outline-based and conventional multivariate methods. The most important reason these characters are unsuitable is that one of the tests of homology, the test of similarity, may be difficult to apply to them. This test is not even possible if the methods for comparing forms, such as outline-based techniques, do not ensure that the characters are located in the same part of the anatomy. Conventional methods, including principal components analysis, have no explicit basis for localizing characters. In addition, unless the transformation between forms is homogeneous, conventional methods cannot dissect transformations region by region to discover characters. However, one morphometric method, the thin-plate spline decomposed by its partial warps (TPS), finds characters that can be subjected to the same tests of homology (conjunction, similarity, and congruence) that we would apply to all other characters. Among available methods, TPS is unique in being able to locate the center and spatial extent of regional differences in shape and ensures that the same regions are compared among forms. We provide an example using the teleost fishes piranhas, in which tests of homology are applied to a synapomorphy found by the method.
10.2307/2413708|Researchers investigating historical biogeography rely on taxon cladograms to infer the relationships of different areas of endemism. Unfortunately, systematists are often faced with many equally parsimonious taxon cladograms from a single data set or conflicting phylogenetic hypotheses from independent data sets. We present an analysis of congruence between two conflicting phylogenetic hypotheses of the poeciliid fish genus Gambusia, one based on mitochondrial DNA sequences and the other based on morphological characters. We explore how different phylogenetic hypotheses alter interpretations of area relationships and propose a set of area relationships for the genus. Furthermore, we compared the area relationships depicted for Gambusia with that of two Middle American fish genera (Xiphophorus and Heterandria) with similar distributional limits. Our analysis revealed areas of congruence among taxa from nuclear Central America but areas of incongruence among taxa from the Panuco basin and North American components. We discuss the implications of our findings in light of conventional hypotheses regarding Caribbean biogeography. This study illustrates the importance of considering alternative phylogenetic hypotheses fully before attempting to interpret the biogeographic history of a taxon or region.
10.2307/2413704|Continuous track analysis (CTA) can depict reticulate evolutionary patterns in phylogenetics and biogeography. A reticulate connection implies convergence, hybridization, or introgression in an evolutionary graph of taxa and implies dispersal in an evolutionary graph of biogeographic areas. CTA finds graphs that (1) have a minimal number of connections and (2) imply that most character states or taxa have distributions or tracks across taxa or areas (objects) that are continuous, i.e., can be traced across the connections among the objects including that state without traveling through any other objects. Continuous tracks imply either that character states in phylogenies have unique evolutionary origins or that taxa in biogeographic analyses are monophyletic. Relatively simple graphs usually cannot imply completely continuous tracks. Therefore, CTA graphs seek to minimize the number of track fragments, which are locally continuous parts of a track; tracks with more than one fragment are discontinuous. Minimizing fragments is the same as minimizing character-state transitions only if there are no reticulations. Because hypothetical ancestors do little to reduce the number of fragments, CTA tends to place known taxa or areas at internal nodes. A heuristic algorithm analogous to tree bisection-reconnection is used to find highly parsimonious CTA graphs. In phylogenetic analyses, CTA employs a special complementary binary coding convention that serendipitously solves the missing characters/missing data problem. Although the problem of ancestors "inheriting" states from hybrid descendants is irrelevant if reticulations merely represent convergence patterns, CTA includes an optional algorithm that avoids such instances by explicitly identifying ancestors and descendants. CTA was compared with standard parsimony analysis using a data set of 17 Neogene species of North American fossil hipparionine horses. CTA separates the three major clades and illustrates their convergent features with reticulations, whereas standard parsimony analysis groups the three in an unresolved polytomy. CTA also minimizes the number of hypothetical, unsampled ancestors and lineages.
10.2307/2413706|Two recent analyses of asteroid phylogeny have come to surprisingly different conclusions concerning both the tree topology and rooting. We reanalyzed the problem for nine asteroids, with representatives from five of the major higher taxa: Paxillosida, Forcipulatida, Valvatida, Spinulosida, and Velatida. We combined the two previously published morphological data sets to generate a well-supported, though unrooted, phylogenetic tree. We also derived a molecular phylogeny from the analysis of the first 400 bases of the 28S ribosomal RNA sequences for the same nine taxa. This tree provides less resolution but does not contradict the morphological tree. The combined morphological and molecular data were used to derive the most well-supported unrooted topology. To avoid assumptions as to what represents derived versus primitive morphological character states among asteroids, we used only molecular data from other echinoderm classes to identify the root position. Although this approach does not resolve the rooting point unambiguously, evidence favors the Astropectenidae as the sister group to the rest of the asteroids. We then polarized the morphological characters of crown group asteroids and estimated relative rates of molecular evolution, which show a five-fold difference. Molecular data give no support to the recent suggestion that Forcipulatida diverged significantly earlier than did other asteroids.
10.2307/2413707|There have been no major advances in understanding the evolution of the Old World fruit bats (Megachiroptera: Pteropodidae) since the work of Andersen (1912, Catalogue of the Chiroptera in the collection of the British Museum, 2nd edition, Volume 1, Megachiroptera, British Museum of Natural History, London), nor have there been any rigorous cladistic analyses of megachiropteran interrelationships. Here we report a phylogenetic investigation of restriction endonuclease site variation in the ribosomal RNA cistrons of 25 species in 14 genera of Indo-West Pacific Megachiroptera. Twenty-three of the 82 mapped sites were phylogenetically informative. Analyses of these informative sites suggest three considerable modifications to the morphological understanding of megachiropteran relationships: (1) the most-parsimonious explanation of site-state distribution is that the Macroglossinae (as previously defined) is paraphyletic with respect to other groups; (2) the cynopterine and rousettine sections are not shown as monophyletic sister groups in any of the most-parsimonious trees; and (3) Pteropus and Acerodon are not closely related to any other rousettine genera.
10.2307/2413601|We used a generalized parsimony model to estimate the phylogeny of 47 species in the avian subfamily Icterinae using restriction enzyme cleavage sites in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Deep branches in the tree are poorly resolved, either because blackbirds radiated rapidly after the origin of the clade or because substitutions have saturated sites in the mtDNA. Our tree is similar to one published by Lanyon (1994, Evolution 48:679-693) based on mtDNA sequences, which suggests that lack of basal resolution might be attributable to closely spaced speciation events. Both data sets had similar consistency and retention indices, suggesting comparable information content in these two types of data. Neither the restriction-site tree nor the sequence tree support the monophyly of the genus Agelaius. The restriction-site tree suggests that several traditional taxonomic rearrangements are likely based on phenotypic resemblance rather than phylogeny and that the feature viewed as a key innovation of blackbirds (gaping) might not be the basal condition; gaping might be a composite of characters rather than a single homologous condition. The restriction-site tree suggests that the brood-parasitic cowbird species are not monophyletic, contra the sequence data. A combined analysis of sequences and restriction sites for cowbirds supports the sequence tree of Lanyon (1994); however, we suggest an alternative view of the evolution of brood parasitism that is also consistent with the combined data tree. Polygyny appears to be independently derived within blackbirds. Icterus galbula and I. bullockii, which hybridize and are therefore currently considered a single biological species, are not sister taxa; these are likely phylogenetic species.
10.2307/2413595|The dependence of the results of molecular phylogenetic sequence analysis (both alignment and cladogram construction) on variation in analytical parameters is examined. Phylogenetic analyses of molecular sequence data are necessarily based on intrinsically unmeasurable parameters such as transition-transversion and alignment gap cost ratios (among others). Procedures for robust and liberal hypothesis choice are proposed using congruence as an optimality criterion. To illustrate and explain this process further, data on arthropod relationships are used. The effects of variation in transversion-transition and gap-change ratio parameters on alignment and phylogeny reconstruction are assessed in light of both taxonomic and character-based congruence measures.
10.2307/2413599|The parameter space of the phylogenetic tree estimation problem consists of three components, T, t, and . The tree topology T is a discrete entity that is not a proper statistical parameter but that can nevertheless be estimated using the maximum likelihood criterion. Its role is to specify the branch length parameters and the form of the likelihood function(s). Branch lengths t are conditional on T and are meaningful only for specific values of T. Parameters  in the model of nucleotide substitution are common to all the tree topologies and represent such values as the transition/transversion rate ratio. T and t thus represent the tree, and  represents the model. With typical DNA sequence data, differences in T have only a small effect on the likelihood, but changing  will influence the likelihood greatly. Estimates of  are also found to be insensitive to T, making it possible to obtain reliable estimates of  and to perform tests concerning the model () even if knowledge of the evolutionary relationship (T) is not available. In contrast, tests concerning t, such as testing the existence of a molecular clock, appear to be more difficult to perform when the true topology is unknown. In this paper, we explore the peculiarity of the parameter space of the tree estimation problem and suggest methods for overcoming some difficulties involved with tests concerning the model. We also address difficulties concerning hypothesis testing on T, i.e., evaluation of the reliability of the estimated tree topology. We note that estimation of and particularly tests concerning T depend critically on the assumed model.
10.2307/2413593|In this history of numerical taxonomy since the publication in 1963 of Sokal and Sneath's Principles of Numerical Taxonomy, I include reminiscences of the reactions of biologists in Britain and elsewhere. Much of the original program has proved sound. The debate on phenetic and phylogenetic classifications has been valuable, although the logical and theoretical aspects of phenetics have been greatly overlooked in the debate. Hennigian cladistics, however, is a side issue that has not proven its value. Numerical taxonomy in the broad sense is the greatest advance in systematics since Darwin or perhaps since Linnaeus. It has stimulated several new areas of growth, including numerical phylogenetics, molecular taxonomy, morphometrics, and numerical identification. It has wide application outside systematic biology. Landmarks and trends are important aspects of numerical taxonomy. In microbiology, the program of numerical taxonomy has been successful, as indicated by the preponderance of papers describing numerical relationships in the International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology. This review concludes with comments on the needs and prospects of the future.
10.2307/2413596|Cladistic tree balance is the extent to which internal nodes on a cladistic tree define clades of equal size. More robust maximum-parsimony trees taken from the literature are more balanced. Simulation studies suggest that a methodological bias is responsible for this correlation because incorrect reconstructions are also likely to be less balanced than the true trees they estimate. Misinformative cladistic characters can be expected to make trees more unbalanced if there is marked variation in their rates of change. This bias may contribute to the excess of unbalanced phylogenies reported in the literature.
10.2307/2413597|Despite the potential information that may lie in phylogenetic analyses of ontogenies of body form, few studies have examined methods for extracting and analyzing ontogenetic shape characters. We propose and exemplify a procedure for phylogenetic shape analysis. We use the thin-plate spline decomposed by its partial warps, a method that has several critical advantages over available alternatives. Most notably, shape variables extracted by this method refer to localizable features of the morphology. We demonstrate how these characters can be coded and include them in a phylogenetic analysis of the piranha genus Pygocentrus, using a data set also comprising meristic, myological, and osteological characters. Using ontogenies of these localized shape variables, we have corroborated the monophyly of Pygocentrus. Although we found no new characters corroborating the proposed sister-group relationship of P. nattereri and P. cariba, our characters are all congruent with this hypothesis. Several ontogenetic shape characters serve to diagnose the previously undiagnosed P. nattereri. Independence of ontogenetic shape features is assessed in the same manner as for any other features: by examination of their distributions on the corroborated cladogram. In addition to inspecting associations among characters that changed multiple times, character independence was assessed using the information in the kinds of ontogenetic modifications (gain, loss, reorientation, reversal) and the information in observed development. Most of the geometrically independent features extracted during this study are phylogenetically independent of each other. We also found that region-specific ontogenetic allometries are phylogenetically independent of each other. In addition, localized ontogenetic changes along orthogonal body axes (anteroposterior and dorsoventral in this case) are usually phylogenetically independent. Although these findings of character independence may be specific to this study, the method for assessing this independence can be applied generally. Evolution of both spatial and temporal patterns of growth is an inference that depends upon using methods, such as the one employed here, capable of describing the spatial patterning of ontogeny.
10.2307/2413594|Despite widespread use, the bootstrap remains a controversial method for assessing confidence limits in phylogenies. Opposition to its use has centered on a small set of basic philosophical and statistical objections that have largely gone unanswered by advocates of statistical approaches to phylogeny reconstruction. The level of generality of these objections varies greatly, however. Some of the objections are merely technical, involving problems that are found in almost all statistical tests, such as bias in small data sets. Other objections are really associated not so much with a rejection of the bootstrap but with the rejection of statistical methods in phylogeny reconstruction, which resurrects an old debate. The most relevant aspects of this debate revolve around the issue of whether or not an unknown parameter, such as a tree, can have probabilities (confidence limits) associated with it. The relevant statistical aspects are reviewed, but because this issue remains controversial within statistical theory, it is unreasonable to expect it to be anything else in phylogenetic systematics. An area of common ground between statistical and nonstatistical approaches emerges in the use of statistical likelihood as a measure of support for phylogenetic hypotheses. This common ground requires the abandonment of classical notions of confidence limits by statistically oriented systematists and the acceptance of probabilistic models and likelihood by opponents of statistical methods. There remains a small set of objections directly germane to bootstrapping phylogenies per se. These objections involve issues of random sampling and whether or not character data are independent and identically distributed (IID). Nonrandom-sample bootstrapping is discussed, as are sample designs that impose the IID assumption on characters regardless of evolutionary nonindependence and nonidentical distribution of those data. Systematists wishing to use the bootstrap have an alternative to making explicit and rather strong evolutionary assumptions; they can consider the issue of character sampling designs much more carefully.
10.2307/2413598|Recently developed methods in phylogenetic systematics enable the discovery of associations among diverse characters of organisms such as morphology, biomechanics, and ecology among clades. In this study, the results of multiple character correlation techniques were compared using a data set on the functional morphology and ecology of feeding in the Cheilinini and outgroups (Perciformes: Labridae). The following two questions were addressed: What are the patterns of evolutionary change in structure and function of the feeding mechanisms of labrid fishes? Are evolutionary changes in trophic structure, feeding biomechanics, and feeding ecology congruent at different levels of labrid phylogeny? This study integrated previous work on the phylogenetic relationships of labrid fishes, quantitative modeling of jaw protrusion and hyoid depression mechanisms, analysis of morphometric variation in the trophic apparatus, and description of the natural diet of labrids. Analysis of phylogenetic association between dietary and biomechanical characters within the phylogeny was performed using character optimization to map characters onto the phylogeny. Statistical tests of association between pairs of discrete characters involved contingent states tests and concentrated changes tests. Phylogenetic correlations between continuous quantitative characters were determined using the methods of squared-change parsimony, independent contrasts, and phylogenetic autocorrelation. A diversity of techniques yielded similar answers in this case study, suggesting that evolution of dietary habits and feeding behavior is tightly linked to the biomechanics of the feeding apparatus.
10.2307/2413600|Although entirely surrounded by estuarine waters, the sea islands of South Carolina are of dubious biogeographic integrity. Pleistocene sea level fluctuations have periodically inundated these regions and left them de-watered inland. Samples from 10 populations of the freshwater pulmonate snail, Physa heterostropha, inhabiting six land masses isolated by putative estuarine barriers in the Charleston area were used for allozyme electrophoresis to estimate gene frequencies at 10 polymorphic loci. Although intrapopulation and interpopulation gene diversity was extensive, none of the variance could be attributed to island or land mass by hierarchical analysis of F statistics. The matrix of genetic distances among all sites was significantly correlated with the matrix of linear geographic distances, even though estuaries dissect the study area. Nearest neighbors separated by estuaries tended to be more similar genetically than nearest neighbors sharing a land mass. These data on the population genetics of freshwater snails seem to hold no evidence of biogeographic boundaries among sea islands. Dispersal by birds is a plausible explanation for the observed overall correlation between genetic and geographic distance, but vicariance or natural selection hypotheses cannot be excluded.
27896388|Molecular data offer great potential to resolve the phylogeny of living taxa but can molecular data improve our understanding of relationships of fossil taxa? Simulations suggest that this is possible, but few empirical examples have demonstrated the ability of molecular data to change the placement of fossil taxa. We offer such an example here. We analyze the placement of snakes among squamate reptiles, combining published morphological data (363 characters) and new DNA sequence data (15,794 characters, 22 nuclear loci) for 45 living and 19 fossil taxa. We find several intriguing results. First, some fossil taxa undergo major changes in their phylogenetic position when molecular data are added. Second, most fossil taxa are placed with strong support in the expected clades by the combined data Bayesian analyses, despite each having >98% missing cells and despite recent suggestions that extensive missing data are problematic for Bayesian phylogenetics. Third, morphological data can change the placement of living taxa in combined analyses, even when there is an overwhelming majority of molecular characters. Finally, we find strong but apparently misleading signal in the morphological data, seemingly associated with a burrowing lifestyle in snakes, amphisbaenians, and dibamids. Overall, our results suggest promise for an integrated and comprehensive Tree of Life by combining molecular and morphological data for living and fossil taxa.
27896390|Understanding the origin of island endemics is a central task of historical biogeography. Recent methodological advances provide a rigorous framework to determine the relative contribution of different biogeographic processes (e.g., vicariance, land migration, long-distance dispersal) to the origin of island endemics. With its complex but well-known history of microplate movements and climatic oscillations, the Mediterranean region (including the Mediterranean basin and Macaronesia) provides the geographic backdrop for the diversification of Ruta L., the type genus of Rutaceae (citrus family). Phylogenetic, molecular dating, and ancestral range reconstruction analyses were carried out to investigate the extent to which past geological connections and climatic history of the Mediterranean region explain the current distribution of species in Ruta, with emphasis on its island endemics. The analyses showed that Ruta invaded the region from the north well before the onset of the Mediterranean climate and diversified in situ as the climate became Mediterranean. The continental fragment island endemics of the genus originated via processes of land migration/vicariance driven by connections/disconnections between microplates, whereas the oceanic island endemics were the product of a single colonization event from the mainland followed by in situ diversification. This study emphasizes the need for an integrative, hypothesis-based approach to historical biogeography and stresses the importance of temporary land connections and colonization opportunity in the biotic assembly of continental fragment and oceanic islands, respectively.
27896389|Some of the most basic questions about the history of life concern evolutionary trends. These include determining whether or not metazoans have become more complex over time, whether or not body size tends to increase over time (the CopeDepret rule), or whether or not brain size has increased over time in various taxa, such as mammals and birds. Despite the proliferation of studies on such topics, assessment of the reliability of results in this field is hampered by the variability of techniques used and the lack of statistical validation of these methods. To solve this problem, simulations are performed using a variety of evolutionary models (gradual Brownian motion, speciational Brownian motion, and OrnsteinUhlenbeck), with or without a drift of variable amplitude, with variable variance of tips, and with bounds placed close or far from the starting values and final means of simulated characters. These are used to assess the relative merits (power, Type I error rate, bias, and mean absolute value of error on slope estimate) of several statistical methods that have recently been used to assess the presence of evolutionary trends in comparative data. Results show widely divergent performance of the methods. The simple, nonphylogenetic regression (SR) and variance partitioning using phylogenetic eigenvector regression (PVR) with a broken stick selection procedure have greatly inflated Type I error rate (0.1230.180 at a 0.05 threshold), which invalidates their use in this context. However, they have the greatest power. Most variants of Felsenstein's independent contrasts (FIC; five of which are presented) have adequate Type I error rate, although two have a slightly inflated Type I error rate with at least one of the two reference trees (0.0640.090 error rate at a 0.05 threshold). The power of all contrast-based methods is always much lower than that of SR and PVR, except under Brownian motion with a strong trend and distant bounds. Mean absolute value of error on slope of all FIC methods is slightly higher than that of phylogenetic generalized least squares (PGLS), SR, and PVR. PGLS performs well, with low Type I error rate, low error on regression coefficient, and power comparable with some FIC methods. Four variants of skewness analysis are examined, and a new method to assess significance of results is presented. However, all have consistently low power, except in rare combinations of trees, trend strength, and distance between final means and bounds. Globally, the results clearly show that FIC-based methods and PGLS are globally better than nonphylogenetic methods and variance partitioning with PVR. FIC methods and PGLS are sensitive to the model of evolution (and, hence, to branch length errors). Our results suggest that regressing raw character contrasts against raw geological age contrasts yields a good combination of power and Type I error rate. New software to facilitate batch analysis is presented.
27896391|Rates of phenotypic evolution derive from numerous interrelated processes acting at varying spatial and temporal scales and frequently differ substantially among lineages. Although current models employed in reconstructing ancestral character states permit independent rates for distinct types of transition (forward and reverse transitions and transitions between different states), these rates are typically assumed to be identical for all branches in a phylogeny. In this paper, I present a general model of character evolution enabling rate heterogeneity among branches. This model is employed in assessing the extent to which the assumption of uniform transition rates affects reconstructions of ancestral limb morphology in the scincid lizard clade Lerista and, accordingly, the potential for rate variability to mislead inferences of evolutionary patterns. Permitting rate variation among branches significantly improves model fit for both the manus and the pes. A constrained model in which the rate of digit acquisition is assumed to be effectively zero is strongly supported in each case; when compared with a model assuming unconstrained transition rates, this model provides a substantially better fit for the manus and a nearly identical fit for the pes. Ancestral states reconstructed assuming the constrained model imply patterns of limb evolution differing significantly from those implied by reconstructions for uniform-rate models, particularly for the pes; whereas ancestral states for the uniform-rate models consistently entail the reacquisition of pedal digits, those for the model incorporating among-lineage rate heterogeneity imply repeated, unreversed digit loss. These results indicate that the assumption of identical transition rates for all branches in a phylogeny may be inappropriate in modeling the evolution of phenotypic traits and emphasize the need for careful evaluation of phylogenetic tests of Dollo's law.
27896387|Phylogenetic trees often depart from the expectations of stochastic models, exhibiting imbalance in diversification among lineages and slowdowns in the rate of lineage accumulation through time. Such departures have led to a widespread perception that ecological differences among species or adaptation and subsequent niche filling are required to explain patterns of diversification. However, a key element missing from models of diversification is the geographical context of speciation and extinction. In this study, we develop a spatially explicit model of geographic range evolution and cladogenesis, where speciation arises via vicariance or peripatry, and explore the effects of these processes on patterns of diversification. We compare the results with those observed in 41 reconstructed avian trees. Our model shows that nonconstant rates of speciation and extinction are emergent properties of the apportioning of geographic ranges that accompanies speciation. The dynamics of diversification exhibit wide variation, depending on the mode of speciation, tendency for range expansion, and rate of range evolution. By varying these parameters, the model is able to capture many, but not all, of the features exhibited by birthdeath trees and extant bird clades. Under scenarios with relatively stable geographic ranges, strong slowdowns in diversification rates are produced, with faster rates of ranges dynamics leading to constant or accelerating rates of apparent diversification. A peripatric model of speciation with stable ranges also generates highly unbalanced trees typical of bird phylogenies but fails to produce realistic range size distributions among the extant species. Results most similar to those of a birthdeath process are reached under a peripatric speciation scenario with highly volatile range dynamics. Taken together, our results demonstrate that considering the geographical context of speciation and extinction provides a more conservative null model of diversification and offers a very different perspective on the phylogenetic patterns expected in the absence of ecology.
27896385|The disparity in species richness across the tree of life is one of the most striking and pervasive features of biological diversity. Some groups are exceptionally diverse, whereas many other groups are species poor. Differences in diversity among groups are frequently assumed to result from primary control by differential rates of net diversification. However, a major alternative explanation is that ecological and other factors exert primary control on clade diversity, such that apparent variation in net diversification rates is a secondary consequence of ecological limits on clade growth. Here, I consider a likelihood framework for distinguishing between these competing hypotheses. I incorporate hierarchical modeling to explicitly relax assumptions about the constancy of diversification rates across clades, and I propose several statistics for a posteriori evaluation of model adequacy. I apply the framework to a recent dated phylogeny of ants. My results reject the hypothesis that net diversification rates exert primary control on species richness in this group and demonstrate that clade diversity is better explained by total time-integrated speciation. These results further suggest that it may not possible to estimate meaningful speciation and extinction rates from higher-level phylogenies of extant taxa only.
27896384|Quantitative traits have long been hypothesized to affect speciation and extinction rates. For example, smaller body size or increased specialization may be associated with increased rates of diversification. Here, I present a phylogenetic likelihood-based method (quantitative state speciation and extinction [QuaSSE]) that can be used to test such hypotheses using extant character distributions. This approach assumes that diversification follows a birthdeath process where speciation and extinction rates may vary with one or more traits that evolve under a diffusion model. Speciation and extinction rates may be arbitrary functions of the character state, allowing much flexibility in testing models of trait-dependent diversification. I test the approach using simulated phylogenies and show that a known relationship between speciation and a quantitative character could be recovered in up to 80% of the cases on large trees (500 species). Consistent with other approaches, detecting shifts in diversification due to differences in extinction rates was harder than when due to differences in speciation rates. Finally, I demonstrate the application of QuaSSE to investigate the correlation between body size and diversification in primates, concluding that clade-specific differences in diversification may be more important than size-dependent diversification in shaping the patterns of diversity within this group.
27896386|Traditionally, patterns and processes of diversification could only be inferred from the fossil record. However, there are an increasing number of tools that enable diversification dynamics to be inferred from molecular phylogenies. The application of these tools to new data sets has renewed interest in the question of the prevalence of diversity-dependent diversification. However, there is growing recognition that the absence of extinct species in molecular phylogenies may prevent accurate inferences about the underlying diversification dynamics. On the other hand, even though the fossil record provides direct data on extinct species, its completeness can also mask true diversification processes. Here, using computer-generated diversity-dependent phylogenies, we mimicked molecular phylogenies by eliminating extinct lineages. We also simulated the fossil record by converting the temporal axis into discrete intervals and imposing a variety of preservation processes on the lineages. Given the lack of reliable phylogenies. For the simulated molecular phylogenies, we examined the efficacy of the standard metric (the  statistic) for identifying decreasing rates of diversification. We find that the underlying decreasing rate of diversification is detected only when the rate of change in the diversification rate is high, and if the molecular phylogeny happens to capture the diversification process as the equilibrium diversity is first reached or shortly thereafter. In contrast, estimating rates of diversification from the simulated fossil record captures the expected zero rate of diversification after equilibrium is reached under a wide range of preservation scenarios. The ability to detect the initial decreasing rate of diversification, as will the fossil record, although the fossil record still retains the signature of the diversity dependence in yielding approximately zero diversification rates. Thus, although a significantly negative  value for a molecular phylogeny indicates a decreasing rate of diversification, a nonsignificantly negative or positive  value might mean exponential diversification, or a slowly decreasing rate of diversification, or simply species turnover at a constant diversity. The fossil record can be of assistance in helping choose among these possibilities.
25677561|As phylogenetic data sets grow in size and number, objective methods to summarize this information are becoming increasingly important. Supermatrices can combine existing data directly and in principle provide effective syntheses of phylogenetic information that may reveal new relationships. However, several serious difficulties exist in the construction of large supermatrices that must be overcome before these approaches will enjoy broad utility. We present analyses that examine the performance of sparse supermatrices constructed from large sequence databases for the reconstruction of species-level phylogenies. We develop a largely automated informatics pipeline that allows for the construction of sparse supermatrices from GenBank data. In doing so, we develop strategies for alleviating some of the outstanding impediments to accurate phylogenetic inference using these approaches. These include taxonomic standardization, automated alignment, and the identification of rogue taxa. We use turtles as an exemplar clade and present a well-supported species-level phylogeny for two-thirds of all turtle species based on a 50 kb supermatrix consisting of 93% missing data. Finally, we discuss some of the remaining pitfalls and concerns associated with supermatrix analyses, provide comparisons to supertree approaches, and suggest areas for future research.
25677562|Species delimitation and species tree inference are difficult problems in cases of recent divergence, especially when different loci have different histories. This paper quantifies the difficulty of jointly finding the division of samples to species and estimating a species tree without constraining the possible assignments a priori. It introduces a parametric and a nonparametric method, including new heuristic search strategies, to do this delimitation and tree inference using individual gene trees as input. The new methods were evaluated using thousands of simulations and 4 empirical data sets. These analyses suggest that the new methods, especially the nonparametric one, may provide useful insights for systematists working at the species level with molecular data. However, they still often return incorrect results.
25677564|Ratites are large, flightless birds and include the ostrich, rheas, kiwi, emu, and cassowaries, along with extinct members, such as moa and elephant birds. Previous phylogenetic analyses of complete mitochondrial genome sequences have reinforced the traditional belief that ratites are monophyletic and tinamous are their sister group. However, in these studies ratite monophyly was enforced in the analyses that modeled rate heterogeneity among variable sites. Relaxing this topological constraint results in strong support for the tinamous (which fly) nesting within ratites. Furthermore, upon reducing base compositional bias and partitioning models of sequence evolution among protein codon positions and RNA structures, the tinamoumoa clade grouped with kiwi, emu, and cassowaries to the exclusion of the successively more divergent rheas and ostrich. These relationships are consistent with recent results from a large nuclear data set, whereas our strongly supported finding of a tinamoumoa grouping further resolves palaeognath phylogeny. We infer flight to have been lost among ratites multiple times in temporally close association with the CretaceousTertiary extinction event. This circumvents requirements for transient microcontinents and island chains to explain discordance between ratite phylogeny and patterns of continental breakup. Ostriches may have dispersed to Africa from Eurasia, putting in question the status of ratites as an iconic Gondwanan relict taxon.
25677563|Bayesian inference provides a powerful framework for integrating different sources of information (in particular, molecules and fossils) to derive estimates of species divergence times. Indeed, it is currently the only framework that can adequately account for uncertainties in fossil calibrations. We use 2 Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo programs, MULTIDIVTIME and MCMCTREE, to analyze 3 empirical data sets to estimate divergence times in amphibians, actinopterygians, and felids. We evaluate the impact of various factors, including the priors on rates and times, fossil calibrations, substitution model, the violation of the molecular clock and the rate-drift model, and the exact and approximate likelihood calculation. Assuming the molecular clock caused seriously biased time estimates when the clock is violated, but 2 different rate-drift models produced similar estimates. The prior on times, which incorporates fossil-calibration information, had the greatest impact on posterior time estimation. In particular, the strategies used by the 2 programs to incorporate minimum- and maximum-age bounds led to very different time priors and were responsible for large differences in posterior time estimates in a previous study. The results highlight the critical importance of fossil calibrations to molecular dating and the need for probabilistic modeling of fossil depositions, preservations, and sampling to provide statistical summaries of information in the fossil record concerning species divergence times.
25677560|Evolutionary biologists have introduced numerous statistical approaches to explore nonvertical evolution, such as horizontal gene transfer, recombination, and genomic reassortment, through collections of Markov-dependent gene trees. These tree collections allow for inference of nonvertical evolution, but only indirectly, making findings difficult to interpret and models difficult to generalize. An alternative approach to explore nonvertical evolution relies on phylogenetic networks. These networks provide a framework to model nonvertical evolution but leave unanswered questions such as the statistical significance of specific nonvertical events. In this paper, we begin to correct the shortcomings of both approaches by introducing the "stochastic model for reassortment and transfer events" (SMARTIE) drawing upon ancestral recombination graphs (ARGs). ARGs are directed graphs that allow for formal probabilistic inference on vertical speciation events and nonvertical evolutionary events. We apply SMARTIE to phylogenetic data. Because of this, we can typically infer a single most probable ARG, avoiding coarse population dynamic summary statistics. In addition, a focus on phylogenetic data suggests novel probability distributions on ARGs. To make inference with our model, we develop a reversible jump Markov chain Monte Carlo sampler to approximate the posterior distribution of SMARTIE. Using the BEAST phylogenetic software as a foundation, the sampler employs a parallel computing approach that allows for inference on large-scale data sets. To demonstrate SMARTIE, we explore 2 separate phylogenetic applications, one involving pathogenic Leptospirochete and the other Saccharomyces.
25677559|We develop statistical methods for phylogenetic logistic regression in which the dependent variable is binary (0 or 1) and values are nonindependent among species, with phylogenetically related species tending to have the same value of the dependent variable. The methods are based on an evolutionary model of binary traits in which trait values switch between 0 and 1 as species evolve up a phylogenetic tree. The more frequently the trait values switch (i.e., the higher the rate of evolution), the more rapidly correlations between trait values for phylogenetically related species break down. Therefore, the statistical methods also give a way to estimate the phylogenetic signal of binary traits. More generally, the methods can be applied with continuous- and/or discrete-valued independent variables. Using simulations, we assess the statistical properties of the methods, including bias in the estimates of the logistic regression coefficients and the parameter that estimates the strength of phylogenetic signal in the dependent variable. These analyses show that, as with the case for continuous-valued dependent variables, phylogenetic logistic regression should be used rather than standard logistic regression when there is the possibility of phylogenetic correlations among species. Standard logistic regression does not properly account for the loss of information caused by resemblance of relatives and as a result is likely to give inflated type I error rates, incorrectly identifying regression parameters as statistically significantly different from zero when they are not.
25677558|Because a constant rate of DNA sequence evolution cannot be assumed to be ubiquitous, relaxed molecular clock inference models have proven useful when estimating rates and divergence dates. Furthermore, it has been recently suggested that using relaxed molecular clocks may provide superior accuracy and precision in phylogenetic inference compared with traditional time-free methods that do not incorporate a molecular clock. We perform a simulation study to determine if assuming a relaxed molecular clock does indeed improve the quality of phylogenetic inference. We analyze sequence data simulated under various rate distributions using relaxed-clocks, strict-clocks, and time-free Bayesian phylogenetic inference models. Our results indicate that no difference exists in the quality of phylogenetic inference between assuming a relaxed molecular clock and making no assumption about the clock-likeness of sequence evolution. This pattern is likely due to the biasvariance trade-off inherent in this type of phylogenetic inference. We also compared the quality of inference between Bayesian and maximum likelihood time-free inference models and found them to be qualitatively similar.
20780357|Nested clade phylogeographic analysis (NCPA) is a widely used method that aims to identify past demographic events that have shaped the history of a population. In an earlier study, NCPA has been fully automated, allowing it to be tested with simulated data sets generated under a null model in which samples simulated from a panmictic population are geographically distributed. It was noted that NCPA was prone to inferring false positives, corroborating earlier findings. The present study aims to evaluate both single-locus and multilocus NCPA under the scenario of restricted gene flow among spatially distributed populations. We have developed a new program, ANeCA-ML, which implements multilocus NCPA. Data were simulated under 3 models of gene flow: a stepping stone model, an island model, and a stepping stone model with some long-distance dispersal. Results indicate that single-locus NCPA tends to give a high frequency of false positives, but, unlike the random-mating scenario presented previously, inferences are not limited to restricted gene flow with isolation by distance or contiguous range expansion. The proportion of single-locus data sets that contained false inferences was 76% for the panmictic case, 87% for the stepping stone model, 79% for the stepping stone model with long-distance dispersal, and more than 99% for the island model. The frequency of inferences is inversely related to the amount of gene flow between demes. We performed multilocus NCPA by grouping the simulated loci into data sets of 5 loci. The false-positive rate was reduced in multilocus NCPA for some inferences but remained high for others. The proportion of multilocus data sets that contained false inferences was 17% for the panmictic case, 30% for the stepping stone model, 4% for the stepping stone model with long-distance dispersal, and 54% for the island model. Multilocus NCPA reduces the false-positive rate by restricting the sensitivity of the method but does not appear to increase the accuracy of the approach. Three classical teststhe analysis of molecular variance method, Fu's Fs, and the Mantel testshow that there is information in the data that gives rise to explicable results using these standard approaches. In conclusion, for the scenarios that we have examined, our simulation study suggests that the NCPA method is unreliable and its inferences may be misleading. We suggest that the NCPA method should not be used without objective simulation-based testing by independent researchers.
20780355|Long branches are potentially problematic in molecular dating because they can encompass a vast number of combinations of substitution rate and time. A long branch is suspected to have biased molecular clock estimates of the age of flowering plants (angiosperms) to be much older than their earliest fossils. This study explores the effect of the long branch subtending angiosperms in molecular dating and how different relaxed clocks react to it. Fossil angiosperm relatives, identified through a combined morphological and molecular phylogenetic analysis for living and fossil seed plants, were used to break the long angiosperm stem branch. Nucleotide sequences of angiosperm fossil relatives were simulated using a phylogeny and model parameters from living taxa and incorporated in molecular dating. Three relaxed clocks, which implement among-lineage rate heterogeneity differently, were used: penalized likelihood (using 2 different rate smoothing optimization criteria), a Bayesian rate-autocorrelated method, and a Bayesian uncorrelated method. Different clocks provided highly correlated ages across the tree. Breaking the angiosperm stem branch did not result in major age differences, except for a few sensitive nodes. Breaking the angiosperm stem branch resulted in a substantially younger age for crown angiosperms only with 1 of the 4 methods, but, nevertheless, the obtained age is considerably older than the oldest angiosperm fossils. The origin of crown angiosperms is estimated between the Upper Triassic and the early Permian. The difficulty in estimating crown angiosperm age probably lies in a combination of intrinsic and extrinsic complicating factors, including substantial molecular rate heterogeneity among lineages and through time. A more adequate molecular dating approach might combine moderate background rate heterogeneity with large changes in rate at particular points in the tree.
20780356|Coalescent modelbased methods for phylogeny estimation force systematists to confront issues related to the identification of species boundaries. Unlike conventional phylogenetic analysis, where species membership can be assessed qualitatively after the phylogeny is estimated, the phylogenies that are estimated under a coalescent model treat aggregates of individuals as the operational taxonomic units and thus require a priori definition of these sets because the models assume that the alleles in a given lineage are sampled from a single panmictic population. Fortunately, the use of coalescent modelbased approaches allows systematists to conduct probabilistic tests of species limits by calculating the probability of competing models of lineage composition. Here, we conduct the first exploration of the issues related to applying such tests to a complex empirical system. Sequence data from multiple loci were used to assess species limits and phylogeny in a clade of North American Myotis bats. After estimating gene trees at each locus, the likelihood of models representing all hierarchical permutations of lineage composition was calculated and Akaike information criterion scores were computed. Metrics borrowed from information theory suggest that there is strong support for several models that include multiple evolutionary lineages within the currently described species Myotis lucifugus and M. evotis. Although these results are preliminary, they illustrate the practical importance of coupled species delimitation and phylogeny estimation.
20780361|A wide range of evolutionary models for species-level (and higher) diversification have been developed. These models can be used to test evolutionary hypotheses and provide comparisons with phylogenetic trees constructed from real data. To carry out these tests and comparisons, it is often necessary to sample, or simulate, trees from the evolutionary models. Sampling trees from these models is more complicated than it may appear at first glance, necessitating careful consideration and mathematical rigor. Seemingly straightforward sampling methods may produce trees that have systematically biased shapes or branch lengths. This is particularly problematic as there is no simple method for determining whether the sampled trees are appropriate. In this paper, we show why a commonly used simple sampling approach (SSA)simulating trees forward in time until n species are first reachedshould only be applied to the simplest pure birth model, the Yule model. We provide an alternative general sampling approach (GSA) that can be applied to most other models. Furthermore, we introduce the constant-rate birthdeath model sampling approach, which samples trees very efficiently from a widely used class of models. We explore the bias produced by SSA and identify situations in which this bias is particularly pronounced. We show that using SSA can lead to erroneous conclusions: When using the inappropriate SSA, the variance of a gradually evolving trait does not correlate with the age of the tree; when the correct GSA is used, the trait variance correlates with tree age. The algorithms presented here are available in the Perl Bio::Phylo package, as a stand-alone program TreeSample, and in the R TreeSim package.
20780354|The rich knowledge of morphological variation among organisms reported in the systematic literature has remained in free-text format, impractical for use in large-scale synthetic phylogenetic work. This noncomputable format has also precluded linkage to the large knowledgebase of genomic, genetic, developmental, and phenotype data in model organism databases. We have undertaken an effort to prototype a curated, ontology-based evolutionary morphology database that maps to these genetic databases (http://kb.phenoscape.org) to facilitate investigation into the mechanistic basis and evolution of phenotypic diversity. Among the first requirements in establishing this database was the development of a multispecies anatomy ontology with the goal of capturing anatomical data in a systematic and computable manner. An ontology is a formal representation of a set of concepts with defined relationships between those concepts. Multispecies anatomy ontologies in particular are an efficient way to represent the diversity of morphological structures in a clade of organisms, but they present challenges in their development relative to single-species anatomy ontologies. Here, we describe the Teleost Anatomy Ontology (TAO), a multispecies anatomy ontology for teleost fishes derived from the Zebrafish Anatomical Ontology (ZFA) for the purpose of annotating varying morphological features across species. To facilitate interoperability with other anatomy ontologies, TAO uses the Common Anatomy Reference Ontology as a template for its upper level nodes, and TAO and ZFA are synchronized, with zebrafish terms specified as subtypes of teleost terms. We found that the details of ontology architecture have ramifications for querying, and we present general challenges in developing a multispecies anatomy ontology, including refinement of definitions, taxon-specific relationships among terms, and representation of taxonomically variable developmental pathways.
20780360|Studies of diversification patterns often find a slowing in lineage accumulation toward the present. This seemingly pervasive pattern of rate downturns has been taken as evidence for adaptive radiations, density-dependent regulation, and metacommunity species interactions. The significance of rate downturns is evaluated with statistical tests (the  statistic and Monte Carlo constant rates (MCCR) test; birthdeath likelihood models and Akaike Information Criterion [AIC] scores) that rely on null distributions, which assume that the included species are a random sample of the entire clade. Sampling in real phylogenies, however, often is nonrandom because systematists try to include early-diverging species or representatives of previous intrataxon classifications. We studied the effects of biased sampling, structured sampling, and random sampling by experimentally pruning simulated trees (60 and 150 species) as well as a completely sampled empirical tree (58 species) and then applying the  statistic/MCCR test and birthdeath likelihood models/AIC scores to assess rate changes. For trees with random species sampling, the true model (i.e., the one fitting the complete phylogenies) could be inferred in most cases. Oversampling deep nodes, however, strongly biases inferences toward downturns, with simulations of structured and biased sampling suggesting that this occurs when sampling percentages drop below 80%. The magnitude of the effect and the sensitivity of diversification rate models is such that a useful rule of thumb may be not to infer rate downturns from real trees unless they have >80% species sampling.
20780358|A phylogenetic tree comprising clades with high bootstrap values or other strong measures of statistical support is usually interpreted as providing a good estimate of the true phylogeny. Convergent evolution acting on groups of characters in concert, however, can lead to highly supported but erroneous phylogenies. Identifying such groups of phylogenetically misleading characters is obviously desirable. Here we present a procedure that uses an independent data source to identify sets of characters that have undergone concerted convergent evolution. We examine the problematic case of the cormorants and shags, for which trees constructed using osteological and molecular characters both have strong statistical support and yet are fundamentally incongruent. We find that the osteological characters can be separated into those that fit the phylogenetic history implied by the molecular data set and those that do not. Moreover, these latter nonfitting osteological characters are internally consistent and form groups of mutually compatible characters or "cliques," which are significantly larger than cliques of shuffled characters. We suggest, therefore, that these cliques of characters are the result of similar selective pressures and are a signature of concerted convergence.
20780359|A controversial topic that underlies much of phylogenetic experimental design is the relative utility of increased taxonomic versus character sampling. Conclusions about the relative utility of adding characters or taxa to a current phylogenetic study have subtly hinged upon the appropriateness of the rate of evolution of the characters added for resolution of the phylogeny in question. Clearly, the addition of characters evolving at optimal rates will have much greater impact upon accurate phylogenetic analysis than will the addition of characters with an inappropriate rate of evolution. Development of practical analytical predictions of the asymptotic impact of adding additional taxa would complement computational investigations of the relative utility of these two methods of expanding acquired data. Accordingly, we here formulate a measure of the phylogenetic informativeness of the additional sampling of character states from a new taxon added to the canonical phylogenetic quartet. We derive the optimal rate of evolution for characters assessed in taxa to be sampled and a metric of informativeness based on the rate of evolution of the characters assessed in the new taxon and the distance of the new taxon from the internode of interest. Calculation of the informativeness per base pair of additional character sampling for included taxa versus additional character sampling for novel taxa can be used to estimate cost-effectiveness and optimal efficiency of phylogenetic experimental design. The approach requires estimation of rates of evolution of individual sites based on an alignment of genes orthologous to those to be sequenced, which may be identified in a well-established clade of sister taxa or of related taxa diverging at a deeper phylogenetic scale. Some approximate idea of the potential phylogenetic relationships of taxa to be sequenced is also desirable, such as may be obtained from ribosomal RNA sequence alone. Application to the solution of recalcitrant unresolved nodes in an otherwise well-known phylogeny is the most obvious application. We validate the theory by analysis of its predictions regarding the phylogenetic informativeness for taxon addition of 46 amino acid alignments of 21 fungal taxa. Gene and taxon sampling according to the theory herein and following a "deepest ingroup" heuristic are shown to provide significantly improved resolution of specified deep internodes.
25677573|Estimating divergence times using molecular sequence data has become a common application of statistical phylogenetics. However, disparities between estimated ages for clades produced in different studies have become equally commonplace. Here, I propose a method for the objective assessment of the likelihood of inferred divergence times to evaluate the placement of fossil constraints using information from the broader fossil record. The inclusion of nodes from the Tree of Life for which credible age ranges are known, in addition to the fossil constraints used in the ingroup, will allow for the comparison of alternate fossil placements when the phylogenetic affinity of a fossil is ambiguous as well as provide a heuristic assessment of the global likelihood of estimated divergence times. The use of these "likelihood checkpoints" will allow for the comparison of inferred dates across data sets and across taxonomic groups to place divergence time estimates into a broader evolutionary timescale. The method is illustrated with an example using an expanded phylogenetic estimate of the Gnathostomata, inferred with relaxed-clock molecular dating methods.
25677569|Bayesian methods are increasingly being used to estimate divergence times without the restrictive assumption of a global clock. Little is known about their reliability for shallow phylogenies where DNA sequence divergence is low. We analyzed both simulated and real sequences to evaluate dating methods in phylogenies with midlate Miocene roots. A large number of data sets (5000) with 10 taxa each were simulated under a rate-drift model for trees with 2 topologies (balanced or unbalanced) and with different sets of divergence times (characterized by long or short external branches). Data were analyzed using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo methods in which the prior on divergence times was specified from a birthdeath process with species sampling (BDS) or a Dirichlet distribution using the programs MCMCTREE and MULTIDIVTIME. The programs generally performed well on shallow phylogenies, but posterior mean node ages were biased and 95% posterior intervals included true ages in fewer than 95% of trees in some analyses. This typically occurred when the 95% prior interval did not include the true age and/or sequence lengths were 1 kbp. Widths of posterior intervals were also very dependent on the position of the calibrated node within the tree, particularly when sequences were short. Different divergence times priors within MCMCTREE, MULTIDIVTIME, and BEAST were used to analyze mitochondrial DNA data sets from a Bovid subfamily (the Caprinae) from Asian Laudakia and North African Chalcides lizards. Posterior divergence times were quite sensitive to different BDS priors but less sensitive to different Dirichlet priors. Our study demonstrates the impact of the prior on divergence times in shallow phylogenies and shows that 1) prior intervals on nodes should be assessed as a prerequisite to a dating analysis, 2) 1 kbp of quite rapidly evolving sequence may be required to obtain accurate posterior means and usefully narrow posterior intervals.
25677574|Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is one of the main mechanisms driving the evolution of microorganisms. Its accurate identification is one of the major challenges posed by reticulate evolution. In this article, we describe a new polynomial-time algorithm for inferring HGT events and compare 3 existing and 1 new tree comparison indices in the context of HGT identification. The proposed algorithm can rely on different optimization criteria, including least squares (LS), Robinson and Foulds (RF) distance, quartet distance (QD), and bipartition dissimilarity (BD), when searching for an optimal scenario of subtree prune and regraft (SPR) moves needed to transform the given species tree into the given gene tree. As the simulation results suggest, the algorithmic strategy based on BD, introduced in this article, generally provides better results than those based on LS, RF, and QD. The BD-based algorithm also proved to be more accurate and faster than a well-known polynomial time heuristic RIATA-HGT. Moreover, the HGT recovery results yielded by BD were generally equivalent to those provided by the exponential-time algorithm LatTrans, but a clear gain in running time was obtained using the new algorithm. Finally, a statistical framework for assessing the reliability of obtained HGTs by bootstrap analysis is also presented.
25677576|How to quantify the phylogenetic information content of a data set is a longstanding question in phylogenetics, influencing both the assessment of data quality in completed studies and the planning of future phylogenetic projects. Recently, a method has been developed that profiles the phylogenetic informativeness (PI) of a data set through time by linking its site-specific rates of change to its power to resolve relationships at different timescales. Here, we evaluate the performance of this method in the case of 2 standard genetic markers for phylogenetic reconstruction, 28S ribosomal RNA and cytochrome oxidase subunit 1 (CO1) mitochondrial DNA, with maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analyses of relationships within a group of parasitoid wasps (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae, Diplazontinae). Retrieving PI profiles of the 2 genes from our own and from 3 additional data sets, we find that the method repeatedly overestimates the performance of the more quickly evolving CO1 compared with 28S. We explore possible reasons for this bias, including phylogenetic uncertainty, volation of the molecular clock assumption, model misspecification, and nonstationary nucleotide composition. As none of these provides a sufficient explanation of the observed discrepancy, we use simulated data sets, based on an idealized setting, to show that the optimum evolutionary rate decreases with increasing number of taxa. We suggest that this relationship could explain why the formula derived from the 4-taxon case overrates the performance of higher versus lower rates of evolution in our case and that caution should be taken when the method is applied to data sets including more than 4 taxa.
25677572|Species delimitation has been invigorated as a discipline in systematics by an influx of new character sets, analytical methods, and conceptual advances. We use genetic data from 68 markers, combined with distributional, bioclimatic, and coloration information, to hypothesize boundaries of evolutionarily independent lineages (species) within the widespread and highly variable nominal fire ant species Solenopsis saevissima, a member of a species group containing invasive pests as well as species that are models for ecological and evolutionary research. Our integrated approach uses diverse methods of analysis to sequentially test whether populations meet specific operational criteria (contingent properties) for candidacy as morphologically cryptic species, including genetic clustering, monophyly, reproductive isolation, and occupation of distinctive niche space. We hypothesize that nominal S. saevissima comprises at least 46 previously unrecognized species, including several pairs whose parapatric distributions implicate the development of intrinsic premating or postmating barriers to gene flow. Our genetic data further suggest that regional genetic differentiation in S. saevissima has been influenced by hybridization with other nominal species occurring in sympatry or parapatry, including the quite distantly related Solenopsis geminata. The results of this study illustrate the importance of employing different classes of genetic data (coding and noncoding regions and nuclear and mitochondrial DNA [mtDNA] markers), different methods of genetic data analysis (tree-based and nontree based methods), and different sources of data (genetic, morphological, and ecological data) to explicitly test various operational criteria for species boundaries in clades of recently diverged lineages, while warning against over reliance on any single data type (e.g., mtDNA sequence variation) when drawing inferences.
25677575|Thymidylate synthases (Thy) are key enzymes in the synthesis of deoxythymidylate, 1 of the 4 building blocks of DNA. As such, they are essential for all DNA-based forms of life and therefore implicated in the hypothesized transition from RNA genomes to DNA genomes. Two evolutionally unrelated Thy enzymes, ThyA and ThyX, are known to catalyze the same biochemical reaction. Both enzymes are sporadically distributed within each of the 3 domains of life in a pattern that suggests multiple nonhomologous lateral gene transfer (LGT) events. We present a phylogenetic analysis of the evolution of the 2 enzymes, aimed at unraveling their entangled evolutionary history and tracing their origin back to early life. A novel probabilistic evolutionary model was developed, which allowed us to compute the posterior probabilities and the posterior expectation of the number of LGT events. Simulation studies were performed to validate the model's ability to accurately detect LGT events, which have occurred throughout a large phylogeny. Applying the model to the Thy data revealed widespread nonhomologous LGT between and within all 3 domains of life. By reconstructing the ThyA and ThyX gene trees, the most likely donor of each LGT event was inferred. The role of viruses in LGT of Thy is finally discussed.
25677570|Polyploidy, the genome wide duplication of chromosome number, is a key feature in eukaryote evolution. Polyploidy exists in diverse groups including animals, fungi, and invertebrates but is especially prevalent in plants with most, if not all, plant species having descended from a polyploidization event. Polyploids often differ markedly from their diploid progenitors in morphological, physiological, and life history characteristics as well as rates of adaptation. The altered characteristics displayed by polyploids may contribute to their success in novel ecological habitats. Clearly, a better understanding of the processes underlying changes in the number of chromosomes within genomes is a key goal in our understanding of speciation and adaptation for a wide range of families and genera. Despite the fundamental role of chromosome number change in eukaryotic evolution, probabilistic models describing the evolution of chromosome number along a phylogeny have not yet been formulated. We present a series of likelihood models, each representing a different hypothesis regarding the evolution of chromosome number along a given phylogeny. These models allow us to reconstruct ancestral chromosome numbers and to estimate the expected number of polyploidization events and single chromosome changes (dysploidy) that occurred along a phylogeny. We test, using simulations, the accuracy of this approach and its dependence on the number of taxa and tree length. We then demonstrate the application of the method for the study of chromosome number evolution in 4 plant genera: Aristolochia, Carex, Passiflora, and Helianthus. Considering the depth of the available cytological and phylogenetic data, formal models of chromosome number evolution are expected to advance significantly our understanding of the importance of polyploidy and dysploidy across different taxonomic groups.
25677571|A surprising number of recent Bayesian phylogenetic analyses contain branch-length estimates that are several orders of magnitude longer than corresponding maximum-likelihood estimates. The levels of divergence implied by such branch lengths are unreasonable for studies using biological data and are known to be false for studies using simulated data. We conducted additional Bayesian analyses and studied approximate-posterior surfaces to investigate the causes underlying these large errors. We manipulated the starting parameter values of the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) analyses, the moves used by the MCMC analyses, and the prior-probability distribution on branch lengths. We demonstrate that inaccurate branch-length estimates result from either 1) poor mixing of MCMC chains or 2) posterior distributions with excessive weight at long tree lengths. Both effects are caused by a rapid increase in the volume of branch-length space as branches become longer. In the former case, both an MCMC move that scales all branch lengths in the tree simultaneously and the use of overdispersed starting branch lengths allow the chain to accurately sample the posterior distribution and should be used in Bayesian analyses of phylogeny. In the latter case, branch-length priors can have strong effects on resulting inferences and should be carefully chosen to reflect biological expectations. We provide a formula to calculate an exponential rate parameter for the branch-length prior that should eliminate inference of biased branch lengths in many cases. In any phylogenetic analysis, the biological plausibility of branch-length output must be carefully considered.
20780372|Single locus studies might not resolve phylogenetic relationships and the evolutionary history of taxa. The analysis of multiple markers promises higher resolution, and congruence among loci may indicate that the phylogenies represent the underlying species history. Here, we examine the utility of a genome-wide approach based on amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) and several DNA sequence markers in resolving phylogenetic signals in the rapidly radiating rodent genus Microtus which produced about 70 vole species within the last 1.2-2 myr. The current Holarctic distribution of Microtus is assumed to have resulted from three independent colonization events out of Asia to North America, Europe, and northern Asia without subsequent colonization, which would have led to deep splits between species from different continents. We investigated this hypothesis of three single colonization events by reconstructing the phylogenetic relationships among species from all three continents based on data from the first exon of the nuclear arginine vasopressin receptor 1a gene (EXON1), an adjacent noncoding region and the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. The phylogenetic patterns obtained from these sequence markers are contrasted to genome-wide data on more than 1800 amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) analyzed for the same samples. Our results show that the single sequence markers partially resolve the phylogenetic relationships within Microtus, but with some incongruence mostly between EXON1 and the other loci. However, deeper nodes of the radiation are only weakly supported and neither the combination of the markers nor additional nuclear sequences improved the resolution significantly. AFLPs provided much stronger support for major continent-specific clades, and show also that reciprocal monophyly of American and European voles is incomplete. Our results demonstrate that Microtus voles colonized the American and European continents each repeatedly in several independent events on similar colonization routes during their radiation. More generally, this study supports the suitability of AFLPs as an alternative to sequence markers to resolve the evolutionary history of rapidly radiating taxa.
20780369|Mechanisms of speciation are best understood in the context of phylogenetic relationships and as such have often been inferred from single gene trees, typically those derived from mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) markers. Recent studies, however, have noted the potential for phylogenetic discordance between gene trees and underlying species trees (e.g., due to stochastic lineage sorting, introgression, or selection). Here, we employ a variety of nuclear DNA loci to reassess evolutionary relationships within a recent freshwater fish radiation to reappraise modes of speciation. New Zealand's freshwater-limited Galaxias vulgaris complex is thought to have evolved from G. brevipinnis, a widespread migratory species that retains a plesiomorphic marine juvenile phase. A well-resolved tree, based on four mtDNA regions, previously suggested that marine migratory ability has been lost on 3 independent occasions in the evolution of this species flock (assuming that loss of diadromy is irreversible). Here, we use pseudogene (galaxiid Numt: 1801 bp), intron (S7: 903 bp), and exon (RAG-1: 1427 bp) markers, together with mtDNA, to reevaluate this hypothesis of parallel evolution. Interestingly, partitioned Bayesian analysis of concatenated nuclear sequences (3141 bp) and concatenated nuclear and mtDNA (4770 bp) both recover phylogenies implying a single loss of diadromy, not three parallel losses as previously inferred from mtDNA alone. This phylogenetic result is reinforced by a multilocus analysis performed using Bayesian estimation of species trees (BEST) software that estimates the posterior distribution of species trees under a coalescent model. We discuss factors that might explain the apparently misleading phylogenetic inferences generated by mtDNA.
20780370|An accurate reconstruction of the eukaryotic tree of life is essential to identify the innovations underlying the diversity of microbial and macroscopic (e.g., plants and animals) eukaryotes. Previous work has divided eukaryotic diversity into a small number of high-level "supergroups," many of which receive strong support in phylogenomic analyses. However, the abundance of data in phylogenomic analyses can lead to highly supported but incorrect relationships due to systematic phylogenetic error. Furthermore, the paucity of major eukaryotic lineages (19 or fewer) included in these genomic studies may exaggerate systematic error and reduce power to evaluate hypotheses. Here, we use a taxon-rich strategy to assess eukaryotic relationships. We show that analyses emphasizing broad taxonomic sampling (up to 451 taxa representing 72 major lineages) combined with a moderate number of genes yield a well-resolved eukaryotic tree of life. The consistency across analyses with varying numbers of taxa (88-451) and levels of missing data (17-69%) supports the accuracy of the resulting topologies. The resulting stable topology emerges without the removal of rapidly evolving genes or taxa, a practice common to phylogenomic analyses. Several major groups are stable and strongly supported in these analyses (e.g., SAR, Rhizaria, Excavata), whereas the proposed supergroup "Chromalveolata" is rejected. Furthermore, extensive instability among photosynthetic lineages suggests the presence of systematic biases including endosymbiotic gene transfer from symbiont (nucleus or plastid) to host. Our analyses demonstrate that stable topologies of ancient evolutionary relationships can be achieved with broad taxonomic sampling and a moderate number of genes. Finally, taxon-rich analyses such as presented here provide a method for testing the accuracy of relationships that receive high bootstrap support (BS) in phylogenomic analyses and enable placement of the multitude of lineages that lack genome scale data.
20780373|Discord in the estimated gene trees among loci can be attributed to both the process of mutation and incomplete lineage sorting. Effectively modeling these two sources of variationmutational and coalescent varianceprovides two distinct challenges for phylogenetic studies. Despite extensive investigation on mutational models for gene-tree estimation over the past two decades and recent attention to modeling of the coalescent process for phylogenetic estimation, the effects of these two variances have yet to be evaluated simultaneously. Here, we partition the effects of mutational and coalescent processes on phylogenetic accuracy by comparing the accuracy of species trees estimated from gene trees (i.e., the actual coalescent genealogies) with that of species trees estimated from estimated gene trees (i.e., trees estimated from nucleotide sequences, which contain both coalescent and mutational variance). Not only is there a significant contribution of both mutational and coalescent variance to errors in species-tree estimates, but the relative magnitude of the effects on the accuracy of species-tree estimation also differs systematically depending on 1) the timing of divergence, 2) the sampling design, and 3) the method used for species-tree estimation. These findings explain why using more information contained in gene trees (e.g., topology and branch lengths as opposed to just topology) does not necessarily translate into pronounced gains in accuracy, highlighting the strengths and limits of different methods for species-tree estimation. Differences in accuracy scores between methods for different sampling regimes also emphasize that it would be a mistake to assume more computationally intensive species-tree estimation procedures that will always provide better estimates of species trees. To the contrary, the performance of a method depends not only on the method per se but also on the compatibilities between the input genetic data and the method as determined by the relative impact of mutational and coalescent variance.
20780374|The recent explosion in the availability of genetic sequence data has made large-scale phylogenetic inference routine in many life sciences laboratories. The outcomes of such analyses are, typically, a variety of candidate phylogenetic relationships or tree topologies, even when the power of genome-scale data is exploited. Because much phylogenetic information must be buried in such topology distributions, it is important to reveal that information as effectively as possible; however, existing methods need to adopt complex structures to represent such information. Hence, researchers, in particular those not experts in evolutionary studies, sometimes hesitate to adopt these methods and much phylogenetic information could be overlooked and wasted. In this paper, we propose the centroid wheel tree representation, which is an informative representation of phylogenetic topology distributions, and which can be readily interpreted even by nonexperts. Furthermore, we mathematically prove this to be the most balanced representation of phylogenetic topologies and efficiently solvable in the framework of the traveling salesman problem, for which very sophisticated program packages are available. This theoretically and practically superior representation should aid biologists faced with abundant data. The centroid representation introduced here is fairly general, so it can be applied to other fields that are characterized by high-dimensional solution spaces and large quantities of noisy data. The software is implemented in Java and available via http://cwt.cb.k.u-tokyo.ac.jp/.
20780368|We propose a method for delimiting species based on dominant or codominant multilocus data using Gaussian clustering with a noise component for outliers. Case studies show that provisional species delimited using Gaussian clustering based on dominant multilocus data correspond well with provisional species delimited based on other data. However, the performance of Gaussian clustering in delimiting species based on few codominant markers was only moderate. Species represented by few individuals are usually included in the noise component because clusters are difficult to recognize with limited data. As alternative methods, we evaluated two model-based clustering methods originally proposed to infer population structure and assign individuals to populations based on the assumption of HardyWeinberg equilibrium within populations, namely STRUCTURE and STRUCTURAMA, as well as the "fields for recombination" approach. The latter resulted in lumping all individuals of each data set with codominant markers together, and whereas STRUCTURE often provides no decision about the number of clusters, STRUCTURAMA usually yields correct or almost correct numbers of clusters. The classification success of STRUCTURAMA analyses based on codominant markers was very good, but its performance with dominant markers was less consistent. Based on the classification success of the different methods for delimiting species with dominant and codominant multilocus markers in the case studies, we recommend using Gaussian clustering for data sets with dominant markers and STRUCTURAMA for data sets with codominant markers.
20780371|It is widely recognized that many genes and lineages do not adhere to a molecular clock, yet molecular clocks are commonly used to date divergences in comparative genomic studies. We test the application of a molecular clock across genes and lineages in a phylogenetic framework utilizing 12 genes linked in a 1-Mb region on chromosome 13 of soybean (Glycine max); homoeologous copies of these genes formed by polyploidy in Glycine; and orthologous copies in G. tomentella, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Medicago truncatula. We compare divergence dates estimated by two methods each in three frameworks: a global molecular clock with a single rate across genes and lineages using full and approximate likelihood methods based on synonymous substitutions, a gene-specific clock assuming rate constancy over lineages but allowing a different rate for each gene, and a relaxed molecular clock where rates may vary across genes and lineages estimated under penalized likelihood and Bayesian inference. We use the cumulative variance across genes as a means of quantifying precision. Our results suggest that divergence dating methods produce results that are correlated, but that older nodes are more variable and more difficult to estimate with precision and accuracy. We also find that models incorporating less rate heterogeneity estimate older dates of divergence than more complex models, as node age increases. A mixed model nested analysis of variance testing the effects of framework, method, and gene found that framework had a significant effect on the divergence date estimates but that most variation among dates is due to variation among genes, suggesting a need to further characterize and understand the evolutionary phenomena underlying rate variation within genomes, among genes, and across lineages.
25677581|The relationship between morphometrics and phylogenetic analysis has long been controversial. Here we propose an approach that is based on mapping morphometric traits onto phylogenies derived from other data and thus avoids the pitfalls encountered by previous studies. This method treats shape as a single, multidimensional character. We propose a test for the presence of a phylogenetic signal in morphometric data, which simulates the null hypothesis of the complete absence of phylogenetic structure by permutation of the shape data among the terminal taxa. We also propose 2 measures of the fit of morphometric data to the phylogeny that are direct extensions of the consistency index and retention index used in traditional cladistics. We apply these methods to a small study of the evolution of wing shape in the Drosophila melanogaster subgroup, for which a very strongly supported phylogeny is available. This case study reveals a significant phylogenetic signal and a relatively low degree of homoplasy. Despite the low homoplasy, the shortest tree computed from landmark data on wing shape is inconsistent with the well-supported phylogenetic tree from molecular data, underscoring that morphometric data may not provide reliable information for inferring phylogeny.
25677585|Traditionally, the goal of systematics has been to produce classifications that are both strongly supported and biologically meaningful. In recent years several authors have advocated complementing phylogenetic analyses with measures of another form of evolutionary change, ecological divergence. These analyses frequently rely on ecological niche models to determine if species have comparable environmental requirements, but it has heretofore been difficult to test the accuracy of these inferences. To address this problem, I simulate the geographic distributions of allopatric species with identical environmental requirements. I then test whether existing analyses based on geographic distributions will correctly infer that the 2 species' requirements are identical. This work demonstrates that when taxa disperse to different environments, many analyses can erroneously infer changes in environmental requirements, but the severity of the problem depends on the method used. As this could exaggerate the number of ecologically distinct taxa in a clade, I suggest diagnostics to mitigate this problem.
25677586|PhyML is a phylogeny software based on the maximum-likelihood principle. Early PhyML versions used a fast algorithm performing nearest neighbor interchanges to improve a reasonable starting tree topology. Since the original publication (Guindon S., Gascuel O. 2003. A simple, fast and accurate algorithm to estimate large phylogenies by maximum likelihood. Syst. Biol. 52:696704), PhyML has been widely used (>2500 citations in ISI Web of Science) because of its simplicity and a fair compromise between accuracy and speed. In the meantime, research around PhyML has continued, and this article describes the new algorithms and methods implemented in the program. First, we introduce a new algorithm to search the tree space with user-defined intensity using subtree pruning and regrafting topological moves. The parsimony criterion is used here to filter out the least promising topology modifications with respect to the likelihood function. The analysis of a large collection of real nucleotide and amino acid data sets of various sizes demonstrates the good performance of this method. Second, we describe a new test to assess the support of the data for internal branches of a phylogeny. This approach extends the recently proposed approximate likelihood-ratio test and relies on a nonparametric, ShimodairaHasegawalike procedure. A detailed analysis of real alignments sheds light on the links between this new approach and the more classical nonparametric bootstrap method. Overall, our tests show that the last version (3.0) of PhyML is fast, accurate, stable, and ready to use. A Web server and binary files are available from http://www.atgc-montpellier.fr/phyml/.
25677582|The development of methods to reconstruct phylogenies from karyotypic data has lagged behind what has been achieved with molecular and morphological characters. This hampers our understanding of the role of chromosomal rearrangements in speciation, which depends on knowledge of the karyotypic relationships both among forms that have recently speciated and among forms within species that may speciate in the future. Here, we present a new approach to reconstruct chromosomal phylogenies. Our approach involves the use of networks, which we believe offer a flexible alternative to bifurcating phylogenetic trees for chromosomal phylogenetic analyses, and can incorporate a wide range of chromosomal mutations as well as allowing reticulate evolution through hybridization. In this paper, we apply our method at the within-species level to establish the phylogenetic history, in terms of minimum number of evolutionary steps, of chromosomal races within both the common shrew (Sorex araneus) and the house mouse (Mus musculus). There have been several previous attempts to reconstruct the phylogenies of chromosomal races within shrews and mice, but we describe the first computer-based analysis that considers the whole range of possible mutations generating new races (Robertsonian fusions and fissions and whole-arm reciprocal translocations [WARTs]) and other race-generating processes (zonal raciation events involving both acrocentric and recombinant peaks) postulated for these species. The analysis for common shrew chromosomal races reveals a greater importance of zonal raciation and WARTs than has been suggested hitherto.
25677588|Ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) are conspicuous organisms in most terrestrial ecosystems, often attaining high levels of abundance and diversity. In this study, we investigate the evolutionary history of a major clade of ants, the subfamily Dolichoderinae, whose species frequently achieve ecological dominance in ant communities. This group has also produced some of the world's most successful invasive ants. We use an extensive molecular data set (9 kb of sequence data from 10 nuclear genes, covering 48 dolichoderine species and 6 outgroup taxa) to infer the phylogenetic relationships, divergence dates, and biogeographic history of these ants. We evaluate the effects of data partitioning and outgroup composition on phylogenetic inference by estimating relationships under a series of increasingly partitioned data sets and by running analyses both with and without Aneuretus simoni, a rare and localized species that is the nearest living relative of Dolichoderinae. We also examine the effects of excluding 2 data partitions with significant base composition heterogeneity. Our results reveal 4 well-supported and mutually exclusive clades of dolichoderines, corresponding to 4 newly defined tribes: Bothriomyrmecini (B), Dolichoderini (D), Leptomyrmecini (L), and Tapinomini (T). All Bayesian and likelihood analyses yield the same unrooted (ingroup-only) topology, ((D,L),(B,T)), with the outgroups attaching either on the Dolichoderini branch or on the Tapinomini branch. Placement of the root is highly sensitive to choice of model partition and to inclusion/exclusion of Aneuretus. Bayes' factors strongly favor the more partitioned models, and in these Tapinomini is recovered as sister to the remaining dolichoderines, but only if Aneuretus is included. Exclusion of Aneuretus precludes recovery of this topology in all but the most highly partitioned Bayesian analyses and then only with nonsignificant support, underscoring the importance of relict, taxonomically isolated taxa for phylogenetic inference. Removal of 2 partitions with heterogeneous base composition also markedly increases support for placement of the root on the Tapinomini branch. Our divergence date estimates and biogeographic analyses indicate that crown-group dolichoderines arose about 65 million years ago (Ma), although this was preceded by a substantial period (30 million years) of stem group evolution. The 4 extant tribes are estimated to have crown-group origins in the late Paleocene or Eocene (40-60 Ma). Tapinomini and Bothriomyrmecini orginated in the Paleotropics and subsequently dispersed to other biogeographic regions. Crown-group Leptomyrmecini arose and diversified in the Neotropics, but they also gave rise to one clade that colonized Australia about 30 Ma and subsequently experienced a massive radiation on that continent. This event occurred later than the diversification of dolichoderines in the northern hemisphere, so that by the time dolichoderines came to dominate the Australian fauna they had already declined in abundance in the Holarctic region.
25677587|The Lonicera clade Caprifolium contains 25 species distributed around the Northern Hemisphere, including in the Mediterranean climates of California and Europe. We sequenced the second intron of LFY to help resolve relationships within the clade where the internal transcribed spacer and chloroplast markers had previously failed to do so. Divergence time estimation and biogeographic analyses over the posterior distribution of dated trees suggest that a widespread ancestor was distributed across the Northern Hemisphere some 717 million years ago. Asian species form a sister group to a clade in which the European species are sister to the North American species. We use climatic niche modeling and divergence time estimates to explore the evolution of climate variables in the group. Principal component analyses help to identify instances of convergence, especially between distantly related species in the Mediterranean basin and in the chaparral of California. We document several cases of significant divergence between sister species in eastern North America and western North America. Climatic models were projected from one continent into the others (e.g., North American species projected into Asia and Europe) to examine whether species living in these areas occupy similar climates. This study demonstrates the utility of combining niche modeling with historical biogeographic analyses and documents significant climatic niche evolution within a group of species distributed throughout the Northern Hemisphere. These results suggest a possible model for the origin of the MadreanTethyan disjunction pattern.
25677584|Commonly used phylogenetic models assume a homogeneous process through time in all parts of the tree. However, it is known that these models can be too simplistic as they do not account for nonhomogeneous lineage-specific properties. In particular, it is now widely recognized that as constraints on sequences evolve, the proportion and positions of variable sites can vary between lineages causing heterotachy. The extent to which this model misspecification affects tree reconstruction is still unknown. Here, we evaluate the effect of changes in the proportions and positions of variable sites on model fit and tree estimation. We consider 5 current models of nucleotide sequence evolution in a Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo framework as well as maximum parsimony (MP). We show that for a tree with 4 lineages where 2 nonsister taxa undergo a change in the proportion of variable sites tree reconstruction under the best-fitting model, which is chosen using a relative test, often results in the wrong tree. In this case, we found that an absolute test of model fit is a better predictor of tree estimation accuracy. We also found further evidence that MP is not immune to heterotachy. In addition, we show that increased sampling of taxa that have undergone a change in proportion and positions of variable sites is critical for accurate tree reconstruction.
25677583|Amino acid substitution models are essential to most methods to infer phylogenies from protein data. These models represent the ways in which proteins evolve and substitutions accumulate along the course of time. It is widely accepted that the substitution processes vary depending on the structural configuration of the protein residues. However, this information is very rarely used in phylogenetic studies, though the 3-dimensional structure of dozens of thousands of proteins has been elucidated. Here, we reinvestigate the question in order to fill this gap. We use an improved estimation methodology and a very large database comprising 1471 nonredundant globular protein alignments with structural annotations to estimate new amino acid substitution models accounting for the secondary structure and solvent accessibility of the residues. These models incorporate a confidence coefficient that is estimated from the data and reflects the reliability and usefulness of structural annotations in the analyzed sequences. Our results with 300 independent test alignments show an impressive likelihood gain compared with standard models such as JTT or WAG. Moreover, the use of these models induces significant topological changes in the inferred trees, which should be of primary interest to phylogeneticists. Our data, models, and software are available for download from http://atgc.lirmm.fr/phyml-structure/.
27756413|This study attempts to resolve relationships among and within the four basal arthropod lineages (Pancrustacea, Myriapoda, Euchelicerata, Pycnogonida) and to assess the widespread expectation that remaining phylogenetic problems will yield to increasing amounts of sequence data. Sixty-eight regions of 62 protein-coding nuclear genes (approximately 41 kilobases (kb)/taxon) were sequenced for 12 taxonomically diverse arthropod taxa and a tardigrade outgroup. Parsimony, likelihood, and Bayesian analyses of total nucleotide data generally strongly supported the monophyly of each of the basal lineages represented by more than one species. Other relationships within the Arthropoda were also supported, with support levels depending on method of analysis and inclusion/exclusion of synonymous changes. Removing third codon positions, where the assumption of base compositional homogeneity was rejected, altered the results. Removing the final class of synonymous mutationsfirst codon positions encoding leucine and arginine, which were also compositionally heterogeneousyielded a data set that was consistent with a hypothesis of base compositional homogeneity. Furthermore, under such a data-exclusion regime, all 68 gene regions individually were consistent with base compositional homogeneity. Restricting likelihood analyses to nonsynonymous change recovered trees with strong support for the basal lineages but not for other groups that were variably supported with more inclusive data sets. In a further effort to increase phylogenetic signal, three types of data exploration were undertaken. (1) Individual genes were ranked by their average rate of nonsynonymous change, and three rate categories were assignedfast, intermediate, and slow. Then, bootstrap analysis of each gene was performed separately to see which taxonomic groups received strong support. Five taxonomic groups were strongly supported independently by two or more genes, and these genes mostly belonged to the slow or intermediate categories, whereas groups supported only by a single gene region tended to be from genes of the fast category, arguing that fast genes provide a less consistent signal. (2) A sensitivity analysis was performed in which increasing numbers of genes were excluded, beginning with the fastest. The number of strongly supported nodes increased up to a point and then decreased slightly. Recovery of Hexapoda required removal of fast genes. Support for Mandibulata (Pancrustacea + Myriapoda) also increased, at times to "strong" levels, with removal of the fastest genes. (3) Concordance selection was evaluated by clustering genes according to their ability to recover Pancrustacea, Euchelicerata, or Myriapoda and analyzing the three clusters separately. All clusters of genes recovered the three concordance clades but were at times inconsistent in the relationships recovered among and within these clades, a result that indicates that the a priori concordance criteria may bias phylogenetic signal in unexpected ways. In a further attempt to increase support of taxonomic relationships, sequence data from 49 additional taxa for three slow genes (i.e., EF-1, EF-2, and Pol II) were combined with the various 13-taxon data sets. The 62-taxon analyses supported the results of the 13-taxon analyses and provided increased support for additional pancrustacean clades found in an earlier analysis including only EF-1, EF-2, and Pol II.
27756409|With 14 species currently recognized, the beaked whale genus Mesoplodon (family Ziphiidae) is the most speciose in the order Cetacea. Beaked whales are widely distributed but are rarely seen at sea due to their oceanic distribution, deep-diving capacity, and apparent low abundance. Morphological differentiation among Mesoplodon species is relatively limited, with the exception of tooth form in adult males. Based on scarring patterns, males appear to use their tusk-like teeth as weapons in aggressive encounters with other males. Females are effectively toothless. We used sequences from seven nuclear introns (3348 base pairs) to construct a robust and highly resolved phylogeny, which was then used as a framework to test predictions from four hypotheses seeking to explain patterns of Mesoplodon tusk morphology and/or the processes that have driven the diversification of this genus: (1) linear progression of tusk form; (2) allopatric speciation through isolation in adjacent deep-sea canyons; (3) sympatric speciation through sexual selection on tusks; and (4) selection for species-recognition cues. Maximum-likelihood and Bayesian reconstructions confirmed the monophyly of the genus and revealed that what were considered ancestral and derived tusk forms have in fact arisen independently on several occasions, contrary to predictions from the linear-progression hypothesis. Further, none of the three well-supported species clades was confined to a single ocean basin, as might have been expected from the deep-sea canyon-isolation or sexual-selection hypotheses, and some species with similar tusks have overlapping distributions, contrary to predictions from the species-recognition hypothesis. However, the divergent tusk forms and sympatric distributions of three of the four sister-species pairs identified suggest that sexual selection on male tusks has likely played an important role in this unique radiation, although other forces are clearly also involved. To our knowledge, this is the first time that sexual selection has been explicitly implicated in the radiation of a mammalian group outside terrestrial ungulates.
27756410|Conifer-feeding sawflies in the genus Neodiprion provide an excellent opportunity to investigate the origin and maintenance of barriers to reproduction, but obtaining a phylogenetic estimate for comparative studies of Neodiprion speciation has proved difficult. Specifically, nonmonophyly within and discordance between individual gene trees, both of which are common in groups that diverged recently and/or rapidly, make it impossible to infer a species tree using methods that are designed to estimate gene trees. Therefore, in this study, we estimate relationships between members of the lecontei species group using four approaches that are intended to estimate species, not gene, trees: (1) minimize deep coalescences (MDC), (2) shallowest divergences (SD), (3) Bayesian estimation of species trees (BEST), and (4) a novel approach that combines concatenation with monophyly constraints (CMC). Multiple populations are sampled for most species and all four methods incorporate this intraspecific variation into estimates of interspecific relationships. We investigate the sensitivity of each method to taxonomic sampling, and, for the BEST method, we assess the impact of prior choice on species-tree inference. We also compare species-tree estimates to one another and to a morphologically based hypothesis to identify clades that are supported by multiple analyses and lines of evidence. We find that both taxonomic sampling and method choice impact species-tree estimates and that, for these data, the BEST method is strongly influenced by  and branch-length priors. We also find that the CMC method is the least sensitive to taxonomic sampling. Finally, although interspecific genetic variation is low due to the recent divergence of the lecontei group, our results to date suggest that incomplete lineage sorting and interspecific gene flow are the main factors complicating species-tree inference in Neodiprion. Based on these analyses, we propose a phylogenetic hypothesis for the lecontei group. Finally, our results suggest that, even for very challenging groups like Neodiprion, an underlying species-tree signal can be extracted from multi-locus data as long as intraspecific variation is adequately sampled and methods that focus on the estimation of species trees are used.
27756408|Genome phylogenies are used to build tree-like representations of evolutionary relationships among genomes. However, in condensing the phylogenetic signals within a set of genomes down to a single tree, these methods generally do not explicitly take into account discordant signals arising due to lateral genetic transfer. Because conflicting vertical and horizontal signals can produce compromise trees that do not reflect either type of history, it is essential to understand the sensitivity of inferred genome phylogenies to these confounding effects. Using replicated simulations of genome evolution, we show that different scenarios of lateral genetic transfer have significant impacts on the ability to recover the "true" tree of genomes, even when corrections for phylogenetically discordant signals are used.
27756411|Palaeontologists routinely map their cladograms onto what is known of the fossil record. Where sister taxa first appear as fossils at different times, a ghost range is inferrred to bridge the gap between these dates. Some measure of the total extent of ghost ranges across, the tree underlies several indices of cladistic/stratigraphic congruence. We investigate this congruence for 19 independent, published cladograms of major dinosaur groups and report exceptional agreement between the phylogenetic and stratigraphic patterns, evidenced by sums of ghost ranges near the theoretical minima. This implies that both phylogeneti and stratigraphic data reflect faithfully the evolutionary history of dinosaurs, at least for the taxa included in this study. We formally propose modifications to an existing index of congruence (the gap excess ratio; GER), designed to remove a bias in the range of values possiblee with trees of different shapes. We also propose a more informative index of congruenceGER*that takes account of the underlying distribution of sums of ghost ranges possible when permuting stratigraphic range data across the tree. Finally, we incorporate data on the range of possible first occurence dates into our estimates of congruence, extending a procedure originally implemented with the modified Manhattan stratigraphic measure and GER to our new indices. Most dinosaur data set maintain extremely high congruence despite such modifications.
27756407|Directed indels, insertions or deletions within paralogous genes, have the potential to root the tree of life. Here we apply the top-down rooting algorithm to indels found in PyrD (dihydroorotate dehydrogenase), a key enzyme involved in the de novo biosynthesis of pyrimidines, and HisA (P-ribosylformimino-AICAR-P-isomerase), an essential enzyme in the histidine biosynthesis pathway. Through the comparison of each indel with its two paralogous outgroups, we exclude the root of the tree of life from the clade that encompasses the Actinobacteria, the double-membrane prokaryotes, and their last common ancestor. In combination with previous indel rooting studies excluding the root from a clade consisting of the Firmicutes, the Archaea, and their last common ancestor, this provides evidence for a unique eubacterial root for the tree of life located between the actinobacterialdouble-membrane clade and the archaeal-firmicute clade. Mapping the phylogenetic distributions of genes involved in peptidoglycan and lipid synthesis onto this rooted tree parsimoniously implies that the cenancestral prokaryotic population consisted of organisms enclosed by a single, ester-linked lipid membrane, covered by a peptidoglycan layer.
27756406|Three desirable properties for any method of selecting a subset of evolutionary units (EUs) for conservation or for genomic sequencing are discussed. These properties are spread, stability, and applicability. We are motivated by a practical case in which the maximization of phylogenetic diversity (PD), which has been suggested as a suitable method, appears to lead to counterintuitive collections of EUs and does not meet these three criteria. We define a simple greedy algorithm (GreedyMMD) as a close approximation to choosing the subset that maximizes the minimum pairwise distance (MMD) between EUs. GreedyMMD satisfies our three criteria and may be a useful alternative to PD in real-world situations. In particular, we show that this method of selection is suitable under a model of biodiversity in which features arise and/or disappear during evolution. We also show that if distances between EUs satisfy the ultrametric condition, then GreedyMMD delivers an optimal subset of EUs that maximizes both the minimum pairwise distance and the PD. Finally, because GreedyMMD works with distances and does not require a tree, it is readily applicable to many data sets.
27756412|Although substantial uncertainty typically surrounds the coice of the best model in most phylogentic analyses, little is known about how accomodating this uncertainty affects phylogenetic inference. Here we explore the influence of Bayesian model averaging on the phylogenetic inference of the triggerfishes (Family: Balistidae), a charismatic group of reef fishes. We focus on clade support as this area has received little attention and is typically one of the most important outcomes of phylogenetic studies. We present a novel phylogenetic hypothesis for the family Balistidae based on an analysis of two mitochondrial (12S, 16S) and three nuclear genes (TMO-4C4, Rhodopsin, RAG1) sampled from 26 ingroup species. Despite the presence of substantial model uncertainty in almost all partitions of our data, we found model-averaged topologies and clade posteriors to be nearly identical to those conditioned on a single model. Furthermore, statistical comparison of clade posteriors using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test revealed no significant differences. Our results suggest that although current model-selection approaches are likely to lead to overparameterization of the substitution model, the consequences of conditioning on this overparameterized model are likely to be mild. Our phylogenetic results strongly support the monophyly of the triggerfishes but suggest that the genera Balistoides and Pesudobalistes are polyphyletic. Divergence time estimation supports a Miocene origin of the crown group. Despite the presence of several young species-rich subclades, statistical analysis of temporal diversification patterns reveals no significant increase in the rate of cladogenesis across geologic time intervals.
20143117|Despite the prior use of 9000 bp, deep-level relationships within the angiosperm clade, Saxifragales remain enigmatic, due to an ancient, rapid radiation (89.5 to 110 Ma based on the fossil record). To resolve these deep relationships, we constructed several new data sets: (1) 16 genes representing the three genomic compartments within plant cells (2 nuclear, 10 plastid, 4 mitochondrial; aligned, analyzed length = 21,460 bp) for 28 taxa; (2) the entire plastid inverted repeat (IR; 26,625 bp) for 17 taxa; (3) "total evidence" (50,845 bp) for both 17 and 28 taxa (the latter missing the IR). Bayesian and ML methods yielded identical topologies across partitions with most clades receiving high posterior probability (pp = 1.0) and bootstrap (95% to 100%) values, suggesting that with sufficient data, rapid radiations can be resolved. In contrast, parsimony analyses of different partitions yielded conflicting topologies, particularly with respect to the placement of Paeoniaceae, a clade characterized by a long branch. In agreement with published simulations, the addition of characters increased bootstrap support for the putatively erroneous placement of Paeoniaceae. Although having far fewer parsimony-informative sites, slowly evolving plastid genes provided higher resolution and support for deep-level relationships than rapidly evolving plastid genes, yielding a topology close to the Bayesian and ML total evidence tree. The plastid IR region may be an ideal source of slowly evolving genes for resolution of deep-level angiosperm divergences that data to 90 My or more. Rapidly evolving genes provided support for tip relationships not recovered with slowly evolving genes, indicating some complementarity. Age estimates using penalized likelihood with and without age constraints for the 28-taxon, total evidence data set are comparable to fossil dates, whereas estimates based on the 17-taxon data are much older than implied by the fossil record. Hence, sufficient taxon density, and not simply numerous base pairs, is important in reliably estimating ages. Age estimates indicate that the early diversification of Saxifragales occurred rapidly, over a time span as short as 6 million years. Between 25,000 and 50,000 bp were needed to resolve this radiation with high support values. Extrapolating from Saxifragales, a similar number of base pairs may be needed to resolve the many other deep-level radiations of comparable age in angiosperms.
20143115|In historical biogeography, model-based inference methods for reconstructing the evolution of geographic ranges on phylogenetic trees are poorly developed relative to the diversity of analogous methods available for inferring character evolution. We attempt to rectify this deficiency by constructing a dispersal-extinction-cladogenesis (DEC) model for geographic range evolution that specifies instantaneous transition rates between discrete states (ranges) along phylogenetic branches and apply it to estimating likelihoods of ancestral states (range inheritance scenarios) at cladogenesis events. Unlike an earlier version of this approach, the present model allows for an analytical solution to probabilities of range transitions as a function of time, enabling free parameters in the model, rates of dispersal, and local extinction to be estimated by maximum likelihood. Simulation results indicate that accurate parameter estimates may be difficult to obtain in practice but also show that ancestral range inheritance scenarios nevertheless can be correctly recovered with high success if rates of range evolution are low relative to the rate of cladogenesis. We apply the DEC model to a previously published, exemplary case study of island biogeography involving Hawaiian endemic angiosperms in Psychotria (Rubiaceae), showing how the DEC model can be iteratively refined from inspecting inferences of range evolution and also how geological constraints involving times of island origin may be imposed on the likelihood function. The DEC model is sufficiently similar to character models that it might serve as a gateway through which many existing comparative methods for characters could be imported into the realm of historical biogeography; moreover, it might also inspire the conceptual expansion of character models toward inclusion of evolutionary change as directly coincident, either as cause or consequence, with cladogenesis events. The DEC model is thus an incremental advance that highlights considerable potential in the nascent field of model-based historical biogeographic inference.
20143119|In order to have confidence in model-based phylogenetic analysis, the model of nucleotide substitution adopted must be selected in a statistically rigorous manner. Several model-selection methods are applicable to maximum likelihood (ML) analysis, including the hierarchical likelihood-ratio test (hLRT), Akaike information criterion (AIC), Bayesian information criterion (BIC), and decision theory (DT), but their performance relative to empirical data has not been investigated thoroughly. In this study, we use 250 phylogenetic data sets obtained from TreeBASE to examine the effects that choice in model selection has on ML estimation of phylogeny, with an emphasis on optimal topology, bootstrap support, and hypothesis testing. We show that the use of different methods leads to the selection of two or more models for 80% of the data sets and that the AIC typically selects more complex models than alternative approaches. Although ML estimation with different best-fit models results in incongruent tree topologies 50% of the time, these differences are primarily attributable to alternative resolutions of poorly supported nodes. Furthermore, topologies and bootstrap values estimated with ML using alternative statistically supported models are more similar to each other than to topologies and bootstrap values estimated with ML under the Kimura two-parameter (K2P) model or maximum parsimony (MP). In addition, Swofford-Olsen-Waddell-Hillis (SOWH) tests indicate that ML trees estimated with alternative best-fit models are usually not significantly different from each other when evaluated with the same model. However, ML trees estimated with statistically supported models are often significantly suboptimal to ML trees made with the K2P model when both are evaluated with K2P, indicating that not all models perform in an equivalent manner. Nevertheless, the use of alternative statistically supported models generally does not affect tests of monophyletic relationships under either the Shimodaira-Hasegawa (S-H) or SOWH methods. Our results suggest that although choice in model selection has a strong impact on optimal tree topology, it rarely affects evolutionary inferences drawn from the data because differences are mainly confined to poorly supported nodes. Moreover, since ML with alternative best-fit models tends to produce more similar estimates of phylogeny than ML under the K2P model or MP, the use of any statistically based model-selection method is vastly preferable to forgoing the model-selection process altogether.
20143124|Ancestral state reconstructions of morphological or ecological traits on molecular phylogenies are becoming increasingly frequent. They rely on constancy of character state change rates over trees, a correlation between neutral genetic change and phenotypic change, as well as on adequate likelihood models and (for Bayesian methods) prior distributions. This investigation explored the outcomes of a variety of methods for reconstructing discrete ancestral state in the ascus apex of the Lecanorales, a group containing the majority of lichen-forming ascomycetes. Evolution of this character complex has been highly controversial in lichen systematics for more than two decades. The phylogeny was estimated using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo inference on DNA sequence alignments of three genes (small subunit of the mitochondrial rDNA, large subunit of the nuclear rDNA, and largest subunit of RNA polymerase II). We designed a novel method for assessing the suitable number of discrete gamma categories, which relies on the effect on phylogeny estimates rather than on likelihoods. Ancestral state reconstructions were performed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood on a posterior tree sample as well as two fully Bayesian methods. Resulting reconstructions were often strikingly different depending on the method used; different methods often assign high confidence to different states at a given node. The two fully Bayesian methods disagree about the most probable reconstruction in about half of the nodes, even when similar likelihood models and similar priors are used. We suggest that similar studies should use several methods, awaiting an improved understanding of the statistical properties of the methods. A Lecanora-type ascus may have been ancestral in the Lecanorales. State transformations counts, obtained using stochastic mapping, indicate that the number of state changes is 12 to 24, which is considerably greater than the minimum three changes needed to explain the four observed ascus apex types. Apparently, the ascus in the Lecanorales is far more apt to change than has been recognized. Phylogeny corresponds well with morphology, although it partly contradicts currently used delimitations of the Crocyniaceae, Haematommataceae, Lecanoraceae, Megalariaceae, Mycoblastaceae, Pilocarpaceae, Psoraceae, Ramalinaceae, Scoliciosporaceae, and Squamarinaceae.
20143121|Phylogenomic analyses of large sets of genes or proteins have the potential to revolutionize our understanding of the tree of life. However, problems arise because estimated phylogenies from individual loci often differ because of different histories, systematic bias, or stochastic error. We have developed Concaterpillar, a hierarchical clustering method based on likelihood-ratio testing that identifies congruent loci for phylogenomic analysis. Concaterpillar also includes a test for shared relative evolutionary rates between genes indicating whether they should be analyzed separately or by concatenation. In simulation studies, the performance of this method is excellent when a multiple comparison correction is applied. We analyzed a phylogenomic data set of 60 translational protein sequences from the major supergroups of eukaryotes and identified three congruent subsets of proteins. Analysis of the largest set indicates improved congruence relative to the full data set and produced a phylogeny with stronger support for five eukaryote supergroups including the Opisthokonts, the Plantae, the stramenopiles + Apicomplexa (chromalveolates), the Amoebozoa, and the Excavata. In contrast, the phylogeny of the second largest set indicates a close relationship between stramenopiles and red algae, to the exclusion of alveolates, suggesting gene transfer from the red algal secondary symbiont to the ancestral stramenopile host nucleus during the origin of their chloroplast. Investigating phylogenomic data sets for conflicting signals has the potential to both improve phylogenetic accuracy and inform our understanding of genome evolution.
20143118|Bumble bees (Bombus) are a cold-adapted, largely alpine group that can elucidate patterns of Holarctic historical biogeography, particularly in comparison to the alpine plants with which they likely coevolved. A recently published molecular phylogeny of bumble bees provides uniquely comprehensive species sampling for exploring historical patterns of distribution and diversification. Using this phylogeny and detailed data on extant distributions, I reconstruct the historical distribution of bumble bees in a temporal framework, estimating divergence times using fossil data and molecular rates derived from the literature. The nearly comprehensive phylogeny allows assessment of the tempo of diversification within the bumble bees using lineage-through-time plots and diversification statistics, which have been performed with special consideration to confidence intervals. These analyses reveal movements of Bombus concordant with geographic and climatic events of the late Cenozoic. The initial diversification of extant bumble bee lineages was estimated at around 25 to 40 Ma, near the Eocene-Oligocene boundary 34 Ma, a period of dramatic global cooling. Dispersal-vicariance analysis (DIVA) predicted an Old World Bombus ancestor, with early diversification events largely restricted to the eastern Old World. The numerous intercontinental dispersal events occurred mostly in the direction of Old World to New World and North America to South America. Early movements from the Palearctic into the Nearctic most likely took place after 20 Ma and may have coincided with a period of Miocene cooling that gave rise to taiga habitat across Beringia. Subsequent dispersal between these regions is estimated to have occurred among boreal and tundra-adapted species mostly in the last 5 million years. Radiations are estimated in both Nearctic and Neotropical regions at 6 to 8 Ma and after 3.5 Ma, concordant with the opening of land corridors between the continents.
20143116|The origin of baleen in mysticete whales represents a major transition in the phylogenetic history of Cetacea. This key specialization, a keratinous sieve that enables filter-feeding, permitted exploitation of a new ecological niche and heralded the evolution of modern baleen-bearing whales, the largest animals on Earth. To date, all formally described mysticete fossils conform to two types: toothed species from Oligocene-age rocks (24 to 34 million years old) and toothless species that presumably utilized baleen to feed (Recent to 30 million years old). Here, we show that several Oligocene toothed mysticetes have nutrient foramina and associated sulci on the lateral portions of their palates, homologous structures in extant mysticetes house vessels that nourish baleen. The simultaneous occurrence of teeth and nutrient foramina implies that both teeth and baleen were present in these early mysticetes. Phylogenetic analyses of a supermatrix that includes extinct taxa and new data for 11 nuclear genes consistently resolve relationships at the base of Mysticeti. The combined data set of 27,340 characters supports a stepwise transition from a toothed ancestor, to a mosaic intermediate with both teeth and baleen, to modern baleen whales that lack an adult dentition but retain developmental and genetic evidence of their ancestral toothed heritage. Comparative sequence data for ENAM (enamelin) and AMBN (ameloblastin) indicate that enamel-specific loci are present in Mysticeti but have degraded to pseudogenes in this group. The dramatic transformation in mysticete feeding anatomy documents an apparently rare, stepwise mode of evolution in which a composite phenotype bridged the gap between primitive and derived morphologies; a combination of fossil and molecular evidence provides a multifaceted record of this macroevolutionary pattern.
20143122|We applied Bayesian phylogenetics, divergence time estimation, diversification pattern analysis, and parsimony-based methods of ancestral state reconstruction to a combination of nucleotide sequences, maximum body sizes, fossils, and paleoclimate data to explore the influence of an extrinsic (climate change) and an intrinsic (maximum body size) factor on diversification rates in a North American clade of catfishes (Ictaluridae). We found diversification rate to have been significantly variable over time, with significant (or nearly significant) rate increases in the early history of Noturus. Though the latter coincided closely with a period of dramatic climate change at the Eocene-Oligocene boundary, we did not detect evidence for a general association between climate change and diversification rate during the entire history of Ictaluridae. Within Ictaluridae, small body size was found to be a near significant predictor of species richness. Morphological stasis of several species appears to be a consequence of a homoplastic increase in body size. We estimated the maximum standard length of the ictalurid ancestor to be approximately 50 cm, comparable to Eocene ictalurids (Astephus) and similar to modern sizes of Ameiurus and their Asian sister-taxon Cranoglanis. During the late Paleocene and early Eocene, the ictalurid ancestor diversified into the lineages represented by the modern epigean genera. The majority of modern species originated in the Oligocene and Miocene, most likely according to a peripheral isolates model of speciation. We discuss the difficulties of detecting macroevolutionary patterns within a lineage history and encourage the scrutiny of the terminal Eocene climatic event as a direct promoter of diversification.
20143123|Under a coalescent model for within-species evolution, gene trees may differ from species trees to such an extent that the gene tree topology most likely to evolve along the branches of a species tree can disagree with the species tree topology. Gene tree topologies that are more likely to be produced than the topology that matches that of the species tree are termed anomalous, and the region of branch-length space that gives rise to anomalous gene trees (AGTs) is the anomaly zone. We examine the occurrence of anomalous gene trees for the case of five taxa, the smallest number of taxa for which every species tree topology has a nonempty anomaly zone. Considering all sets of branch lengths that give rise to anomalous gene trees, the largest value possible for the smallest branch length in the species tree is greater in the five-taxon case (0.1934 coalescent time units) than in the previously studied case of four taxa (0.1568). The five-taxon case demonstrates the existence of three phenomena that do not occur in the four-taxon case. First, anomalous gene trees can have the same unlabeled topology as the species tree. Second, the anomaly zone does not necessarily enclose a ball centered at the origin in branch-length space, in which all branches are short. Third, as a branch length increases, it is possible for the number of AGTs to increase rather than decrease or remain constant. These results, which help to describe how the properties of anomalous gene trees increase in complexity as the number of taxa increases, will be useful in formulating strategies for evading the problem of anomalous gene trees during species tree inference from multilocus data.
20143120|The main limiting factor in Bayesian MCMC analysis of phylogeny is typically the efficiency with which topology proposals sample tree space. Here we evaluate the performance of seven different proposal mechanisms, including most of those used in current Bayesian phylogenetics software. We sampled 12 empirical nucleotide data sets--ranging in size from 27 to 71 taxa and from 378 to 2,520 sites--under difficult conditions: short runs, no Metropolis-coupling, and an oversimplified substitution model producing difficult tree spaces (Jukes Cantor with equal site rates). Convergence was assessed by comparison to reference samples obtained from multiple Metropolis-coupled runs. We find that proposals producing topology changes as a side effect of branch length changes (LOCAL and Continuous Change) consistently perform worse than those involving stochastic branch rearrangements (nearest neighbor interchange, subtree pruning and regrafting, tree bisection and reconnection, or subtree swapping). Among the latter, moves that use an extension mechanism to mix local with more distant rearrangements show better overall performance than those involving only local or only random rearrangements. Moves with only local rearrangements tend to mix well but have long burn-in periods, whereas moves with random rearrangements often show the reverse pattern. Combinations of moves tend to perform better than single moves. The time to convergence can be shortened considerably by starting with a good tree, but this comes at the cost of compromising convergence diagnostics based on overdispersed starting points. Our results have important implications for developers of Bayesian MCMC implementations and for the large group of users of Bayesian phylogenetics software.
27756377|A recent advance in the phylogenetic comparative analysis of continuous traits has been explicit, model-based measurement of "phylogenetic signal" in data sets composed of observations collected from species related by a phylogenetic tree. Phylogenetic signal is a measure of the statistical dependence among species' trait values due to their phylogenetic relationships. Although phylogenetic signal is a measure of pattern (statistical dependence), there has nonetheless been a widespread propensity in the literature to attribute this pattern to aspects of the evolutionary process or rate. This may be due, in part, to the perception that high evolutionary rate necessarily results in low phylogenetic signal; and, conversely, that low evolutionary rate or stabilizing selection results in high phylogenetic signal (due to the resulting high resemblance between related species). In this study, we use individual-based numerical simulations on stochastic phylogenetic trees to clarify the relationship between phylogenetic signal, rate, and evolutionary process. Under the simplest model for quantitative trait evolution, homogeneous rate genetic drift, there is no relation between evolutionary rate and phylogenetic signal. For other circumstances, such as functional constraint, fluctuating selection, niche conservatism, and evolutionary heterogeneity, the relationship between process, rate, and phylogenetic signal is complex. For these reasons, we recommend against interpretations of evolutionary process or rate based on estimates of phylogenetic signal.
27756374|Due to lack of an adequate statistical framework, biologists studying phylogeography are abandoning traditional methods of estimating phylogeographic history in favor of statistical methods designed to test a priori hypotheses. These new methods may, however, have limited descriptive utility. Here, we develop a new statistical framework that can be used to both test a priori hypotheses and estimate phylogeographic history of a gene (and the statistical confidence in that history) in the absence of such hypotheses. The statistical approach concentrates on estimation of geographic locations of the ancestors of a set of sampled organisms. Assuming a spatially explicit random walk model of migration, we derive an equation describing the likelihood of the geographic coordinates of the individuals represented by internal nodes on a tree (the parameters of interest) and the mean per-generation dispersal distance (which can be estimated as a nuisance parameter), given the geographic coordinates of the individuals represented by tips on the tree (topology and branch lengths are assumed to be known). Using a maximum likelihood approach, which is implemented in the new program PhyloMapper, we apply this statistical framework to a 246-taxon mitochondrial genealogy of North American chorus frogs, focusing in detail on one of these species. We demonstrate three lines of evidence for recent northward expansion of the mitochondrion of the coastal clade of Pseudacris feriarum: higher per-generation dispersal distance in the recently colonized region, a noncentral ancestral location, and directional migration. After illustrating one method of accommodating phylogenetic uncertainty, we conclude by discussing how extensions of this framework could function to incorporate a priori ecological and geological information into phylogeographic analyses.
27756376|The macroevolutionary transition of whales (cetaceans) from a terrestrial quadruped to an obligate aquatic form involved major changes in sensory abilities. Compared to terrestrial mammals, the olfactory system of baleen whales is dramatically reduced, and in toothed whales is completely absent. We sampled the olfactory receptor (OR) subgenomes of eight cetacean species from four families. A multigene tree of 115 newly characterized OR sequences from these eight species and published data for Bos taurus revealed a diverse array of class II OR paralogues in Cetacea. Evolution of the OR gene superfamily in toothed whales (Odontoceti) featured a multitude of independent pseudogenization events, supporting anatomical evidence that odontocetes have lost their olfactory sense. We explored the phylogenetic utility of OR pseudogenes in Cetacea, concentrating on delphinids (oceanic dolphins), the product of a rapid evolutionary radiation that has been difficult to resolve in previous studies of mitochondrial DNA sequences. Phylogenetic analyses of OR pseudogenes using both gene-tree reconciliation and supermatrix methods yielded fully resolved, consistently supported relationships among members of four delphinid subfamilies. Alternative minimizations of gene duplications, gene duplications plus gene losses, deep coalescence events, and nucleotide substitutions plus indels returned highly congruent phylogenetic hypotheses. Novel DNA sequence data for six single-copy nuclear loci and three mitochondrial genes (&gt;5000 aligned nucleotides) provided an independent test of the OR trees. Nucleotide substitutions and indels in OR pseudogenes showed a very low degree of homoplasy in comparison to mitochondrial DNA and, on average, provided more variation than single-copy nuclear DNA. Our results suggest that phylogenetic analysis of the large OR superfamily will be effective for resolving relationships within Cetacea whether supermatrix or gene-tree reconciliation procedures are used.
27756380|Here we present an objective, repeatable approach to delineating species when populations are divergent and highly structured geographically using the Californian trapdoor spider species complex Aptostichus atomarius Simon as a model system. This system is particularly difficult because under strict criteria of geographical concordance coupled with estimates of genetic divergence, an unrealistic number of population lineages would qualify as species (20 to 60). Our novel phylogeographic approach, which is generally applicable but particularly relevant to highly structured systems, uses genealogical exclusivity to establish a topological framework to examine lineages for genetic and ecological exchangeability in an effort to delimit cohesion species. Both qualitative assessments of habitat and niche-based distribution modeling are employed to evaluate selective regime and ecological interchangeability among genetic lineages; adaptive divergence among populations is weighted more heavily than simple geographical concordance. Based on these analyses we conclude that five cohesion species should be recognized, three of which are new to science.
27756375|We examine the effects of ecological opportunity and geographic area on rates of species accumulation and morphological evolution following archipelago colonization in day geckos (genus Phelsuma) in the Indian Ocean. Using a newly generated molecular phylogeny for the genus, we present evidence that these geckos likely originated on Madagascar, whereas colonization of three archipelagos in the Indian Ocean, the Seychelles, Mascarene, and Comoros Islands has produced three independent monophyletic radiations. We find that rates of species accumulation are not elevated following colonization but are roughly equivalent on all three isolated archipelagos and on the larger island of Madagascar. However, rates of species accumulation have slowed through time on Madagascar. Rates of morphological evolution are higher in both the Mascarene and Seychelles archipelagos compared to rates on Madagascar. This negative relationship between rate of morphological evolution and island area suggests that ecological opportunity is an important factor in diversification of day gecko species.
27756379|Phylogenies involving nonmodel species are based on a few genes, mostly chosen following historical or practical criteria. Because gene trees are sometimes incongruent with species trees, the resulting phylogenies may not accurately reflect the evolutionary relationships among species. The increase in availability of genome sequences now provides large numbers of genes that could be used for building phylogenies. However, for practical reasons only a few genes can be sequenced for a wide range of species. Here we asked whether we can identify a few genes, among the single-copy genes common to most fungal genomes, that are sufficient for recovering accurate and well-supported phylogenies. Fungi represent a model group for phylogenomics because many complete fungal genomes are available. An automated procedure was developed to extract single-copy orthologous genes from complete fungal genomes using a Markov Clustering Algorithm (Tribe-MCL). Using 21 complete, publicly available fungal genomes with reliable protein predictions, 246 single-copy orthologous gene clusters were identified. We inferred the maximum likelihood trees using the individual orthologous sequences and constructed a reference tree from concatenated protein alignments. The topologies of the individual gene trees were compared to that of the reference tree using three different methods. The performance of individual genes in recovering the reference tree was highly variable. Gene size and the number of variable sites were highly correlated and significantly affected the performance of the genes, but the average substitution rate did not. Two genes recovered exactly the same topology as the reference tree, and when concatenated provided high bootstrap values. The genes typically used for fungal phylogenies did not perform well, which suggests that current fungal phylogenies based on these genes may not accurately reflect the evolutionary relationships among species. Analyses on subsets of species showed that the phylogenetic performance did not seem to depend strongly on the sample. We expect that the best-performing genes identified here will be very useful for phylogenetic studies of fungi, at least at a large taxonomic scale. Furthermore, we compare the method developed here for finding genes for building robust phylogenies with previous ones and we advocate that our method could be applied to other groups of organisms when more complete genomes are available.
27756373|D. Huson and M. Steel showed that for any two binary phylogenetic trees on the same set of n taxa, there exists a sequence of multistate characters that is homoplasy-free only on the first tree but perfectly additive only on the second one. The original construction of such a sequence required n  1 character states and it remained an open question whether a sequence using fewer character states can always be found. In the present note we will answer this question by showing that three character states suffice to construct such misleading sequenceseven if we insist that they conform to an ultrametric (i.e., fit a molecular clock).
27756372|Data partitioning, the combined phylogenetic analysis of homogeneous blocks of data, is a common strategy used to accommodate heterogeneities in complex multilocus data sets. Variation in evolutionary rates and substitution patterns among sites are typically addressed by partitioning data by gene, codon position, or both. Excessive partitioning of the data, however, could lead to overparameterization; therefore, it seems critical to define the minimum numbers of partitions necessary to improve the overall fit of the model. We propose a new method, based on cluster analysis, to find an optimal partitioning strategy for multilocus protein-coding data sets. A heuristic exploration of alternative partitioning schemes, based on Bayesian and maximum likelihood (ML) criteria, is shown here to produce an optimal number of partitions. We tested this method using sequence data of 10 nuclear genes collected from 52 ray-finned fish (Actinopterygii) and four tetrapods. The concatenated sequences included 7995 nucleotide sites maximally split into 30 partitions defined a priori based on gene and codon position. Our results show that a model based on only 10 partitions defined by cluster analysis performed better than partitioning by both gene and codon position. Alternative data partitioning schemes also are shown to affect the topologies resulting from phylogenetic analysis, especially when Bayesian methods are used, suggesting that overpartitioning may be of major concern. The phylogenetic relationships among the major clades of ray-finned fish were assessed using the best data-partitioning schemes under ML and Bayesian methods. Some significant results include the monophyly of "Holostei" (Amia and Lepisosteus), the sister-group relationships between (1) esociforms and salmoniforms and (2) osmeriforms and stomiiforms, the polyphyly of Perciformes, and a close relationship of cichlids and atherinomorphs.
27756378|Several authors have recently noted that when data are generated from a star topology, posterior probabilities can often be very large, even with arbitrarily large sequence lengths. This is counter to intuition, which suggests convergence to the limit of equal probability for each topology. Here the limiting distributions of bootstrap support and posterior probabilities are obtained for a four-taxon star tree. Theoretical results are given, providing confirmation that this counterintuitive phenomenon holds for posterior probabilities and bootstrap support. For large samples the limiting results for posterior probabilities are the same regardless of the prior. With equal-length terminal edges, the limiting distribution is similar but not the same across different choices for the lengths of the edges. In contrast to previous results, the case of unequal lengths of terminal edges is considered. With two long edges, the posterior probability of the tree with long edges together tends to be much larger. Using the neighbor-joining algorithm, with equal edge lengths, the distribution of bootstrap support tends to be qualitatively comparable to posterior probabilities. As with posterior probabilities, when two of the edges are long, bootstrap support for the tree with long branches together tends to be large. The bias is less pronounced, however, as the distribution of bootstrap support gets close to uniform for this tree, whereas posterior probabilities are much more likely to be large. Our findings for maximum likelihood estimation are based entirely on simulation and in contrast suggest that bootstrap support tends to be fairly constant across edge-length choices.
20143143|Species complexes undergoing rapid radiation present a challenge in molecular systematics because of the possibility that ancestral polymorphism is retained in component gene trees. Coalescent theory has demonstrated that gene trees often fail to match lineage trees when taxon divergence times are less than the ancestral effective population sizes. Suggestions to increase the number of loci and the number of individuals per taxon have been proposed; however, phylogenetic methods to adequately analyze these data in a coalescent framework are scarce. We compare two approaches to estimating lineage (species) trees using multiple individuals and multiple loci: the commonly used partitioned Bayesian analysis of concatenated sequences and a modification of a newly developed hierarchical Bayesian method (BEST) that simultaneously estimates gene trees and species trees from multilocus data. We test these approaches on a phylogeny of rapidly radiating species wherein divergence times are likely to be smaller than effective population sizes, and incomplete lineage sorting is known, in the rodent genus, Thomomys. We use seven independent noncoding nuclear sequence loci (total 4300 bp) and between 1 and 12 individuals per taxon to construct a phylogenetic hypothesis for eight Thomomys species. The majority-rule consensus tree from the partitioned concatenated analysis included 14 strongly supported bipartitions, corroborating monophyletic species status of five of the eight named species. The BEST tree strongly supported only the split between the two subgenera and showed very low support for any other clade. Comparison of both lineage trees to individual gene trees revealed that the concatenation method appears to ignore conflicting signals among gene trees, whereas the BEST tree considers conflicting signals and downweights support for those nodes. Bayes factor analysis of posterior tree distributions from both analyses strongly favor the model underlying the BEST analysis. This comparison underscores the risks of overreliance on results from concatenation, and ignoring the properties of coalescence, especially in cases of recent, rapid radiations.
20143142|We investigate the performance of phylogenetic mixture models in reducing a well-known and pervasive artifact of phylogenetic inference known as the node-density effect, comparing them to partitioned analyses of the same data. The node-density effect refers to the tendency for the amount of evolutionary change in longer branches of phylogenies to be underestimated compared to that in regions of the tree where there are more nodes and thus branches are typically shorter. Mixture models allow more than one model of sequence evolution to describe the sites in an alignment without prior knowledge of the evolutionary processes that characterize the data or how they correspond to different sites. If multiple evolutionary patterns are common in sequence evolution, mixture models may be capable of reducing node-density effects by characterizing the evolutionary processes more accurately. In gene-sequence alignments simulated to have heterogeneous patterns of evolution, we find that mixture models can reduce node-density effects to negligible levels or remove them altogether, performing as well as partitioned analyses based on the known simulated patterns. The mixture models achieve this without knowledge of the patterns that generated the data and even in some cases without specifying the full or true model of sequence evolution known to underlie the data. The latter result is especially important in real applications, as the true model of evolution is seldom known. We find the same patterns of results for two real data sets with evidence of complex patterns of sequence evolution: mixture models substantially reduced node-density effects and returned better likelihoods compared to partitioning models specifically fitted to these data. We suggest that the presence of more than one pattern of evolution in the data is a common source of error in phylogenetic inference and that mixture models can often detect these patterns even without prior knowledge of their presence in the data. Routine use of mixture models alongside other approaches to phylogenetic inference may often reveal hidden or unexpected patterns of sequence evolution and can improve phylogenetic inference.
20143139|The parsimony score of a character on a tree equals the number of state changes required to fit that character onto the tree. We show that for unordered, reversible characters this score equals the number of tree rearrangements required to fit the tree onto the character. We discuss implications of this connection for the debate over the use of consensus trees or total evidence and show how it provides a link between incongruence of characters and recombination.
20143137|Increasing the number of characters used in phylogenetic studies is the next crucial step towards generating robust and stable phylogenetic hypotheses--i.e., strongly supported and consistent across reconstruction method. Here we describe a genomic approach to finding new protein-coding genes for systematics in nonmodel taxa, which can be PCR amplified from standard, slightly degraded genomic DNA extracts. We test this approach on Lepidoptera, searching the draft genomic sequence of the silk moth Bombyx mori, for exons &gt500 bp in length, removing annotated gene families, and compared remaining exons with butterfly EST databases to identify conserved regions for primer design. These primers were tested on a set of 65 taxa primarily in the butterfly family Nymphalidae. We were able to identify and amplify six previously unused gene regions (Arginine Kinase, GAPDH, IDH, MDH, RpS2, and RpS5) and two rarely used gene regions (CAD and DDC) that when added to the three traditional gene regions (COI, EF-1 and wingless) gave a data set of 8114 bp. Phylogenetic robustness and stability increased with increasing numbers of genes. Smaller taxanomic subsets were also robust when using the full gene data set. The full 11-gene data set was robust and stable across reconstruction methods, recovering the major lineages and strongly supporting relationships within them. Our methods and insights should be applicable to taxonomic groups having a single genomic reference species and several EST databases from taxa that diverged less than 100 million years ago.
20143134|The study of morphological evolution after the inferred origin of active flight homologous with that in Aves has historically been characterized by an emphasis on anatomically disjunct, mosaic patterns of change. Relatively few prior studies have used discrete morphological character data in a phylogenetic context to quantitatively investigate morphological evolution or mosaic evolution in particular. One such previously employed method, which used summed unambiguously optimized synapomorphies, has been the basis for proposing disassociated and sequential "modernizing" or "fine-tuning" of pectoral and then pelvic locomotor systems after the origin of flight ("pectoral early--pelvic late" hypothesis). We use one of the most inclusive phylogenetic data sets of basal birds to investigate properties of this method and to consider the application of a Bayesian phylogenetic approach. Bayes factor and statistical comparisons of branch length estimates were used to evaluate support for a mosaic pattern of character change and the specific pectoral early--pelvic late hypothesis. Partitions were defined a priori based on anatomical subregion (e.g., pelvic, pectoral) and were based on those hypothesized using the summed synapomorphy approach. We compare 80 models all implementing the $\text{M}_{\text{k}}$ model for morphological data but varying in the number of anatomical subregion partitions, the models for among-partition rate variation and among-character rate variation, as well as the branch length prior. Statistical analysis reveals that partitioning data by anatomical subregion, independently estimating branch lengths for partitioned data, and use of shared or per partition gamma-shaped among-character rate distribution significantly increases estimated model likelihoods. Simulation studies reveal that partitioned models where characters are randomly assigned perform significantly worse than both the observed model and the single-partition equal-rate model, suggesting that only partitioning by anatomical subregion increases model performance. The preference for models with partitions defined a priori by anatomical subregion is consistent with a disjunctive pattern of character change for the data set investigated and may have implications for parameterization of Bayesian analyses of morphological data more generally. Statistical tests of differences in estimated branch lengths from the pectoral and pelvic partitions do not support the specific pectoral early--pelvic late hypothesis proposed from the summed synapomorphy approach; however, results suggest limited support for some pectoral branch lengths being significantly longer only early at / after the origin of flight.
20143138|We analyze a maximum likelihood approach for combining phylogenetic trees into a larger "supertree." This is based on a simple exponential model of phylogenetic error, which ensures that ML supertrees have a simple combinatorial description (as a median tree, minimizing a weighted sum of distances to the input trees). We show that this approach to ML supertree reconstruction is statistically consistent (it converges on the true species supertree as more input trees are combined), in contrast to the widely used MRP method, which we show can be statistically inconsistent under the exponential error model. We also show that this statistical consistency extends to an ML approach for constructing species supertrees from gene trees. In this setting, incomplete lineage sorting (due to coalescence rates of homologous genes being lower than speciation rates) has been shown to lead to gene trees that are frequently different from species trees, and this can confound efforts to reconstruct the species phylogeny correctly.
20143140|The phylogeny of the thrushes (Aves: Turdus) has been difficult to reconstruct due to short internal branches and lack of node support for certain parts of the tree. Reconstructing the biogeographic history of this group is further complicated by the fact that current implementations of biogeographic methods, such as dispersal-vicariance analysis (DIVA; Ronquist, 1997), require a fully resolved tree. Here, we apply a Bayesian approach to dispersal-vicariance analysis that accounts for phylogenetic uncertainty and allows a more accurate analysis of the biogeographic history of lineages. Specifically, ancestral area reconstructions can be presented as marginal distributions, thus displaying the underlying topological uncertainty. Moreover, if there are multiple optimal solutions for a single node on a certain tree, integrating over the posterior distribution of trees often reveals a preference for a narrower set of solutions. We find that despite the uncertainty in tree topology, ancestral area reconstructions indicate that the Turdus clade originated in the eastern Palearctic during the Late Miocene. This was followed by an early dispersal to Africa from where a worldwide radiation took place. The uncertainty in tree topology and short branch lengths seems to indicate that this radiation took place within a limited time span during the Late Pliocene. The results support the role of Africa as a probable source area for intercontinental dispersals as suggested for other passerine groups, including basal diversification within the songbird tree.
20143136|Although genetic methods of species identification, especially DNA barcoding, are strongly debated, tests of these methods have been restricted to a few empirical cases for pragmatic reasons. Here we use simulation to test the performance of methods based on sequence comparison (BLAST and genetic distance) and tree topology over a wide range of evolutionary scenarios. Sequences were simulated on a range of gene trees spanning almost three orders of magnitude in tree depth and in coalescent depth; that is, deep or shallow trees with deep or shallow coalescences. When the query's conspecific sequences were included in the reference alignment, the rate of positive identification was related to the degree to which different species were genetically differentiated. The BLAST, distance, and liberal tree-based methods returned higher rates of correct identification than did the strict tree-based requirement that the query was within, but not sister to, a single-species clade. Under this more conservative approach, ambiguous outcomes occurred in inverse proportion to the number of reference sequences per species. When the query's conspecific sequences were not in the reference alignment, only the strict tree-based approach was relatively immune to making false-positive identifications. Thresholds affected the rates at which false-positive identifications were made when the query's species was unrepresented in the reference alignment but did not otherwise influence outcomes. A conservative approach using the strict tree-based method should be used initially in large-scale identification systems, with effort made to maximize sequence sampling within species. Once the genetic variation within a taxonomic group is well characterized and the taxonomy resolved, then the choice of method used should be dictated by considerations of computational efficiency. The requirement for extensive genetic sampling may render these techniques inappropriate in some circumstances.
20143135|DNA barcoding as a method for species identification is rapidly increasing in popularity. However, there are still relatively few rigorous methodological tests of DNA barcoding. Current distance-based methods are frequently criticized for treating the nearest neighbor as the closest relative via a raw similarity score, lacking an objective set of criteria to delineate taxa, or for being incongruent with classical character-based taxonomy. Here, we propose an artificial intelligence--based approach--inferring species membership via DNA barcoding with back-propagation neural networks (named BP-based species identification)--as a new advance to the spectrum of available methods. We demonstrate the value of this approach with simulated data sets representing different levels of sequence variation under coalescent simulations with various evolutionary models, as well as with two empirical data sets of COI sequences from East Asian ground beetles (Carabidae) and Costa Rican skipper butterflies. With a 630- to 690-bp fragment of the COI gene, we identified 97.50% of 80 unknown sequences of ground beetles, 95.63%, 96.10%, and 100% of 275, 205, and 9 unknown sequences of the neotropical skipper butterfly to their correct species, respectively. Our simulation studies indicate that the success rates of species identification depend on the divergence of sequences, the length of sequences, and the number of reference sequences. Particularly in cases involving incomplete lineage sorting, this new BP-based method appears to be superior to commonly used methods for DNA-based species identification.
20143141|Despite the remarkable species richness of the Mediterranean flora and its well-known geological history, few studies have investigated its temporal and spatial origins. Most importantly, the relative contribution of geological processes and long-distance dispersal to the composition of contemporary Mediterranean biotas remains largely unknown. We used phylogenetic analyses of sequences from six chloroplast DNA markers, Bayesian dating methods, and ancestral area reconstructions, in combination with paleogeographic, paleoclimatic, and ecological evidence, to elucidate the time frame and biogeographic events associated with the diversification of Araceae in the Mediterranean Basin. We focused on the origin of four species, Ambrosina bassii, Biarum dispar, Helicodiceros muscivorus, Arum pictum, subendemic or endemic to Corsica, Sardinia, and the Balearic Archipelago. The results support two main invasions of the Mediterranean Basin by the Araceae, one from an area connecting North America and Eurasia in the Late Cretaceous and one from the Anatolian microplate in western Asia during the Late Eocene, thus confirming the proposed heterogeneous origins of the Mediterranean flora. The subendemic Ambrosina bassii and Biarum dispar likely diverged sympatrically from their widespread Mediterranean sister clades in the Early-Middle Eocene and Early-Middle Miocene, respectively. Combined evidence corroborates a relictual origin for the endemic Helicodiceros muscivorus and Arum pictum, the former apparently representing the first documented case of vicariance driven by the initial splitting of the Hercynian belt in the Early Oligocene. A recurrent theme emerging from our analyses is that land connections and interruptions, caused by repeated cycles of marine transgressions-regressions between the Tethys and Paratethys, favored geodispersalist expansion of biotic ranges from western Asia into the western Mediterranean Basin and subsequent allopatric speciation at different points in time from the Late Eocene to the Late Oligocene.
27756390|Island systems have long been useful models for understanding lineage diversification in a geographic context, especially pertaining to the importance of dispersal in the origin of new clades. Here we use a well-resolved phylogeny of the flowering plant genus Cyrtandra (Gesneriaceae) from the Pacific Islands to compare four methods of inferring ancestral geographic ranges in islands: two developed for character-state reconstruction that allow only single-island ranges and do not explicitly associate speciation with range evolution (Fitch parsimony [FP; parsimony-based] and stochastic mapping [SM; likelihood-based]) and two methods developed specifically for ancestral range reconstruction, in which widespread ranges (spanning islands) are integral to inferences about speciation scenarios (dispersal-vicariance analysis [DIVA; parsimony-based] and dispersal-extinction-cladogenesis [DEC; likelihood-based]). The methods yield conflicting results, which we interpret in light of their respective assumptions. FP exhibits the least power to unequivocally reconstruct ranges, likely due to a combination of having flat (uninformative) transition costs and not using branch length information. SM reconstructions generally agree with a prior hypothesis about dispersal-driven speciation across the Pacific, despite the conceptual mismatch between its character-based model and this mode of range evolution. In contrast with narrow extant ranges for species of Cyrtandra, DIVA reconstructs broad ancestral ranges at many nodes. DIVA results also conflict with geological information on island ages; we attribute these conflicts to the parsimony criterion not considering branch lengths or time, as well as vicariance being the sole means of divergence for widespread ancestors. DEC analyses incorporated geological information on island ages; we attribute these conflicts to the parsimony criterion not considering branch lengths or time, as well as vicariance being the sole means of divergence for widespread ancestors. DEC analyses incorporated geological information on island ages and allowed prior hypotheses about range size and dispersal rates to be evaluated in a likelihood framework and gave more nuanced inferences about range evolution and the geography of speciation than other methods tested. However, ancestral ranges at several nodes could not be conclusively resolved, due possibly to uncertainty in the phylogeny or the relative complexity of the underlying model. Of the methods tested, SM and DEC both converge on plausible hypotheses for area range histories in Cyrtandra, due in part to the consideration of branch lengths and/or timing of events. We suggest that DEC model-based methods for ancestral range inference could be improved by adopting a Bayesian SM approach, in which stochastic sampling of complete geographic histories could be integrated over alternative phylogenetic topologies. Likelihood-based estimates of ancestral ranges for Cyrtandra suggest a major dispersal route into the Pacific through the islands of Fiji and Samoa, motivating future biogeographic investigation of this poorly known region.
27756393|Whereas examples of insular speciation within the endemic-rich Macaronesian hotspot flora have been documented, the phylogeography of recently evolved plants in the region has received little attention. The Macaronesian red fescues constitute a narrow and recent radiation of four closely related diploid species distributed in the Canary Islands (F. agustinii), Madeira (F. jubata), and the Azores (F. francoi and F. petraea), with a single extant relative distributed in mainland southwest Europe (F. rivularis). Bayesian structure and priority consensus tree approaches and population spatial correlations between genetic, geographical, and dispersal distances were used to elucidate the phylogeographical patterns of these grasses. Independent versus related origins and dispersal versus isolation by distance (IBD) hypotheses were tested to explain the genetic differentiation of species and populations, respectively. Genetic structure was found to be geographically distributed among the archipelagos and the islands endemics. The high number of shared AFLP fragments in all four species suggests a recent single origin from a continental Pliocene ancestor. However, the strong allelic structure detected among the Canarian, Madeiran, and Azorean endemics and the significant standardized residual values obtained from structured Bayesian analysis for pairwise related origin hypotheses strongly supported the existence of three independent continental-oceanic colonization events. The Canarian F. agustinii, the Madeiran F. jubata, and the two sister F. francoi and F. petraea Azorean species likely evolved from different continental founders in their respective archipelagos. Despite the short span of time elapsed since colonization, the two sympatric Azorean species probably diverged in situ, following ecological adaptation, from a common ancestor that arrived from the near mainland. Simple dispersal hypotheses explained most of the genetic variation at the species level better than IBD models. The optimal dispersal model for F. agustinii was a bidirectional centripetal stepping-stone colonization pattern, an eastern-to-western volcanism-associated dispersion was favored for F. francoi, whereas for the recently derived F. petraea a counterintuitive direction of colonization (west-to-east) was suggested. The population-based phylogeographical trends deduced from our study could be used as predictive models for other Macaronesian plant endemics with similar distribution areas and dispersal abilities.
27756389|In this article, we present a likelihood-based framework for modeling site dependencies. Our approach builds upon standard evolutionary models but incorporates site dependencies across the entire tree by letting the evolutionary parameters in these models depend upon the ancestral states at the neighboring sites. It thus avoids the need for introducing new and high-dimensional evolutionary models for site-dependent evolution. We propose a Markov chain Monte Carlo approach with data augmentation to infer the evolutionary parameters under our model. Although our approach allows for wide-ranging site dependencies, we illustrate its use, in two non-coding datasets, in the case of nearest-neighbor dependencies (i.e., evolution directly depending only upon the immediate flanking sites). The results reveal that the general time-reversible model with nearest-neighbor dependencies substantially improves the fit to the data as compared to the corresponding model with site independence. Using the parameter estimates from our model, we elaborate on the importance of the 5-methylcytosine deamination process (i.e., the CpG effect) and show that this process also depends upon the 5 neighboring base identity. We hint at the possibility of a so-called TpA effect and show that the observed substitution behavior is very complex in the light of dinucleotide estimates. We also discuss the presence of CpG effects in a nuclear small subunit dataset and find significant evidence that evolutionary models incorporating context-dependent effects perform substantially better than independent-site models and in some cases even outperform models that incorporate varying rates across sites.
27756388|The increasing diversity and heterogeneity of molecular data for phylogeny estimation has led to development of complex models and model-based estimators. Here, we propose a penalized likelihood (PL) framework in which the levels of complexity in the underlying model can be smoothly controlled. We demonstrate the PL framework for a four-taxon tree case and investigate its properties. The PL framework yields an estimator in which the majority of currently employed estimators such as the maximum-parsimony estimator, homogeneous likelihood estimator, gamma mixture likelihood estimator, etc., become special cases of a single family of PL estimators. Furthermore, using the appropriate penalty function, the complexity of the underlying models can be partitioned into separately controlled classes allowing flexible control of model complexity.
27756395|Despite recent advances achieved by application of high-performance computing methods and novel algorithmic techniques to maximum likelihood (ML)-based inference programs, the major computational bottleneck still consists in the computation of bootstrap support values. Conducting a probably insufficient number of 100 bootstrap (BS) analyses with current ML programs on large datasetseither with respect to the number of taxa or base pairscan easily require a month of run time. Therefore, we have developed, implemented, and thoroughly tested rapid bootstrap heuristics in RAxML (Randomized Axelerated Maximum Likelihood) that are more than an order of magnitude faster than current algorithms. These new heuristics can contribute to resolving the computational bottleneck and improve current methodology in phylogenetic analyses. Computational experiments to assess the performance and relative accuracy of these heuristics were conducted on 22 diverse DNA and AA (amino acid), single gene as well as multigene, real-world alignments containing 125 up to 7764 sequences. The standard BS (SBS) and rapid BS (RBS) values drawn on the best-scoring ML tree are highly correlated and show almost identical average support values. The weighted RF (Robinson-Foulds) distance between SBS- and RBS-based consensus trees was smaller than 6% in all cases (average 4%). More importantly, RBS inferences are between 8 and 20 times faster (average 14.73) than SBS analyses with RAxML and between 18 and 495 times faster than BS analyses with competing programs, such as PHYML or GARLI. Moreover, this performance improvement increases with alignment size. Finally, we have set up two freely accessible Web servers for this significantly improved version of RAxML that provide access to the 200-CPU cluster of the Vital-IT unit at the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics and the 128-CPU cluster of the CIPRES project at the San Diego Supercomputer Center. These Web servers offer the possibility to conduct large-scale phylogenetic inferences to a large part of the community that does not have access to, or the expertise to use, high-performance computing resources.
27756398|Simulations suggest that molecular clock analyses can correctly identify the root of a tree even when the clock assumption is severely violated. Clock-based rooting of phylogenies may be particularly useful when outgroup rooting is problematic. Here, we explore relaxed-clock rooting in the Acer/Dipteronia clade of Sapindaceae, which comprises genera of highly uneven species richness and problematic mutual monophyly. Using an approach that does not presuppose rate autocorrelation between ancestral and descendant branches and hence does not require a rooted a priori topology, we analyzed data from up to seven chloroplast loci for some 50 ingroup species. For comparison, we used midpoint and outgroup rooting and dating methods that rely on rooted input trees, namely penalized likelihood, a Bayesian autocorrelated-rates model, and a strict clock. The chloroplast sequences used here reject a single global substitution rate, and the assumption of autocorrelated rates was also rejected. The root was placed between Acer and Dipteronia by all three rooting methods, albeit with low statistical support. Analyses of Acer diversification with a lineage-through-time plot and different survival models, although sensitive to missing data, suggest a gradual decrease in the average diversification rate. The nine North American species of Acer diverged from their nearest relatives at widely different times: eastern American Acer diverged in the Oligocene and Late Miocene; western American species in the Late Eocene and Mid Miocene; and the Acer core clade, including A. saccharum, dates to the Miocene. Recent diversification in North America is strikingly rare compared to diversification in eastern Asia.
27756397|Phylogenetic analysis very commonly produces several alternative trees for a given fixed set of taxa. For example, different sets of orthologous genes may be analyzed, or the analysis may sample from a distribution of probable trees. This article describes an approach to comparing and visualizing multiple alternative phylogenies via the idea of a "tree of trees" or "meta-tree." A meta-tree clusters phylogenies with similar topologies together in the same way that a phylogeny clusters species with similar DNA sequences. Leaf nodes on a meta-tree correspond to the original set of phylogenies given by some analysis, whereas interior nodes correspond to certain consensus topologies. The construction of meta-trees is motivated by analogy with construction of a most parsimonious tree for DNA data, but instead of using DNA letters, in a meta-tree the characters are partitions or splits of the set of taxa. An efficient algorithm for meta-tree construction is described that makes use of a known relationship between the majority consensus and parsimony in terms of gain and loss of splits. To illustrate these ideas meta-trees are constructed for two datasets: a set of gene trees for species of yeast and trees from a bootstrap analysis of a set of gene trees in ray-finned fish. A software tool for constructing meta-trees and comparing alternative phylogenies is available online, and the source code can be obtained from the author.
27756392|Although the power of multi-locus data in estimating species trees is apparent, it is also clear that the analytical methodologies for doing so are still maturing. For example, of the methods currently available for estimating species trees from multiocus data, the Bayesian method introduced by Liu and Pearl (2007; BEST) is the only one that provides nodal support values. Using gene sequences from five nuclear loci, we explored two analytical methods (deep coalescence and BEST) to reconstruct the species tree of the five primary Manacus OTUs: M. aurantiacus, M. candei, M. vitellinus, populations of M. manacus from west of the Andes (M. manacus (w)), and populations of M. manacus from east of the Andes (M. manacus (e)). Both BEST and deep coalescence supported a sister relationship between M. vitellinus and M. manacus (w). A lower probability tree from the BEST analysis and one of the most parsimonious deep coalescence trees also supported a sister relationship between M. candei and M. aurantiacus. Because hybrid zones connect the distributions of most Manacus species, we examined the potential influence of post-divergence gene flow on the sister relationship of parapatrically distributed M. vitellinus and M. manacus (w). An isolation-with-migration (IM) analysis found relatively high levels of gene flow between M. vitellinus and M. manacus (w). Whether the gene flow is obscuring a true sister relationship between M. manacus (w) and M. manacus (e) remained unclear, pointing to the need for more detailed models accommodating multispecies, multilocus DNA sequence data.
27756394|We provide a new automated statistical method for DNA barcoding based on a Bayesian phylogenetic analysis. The method is based on automated database sequence retrieval, alignment, and phylogenetic analysis using a custom-built program for Bayesian phylogenetic analysis. We show on real data that the method outperforms Blast searches as a measure of confidence and can help eliminate 80% of all false assignment based on best Blast hit. However, the most important advance of the method is that it provides statistically meaningful measures of confidence. We apply the method to a re-analysis of previously published ancient DNA data and show that, with high statistical confidence, most of the published sequences are in fact of Neanderthal origin. However, there are several cases of chimeric sequences that are comprised of a combination of both Neanderthal and modern human DNA.
27756391|The Hox genes encode transcription factors that play vital roles in the anterior-posterior patterning of all bilaterian phyla studied to date. Additionally, the gain of Hox genes by duplication has been widely implicated as a driving force in the evolution of animal body plans. Because of this, reconstructing the evolution of the Hox cluster has been the focus of intense research interest. It has been commonly assumed that an ancestral four-gene ProtoHox cluster was duplicated early in animal evolution to give rise to the Hox and ParaHox clusters. However, this hypothesis has recently been called into question, and a number of alternative hypotheses of Hox and ParaHox gene evolution have been proposed. Here, we present the first statistical comparisons of current hypotheses of Hox and ParaHox gene evolution have been proposed. Here, we present the first statistical comparisons of current hypotheses of Hox and ParaHox gene evolution. We use two statistical methods that represent two different approaches to the treatment of phylogenetic uncertainty. In the first method, we estimate the maximum-likelihood tree for each hypothesis and compare these trees to one another using a parametric bootstrapping approach. In the second method, we use Bayesian phylogenetics to estimate the posterior distribution of trees, then we calculate the support for each hypothesis from this distribution. The results of both methods are largely congruent. We find that we are able to reject five out of the eight current hypotheses of Hox and ParaHox gene evolution that we consider. We conclude that the ProtoHox cluster is likely to have contained either three or four genes but that there is insufficient phylogenetic signal in the homeodomains to distinguish between these alternatives.
27756396|New contributions toward generalizing evolutionary models expand greatly our ability to analyze complex evolutionary characters and advance phylogeny reconstruction. In this article, we extend the binary stochastic Dollo model to allow for multi-state characters. In doing so, we align previously incompatible Wagner and Dollo parsimony principles under a common probabilistic framework by embedding arbitrary continuous-time Markov chains into the binary stochastic Dollo model. This approach enables us to analyze character traits that exhibit both Dollo and Wagner characteristics throughout their evolutionary histories. Utilizing Bayesian inference, we apply our novel model to analyze intron conservation patterns and the evolution of alternatively spliced exons. The generalized framework we develop demonstrates potential in distinguishing between phylogenetic hypotheses and providing robust estimates of evolutionary rates. Moreover, for the two applications analyzed here, our framework is the first to provide an adequate stochastic process for the data. We discuss possible extensions to the framework from both theoretical and applied perspectives.
27756359|A new approach for biogeography to find patterns of sympatry, based on network analysis, is proposed. Biogeographic analysis focuses basically on sympatry patterns of species. Sympatry is a network (= relational) datum, but it has never been analyzed before using relational tools such as Network Analysis. Our approach to biogeographic analysis consists of two parts: first the sympatry inference and second the network analysis method (NAM). The sympatry inference method was designed to propose sympatry hypothesis, constructing a basal sympatry network based on punctual data, independent of a priori distributional area determination. In this way, two or more species are considered sympatric when there is interpenetration and relative proximity among their records of occurrence. In nature, groups of species presenting within-group sympatry and between-group allopatry constitute natural units (units of co-occurrence). These allopatric units are usually connected by intermediary species. The network analysis method (NAM) that we propose here is based on the identification and removal of intermediary species to segregate units of co-occurrence, using the betweenness measure and the clustering coefficient. The species ranges of the units of co-occurrence obtained are transferred to a map, being considered as candidates to areas of endemism. The new approach was implemented on three different real complex data sets (one of them a classic example previously used in biogeography) resulting in (1) independence of predefined spatial units; (2) definition of co-occurrence patterns from the sympatry network structure, not from species range similarities; (3) higher stability in results despite scale changes; (4) identification of candidates to areas of endemism supported by strictly endemic species; (5) identification of intermediary species with particular biological attributes.
27756353|The amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) technique is an increasingly popular component of the phylogenetic toolbox, particularly for plant species. Technological advances in capillary electrophoresis now allow very precise estimates of DNA fragment mobility and amplitude, and current AFLP software allows greater control of data scoring and the production of the binary character matrix. However, for AFLP to become a useful modern tool for large data sets, improvements to automated scoring are required. We design a procedure that can be used to optimize AFLP scoring parameters to improve phylogenetic resolution and demonstrate it for two AFLP scoring programs (GeneMapper and GeneMarker). In general, we found that there was a trade-off between getting more characters of lower quality and fewer characters of high quality. Conservative settings that gave the least error did not give the best phylogenetic resolution, as too many useful characters were discarded. For example, in GeneMapper, we found that bin width was a crucial parameter, and that although reducing bin width from 1.0 to 0.5 base pairs increased the error rate, it nevertheless improved resolution due to the increased number of informative characters. For our 30-taxon data sets, moving from default to optimized parameter settings gave between 3 and 11 extra internal edges with &gt;50% bootstrap support, in the best case increasing the number of resolved edges from 14 to 25 out of a possible 27. Nevertheless, improvements to current AFLP software packages are needed to (1) make use of replicate profiles to calibrate the data and perform error calculations and (2) perform tests to optimize scoring parameters in a rigorous and automated way. This is true not only when AFLP data are used for phylogenetics, but also for other applications, including linkage mapping and population genetics.
27756352|As an archive of sequence data for over 165,000 species, GenBank is an indispensable resource for phylogenetic inference. Here we describe an informatics processing pipeline and online database, the PhyLoTA Browser (http://loco.biosci.arizona.edu/pb), which offers a view of GenBank tailored for molecular phylogenetics. The first release of the Browser is computed from 2.6 million sequences representing the taxonomically enriched subset of GenBank sequences for eukaryotes (excluding most genome survey sequences, ESTs, and other high-throughput data). In addition to summarizing sequence diversity and species diversity across nodes in the NCBI taxonomy, it reports 87,000 potentially phylogenetically informative clusters of homologous sequences, which can be viewed or downloaded, along with provisional alignments and coarse phylogenetic trees. At each node in the NCBI hierarchy, the user can display a "data availability matrix" of all available sequences for entries in a subtaxa-by-clusters matrix. This matrix provides a guidepost for subsequent assembly of multigene data sets or supertrees. The database allows for comparison of results from previous GenBank releases, highlighting recent additions of either sequences or taxa to GenBank and letting investigators track progress on data availability worldwide. Although the reported alignments and trees are extremely approximate, the database reports several statistics correlated with alignment quality to help users choose from alternative data sources.
27756362|Significant phylogenetic codivergence between plant or animal hosts (H) and their symbionts or parasites (P) indicates the importance of their interactions on evolutionary time scales. However, valid and realistic methods to test for codivergence are not fully developed. One of the systems where possible codivergence has been of interest involves the large subfamily of temperate grasses (Pooideae) and their endophytic fungi (epichloae). These widespread symbioses often help protect host plants from herbivory and stresses and affect species diversity and food web structures. Here we introduce the MRCALink (most-recent-common-ancestor link) method and use it to investigate the possibility of grass-epichlo codivergence. MRCALink applied to ultrametric H and P trees identifies all corresponding nodes for pairwise comparisons of MRCA ages. The result is compared to the space of random H and P tree pairs estimated by a Monte Carlo method. Compared to tree reconciliation, the method is less dependent on tree topologies (which often can be misleading), and it crucially improves on phylogeny-independent methods such as ParaFit or the Mantel test by eliminating an extreme (but previously unrecognized) distortion of node-pair sampling. Analysis of 26 grass species-epichlo species symbioses did not reject random association of H and P MRCA ages. However, when five obvious host jumps were removed, the analysis significantly rejected random association and supported grass-endophyte codivergence. Interestingly, early cladogenesis events in the Pooideae corresponded to early cladogenesis events in epichloae, suggesting concomitant origins of this grass subfamily and its remarkable group of symbionts. We also applied our method to the well-known gopher-louse data set.
27756358|Many authors have claimed that short branches in the Tree of Life will be very difficult to resolve with strong support, even with the large multilocus data sets now made possible by genomic resources. Short branches may be especially problematic because the underlying gene trees are expected to have discordant phylogenetic histories when the time between branching events is very short. Although there are many examples of short branches that are difficult to resolve, surprisingly, no empirical studies have systematically examined the relationships between branch lengths, branch support, and congruence among genes. Here, we examine these fundamental relationships quantitatively using a data set of 20 nuclear loci for 50 species of snakes (representing most traditionally recognized families). A combined maximum likelihood analysis of the 20 loci gives strong support for 69% of the nodes, but many remain weakly supported, with bootstrap values for 20% ranging from 21% to 66%. For the combined-data tree, we find significant correlations between the length of a branch, levels of bootstrap support, and the proportion of genes that are congruent with that branch in the separate analyses of each gene. We also find that strongly supported conflicts between gene trees over the resolution of individual branches are common (roughly 35% of clades), especially for shorter branches. Overall, our results support the hypothesis that short branches may be very difficult to confidently resolve, even with large, multilocus data sets. Nevertheless, our study provides strong support for many clades, including several that were controversial or poorly resolved in previous studies of snake phylogeny.
27756354|Codon- and amino acid-substitution models are widely used for the evolutionary analysis of protein-coding DNA sequences. Using codon models, the amounts of both nonsynonymous and synonymous DNA substitutions can be estimated. The ratio of these amounts represents the strength of selective pressure. Using amino acid models, the amount of nonsynonymous substitutions is estimated, but that of synonymous substitutions, is ignored. Although amino acid models lose any information regarding synonymous substitutions, they explicitly incorporate the information for amino acid replacement, which is empirically derived from databases. It is often presumed that when the protein-coding sequences are highly divergent, synonymous substitutions might be saturated and the evolutionary analysis may be hampered by synonymous noise. However, there exists no quantitative procedure to verify whether synonymous substitutions can be ignored; therefore, amino acid models have been arbitrarily selected. In this study, we investigate the issue of a statistical comparison between codon- and amino acid-substitution models. For this purpose, we propose a new procedure to transform a 20-dimensional amino acid model to a 61-dimensional codon model. This transformation reveals that amino acid models belong to a subset of the codon models and enables us to test whether synonymous substitutions can be ignored by using the likelihood ratio. Our theoretical results and analyses of real data indicate that synonymous substitutions are very informative and substantially improve evolutionary inference, even when the sequences are highly divergent. Therefore, we note that amino acid models should be adopted only after carefully investigating and discarding the possibility that synonymous substitutions can reveal important evolutionary information.
27756361|The phylogenetic history of Medicago was examined for 60 accessions from 56 species using two nuclear genes (CNGC5 and -cop) and one mitochondrial region (rpS14-cob). The results of several analyses revealed that extensive robustly supported incongruence exists among the nuclear genes, the cause of which we seek to explain. After rejecting several processes, hybridization and lineage sorting of ancestral polymorphisms remained as the most likely factors promoting incongruence. Using coalescence simulations, we rejected lineage sorting alone as an explanation of the differences among gene trees. The results indicate that hybridization has been common and ongoing among lineages since the origin of Medicago. Coalescence provides a good framework to test the causes of incongruence commonly seen among gene trees but requires knowledge of effective population sizes and generation times. We estimated the effective population size at 240,000 individuals and assumed a generation time of 1 year in Medicago (many are annual plants). A sensitivity analysis showed that our conclusions remain unchanged using a larger effective population size and/or longer generation time.
27756356|Reconstructing the phylogeny of sponges (Porifera) is one of the remaining challenges to resolve the metazoan Tree of Life and is a prerequisite for understanding early animal evolution. Molecular phylogenetic analyses for two of the three extant classes of the phylum, Demospongiae and Calcarea, are largely incongruent with traditional classifications, most likely because of a paucity of informative morphological characters and high levels of homoplasy. For the third class, Hexactinellida (glass sponges)predominantly deep-sea inhabitants with unusual morphology and biologywe present the first molecular phylogeny, along with a cladistic analysis of morphological characters. We collected 18S, 28S, and mitochondrial 16S ribosomal DNA sequences of 34 glass sponge species from 27 genera, 9 families, and 3 orders and conducted partitioned Bayesian analyses using RNA secondary structure-specific substitution models (paired-sites models) for stem regions. Bayes factor comparisons of different paired-sites models against each other and conventional (independent-sites) models revealed a significantly better fit of the former but, contrary to previous predictions, the least parameter-rich of the tested paired-sites models provided the best fit to our data. In contrast to Demospongiae and Calcarea, our rDNA phylogeny agrees well with the traditional classification and a previously proposed phylogenetic system, which we ascribe to a more informative morphology in Hexactinellida. We find high support for a close relationship of glass sponges and Demospongiae sensu stricto, though the latter may be paraphyletic with respect to Hexactinellida. Homoscleromorpha appears to be the sister group of Calcarea. Contrary to most previous findings from rDNA, we recover Porifera as monophyletic, although support for this clade is low under paired-sites models.
27756355|Developmental biology often yields data in a temporal context. Temporal data in phylogenetic systematics has important uses in the field of evolutionary developmental biology and, in general, comparative biology. The evolution of temporal sequences, specifically developmental sequences, has proven difficult to examine due to the highly variable temporal progression of development. Issues concerning the analysis of temporal sequences and problems with current methods of analysis are discussed. We present here an algorithm to infer ancestral temporal sequences, quantify sequence heterochronies, and estimate pseudoreplicate consensus support for sequence changes using Parsimov-based genetic inference [PGi]. Real temporal developmental sequence data sets are used to compare PGi with currently used approaches, and PGi is shown to be the most efficient, accurate, and practical method to examine biological data and infer ancestral states on a phylogeny. The method is also expandable to address further issues in developmental evolution, namely modularity.
27756357|Several stochastic models of character change, when implemented in a maximum likelihood framework, are known to give a correspondence between the maximum parsimony method and the method of maximum likelihood. One such model has an independently estimated branch-length parameter for each site and each branch of the phylogenetic tree. This modelthe no-common-mechanism modelhas many parameters, and, in fact, the number of parameters increases as fast as the alignment is extended. We take a Bayesian approach to the no-common-mechanism model and place independent gamma prior probability distributions on the branch-length parameters. We are able to analytically integrate over the branch lengths, and this allowed us to implement an efficient Markov chain Monte Carlo method for exploring the space of phylogenetic trees. We were able to reliably estimate the posterior probabilities of clades for phylogenetic trees of up to 500 sequences. However, the Bayesian approach to the problem, at least as implemented here with an independent prior on the length of each branch, does not tame the behavior of the branch-length parameters. The integrated likelihood appears to be a simple rescaling of the parsimony score for a tree, and the marginal posterior probability distribution of the length of a branch is dependent upon how the maximum parsimony method reconstructs the characters at the interior nodes of the tree. The method we describe, however, is of potential importance in the analysis of morphological character data and also for improving the behavior of Markov chain Monte Carlo methods implemented for models in which sites share a common branch-length parameter.
27756360|Although most studies of codivergence rely primarily on topological comparisons of host and parasite phylogenies, temporal assessments are necessary to determine if divergence events in host and parasite trees occurred contemporaneously. A combination of cophylogenetic analyses and comparisons of branch lengths are used in this study to understand the host-parasite association between heteromyid rodents (Rodentia: Heteromyidae) and their sucking lice of the genus Fahrenholzia (Phthiraptera: Anoplura). Cophylogenetic comparisons based on nucleotide substitutions in the mitochondrial COI gene reveal a significant, but not perfect, pattern of cophylogeny between heteromyids and their sucking lice. Regression analyses show a significant functional relationship between the lengths of analogous branches in the host and parasite trees, indicating that divergence events in hosts and parasites were approximately contemporaneous. Thus, the topological similarity observed between heteromyids and their lice is the result of codivergence. These analyses also show that the COI gene in lice is evolving two to three times faster than the same gene in their hosts (similar to the results of studies of other lice and their vertebrate hosts) and that divergence events in lice occurred shortly after host divergence. We recommend that future studies of codivergence include temporal comparisons and, when possible, use the same molecular marker(s) in hosts and parasites to achieve the greatest insight into the history of the host-parasite relationship.
2585265|We look at the higher-order phylogeny of mammals, analyzing in detail the complete mtDNA sequences of more than 40 species. We test the support for several proposed superordinal relationships. To this end, we apply a number of recently programmed methods and approaches, plus better-established methods. New pairwise tests show highly significant evidence that amino acid frequencies are changing among nearly all the genomes studied when unvaried sites are ignored. LogDet amino acid distances, with modifications to take into account invariant sites, are combined with bootstrapping and the Neighbor Joining algorithm to account for these violations of standard models. To weight the more slowly evolving sites, we exclude the more rapidly evolving sites from the data by using "site stripping". This leads to changing optimal trees with nearly all methods. The bootstrap support for many hypotheses varies widely between methods, and few hypotheses can claim unanimous support from these data. Rather, we uncover good evidence that many of the earlier branching patterns in the placental subtree could be incorrect, including the placement of the root. The tRNA genes, for example, favor a split between the group hedgehog, rodents, and primates versus all other sequenced placentals. Such a grouping is not ruled out by the amino acid sequence data. A grouping of all rodents plus rabbit, the old Glires hypothesis, is also feasible with stripped amino acid data, and rodent monophyly is also common. The elephant sequence allows confident rejection of the older taxon Ferungulata (Simpson, 1945). In its place, the new taxa Scrotifera and Fereuungulata are defined. A new likelihood ratio test is used to detect differences between the optimal tree for tRNA versus that for amino acids. While not clearly significant as made, some results indicate the test is tending towards significance with more general models of evolution. Individual placement tests suggest alternative positions for hedgehog and elephant. Congruence arguments to support elephant and armadillo together are striking, suggesting a superordinal group composed of Xenarthra and African endemic mammals, which in turn may be near the root of the placental subtree. Thus, while casting doubt on some recent conclusions, the analyses are also unveiling some interesting new possibilities.
2585271|Using the set of all vertebrate mtDNA protein sequences published as of May 1998, plus unpublished examples for elephant and birds, we examined divergence times in Placentalia and Aves. Using a parsimony-based test, we identified a subset of slower evolutionary rate placental sequences that do not appear to violate the clock assumption. Analyzing just these sequences decreases support for Marsupionta and the carnivore + perissodactyl group but increases support for armadillo diverging earlier than rabbit (which may represent the whole Glires group). A major theme of the paper is to use more comprehensive estimates of divergence time standard error (SE). From the well-studied horse/rhino split, estimated to be 55 million years before present (mybp), the splitting time within carnivores is confidently shown to be older than 50 million years. Some of our estimates of divergence times within placentals are relatively old, at up to 169 million years, but are within 2 SE of other published estimates. The whale/cow split at 65 mybp may be older than commonly assumed. All the sampled splits between the main groups of fereuungulates (the clade of carnivores, cetartiodactyls, perissodactyls, and pholidotes) seem to be distinctly before the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary. Analyses suggest a close relationship between elephants (representing Afrotheria) and armadillos (Xenarthra), and our timing of this splitting is coincident with the opening of the South Atlantic, a major vicariant event. Recalibrating with this event (at 100 mybp), we obtain younger estimates for the earliest splits among placentals. Divergence times within birds are also assessed by using previously unpublished sequences. We fail to reject a clock for all bird taxa available. Unfortunately, available deep calibration points for birds are questionable, so a new calibration based on the age of the Anseriform stem lineage is estimated. The divergence time of rhea and ostrich may be much more recent than commonly assumed, while that of passerines may be older. Our major concern is the rooting point of the bird subtree, as the nearest outgroup (alligator) is very distant.
2585268|We explore the tree of mammalian mtDNA sequences, using particularly the LogDet transform on amino acid sequences, the distance Hadamard transform, and the Closest Tree selection criterion. The amino acid composition of different species show significant differences, even within mammals. After compensating for these differences, nearest-neighbor bootstrap results suggest that the tree is locally stable, though a few groups show slightly greater rearrangements when a large proportion of the constant sites are removed. Many parts of the trees we obtain agree with those on published protein ML trees. Interesting results include a preference for rodent monophyly. The detection of a few alternative signals to those on the optimal tree were obtained using the distance Hadamard transform (with results expressed as a Lento plot). One rearrangement suggested was the interchange of the position of primates and rodents on the optimal tree. The basic stability of the tree, combined with two calibration points (whale/cow and horse/rhinoceros), together with a distant secondary calibration from the mammal/bird divergence, allows inferences of the times of divergence of putative clades. Allowing for sampling variances due to finite sequence length, most major divergences amongst lineages leading to modern orders, appear to occur well before the Cretaceous/Tertiary (K/T) boundary. Implications arising from these early divergences are discussed, particularly the possibility of competition between the small dinosaurs and the new mammal clades.
2585274|The concentrated changes test (CCT) calculates the probability that changes in a binary character are distributed randomly on the branches of a cladogram. This test is used to examine hypotheses of correlated evolution, especially cases where changes in the state of one character influence changes in the state of another character. The test may be sensitive to the addition of branches that lack either trait of interest (white branches). To examine the effects of the proportion of white branches and of tree topology on the CCT probability, we conducted a simulation analysis using a series of randomly generated 100-taxon trees, in addition to a nearly perfectly balanced (symmetrical) and a completely imbalanced (asymmetrical) 100-taxon tree. Using two models of evolution (gains only, or gains and losses), we evolved character pairs randomly onto these trees to simulate cases where (1) characters evolve independently (i.e., no correlation among the traits) or (2) all changes in the dependent character occur on branches containing the independent trait (i.e., a strong correlation among the traits). This allowed us to evaluate the sensitivity of the CCT to type I and type II errors, respectively. In the simulations, the CCT did not appear to be overly sensitive to the inclusion of white branches (low likelihood of type I error with both CCT probabilities <0.05 and <0.01). However, the CCT was susceptible to type II error when the proportion of white branches was <20%. The test was also sensitive to tree shape and was positively correlated to Colless's tree imbalance statistic I. Finally, the CCT responded differently for simulations where only gains were allowed and those where both gains and losses were permitted. These results indicate that the CCT is unlikely to detect a correlation between characters when no such correlation exists. However, when a trait can be gained but not lost, the CCT is conservative and may fail to detect true correlations among traits (increased type II error). Determination of the sampling universe (the taxa included in the comparative analysis) can strongly influence the probability of making such type II errors. We suggest guidelines to circumvent these limitations.
2585270|Paleontologists long have argued that the most important evolutionary radiation of mammals occurred during the early Cenozoic, if not that all eutherians originated from a single common post-Cretaceous ancestor. Nonetheless, several recent molecular analyses claim to show that because several interordinal splits occurred during the Cretaceous, a major therian radiation was then underway. This claim conflicts with statistical evidence from the well-sampled latest Cretaceous and Cenozoic North American fossil record. Paleofaunal data confirm that there were fewer mammalian species during the latest Cretaceous than during any interval of the Cenozoic, and that a massive diversification took place during the early Paleocene, immediately after a mass extinction. Measurement data show that Cretaceous mammals were on average small and occupied a narrow range of body sizes; after the Cretaceous-Tertiary mass extinction, there was a rapid and permanent shift in the mean. The fact that there was an early Cenozoic mammalian radiation is entirely compatible with the existence of a few Cretaceous splits among modern mammal lineages.
2585273|The discrepancy between theoretical and observed distributions of tree shapes in recent surveys of phylogeny estimates has lead to investigations of possible biological and methodological causes. I investigated whether the phylogenetic quality of characters is related to the tree shape on which they evolve. Simulated evolution revealed shape-related tendencies for characters to indicate correct cladistic relationships; these differences were measured by examining the characters directly, without deriving any phylogeny estimates. Tree stemminess indices correlated strongly with character quality when characters evolved either speciationally or phyletically. Tree balance was a significant correlate of character quality under speciational evolution but not under phyletic evolution. These results help explain the findings of other simulation studies. With additional study of the behavior of evolving characters and their interaction with phylogenetic methods, we might be able to increase the accuracy of tree estimation and compensate for potential biases related to shape. These results give further reason for caution in trusting phylogeny estimates.
2585267|We concatenated sequences for four mitochondrial genes (12S rRNA, tRNA valine, 16S rRNA, cytochrome b) and four nuclear genes [aquaporin, alpha 2B adrenergic receptor (A2AB), interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP), von Willebrand factor (vWF)] into a multigene data set representing 11 eutherian orders (Artiodactyla, Hyracoidea, Insectivora, Lagomorpha, Macroscelidea, Perissodactyla, Primates, Proboscidea, Rodentia, Sirenia, Tubulidentata). Within this data set, we recognized nine mitochondrial partitions (both stems and loops, for each of 12S rRNA, tRNA valine, and 16S rRNA; and first, second, and third codon positions of cytochrome b) and 12 nuclear partitions (first, second, and third codon positions, respectively, of each of the four nuclear genes). Four of the 21 partitions (third positions of cytochrome b, A2AB, IRBP, and vWF) showed significant heterogeneity in base composition across taxa. Phylogenetic analyses (parsimony, minimum evolution, maximum likelihood) based on sequences for all 21 partitions provide 99-100% bootstrap support for Afrotheria and Paenungulata. With the elimination of the four partitions exhibiting heterogeneity in base composition, there is also high bootstrap support (89-100%) for cow + horse. Statistical tests reject Altungulata, Anagalida, and Ungulata. Data set heterogeneity between mitochondrial and nuclear genes is most evident when all partitions are included in the phylogenetic analyses. Mitochondrial-gene trees associate cow with horse, whereas nuclear-gene trees associate cow with hedgehog and these two with horse. However, after eliminating third positions of A2AB, IRBP, and vWF, nuclear data agree with mitochondrial data in supporting cow + horse. Nuclear genes provide stronger support for both Afrotheria and Paenungulata. Removal of third positions of cytochrome b results in improved performance for the mitochondrial genes in recovering these clades.
2585266|The interordinal relationships of eutherian (placental) mammals were evaluated by a phylogenetic analysis of four published data sets (three sequences and one morphological). The nature and degree of support and conflict for particular groups were assessed by separate bootstrap and homogeneity tests, which were followed by combined analyses of the sequence and morphological data. Between orders, strong support (i.e.,  95% bootstrap scores) was found for a paraphyletic Artiodactyla (relative to Cetacea) and a monophyletic Cetartiodactyla (Artiodactyla and Cetacea) and Paenungulata (Hyracoidea, Proboscidea, and Sirenia). In turn, some reasonable to strong evidence ( 85%) was obtained for Hyracoidea with Sirenia, Dermoptera with Scandentia, Glires (Lagomorpha with Rodentia), and Afrotheria (Amblysomus, Macroscelidea, Paenungulata, and Tubulidentata). Otherwise, no other interordinal clades were supported at these reasonable to strong levels. This overall lack of resolution for eutherian interordinal clusters agrees with other studies that suggest further progress will continue to be slow and difficult. Further resolution will require the integration of more recently published data, the continued sampling of taxa and characters, and the use of more powerful methods of data analysis.
2585263|Over the past 10 years, the phylogenetic relationships among higher-level artiodactyl taxa have been examined with multiple data sets. Many of these data sets suggest that Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates) is paraphyletic and that Cetacea (whales) represents a highly derived "artiodactyl" subgroup. In this report, phylogenetic relationships between Cetacea and artiodactyls are tested with a combination of 15 published data sets plus new DNA sequence data from two nuclear loci, interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) and von Willebrand factor (vWF). The addition of the IRBP and vWF character sets disrupts none of the relationships supported by recent cladistic analyses of the other 15 data sets. Simultaneous analyses support three critical clades: (Cetacea + Hippopotamidae), (Cetacea + Hippopotamidae + Ruminantia), and (Cetacea + Hippopotamidae + Ruminantia + Suina). Perturbations of the combined matrix show that the above clades are stable to a variety of disturbances. A chronicle of phylogenetic results over the past 3 years suggests that cladistic relationships between Cetacea and artiodactyls have been stable to increased taxonomic sampling and to the addition of more than 1,400 informative characters from 15 data sets.
2585264|Recent molecular studies are inconsistent with ungulate phylogenetic trees that are based on morphological traits. These inconsistencies especially relate to the position of cetaceans and perissodactyls. Evaluation of the close phylogenetic ties between artiodactyls and cetaceans has been hampered by the absence of tarsal bones of primitive cetaceans, as artiodactyls are often diagnosed on the basis of their tarsus. We here describe newly discovered tarsal bones that are the oldest cetacean tarsals known. We present a character analysis for primitive ungulate tarsals and evaluate their impact on the ungulate phylogenetic tree. Tarsal data are consistent with some molecular studies in suggesting that the extant sister group of Cetacea is Artiodactyla or that Cetacea should be included within the latter order. Tarsal data do not support Cete (Mesonychia plus Cetacea) and are consistent with the exclusion of perissodactyls from paenungulates as suggested by some molecular studies.
2585269|Shared insertions or deletions (indels) in protein-coding DNA can be strong indicators of the monophyly of a taxon. A three-amino acid deletion had previously been noted in the eye lens protein A-crystallin of two species of sloths and two species of anteaters, which represent the Pilosa, one of the two infraorders of Xenarthra (Edentata). This deletion has not been observed in 55 species from 16 other eutherian orders, or in 2 species of marsupials, or in 34 nonmammalian vertebrates, from birds to shark. At the genomic level, we have now detected this deletion in two species of armadillos of the second xenarthran infraorder, Cingulata, as well as in an additional species of anteater. Phylogenetic trees were constructed from a 145-bp sequence of the A-crystallin gene of 39 tetrapod species, supporting xenarthran monophyly with values from 76% to 90%. To quantify the additional support for xenarthran monophyly, as given by the three-residue deletion, we computed the probabilities for the occurrence of this deletion per evolutionary time unit for alternative hypothetical tree topologies. In the estimates obtained, the six trees in which the xenarthran sub-groups are unresolved or paraphyletic give an increasingly lower likelihood than do the two trees that assume xenarthran monophyly. For the monophyletic trees, the probability that the deletion observed in the xenarthrans is due to a single event is > 0.99. Thus, this deletion in A-crystallin gives strong molecular support for the monophyly of this old and diverse order.
2585272|Several different groups of birds have been proposed as being the oldest or earliest diverging extant lineage within the avian phylogenetic tree, particularly ratites (Struthioniformes), waterfowl (Anseriformes), and shorebirds (Charadriiformes). Difficulty in resolving this issue stems from several factors, including the relatively rapid radiation of primary (ordinal) bird lineages and the lack of characters from an extant outgroup for birds that is closely related to them by measure of time. To help resolve this question, we have sequenced entire mitochondrial genomes for five birds (a rhea, a duck, a falcon, and two perching birds), one crocodilian, and one turtle. Maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of these new sequences together with published sequences (18 taxa total) yield the same optimal tree topology, in which a perching bird (Passeriformes) is sister to all the other bird taxa. A basal position for waterfowl among the bird study taxa is rejected by maximum likelihood analyses. However, neither the conventional view, in which ratites (including rhea) are basal to other birds, nor tree topologies with falcon or chicken basal among birds could be rejected in the same manner. In likelihood analyses of a subset of seven birds, alligator, and turtle (9 taxa total), we find that increasing the number of parameters in the model shifts the optimal topology from one with a perching bird basal among birds to the conventional view with ratites diverging basally; moreover, likelihood scores for the two trees are not significantly different. Thus, although our largest set of taxa and characters supports a tree with perching birds diverging basally among birds, the position of this earliest divergence among birds appears unstable. Our analyses indicate a sister relationship between a waterfowl/chicken clade and ratites, relative to perching birds and falcon. We find support for a sister relationship between turtles and a bird/crocodilian clade, and for rejecting both the Haemothermia hypothesis (birds and mammals as sister taxa) and the placement of turtles as basal within the phylogenetic tree for amniote animals.
2585342|Cladistic relationships between 7 parts of the hesionid polychaete group Heteropodarke are assessed in a parsimony analysis based on 34 morphological characters. Taxon names are defined by apomorphy-based phylogenetic definitions, without reference to Linnean ranks or types. Species entities are omitted and denied any role in taxonomy; taxon names refer to monophyletic groups only. Linnean binomial species names are not employed, and all taxa are assigned uninomials. Previously known parts of Heteropodarke (Africana Hartmann-Schroder, 1974; Formalis, Perkins, 1984; Heteromorpha Hartmann-Schroder, 1962; Lyonsi Perkins, 1984; Xiamenensis Ding, Wu, and Westheide, 1997) are reexamined, and Bidentata, new taxon, and "Zmyrina" (informal name) are described from Papua New Guinea and Belize, respectively. The new taxon Crassichaetae is named for a subgroup of Heteropodarke, which is diagnosed by enlarged, anteriorly situated falcigers, and includes Africana, Heteromorpha, Lyonsi, and Xiamenensis. Within this group Africana and Heteromorpha are treated as taxa inquirendae.
2585341|Cladistic analyses of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS), sequences from 55 samples corresponding to 34 taxa in the genus Armeria reveal that ITS sequence diversity among and within species utterly conflicts with patterns of morphological similarity. Three facts are apparent from the results here reported: (1) different samples of a single subspecies, A. villosa subsp. longiaristata, appear in three of the five major clades; (2) samples of at least one of the six subspecies of A. villosa appear in four of the five major clades; and (3) the composition of major clades shows greater congruence with the geographic origin of plants than with the traditional systematic arrangement based primarily on morphology. Specifically, the clades here termed Ia, II, III, and IV each encompass terminals restricted to geographically delimited areas. There are alternative explanations for the ITS pattern, but the most likely one is that nucleotide positions supporting the major clades are due, in some of the samples, to concerted evolution following horizontal transfer (gene flow) rather than to recency of common ancestry. This interpretation is consistent with previous systematic and experimental evidence and implies that reticulation in Armeria may be extensive. Harlan and de Wet (1963, Evolution 17:497-501) proposed the compilospecies concept to account for situations in which a genetically "aggressive" species captures portions of the genome of other sympatric species by means of extensive introgression. Evidence of extensive reticulation, ecological diversification, and geographic pattern indicates that A. villosa may fit the compilospecies concept, which is here supported on molecular grounds for the first time.
2585339|The unwitting inclusion of convergent characters in phylogenetic estimates poses a serious problem for efforts to recover phylogeny. Convergence is not inscrutable, however, particularly when one group of characters tracks phylogeny and another set tracks adaptive history. In such cases, convergent characters may be correlated with one or a few functional anatomical units and readily identifiable by using comparative methods. Stifftail ducks (Oxyurinae) offer one such opportunity to study correlated character evolution and function in the context of phylogenetic reconstruction. Morphological analyses place stifftail ducks as part of a large clade of diving ducks that includes the sea ducks (Mergini), Hymenolaimus, Merganetta, and Tachyeres, and possibly the pochards (Aythyini). Molecular analyses, on the other hand, place stifftails far from other diving ducks and suggest, moreover, that stifftails are polyphyletic. Mitochondrial cytochrome b gene sequences of eight stifftail species traditionally supposed to form a clade were compared with each other and with sequences from 50 other anseriform and galliform species. Stifftail ducks are not the sister group of sea ducks but lie outside the typical ducks (Anatinae). Of the four traditional stifftail genera, monophyly of Oxyura and its sister group relationship with Nomonyx are strongly supported. Heteronetta probably is the sister group of that clade, but support is weak. Biziura is not a true stifftail. Within Oxyura, Old World species (O. australis, O. leucocephala, O. maccoa) appear to form a clade, with New World species (O. jamaicensis, O. vittata) branching basally. Incongruence between molecules and morphology is interpreted to be the result of adaptive specialization and functional convergence in the hind limbs of Biziura and true stifftails. When morphological characters are divided into classes, only hind-limb characters are significantly in conflict with the molecular tree. Likewise, null models of synonymous and nonsynonymous substitution based on patterns of codon-degeneracy and chemical dissimilarity indicate that the nucleotide and amino acid changes postulated by the molecular tree are more plausible than those postulated by the morphological tree. These findings teach general lessons about the utility of highly adaptive characters (in particular those related to foraging ecology) and underscore the problems that convergence can pose for attempts to recover phylogeny. They also demonstrate how the concept of natural data partitions and simple models of evolution (e.g., parsimony, likelihood, neutrality) can be used to test the accuracy of independent phylogenetic estimates and provide arguments in favor of one tree topology over another.
2585340|There are 14 species of marmots distributed across the Holarctic, and despite extensive systematic study, their phylogenetic relationships remain largely unresolved. In particular, comprehensive studies have been lacking. A well-supported phylogeny is needed to place the numerous ecological and behavioral studies on marmots in an evolutionary context. To address this situation, we obtained complete cytochrome (cyt) b sequences for 13 of the species and a partial sequence for the 14th. We applied a statistical approach to both phylogeny estimation and hypothesis testing, using parsimony and maximum likelihood-based methods. We conducted statistical tests on a suite of previously proposed hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships and biogeographic histories. The cyt b data strongly support the monophyly of Marmota and a western montane clade in the Nearctic. Although some other scenarios cannot be rejected, the results are consistent with an initial diversification in North America, followed by an invasion and subsequent rapid diversification in the Palearctic. These analyses reject the two major competing hypotheses of M. broweri's phylogenetic relationships-namely, that it is the sister species to M. camtschatica of eastern Siberia, and that it is related closely to M. caligata of the Nearctic. The Alaskan distribution of M. broweri is best explained as a reinvasion from the Palearctic, but a Nearctic origin can not be rejected. Several other conventionally recognized species groups can also be rejected. Social evolution has been homoplastic, with large colonial systems evolving in two groups convergently. The cyt b data do not provide unambiguous resolution of several basal nodes in the Palearctic radiation, leaving some aspects of pelage and karyotypic evolution equivocal.
2585343|Linnaean binomial nomenclature is logically incompatible with the phylogenetic nomenclature of de Queiroz and Gauthier (1992, Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 23:449-480): The former is based on the concept of genus, thus making this rank mandatory, while the latter is based on phylogenetic definitions and requires the abandonment of mandatory ranks. Thus, if species are to receive names under phylogenetic nomenclature, a different method must be devised to name them. Here, 13 methods for naming species in the context of phylogenetic nomenclature are contrasted with each other and with Linnaean binomials. A fundamental dichotomy among the proposed methods distinguishes those that retain the entire binomial of a preexisting species name from those that retain only the specific epithet. Other relevant issues include the stability, uniqueness, and ease of pronunciation of species names; their capacity to convey phylogenetic information; and the distinguishability of species names that are governed by a code of phylogenetic nomenclature both from clade names and from species names governed by the current codes. No method is ideal. Each has advantages and drawbacks, and preference for one option over another will be influenced by one's evaluation of the relative importance of the pros and cons for each. Moreover, sometimes the same feature is viewed as an advantage by some and a drawback by others. Nevertheless, all of the proposed methods for naming species in the context of phylogenetic nomenclature provide names that are more stable than Linnaean binomials.
2585361|The ability of permutation tail probability (PTP) analyses to discriminate between character covariance and noise is investigated with both hypothetical and published data sets. PTP is shown to be a powerful tool, not only for detecting character covariance, but also for locating that covariance on trees. PTP is especially useful for evaluating DNA sequence data that may have a high level of homoplasy. A three-step PTP procedure for locating covaried characters is presented.
2585353|A phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrial and nuclear rDNA sequences from species of all the superfamilies of the insect order Orthoptera (grasshoppers, crickets, and relatives) confirmed that although mitochondrial sequences provided good resolution of the youngest superfamilies, nuclear rDNA sequences were necessary to separate the basal groups. To try to reconcile these data sets into a single, fully resolved orthopteran phylogeny, we adopted consensus and combined data strategies. The consensus analysis produced a partially resolved tree that lacked several well-supported features of the individual analyses. However, this lack of resolution was explained by an examination of resampled data sets, which identified the likely source of error as the relatively short length of the individual mitochondrial data partitions. In a subsequent comparison in which the mitochondrial sequences were initially combined, we observed less conflict. We then used two approaches to examine the validity of combining all of the data in a single analysis: comparative analysis of trees recovered from resampled data sets, and the application of a randomization test. Because the results did not point to significant levels of heterogeneity in phylogenetic signal between the mitochondrial and nuclear data sets, we therefore proceeded with a combined analysis. Reconstructing phylogenies under the minimum evolution and maximum likelihood optimality criteria, we examined monophyly of the major orthopteran groups, using nonparametric and parametric bootstrap analysis and Kishino-Hasegawa tests. Our analysis suggests that phylogeny reconstruction under the maximum likelihood criteria is the most discriminating approach for the combined sequences. The results indicate, moreover, that the caeliferan Pneumoroidea and Pamphagoidea, as previously suggested, are polyphyletic. The Acridoidea is redefined to include all pamphagoid families other than the Pyrgomorphidae, which we propose should be accorded superfamily status.
2585359|It has long been argued that Charles Darwin was the founder of the school of "evolutionary taxonomy" of the Modern Synthesis and, accordingly, that he recognized genealogy and similarity as dual, synergistic criteria for classification. This view is based on three questionable interpretations: first, of isolated passages in the 13th chapter of the Origin of Species; second, of one phrase in a letter that Darwin wrote about the work of an author he had partly misunderstood; and third, of his taxonomic practice in the barnacle monographs, which only implicitly embody his philosophy of classification, if at all. These works, seen in fuller context and with the perspective of extensive correspondence, are consistent with the view that Darwin advocated only genealogy as the basis of classification, and that similarity was merely a tool for discovering evolutionary relationships. Darwin was neither a Mayrian taxonomist nor a cladist, and he did not approach systematic issues in the same terms that we do in the late 20th century.
2585354|We examine phylogenetic relationships among anoles using mitochondrial DNA sequences from the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 gene (ND2) and five transfer-RNA genes representing 1,455 alignable base positions and 866 phylogenetically informative characters (parsimony criterion). We also present 16 morphological characters for phylogenetic analysis. Our analyses yielded poorly-supported nodes deep in the anole tree but many well-supported nodes for more recent phylogenetic divergences. We test the hypothesis that the major clades of anoles form a hard polytomy and present a general statistical framework for testing hypotheses of simultaneous branching of lineages by using molecular sequence data. Our results suggest that rapid diversification early in the evolutionary history of anoles explains why numerous researchers have had difficulty reconstructing well-supported dichotomous phylogenetic trees for anoles.
2585357|All current phylogenetic methods assume that DNA substitutions are independent among sites. However, ample empirical evidence suggests that the process of substitution is not independent but is, in fact, temporally and spatially correlated. The robustness of several commonly used phylogenetic methods to the assumption of independent substitution is examined. A compound Poisson process is used to model DNA substitution. This model assumes that substitution events are Poisson-distributed in time and that the number of substitutions associated with each event is geometrically distributed. The asymptotic properties of phylogenetic methods do not appear to change under a compound Poisson process of DNA substitution. Moreover, the rank order of the performance of different methods does not change. However, all phylogenetic methods become less efficient when substitution follows a compound Poisson process.
2585360|The methodology of coding polymorphic taxa has received limited attention to date. A search of the taxonomic literature revealed seven types of coding methods. Apart from ignoring polymorphic characters (sometimes called the fixed-only method), two main categories can be distinguished: methods that identify the start of a new character state with the origin of an evolutionary novelty, and methods that identify the new state with the fixation of a novelty. The methods of the first category introduce soft reversals, yielding signals that support cladograms incompatible with true phylogenies. We conclude that coding the plesiomorphy is the method to be preferred, unless the ancestral state is unknown, in which case coding as ambiguous is recommended. This holds for coding polymorphism in species as well as in supraspecific taxa. In this light we remark on methods proposed by previous authors.
2585358|A general rationale for the formulation and placement of taxonomic definitions in phylogenetic taxonomy is proposed, and commonly used terms such as "crown taxon" or "node-based definition" are more precisely defined. In the formulation of phylogenetic definitions, nested reference taxa stabilize taxonomic content. A definitional configuration termed a node-stem triplet also stabilizes the relationship between the trio of taxa at a branchpoint, in the face of local change in phylogenetic relationships or addition/deletion of taxa. Crown-total taxonomies use survivorship as a criterion for placement of node-stem triplets within a taxonomic hierarchy. Diversity, morphology, and tradition also constitute heuristic criteria for placement of node-stem triplets.
2585356|We present a new procedure for assessing the statistical significance of the most likely unrooted dichotomous topology inferrable from four DNA sequences. The procedure calculates directly a P-value for the support given to this topology by the informative sites congruent with it, assuming the most likely star topology as the null hypothesis. Informative sites are crucial in the determination of the maximum likelihood dichotomous topology and are therefore an obvious target for a statistical test of phylogenies. Our P-value is the probability of producing through parallel substitutions on the branches of the star topology at least as much support as that given to the maximum likelihood dichotomous topology by the aforementioned informative sites, for any of the three possible dichotomous topologies. The degree of statistical significance is simply the complement of this P-value. Ours is therefore an a posteriori testing approach, in which no dichotomous topology is specified in advance. We implement the test for the case in which all sites behave identically and the substitution model has a single parameter. Under these conditions, the P-value can be easily calculated on the basis of the probabilities of change on the branches of the most likely star topology, because under these assumptions, each site can become informative independently from every other site; accordingly, the total number of informative sites of each kind is binomially distributed. We explore the test's type I error by applying it to data produced in star topologies having all branches equally long, or having two short and two long branches, and various degrees of homoplasy. The test is conservative but we demonstrate, by means of a discreteness correction and progressively assumption-free calculations of the P-values, that (1) the conservativeness is mostly due to the discrete nature of informative sites and (2) the P-values calculated empirically are moreover mostly quite accurate in absolute terms. Applying the test to data produced in dichotomous topologies with increasing internal branch length shows that, despite the test's "conservativeness," its power is much higher than that of the bootstrap, especially when the relevant informative sites are few.
2585355|Aligned protein-coding genes from 19 completely sequenced mammalian mitochondrial genomes were examined by parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses. Particular attention is given to a comparison between gene-based and structure-based data partitions. Because actual structures are not known for most of the mitochondrially encoded proteins, three different surrogate partitioning schemes were examined, each based on the identity of the consensus amino acid at a specific homologous position. One of the amino-acid-based partitioning schemes gave the highest likelihood, but that scheme was based on concordance with a well-corroborated phylogeny from an earlier parsimony analysis. The gene-based partitioning scheme gave a significantly higher likelihood compared to the only structure-based scheme examined that could be generated without prior assumptions about the phylogeny. Two contrasting phylogenetic inferences were supported by the analyses. Both unpartitioned analyses and analyses in which all partitions were constrained to have identical patterns of branch lengths supported ((Artiodactyla, Cetacea) (Perissodactyla, Carnivora)), whereas all analyses with that constraint relaxed supported (((Artiodactyla, Cetacea) Carnivora) Perissodactyla).
2585318|Using different data sets mainly from the plant family Rubiaceae, but in parts also from the Apocynaceae, Asteraceae, Lardizabalaceae, Saxifragaceae, and Solanaceae, we have investigated the effect of number of characters, number of taxa, and kind of data on bootstrap values within phylogenetic trees. The percentage of supported nodes within a tree is positively correlated with the number of characters, and negatively correlated with the number of taxa. The morphological analyses are based on few characters and weakly supported trees are expected. The percentage of supported nodes is also dependent on the kind of data analyzed. In analyses of Rubiaceae based on the same number of characters, RFLP data give trees with higher percentage of supported nodes than rbcL and morphological data. We also discuss the support values for particular nodes at the familial and subfamilial levels. Two new data sets of ndhF and rbcL sequences of Rubiaceae are analyzed and together with earlier studies of the family we can conclude that the monophyly of the Rubiaceae is supported and within the family there are three well supported, but not easily characterized, large subfamilies, Rubioideae, Cinchonoideae s.s. and Ixoroideae s.l. There are also a few genera (Luculia and Coptosapelta) unclassified to subfamily.
2585322|A morphologically based cladistic analysis of the Enterobiinae, which includes most of the Oxyuridae parasitic in Primates, allows a reevaluation of the Cameron's hypothesis of close coevolution with cospeciation between hosts and parasites. Each of the three genera separated in the Enterobiinae fits with one of the suborders defined in Primates: Lemuricola with the Strepsirhini, Trypanoxyuris with the Platyrrhini, and Enterobius with the Catarrhini. Inside each of the three main groups, the subdivisions observed in the parasite tree also fit with many of the subdivisions generally accepted within the Primate order. These results confirm the subgroups previously described in the subfamily and support Cameron's hypothesis in its aspect of association by descent. Although the classification of the Enterobiinae generally closely underlines the classification of Primates, several discordances also are observed. These are discussed case by case, with use of computed reconstruction scenarios. Given that the occurrences of the same pinworm species as a parasite for several congeneric host species is not the generalized pattern, and given that several occurrences also are observed in which the speciations of the parasites describe a more complex network, Cameron's hypothesis of a slower rhythm of speciation in the parasites can be considered partly refuted. The presence of two genera parasitic on squirrels in a family that contains primarily primate parasites also is discussed. The cladistic analysis does not support close relationships between the squirrel parasites and suggests an early separation from the Enterobiinae for the first (Xeroxyuris), and a tardy host-switching from the Platyrrhini to the squirrels for the second (Rodentoxyuris).
2585320|Knowledge of the phylogenetic position of the order Cetacea (whales, dolphins, and porpoises) within Mammalia is of central importance to evolutionary biologists studying the transformations of biological form and function that accompanied the shift from fully terrestrial to fully aquatic life in this clade. Phylogenies based on molecular data and those based on morphological data both place cetaceans among ungulates but are incongruent in other respects. Morphologists argue that cetaceans are most closely related to mesonychians, an extinct group of terrestrial ungulates. They have disagreed, however, as to whether Perissodactyla (odd-toed ungulates) or Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates) is the extant clade most closely related to Cetacea, and have long maintained that each of these orders is monophyletic. The great majority of molecule-based phylogenies show, by contrast, not only that artiodactyls are the closest extant relatives of Cetacea, but also that Artiodactyla is paraphyletic unless cetaceans are nested within it, often as the sister group of hippopotamids. We tested morphological evidence for several hypotheses concerning the sister taxon relationships of Cetacea in a maximum parsimony analysis of 123 morphological characters from 10 extant and 30 extinct taxa. We advocate treating certain multistate characters as ordered because such a procedure incorporates information about hierarchical morphological transformation. In all most-parsimonious trees, whether multistate characters are ordered or unordered, Artiodactyla is the extant sister taxon of Cetacea. With certain multistate characters ordered, the extinct clade Mesonychia (Mesonychidae + Hapalodectidae) is the sister taxon of Cetacea, and Artiodactyla is monophyletic. When all fossils are removed from the analysis, Artiodactyla is paraphyletic with Cetacea nested inside, indicating that inclusion of mesonychians and other extinct stem taxa in a phylogenetic analysis of the ungulate clade is integral to the recovery of artiodactyl monophyly. Phylogenies derived from molecular data alone may risk recovering inconsistent branches because of an inability to sample extinct clades, which by a conservative estimate, amount to 89% of the ingroup. Addition of data from recently described astragali attributed to cetaceans does not overturn artiodactyl monophyly.
2585323|We examined the effect of soft polytomies on the performance (Type I error rate and bias) of Felsenstein's (1985; Am. Nat: 125:1-15) method of phylogenetically independent contrasts for estimating a bivariate correlation. We specifically tested the adequacy of bounding degrees of freedom, as suggested by Purvis and Garland (1993; Syst. Biol. 42:569-575). We simulated bivariate character evolution under Brownian motion (assumed by independent contrasts) and eight other models on five phylogenetic trees. For non-Brownian motion simulations, the adequacy of branch-length standardization was checked with a simple diagnostic (Garland et al., 1992; Syst. Biol. 41: 18-32), and transformations were applied as indicated. Surprisingly, soft polytomies tended to have negligible effects on Type I error rates when models other than Brownian motion were used. Overall, and irrespective of evolutionary model, degrees of freedom were appropriately bounded for hypothesis testing, and unbiased estimates of the correlation coefficient were obtained. Our results, along with those of previous simulation studies, suggest that independent contrasts can reliably be applied to real data, even with phylogenetic uncertainty.
2585319|Phylogenetic analyses of molecular and morphological data sets for a group of parasitic wasps (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) give strikingly different results. The molecular data indicate that the major life history transition from ectoparasitism to endoparasitism has occurred independently several times within the family while the morphological data indicate a single origin. Similar incongruent topologies are obtained if the morphological data are partitioned by either of two methods: distinguishing (1) characters of the larval stage and female reproductive system, or (2) characters selected individually by the authors prior to the analysis as likely to be mechanistically associated with endo/ectoparasitism. This result is supported by significant differences in tests of incongruence, and we propose that it is caused by convergence among morphological characters resulting from a shared life history strategy.
2585324|Stratigraphic congruence indices (e.g., stratigraphic consistency index [SCI] of Huelsenbeck, 1994, Paleobiology 40:563-569; relative completeness index [RCI] of Benton, 1994, Trends Ecol. Evol. 9:181-185 [not to be confused with the rescaled consistency index of Farris, 1989, Cladistics 5:417-419]) are increasingly being quoted for cladograms containing fossil taxa. However, like the character consistency index (CI, summed over all characters), these values cannot be compared for trees derived from different data sets. Just as the number of characters and taxa in data matrices affects typical CI values, so tree balance and the distribution of stratigraphic ranges (and indirectly tree size) delimit the range of congruence indices that can be obtained. Because investigators often seek to compare the performance of cladograms from different sources (e.g., different taxa, habitats, periods in history), indices of fit insensitive to these factors are desirable. Two approaches are proposed here: (1) The gap excess ratio (GER) is a new metric that controls for the distribution of range data but is sensitive to differences in tree balance. The GER expresses the difference between the minimum implied gap (MIG; the total ghost range implied by a given set of stratigraphic ranges on a given tree) and G<sub>min</sub> (the minimum possible ghost range for those data on any tree) as a fraction of the range of values possible for those stratigraphic data on any tree. Rather than reflecting inferred completeness of the fossil record (as does the RCI, which is only partially determined by cladistic constraints), the GER indicates congruence alone. (2) Randomization tests hold most potentially conflated parameters constant and compare the observed RCI or GER index with the distribution of indices obtained by randomly reassigning range data over the tree. This enables us to deduce whether the MIG is significantly less (i.e., shows greater congruence) than for random permutations of the same range data. Stratigraphic congruence indices have been invoked as an ancillary criterion for assessing competing hypotheses of relationships derived from different sources or for choosing between equally parsimonous trees derived from the same character matrix. The first application is illustrated with comparisons of actinopterygian and eutherian phylogenies, and the second is illustrated with a study of trees for fossil and Recent arthropods.
2585321|It has been hypothesized that morphological diversity within clades can be generated by simple alterations of shared developmental programs. However, few studies have examined changes in heterochrony, the rate and timing of developmental events, in an explicitly phylogenetic context. We studied how developmental patterns have changed phylogenetically in the northern swordtail clade of Xiphophorus. We reared individuals of an outgroup and seven of nine species in the clade and followed their development for 300 days. For each individual, we used nonlinear regression to estimate three growth parameters: growth rate, adult body size, and age of cessation of growth. We estimated sword growth rates in males by linear regression. We then used the means of these growth parameters to construct standard growth curves for each species and to study growth patterns in a phylogenetic context. A combined phylogeny was constructed from both phenotypic and DNA sequence data. The phenotypic data set, compiled from the literature, consisted of 86 morphological, pigmentation, behavioral, and random amplified polymorphic DNA characters, many of which had not been used before for phylogenetic analysis. DNA sequence data from three genes for a total of 1284 bases were also obtained from the literature and included in the analysis. Relationships between growth parameters were examined by phylogenetically independent contrasts in relation to seven different phylogenies based on the most-parsimonious trees generated from the phenotypic, DNA sequence, and combined data sets; this allowed us to identify relationships between variables that were not sensitive to ambiguities in Xiphophorus phylogeny. Our analysis revealed statistically significant correlations between female body size and male body size, and between female growth rate and male sword growth rate, for all seven phylogenies. Marginally statistically significant relationships were also identified between female body size and female growth rate, and between female growth rate and male body size. We relate these relationships to what is known about the ecology, genetics, and behavior of Xiphophorus to better understand the evolution of growth patterns of both the body as a whole and the sword in particular. The relationship of these data to the evolution of swords is discussed.
2585236|The effect of the evolutionary rate of a gene on the accuracy of phylogeny reconstruction was examined by computer simulation. The evolutionary rate is measured by the tree length, that is, the expected total number of nucleotide substitutions per site on the phylogeny. DNA sequence data were simulated using both fixed trees with specified branch lengths and random trees with branch lengths generated from a model of cladogenesis. The parsimony and likelihood methods were used for phylogeny reconstruction, and the proportion of correctly recovered branch partitions by each method was estimated. Phylogenetic methods including parsimony appear quite tolerant of multiple substitutions at the same site. The optimum levels of sequence divergence were even higher than upper limits previously suggested for saturation of substitutions, indicating that the problem of saturation may have been exaggerated. Instead, the lack of information at low levels of divergence should be seriously considered in evaluation of a gene's phylogenetic utility, especially when the gene sequence is short. The performance of parsimony, relative to that of likelihood, does not necessarily decrease with the increase of the evolutionary rate.
2585234|We have developed a rapid parsimony method for reconstructing ancestral nucleotide states that allows calculation of initial branch lengths that are good approximations to optimal maximum-likelihood estimates under several commonly used substitution models. Use of these approximate branch lengths (rather than fixed arbitrary values) as starting points significantly reduces the time required for iteration to a solution that maximizes the likelihood of a tree. These branch lengths are close enough to the optimal values that they can be used without further iteration to calculate approximate maximum-likelihood scores that are very close to the "exact" scores found by iteration. Several strategies are described for using these approximate scores to substantially reduce times needed for maximum-likelihood tree searches.
2585229|The effects on phylogenetic accuracy of adding characters and/or taxa were explored using data generated by computer simulation. The conditions of this study were constrained but allowed for systematic investigation of certain parameters. The starting point for the study was a four-taxon tree in the "Felsenstein zone," representing a difficult phylogenetic problem with an extreme situation of long branch attraction. Taxa were added sequentially to this tree in a manner specifically designed to break up the long branches, and for each tree data matrices of different sizes were simulated. Phylogenetic trees were reconstructed from these data using the criteria of parsimony and maximum likelihood. Phylogenetic accuracy was measured in three ways: (1) proportion of trees that are completely correct, (2) proportion of correctly reconstructed branches in all trees, and (3) proportion of trees in which the original four-taxon statement is correctly reconstructed. Accuracy improved dramatically with the addition of taxa and much more slowly with the addition of characters. If taxa can be added to break up long branches, it is much more preferable to add taxa than characters.
2585233|Analyses of both the nucleotide and amino acid sequences derived from all 13 mitochondrial protein-encoding genes (12,234 bp) of 19 metazoan species, including that of the lancelet Branchiostoma floridae ("amphioxus"), fail to yield the widely accepted phylogeny for chordates and, within chordates, for vertebrates. Given the breadth and the compelling nature of the data supporting that phylogeny, relationships supported by the mitochondrial sequence comparisons are almost certainly incorrect, despite their being supported by equally weighted parsimony, distance, and maximum-likelihood analyses. The incorrect groupings probably result in part from convergent base-compositional similarities among some of the taxa, similarities that are strong enough to overwhelm the historical signal. Comparisons among very distantly related taxa are likely to be particularly susceptible to such artifacts, because the historical signal is already greatly attenuated. Empirical results underscore the need for approaches to phylogenetic inference that go beyond simple site-by-site comparison of aligned sequences. This study and others indicate that, once a sequence sample of reasonable size has been obtained, accurate phylogenetic estimation may be better served by incorporating knowledge of molecular structures and processes into inference models and by seeking additional higher order characters embedded in those sequences, than by gathering ever larger sequence samples from the same organisms in the hope that the historical signal will eventually prevail.
2585231|To explore the feasibility of parsimony analysis for large data sets, we conducted heuristic parsimony searches and bootstrap analyses on separate and combined DNA data sets for 190 angiosperms and three outgroups. Separate data sets of 18S rDNA (1,855 bp), rbcL (1,428 bp), and atpB (1,450 bp) sequences were combined into a single matrix 4,733 bp in length. Analyses of the combined data set show great improvements in computer run times compared to those of the separate data sets and of the data sets combined in pairs. Six searches of the 18S rDNA + rbcL + atpB data set were conducted; in all cases TBR branch swapping was completed, generally within a few days. In contrast, TBR branch swapping was not completed for any of the three separate data sets, or for the pairwise combined data sets. These results illustrate that it is possible to conduct a thorough search of tree space with large data sets, given sufficient signal. In this case, and probably most others, sufficient signal for a large number of taxa can only be obtained by combining data sets. The combined data sets also have higher internal support for clades than the separate data sets, and more clades receive bootstrap support of 50% in the combined analysis than in analyses of the separate data sets. These data suggest that one solution to the computational and analytical dilemmas posed by large data sets is the addition of nucleotides, as well as taxa.
2585232|Performance measures of phylogenetic estimation methods such as accuracy, consistency, and power are an attempt at summarizing an ensemble of a given estimator's behavior. These summaries characterize an ensemble behavior with a single number, leading to a variety of definitions. In particular, the relationships between different performance measures such as accuracy and consistency or accuracy and error depend on the exact definition of these measures. In addition, it is relatively common to use large-sample behavior to infer similar behavior for small samples. In fact, large-sample results such as the claimed asymptotic efficiency of the maximum-likelihood estimator are often uninformative for small samples. Conversely, small-sample behavior using simulations is sometimes used to imply large-sample behavior such as consistency. However, such extrapolation is often difficult. How the performance of a phylogenetic estimator scales with the addition of taxa must be qualified with respect to whether the whole tree is being estimated or a fixed subset of taxa is being estimated. It must also be qualified with respect to how tree models are sampled. Over the ensemble of all possible trees of a given size, the performance of the estimators for the whole tree estimate suffers when the tree size becomes larger. However, under certain models of cladogenesis, the estimate can improve with the addition of taxa. In fact, at all numbers of taxa there are subsets of tree models that are easier to estimate than others. This suggests that with judicious addition or subtraction of taxa we can move from tree models that are more difficult to estimate at one number of taxa to those that are easier to estimate at another number of taxa.
2585235|Recent phylogenetic analyses of cetacean relationships based on DNA sequence data have challenged the traditional view that baleen whales (Mysticeti) and toothed whales (Odontoceti) are each monophyletic, arguing instead that baleen whales are the sister group of the odontocete family Physeteridae (sperm whales). We reexamined this issue in light of a morphological data set composed of 207 characters and molecular data sets of published 12S, 16S, and cytochrome b mitochondrial DNA sequences. We reach four primary conclusions: (1) Our morphological data set strongly supports the traditional view of odontocete monophyly; (2) the unrooted molecular and morphological trees are very similar, and most of the conflict results from alternative rooting positions; (3) the rooting position of the molecular tree is sensitive to choice of artiodactyl outgroup taxa and the treatment of two small but ambiguously aligned regions of the 12S and 16S sequences, whereas the morphological root is strongly supported; and (4) combined analyses of the morphological and molecular data provide a well-supported phylogenetic estimate consistent with that based on the morphological data alone (and the traditional view of toothed-whale monophyly) but with increased bootstrap support at nearly every node of the tree.
2585230|Recent studies have shown that addition or deletion of taxa from a data matrix can change the estimate of phylogeny. I used 29 data sets from the literature to examine the effect of taxon sampling on phylogeny estimation within data sets. I then used multiple regression to assess the effect of number of taxa, number of characters, homoplasy, strength of support, and tree symmetry on the sensitivity of data sets to taxonomic sampling. Sensitivity to sampling was measured by mapping characters from a matrix of culled taxa onto optimal trees for that reduced matrix and onto the pruned optimal tree for the entire matrix, then comparing the length of the reduced tree to the length of the pruned complete tree. Within-data-set patterns can be described by a second-order equation relating fraction of taxa sampled to sensitivity to sampling. Multiple regression analyses found number of taxa to be a significant predictor of sensitivity to sampling; retention index, number of informative characters, total support index, and tree symmetry were nonsignificant predictors. I derived a predictive regression equation relating fraction of taxa sampled and number of taxa potentially sampled to sensitivity to taxonomic sampling and calculated values for this equation within the bounds of the variables examined. The length difference between the complete tree and a subsampled tree was generally small (average difference of 0-2.9 steps), indicating that subsampling taxa is probably not an important problem for most phylogenetic analyses using up to 20 taxa.
2585203|We examined Type I error rates of Felsenstein's (1985; Am. Nat. 125:1-15) comparative method of phylogenetically independent contrasts when branch lengths are in error and the model of evolution is not Brownian motion. We used seven evolutionary models, six of which depart strongly from Brownian motion, to simulate the evolution of two continuously valued characters along two different phylogenies (15 and 49 species). First, we examined the performance of independent contrasts when branch lengths are distorted systematically, for example, by taking the square root of each branch segment. These distortions often caused inflated Type I error rates, but performance was almost always restored when branch length transformations were used. Next, we investigated effects of random errors in branch lengths. After the data were simulated, we added errors to the branch lengths and then used the altered phylogenies to estimate character correlations. Errors in the branches could be of two types: fixed, where branch lengths are either shortened or lengthened by a fixed fraction; or variable, where the error is a normal variate with mean zero and the variance is scaled to the length of the branch (so that expected error relative to branch length is constant for the whole tree). Thus, the error added is unrelated to the microevolutionary model. Without branch length checks and transformations, independent contrasts tended to yield extremely inflated and highly variable Type I error rates. Type I error rates were reduced, however, when branch lengths were checked and transformed as proposed by Garland et al. (1992; Syst. Biol. 41:18-32), and almost never exceeded twice the nominal P-value at  = 0.05. Our results also indicate that, if branch length transformations are applied, then the appropriate degrees of freedom for testing the significance of a correlation coefficient should, in general, be reduced to account for estimation of the best branch length transformation. These results extend those reported in Diaz-Uriarte and Garland (1996; Syst. Biol. 45:27-47), and show that, even with errors in branch lengths and evolutionary models different from Brownian motion, independent contrasts are a robust method for testing hypotheses of correlated evolution.
2585199|Two qualitative taxonomic characters are potentially compatible if the states of each can be ordered into a character state tree in such a way that the two resulting character state trees are compatible. The number of potentially compatible pairs (NPCP) of qualitative characters from a data set may be considered to be a measure of its phylogenetic randomness. The value of NPCP depends on the number of evolutionary units (EUs), the number of characters, the number of states in the characters, the distributions of EUs among these states, and the amount and distribution of missing information and so does not directly indicate degree of phylogenetic randomness. Thus, for an observed data set, we used Monte Carlo methods to estimate the probability that a data set chosen equiprobably from among those identical (with respect to all the other above determining features) to the observed data set would have as high (or low) an NPCP as the observed data set. This probability, the realized significance of the observed NPCP, is attractive as an indication of phylogenetic randomness because it does not require the assumptions made by other such methods: No character state trees are assumed and consequently, only potential compatibility can be determined; no particular method of phylogenetic estimation is assumed; and no phylogenetic trees are constructed. We determined the values and significances of NPCP for analyses of 57 data sets taken from 53 published sources. All data sets from 37 of those sources exhibited realized significances of <0.01, indicating high levels of phylogenetic nonrandomness. From each of the remaining 16 sources, at least one data set was more phylogenetically random. Inclusion of outgroups changed significance in some cases, but not always in the same direction. Data sets with significantly low NPCP may be consistent with an ancient hybrid origin (or other ancient polyphyletic gene exchange, crossing over, viral transfer, etc.) of the study group.
2585200|Three properties of bifurcating branching diagrams that are used for representing a specific number of taxa are (1) the number of possible arrangements, (2) the number of possible topologies, and (3) the probabilities of formation according to particular models of cladogenesis. Of these, the probabilities have received the least attention in the literature. Indeed, many biologists would be astonished by the observation that the probability of a commonly cited cladogram containing 35 phyla of the animal kingdom is < 0.0072% of the value of the average probability taken over all possible cladograms! We reviewed works on cladogram arrangements and topologies and developed a computer-generated table of enumerations that extends and corrects such tables in the literature. We also developed a nonrecursive formula for the determination of cladogram probabilities. This formula facilitates calculation and thereby should promote use of cladogram probabilities, which might provide more accurate null hypotheses for tests of cladogenic events than do considerations of cladogram arrangements or topologies.
2585196|The possibility that two data sets may have different underlying phylogenetic histories (such as gene trees that deviate from species trees) has become an important argument against combining data in phylogenetic analysis. However, two data sets sampled for a large number of taxa may differ in only part of their histories. This is a realistic scenario and one in which the relative advantages of combined, separate, and consensus analysis become much less clear. I propose a simple methodology for dealing with this situation that involves (1) partitioning the available data to maximize detection of different histories, (2) performing separate analyses of the data sets, and (3) combining the data but considering questionable or unresolved those parts of the combined tree that are strongly contested in the separate analyses (and which therefore may have different histories) until a majority of unlinked data sets support one resolution over another. In support of this methodology, computer simulations suggest that (1) the accuracy of combined analysis for recovering the true species phylogeny may exceed that of either of two separately analyzed data sets under some conditions, particularly when the mismatch between phylogenetic histories is small and the estimates of the underlying histories are imperfect (few characters, high homoplasy, or both) and (2) combined analysis provides a poor estimate of the species tree in areas of the phylogenies with different histories but gives an improved estimate in regions that share the same history. Thus, when there is a localized mismatch between the histories of two data sets, the separate, consensus, and combined analyses may all give unsatisfactory results in certain parts of the phylogeny. Similarly, approaches that allow data combination only after a global test of heterogeneity will suffer from the potential failings of either separate or combined analysis, depending on the outcome of the test. Excision of conflicting taxa is also problematic, in that doing so may obfuscate the position of conflicting taxa within a larger tree, even when their placement is congruent between data sets. Application of the proposed methodology to molecular and morphological data sets for Sceloporus lizards is discussed.
2585195|A morphological data set and three sources of data from the chloroplast genome (two genes and a restriction site survey) were used to reconstruct the phylogenetic history of the pickerel-weed family Pontederiaceae. The chloroplast data converged towards a single tree, presumably the true chloroplast phylogeny of the family. Unrooted trees estimated from each of the three chloroplast data sets were identical or extremely similar in shape to each other and mostly robustly supported. There was no evidence of significant heterogeneity among the data sets, and the few topological differences seen among unrooted trees from each chloroplast data set are probably artifacts of sampling error on short branches. Despite well-documented differences in rates of evolution for different characters in individual data sets, equally weighted parsimony permits accurate reconstructions of chloroplast relationships in Pontederiaceae. A separate morphology-based data set yielded trees that were very different from the chloroplast trees. Although there was substantial support from the morphological evidence for several major clades supported by chloroplast trees, most of the conflicting phylogenetic structure on the morphology trees was not robust. Nonetheless, several statistical tests of incongruence indicate significant heterogeneity between molecules and morphology. The source of this apparent incongruence appears to be a low ratio of phylogenetic signal to noise in the morphological data.
2585201|Missing data are a widely recognized nuisance factor in phylogenetic analyses, and the fear of missing data may deter systematists from including characters that are highly incomplete. In this paper, I used simulations to explore the consequences of including sets of characters that contain missing data. More specifically, I tested whether the benefits of increasing the number of characters outweigh the costs of adding missing data cells to a matrix. The results show that the addition of a set of characters with missing data is generally more likely to increase phylogenetic accuracy than decrease it, but the potential benefits of adding these characters quickly disappear as the proportion of missing data increases. Furthermore, despite the overall trend, adding characters with missing data does decrease accuracy in some cases. In these situations, the missing data entries are not themselves misleading, but their presence may mimic the effects of limited taxon sampling, which can positively mislead. Criteria are discussed for predicting whether adding characters with missing data may increase or decrease accuracy. The results of this study also suggest that accuracy can be increased to a surprising degree by (1) "filling the holes" in a data matrix as much as possible (even when relatively few taxa are missing data), and (2) adding fewer characters scored for all taxa rather than adding a larger number of characters known for fewer taxa. Missing data can also be eliminated from an analysis through the exclusion of incomplete taxa rather than incomplete characters, but this approach may reduce the usefulness of the analysis and (in some cases) the accuracy of the estimated trees.
2585197|Assumptions about the costs of character change, coded in the form of a step matrix, determine most-parsimonious inferences of character evolution on phylogenies. We present a graphical approach to exploring the relationship between cost assumptions and evolutionary inferences from character data. The number of gains and losses of a binary trait on a phylogeny can be plotted over a range of cost assumptions, to reveal the inflection point at which there is a switch from more gains to more losses and the point at which all changes are inferred to be in one direction or the other. Phylogenetic structure in the data, the tree shape, and the relative frequency of states among the taxa influence the shape of such graphs and complicate the interpretation of possible permutation-based tests for directionality of change. The costs at which the most-parsimonious state of each internal node switches from one state to another can also be quantified by iterative ancestral-state reconstruction over a range of costs. This procedure helps identify the most robust inferences of change in each direction, which should be of use in designing comparative studies.
2585204|Randomization tests allow the formulation and statistical testing of null hypotheses about the quality of entire data sets or the quality of fit between the data and particular phylogenetic hypotheses. Randomization tests of phylogenetic hypotheses based on the concepts of split support and split conflict are described here, as are tests where splits, rather than the data, are randomly permuted. These tree-independent randomization tests are explored through their application to phylogenetic data for caecilian amphibians. Of these tests, split support randomization tests appear to be the most promising tools for phylogeneticists. These tests seem quite conservative, are applicable to nonpolar data and unordered multistate characters, and do not have the problems of nonindependence that affect split conflict and hierarchy tests. Unlike split conflict tests, their power does not appear to be correlated with split size. However, all tests are sensitive to taxonomic scope. Split support tests may help discern data that are likely to be affected by the problems of long-branches effects. Comparison of test results for mutually incompatible splits may help identify the presence of strong misleading signals in phylogenetic data. Significant split support could be a prerequisite for considering phylogenetic hypotheses to be well supported by the data, and split support randomization tests might be usefully applied prior to or as part of tree construction.
2585198|Among-site rate variation () and transition bias () have been shown, most often as independent parameters, to be important dynamics in DNA evolution. Accounting for these dynamics should result in better estimates of phylogenetic relationships. To test this idea, we simultaneously estimated overall (averaged over all codon positions) and codon-specific values of  and , using maximum likelihood analyses of cytochrome b data from all genera of pipits and wagtails (Aves: Motacillidae), and six outgroup species, using initial trees generated with default values. Estimates of  and  were robust to initial tree topology and suggested substantial among-site rate variation even within codon classes;  was lowest (large among-site rate variation) at second-codon and highest (low among-site rate variation) at third-codon positions. When overall values were applied, there were shifts in tree topology and dramatic and statistically significant improvements in log-likelihood scores of trees compared with the scores from application of default values. Applying codon-specific values resulted in yet another highly significant increase in likelihood. However, although incorporating substitution dynamics into maximum likelihood, maximum parsimony, and neighbor-joining analyses resulted in increases in congruence among trees, there were only minor improvements in phylogenetic signal, and none of the successive approximations tree topologies were statistically distinguishable from one another by the data. We suggest that the bushlike nature of many higher-level phylogenies in birds makes estimating the dynamics of DNA evolution less sensitive to tree topology but also less susceptible to improvement via weighting.
2585202|The individuality of species provides the basis for linking practical taxonomy with evolutionary and ecological theory. An individual is here defined as a collection of parts (lower-level entities) that are mutually connected. Different types of species individual exist, based on different types of connection between organisms. An interbreeding species is a group of organisms connected by the potential to share common descendants; whereas a genealogical species is integrated by the sharing of common ancestors. Such species definitions serve to set the limits of species at a moment of time and these slices connect through time to form time-extended lineages. This perspective on the nature of individuality has implications that conflict with traditional views of species and lineages: (1) Several types of connections among organisms may serve to individuate species in parallel (species pluralism); (2) each kind of species corresponds to a distinct kind of lineage; (3) although lineage branching is the most obvious criterion to break lineages into diachronic species, it cannot be justified simply by reference to species individuality; (4) species (like other individuals) have fuzzy boundaries; (5) if we wish to retain a species rank, we should focus on either the most- or least-inclusive individual in a nested series; (6) not all organisms will be in any species; and (7) named species taxa are best interpreted as hypotheses of real species. Although species individuality requires significant changes to systematic practice and challenges some preconceptions we may have about the ontology of species, it provides the only sound basis for asserting that species exist independently of human perception.
2585373|Characters derived from advertisement calls, morphology, allozymes, and the sequences of the small subunit of the mitochondrial ribosomal gene (12S) and the cytochrome oxidase I (COI) mitochondrial gene were used to estimate the phylogeny of frogs of the Physalaemus pustulosus group (Leptodactylidae). The combinability of these data partitions was assessed in several ways: measures of phylogenetic signal, character support for trees, congruence of tree topologies, compatibility of data partitions with suboptimal trees, and homogeneity of data partitions. Combined parsimony analysis of all data equally weighted yielded the same tree as the 12S partition analyzed under parsimony and maximum likelihood. The COI, allozyme, and morphology partitions were generally congruent and compatible with the tree derived from combined data. The call data were significantly different from all other partitions, whether considered in terms of tree topology alone, partition homogeneity, or compatibility of data with trees derived from other partitions. The lack of effect of the call data on the topology of the combined tree is probably due to the small number of call characters. The general incongruence of the call data with other data partitions is consistent with the idea that the advertisement calls of this group of frogs are under strong sexual selection.
2585372|We examined three parallel data sets with respect to qualities relevant to phylogenetic analysis of 20 exemplar monocotyledons and related dicotyledons. The three data sets represent restriction-site variation in the inverted repeat region of the chloroplast genome, and nucleotide sequence variation in the chloroplast-encoded gene rbcL and in the mitochondrion-encoded gene atp A, the latter of which encodes the -subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. The plant mitochondrial genome has been little used in plant systematics, in part because nucleotide sequence evolution in enzyme-encoding genes of this genome is relatively slow. The three data sets were examined in separate and combined analyses, with a focus on patterns of congruence, homoplasy, and data decisiveness. Data decisiveness (described by P. Goloboff) is a measure of robustness of support for most parsimonious trees by a data set in terms of the degree to which those trees are shorter than the average length of all possible trees. Because indecisive data sets require relatively fewer additional steps than decisive ones to be optimized on nonparsimonious trees, they will have a lesser tendency to be incongruent with other data sets. One consequence of this relationship between decisiveness and character incongruence is that if incongruence is used as a criterion of noncombinability, decisive data sets, which provide robust support for relationships, are more likely to be assessed as noncombinable with other data sets than are indecisive data sets, which provide weak support for relationships. For the sampling of taxa in this study, the atp A data set has about half as many cladistically informative nucleotides as the rbcL data set per site examined, and is less homoplastic and more decisive. The rbcL data set, which is the least decisive of the three, exhibits the lowest levels of character incongruence. Whatever the molecular evolutionary cause of this phenomenon, it seems likely that the poorer performance of rbcL than atpA, in terms of data decisiveness, is due to both its higher overall level of homoplasy and the fact that it is performing especially poorly at nonsynonymous sites.
2585370|In the analysis of organismal form, landmark-based geometrical morphometrics now are preferred to traditional morphometrics by many systematists. However, certain forms have eluded geometrical morphometric analysis because landmarks on them are difficult to define; this situation is a problem of logistics rather than an inadequacy of the landmark-based approach. In this article, a landmark-based geometrical morphometric analysis is performed on one such form (the gastropod shell), and the results obtained are compared to those obtained using more traditional methods of morphometric analysis.
2585367|The phylogeny of baobab trees was analyzed using four data sets: chloroplast DNA restriction sites, sequences of the chloroplast rpl16 intron, sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA, and morphology. We sampled each of the eight species of Adansonia plus three outgroup taxa from tribe Adansonieae. These data were analyzed singly and in combination using parsimony. ITS and morphology provided the greatest resolution and were largely concordant. The two chloroplast data sets showed concordance with one another but showed significant conflict with ITS and morphology. A possible explanation for the conflict is genealogical discordance within the Malagasy Longitubae, perhaps due to introgression events. A maximum-likelihood analysis of branching times shows that the dispersal between Africa and Australia occurred well after the fragmentation of Gondwana and therefore involved overwater dispersal. The phylogeny does not permit unambiguous reconstruction of floral evolution but suggests the plausible hypothesis that hawkmoth pollination was ancestral in Adansonia and that there were two parallel switches to pollination by mammals in the genus.
2585369|Intraspecific variation is abundant in all types of systematic characters but is rarely addressed in simulation studies of phylogenetic method performance. We compared the accuracy of 15 phylogenetic methods using simulations to (1) determine the most accurate method(s) for analyzing polymorphic data (under simplified conditions) and (2) test if generalizations about the performance of phylogenetic methods based on previous simulations of fixed (nonpolymorphic) characters are robust to a very different evolutionary model that explicitly includes intraspecific variation. Simulated data sets consisted of allele frequencies that evolved by genetic drift. The phylogenetic methods included eight parsimony coding methods, continuous maximum likelihood, and three distance methods (UPGMA, neighbor joining, and Fitch-Margoliash) applied to two genetic distance measures (Nei's and the modified Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards chord distance). Two sets of simulations were performed. The first examined the effects of different branch lengths, sample sizes (individuals sampled per species), numbers of characters, and numbers of alleles per locus in the eight-taxon case. The second examined more extensively the effects of branch length in the four-taxon, two-allele case. Overall, the most accurate methods were likelihood, the additive distance methods (neighbor joining and Fitch-Margoliash), and the frequency parsimony method. Despite the use of a very different evolutionary model in the present article, many of the results are similar to those from simulations of fixed characters. Similarities include the presence of the "Felsenstein zone," where methods often fail, which suggests that long-branch attraction may occur among closely related species through genetic drift. Differences between the results of fixed and polymorphic data simulations include the following: (1) UPGMA is as accurate or more accurate than nonfrequency parsimony methods across nearly all combinations of branch lengths, and (2) likelihood and the additive distance methods are not positively misled under any combination of branch lengths tested (even when the assumptions of the methods are violated and few characters are sampled). We found that sample size is an important determinant of accuracy and affects the relative success of methods (i.e., distance and likelihood methods outperform parsimony at small sample sizes). Attempts to generalize about the behavior of phylogenetic methods should consider the extreme examples offered by fixed-mutation models of DNA sequence data and genetic-drift models of allele frequencies.
2585371|We examined and compared several morphometric methods for describing complex shapes. We chose the leaves of maples (Acer) and other tree species because they can all be visually discriminated from each other solely by leaf shape. We digitized the leaf outlines with a video camera and then examined the outlines with several morphometric methods to determine the extent to which margin details could be quantified and compared. Elliptic Fourier analysis provides complete and accurate descriptions of complex outlines and can be used to reconstruct images accurately. We compared several metrics that summarize overall shape complexity. A new measure of margin roughness is useful for quantifying and comparing margin detail independently of overall shape. Fractal dimension is highly correlated with the ratio of perimeter to area (dissection index) and reveals little additional information about shape. In combination, the summaries of shape complexity provide good discrimination of groups. We used canonical discriminant analysis to compare methods for outlines to traditional morphometric analysis of measurements taken between landmark points. Groups were discriminated from each other more clearly with outline methods than with landmark-based analyses.
2585368|We examined the efficiencies of ordination methods in the treatment of gene frequency data at intraspecific level, using metric and nonmetric distance measures (Nei's and Rogers' genetic distances, <sup>2</sup> distance). We assessed initial processes responsible for the geographical distribution of the Mediterranean land snail Helix aspersa. Seventeen enzyme loci from 30 North African snail populations were considered in the present analysis. Five combinations of distance/multivariate analysis were compared: correspondence analysis (CA), nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) on Nei's, Rogers', and <sup>2</sup> distances, and principal coordinates analysis on Rogers' distances. Configuration of the objects resulting from ordination was projected onto three-dimensional graphics with the minimum spanning tree or the relative neighborhood graph superimposed. Pre- and postordination or clustering distance matrices were compared by means of correlation methods. As expected, all combinations led to a clear west versus east pattern of variation. However, the intraregional relationships and degree of connectivity between pairs of operational taxonomic units were not necessarily constant from one method to another. Ordination methods when applied with Nei's and Rogers' distances provided the best fit, with original distances (r = 0.98) compared with UPGMA clustering (r  0.75). The Nei/NMDS combination seems to be a good compromise (distortion index d<sub>t</sub> = 10%) between Rogers/NMDS, which produces a more confusing pattern of differentiation (d<sub>t</sub> = 24%), and x<sup>2</sup>/CA, which tends to distort large distances (d<sub>t</sub> = 31%). NMDS obviously provides a powerful method to summarize relationships between populations, when neither hierarchical structure nor phylogenetic inference are required. These findings led the discussion on the good performance of NMDS, the appropriate distances to be used, and the potential application of this method to other types of allelic data (such as microsatellite loci) or data on nucleotide sequences of genes.
2585252|Kangaroos and their relatives (family Macropodidae) are divided into the subfamilies Macropodinae (kangaroos, wallabies, pademelons) and Potoroinae (rat-kangaroos, potoroos, bettongs). The musky rat-kangaroo, Hypsiprymnodon moschatus, is traditionally allied with other potoroines, based primarily on the basis of osteological characters and aspects of the female reproductive system. Unlike other macropodids, however, which are capable of bipedal hopping, Hypsiprymnodon is a quadrupedal bounder and lacks several derived features of the pes and tarsus that are presumably adaptations for bipedal hopping. Other derived features, such as a complex stomach, loss of P<sub>2</sub> with the eruption of P<sub>3</sub>, and reduction of litter size to one, are also lacking in Hypsiprymnodon but occur in all other macropodids. Thus, available evidence suggests that Hypsiprymnodon either is part of a monophyletic Potoroinae or is a sister taxon to other living macropodids. To test these hypotheses, we sequenced 1,170 bp base pairs of the mitochondrial genome for 16 macropodids. Maximum parsimony, minimum evolution, maximum likelihood, and quartet puzzling all support the hypothesis that macropodines and potoroines are united to the exclusion of Hypsiprymnodon. This hypothesis implies that characters such as bipedal hopping evolved only once in macropodid evolution. Aside from Hypsiprymnodon, the remaining macropodids separate into the traditional Macropodinae and Potoroinae. Macropodines further separate into two clades: one containing the New Guinean forest wallabies Dorcopsis and Dorcopsulus, and one consisting of the genera Macropus, Setonix, Thylogale, Onychogalea, Wallabia, Dendrolagus, Peradorcas, and Lagorchestes. Among potoroines, there is moderate support for the association of Bettongia and Aepyprymnus to the exclusion of Potorous. Divergence times were estimated by using 12S ribosomal RNA transversions. At the base of the macropodid radiation, Hypsiprymnodon diverged from other macropodids approximately 45 million years ago. This estimate is comparable to divergence estimates among families of Australasian possums based on single-copy DNA hybridization and 12S rRNA transversions. Macropodines and potoroines, in turn, diverged approximately 30 million years ago. Among macropodines, Dorcopsis and Dorcopsulus separated from other taxa approximately 10 million years ago.
2585250|Congruence between trees from separately analyzed data sets is a powerful approach for assessing the performance of phylogenetic methods but has been applied primarily to the analysis of molecular data. In this study, different methods for treating polymorphic characters were compared using morphological data from phrynosomatid lizards. Clades were identified that are both traditionally recognized and supported by recent molecular analyses, and species were sampled from these clades to make three "known" phylogenies of eight species each. The ability of different methods to estimate these "known" phylogenies with a finite sample of characters was tested. The phylogenetic methods included eight parsimony methods for coding polymorphism, three distance approaches (UPGMA, neighbor joining, and Fitch-Margoliash) applied to two genetic distance measures (Nei's and the modified Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards chord distance), and continuous maximum likelihood. The effects of excluding polymorphic characters and character weighting (a priori and successive) were also tested. Among the different parsimony approaches, the fixed-only method (excluding all polymorphic characters) performed relatively poorly, whereas the frequency method (including all polymorphic characters) performed relatively well. However, frequency-based distance methods consistently outperformed parsimony, especially with a small sample size (n = 1 individual per species). These results agree closely with those from recent simulation studies of polymorphic data and argue against the common practices of excluding polymorphic morphological characters, ignoring the frequencies of traits within species, and the exclusive use of parsimony to analyze morphological data.
2585246|In sponges, as in other taxa with simple organization, the evaluation and use of morphological characters is difficult. Phylogenetic analysis of the first 850 nucleotides from the 5' end of the 28S rRNA gene is used here to assess the homology of spicules used in the classification of the subclass Tetractinellida. A single well-supported MP tree was obtained. The monophyly of the nine Tetractinellida species studied confirms the tetraxon megasclere as a morphological synapomorphy for the Tetractinellida. Two species are reallocated, Penares helleri as a Geodiidae, now thought to have lost sterraster microscleres, and Stryphnus mucronatus to the Streptosclerophorida. SEM micrographs of Stryphnus microscleres show that the morphology of the sanidasters is compatible with the hypothesis that they are homologous with streptoscleres and confirm this reallocation. Two other synapomorphies are confirmed within the tetractinellid clade, the simultaneous presence of tetraxon megasclere and aster-type microsclere (Astrophorida) and the loss of the streptosclere and persistence of the euaster s.s. microscleres (Euastrophorida) evidenced by the reallocation of Stryphnus mucronatus. The streptosclere microscleres cannot be evaluated in terms of homology because Streptosclerophorida may be paraphyletic (although these nodes are not supported by reliable bootstrap proportions) contrary to the currently accepted classification.
2585251|A new cladistic method for the estimation of ancestral areas is based on reversible parsimony in combination with a weighting scheme that weights steps in positionally plesiomorphic branches more highly than steps in positionally apomorphic branches. By applying this method to cladograms of human mitochondrial DNA, the method is superior to previously proposed algorithms. The method is also an appropriate tool for the solution of the redundant distribution problem in area cladograms. Under the assumption of allopatric speciation, redundant distributions, i.e., sympatry of sister groups, show that dispersal has occurred; thus, the ancestral area of at least one sister group was smaller than the combined distribution of its descendants. With the weighted ancestral area analysis, the ancestral areas can be confined and at least some dispersal events can be distinguished from possible vicariance events. As applied to a cladogram of the Polypteridae, weighted ancestral area analysis is superior to Brooks parsimony analysis (assumption 0) and component analysis under assumptions 1 and 2 (Nelson and Platnick, 1981, Systematics and biogeography: Cladistics and vicariance. Columbia Univ. Press, New York.) in resolving redundancies. The results of the weighted ancestral area analysis may differ from the results of dispersal-vicariance analysis, because the rules of dispersal-vicariance analysis indirectly favor the questionable assumption that the ancestral species occupied only one unit area.
2585248|Many phylogenetic analyses, particularly morphological studies, use higher taxa (e.g., genera, families) rather than species as terminal taxa. This general approach requires dealing with interspecific variation among the species that make up the higher taxon. In this paper, I review different parsimony methods for coding and sampling higher taxa and compare their relative accuracies using computer simulations. Despite their widespread use, methods that involve coding higher taxa as terminals perform poorly in simulations, relative to splitting up the higher taxa and using species as terminals. Among the methods that use higher taxa as terminals, coding a taxon based on the most common condition among the included species (majority or modal coding) is generally more accurate than other coding methods, such as coding taxa as missing or polymorphic. The success of the majority method, and results of further simulations, suggest that in many cases "common equals primitive" within variable taxa, at least for low and intermediate rates of character change. The fixed-only method (excluding variable characters) performs very poorly, a result that is indirectly supported by analyses of published data for squamate reptiles. Sampling only a single species per higher taxon also yields low accuracy under many conditions. Along with recent studies of intraspecific polymorphism, the results of this study show the general importance of (1) including characters despite variation within taxa and (2) using methods that incorporate detailed information on the distribution of states within variable taxa.
2585249|Phylogenetic analysis is usually limited to considering descent relationships structured as a tree. Descent patterns with structures other than a tree characterize evolutionary systems in which entities can inherit genetic material from more than one source, i.e., hybrid ancestry. Descent patterns in a phylogenetic system with a single hybrid event can be described as the sum of two gene trees, each describing the history of part of the genetic material composing the system. Systems with more than one hybrid event will require a larger set of trees. This set of gene trees is called a phylogenetic forest. A potentially reticulate data structure, the hypertree, can represent a forest-structured phylogenetic hypothesis and simplify the calculation of parsimony costs. A workable parsimony criterion for hypertrees is the simultaneous minimization of mutation costs and the complexity of the forest. A method is presented to perform data-directed permutations on hypertrees in a heuristic search for parsimonious solutions. For any given data set, parsimonious hypertrees will range from zero hybrid events and a certain amount of homoplasy to multiple hybrid events with no homoplasy. Choosing from among this set of parsimonious hypertrees is a conceptually difficult problem that will depend on how likely hybrid events are in the particular system. This multitree approach is a simple generalization of cladistic parsimony to reticulate systems of common ancestry.
2585253|An expanded matrix of morphological characters for the genus Aramigus (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), which includes numerous polyploid parthenogenetic lineages, was compared and combined with a published matrix of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) characters. The matrix of morphological characters provides little resolution of the A. tessellatus and A. uruguayensis species complexes but does resolve previously unresolved relationships among other morphologically defined species (A. globoculus + A. intermedius, A. curtulus + A. planioculus). The morphological and mtDNA characters are significantly incongruent (0.435  I<sub>M</sub>  0.463; I<sub>MF</sub> = 0.0735), according to the tests of Farris et al. (P = 0.010) and Templeton (P < 0.005), probably because of hybrid origins of polyploid parthenogenetic lineages. For the few sexual lineages included in both matrices, morphology and mtDNA provide congruent estimates of phylogeny. In spite of recent injunctions against combining data sets that are incongruent because of differing histories, the results of the combined analyses were used to select one of the most-parsimonious mtDNA trees as the best estimate of maternal-lineage genealogy and to reconstruct the evolution of parthenogenesis under the assumption that transitions from sexuality to parthenogenesis are irreversible. Where cytogenetically justified, as in weevils, the irreversibility assumption is useful for producing conservative estimates of the age of parthenogenetic lineages in spite of potential sampling bias against sexuals.
2585247|We compared four approaches for analyzing three data sets derived from staphylinoid beetles, a superfamily whose known species diversity is roughly comparable to that of vertebrates. One data set is derived from adult morphology and the two molecular data sets are from 12S ribosomal RNA and cytochrome b mitochondrial DNA. We found that taxonomic congruence following conditional data combination, herein called compatible evidence (CE), resolved more nodes compatible with an initial conservative hypothesis than did total evidence (TE), conditional data combination (CDC), or taxonomic congruence (TC). CE sets a base of nodes obtained by CDC analysis and then investigates what further agreement may arise in a universe where these nodes are accepted as given. We suggest that CE75-75 may be appropriate for future studies that aim to both generate a well-corroborated tree and investigate conflicts between data sets, partitions, and characters. CE75-75 is a 75% bootstrap consensus CDC tree followed by combinable-component consensus of a 75% bootstrap consensus of each homogeneous set of partitions having hierarchical structure.
41316581|Phylogenies are fundamental to comparative biology as they help to identify independent events on which statistical tests rely. Two groups of phylogenetic comparative methods (PCMs) can be distinguished: those that take phylogenies into account by introducing explicit models of evolution and those that only consider phylogenies as a statistical constraint and aim at partitioning trait values into a phylogenetic component (phylogenetic inertia) and one or multiple specific components related to adaptive evolution. The way phylogenetic information is incorporated into the PCMs depends on the method used. For the first group of methods, phylogenies are converted into variance-covariance matrices of traits following a given model of evolution such as Brownian motion (BM). For the second group of methods, phylogenies are converted into distance matrices that are subsequently transformed into Euclidean distances to perform principal coordinate analyses. Here, we show that simply taking the elementwise square root of a distance matrix extracted from a phylogenetic tree ensures having a Euclidean distance matrix. This is true for any type of distances between species (patristic or nodal) and also for trees harboring multifurcating nodes. Moreover, we illustrate that this simple transformation using the square root imposes less geometric distortion than more complex transformations classically used in the literature such as the Cailliez method. Given the Euclidean nature of the elementwise square root of phylogenetic distance matrices, the positive semidefinitiveness of the phylogenetic variance-covariance matrix of a trait following a BM model, or related models of trait evolution, can be established. In that way, we build a bridge between the two groups of statistical methods widely used in comparative analysis. These results should be of great interest for ecologists and evolutionary biologists performing statistical analyses incorporating phylogenies.
41316577|Investigating patterns and processes of parasite diversification over ancient geological periods should involve comparisons of host and parasite phylogenies in a biogeographic context. It has been shown previously that the geographical distribution of host-specific parasites of sarcopterygians was guided, from Palaeozoic to Cainozoic times, mostly by evolution and diversification of their freshwater hosts. Here, we propose phylogenies of neobatrachian frogs and their specific parasites (Platyhelminthes, Monogenea) to investigate coevolutionary processes and historical biogeography of polystomes and further discuss all the possible assumptions that may account for the early evolution of these parasites. Phylogenetic analyses of concatenated rRNA nuclear genes (18S and partial 28S) supplemented by cophylogenetic and biogeographic vicariance analyses reveal four main parasite lineages that can be ascribed to centers of diversity, namely Australia, India, Africa, and South America. In addition, the relationships among these biogeographical monophyletic groups, substantiated by molecular dating, reflect sequential origins during the breakup of Gondwana. The Australian poly stome lineage may have been isolated during the first stages of the breakup, whereas the Indian lineage would have arisen after the complete separation of western and eastern Gondwanan components. Next, polystomes would have codiverged with hyloid sensu stricto and ranoid frog lineages before the completion of South American and African plate separation. Ultimately, they would have undergone an extensive diversification in South America when their ancestral host families diversified. Therefore, the presence of polystome parasites in specific anuran host clades and in discrete geographic areas reveals the importance of biogeographic vicariance in diversification processes and supports the occurrence and radiation of amphibians over ancient and recent geological periods.
41316582|Current phylogenetic methods attempt to account for evolutionary rate variation across characters in a matrix. This is generally achieved by the use of sophisticated evolutionary models, combined with dense sampling of large numbers of characters. However, systematic biases and superimposed substitutions make this task very difficult. Model adequacy can sometimes be achieved at the cost of adding large numbers of free parameters, with each parameter being optimized according to some criterion, resulting in increased computation times and large variances in the model estimates. In this study, we develop a simple approach that estimates the relative evolutionary rate of each homologous character. The method that we describe uses the similarity between characters as a proxy for evolutionary rate. In this article, we work on the premise that if the character-state distribution of a homologous character is similar to many other characters, then this character is likely to be relatively slowly evolving. If the character-state distribution of a homologous character is not similar to many or any of the rest of the characters in a data set, then it is likely to be the result of rapid evolution. We show that in some test cases, at least, the premise can hold and the inferences are robust. Importantly, the method does not use a "starting tree" to make the inference and therefore is tree independent. We demonstrate that this approach can work as well as a maximum likelihood (ML) approach, though the ML method needs to have a known phylogeny, or at least a very good estimate of that phylogeny. We then demonstrate some uses for this method of analysis, including the improvement in phylogeny reconstruction for both deep-level and recent relationships and overcoming systematic biases such as base composition bias. Furthermore, we compare this approach to two well-established methods for reweighting or removing characters. These other methods are tree-based and we show that they can be systematically biased. We feel this method can be useful for phylogeny reconstruction, understanding evolutionary rate variation, and for understanding selection variation on different characters.
41316583|Acoela are marine microscopic worms currently thought to be the sister taxon of all other bilaterians. Acoels have long been used as models in evolutionary scenarios, and generalized conclusions about acoel and bilaterian ancestral features are frequently drawn from studies of single acoel species. There is no extensive phylogenetic study of Acoela and the taxonomy of the 380 species is chaotic. Here we use two nuclear ribosomal genes and one mitochondrial gene in combination with 37 morphological characters in an analysis of 126 acoel terminals (about one-third of the described species) to estimate the phylogeny and character evolution of Acoela. We present an estimate of posterior probabilities for ancestral character states at 31 control nodes in the phylogeny. The overall reconstruction signal based on the shape of the posterior distribution of character states was computed for all morphological characters and control nodes to assess how well these were reconstructed. The body-wall musculature appears more clearly reconstructed than the reproductive organs. Posterior similarity to the root was calculated by averaging the divergence between the posterior distributions at the nodes and the root over all morphological characters. Diopisthoporidae is the sister group to all other acoels and has the highest posterior similarity to the root. Convolutidae, including several "model" acoels, is most divergent. Finally, we present a phylogenetic classification of Acoela down to the family level where six previous family level taxa are synonymized
41316579|The biogeography of southern Australia is characterized by a repeated pattern of relatedness between the biota of southwestern and southeastern Australia. Both areas possess a temperate climate but are separated by a vast arid region, currently lacking permanent freshwater habitats, which has become increasingly drier since about 15 Ma. Aquatic organisms have thus potentially remained isolated for a considerable time. Pygmy perches (Nannatherina and Nannoperca, Percichthyidae) provide an excellent scenario for investigating biogeographic relationships between southwestern and southeastern regions as multiple species occur on either side of Australia. This allows us to potentially differentiate between "Multiple Invasion" and "Endemic Speciation," the two major hypotheses proposed to account for current distributions. The first suggests that multiple east-west movements have occurred, whereas the second suggests a single east-west split, with current biodiversity in each region being reciprocally monophyletic. Systematic relationships within this group were investigated with the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene; nuclear intron and exon sequences from S7, RAG1, and RAG2; and 53 allozyme loci. Our data supported the hypothesis of multiple movements across southern Australia based on a consistent lack of support for reciprocal monophyly of eastern and western species. This study appears to be the first example of an animal group displaying clear multiple east-west movement in southern Australia, as all other aquatic and terrestrial fauna previously examined displayed a single east-west split. Despite a high degree of sympatry within each region, the only evidence for hybridization was found between Nannoperca australis and N. obscura, with the latter having its mitochondrial genome completely replaced by that of N. australis, with no evidence for nuclear introgression. This is one of only a few confirmed examples of complete replacement of the mitochondrial genome in one species with that of another. Cryptic differentiation was also evident within the two most widespread species, N. australis and N. vittata, indicating that these likely consist of multiple species. We also highlight the need for multiple molecular markers with different strengths in order to obtain a more robust phylogeny, despite problems resulting from potential incongruences between data sets.
41316578|This paper addresses the question of whether one can economically improve the robustness of a molecular phylogeny estimate by increasing gene sampling in only a subset of taxa, without having the analysis invalidated by artifacts arising from large blocks of missing data. Our case study stems from an ongoing effort to resolve poorly understood deeper relationships in the large clade Ditrysia (> 150,000 species) of the insect order Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths). Seeking to remedy the overall weak support for deeper divergences in an initial study based on five nuclear genes (6.6 kb) in 123 exemplars, we nearly tripled the total gene sample (to 26 genes, 18.4 kb) but only in a third (41) of the taxa. The resulting partially augmented data matrix (45% intentionally missing data) consistently increased bootstrap support for groupings previously identified in the five-gene (nearly) complete matrix, while introducing no contradictory groupings of the kind that missing data have been predicted to produce. Our results add to growing evidence that data sets differing substantially in gene and taxon sampling can often be safely and profitably combined. The strongest overall support for nodes above the family level came from including all nucleotide changes, while partitioning sites into sets undergoing mostly nonsynonymous versus mostly synonymous change. In contrast, support for the deepest node for which any persuasive molecular evidence has yet emerged (78-85% bootstrap) was weak or nonexistent unless synonymous change was entirely excluded, a result plausibly attributed to compositional heterogeneity. This node (Gelechioidea + Apoditrysia), tentatively proposed by previous authors on the basis of four morphological synapomorphies, is the first major subset of ditrysian superfamilies to receive strong statistical support in any phylogenetic study. A "more-genes-only" data set (41 taxa  26 genes) also gave strong signal for a second deep grouping (Macrolepidoptera) that was obscured, but not strongly contradicted, in more taxon-rich analyses.
41316580|The analysis of ratios of body measurements is deeply ingrained in the taxonomie literature. Whether for plants or animals, certain ratios are commonly indicated in identification keys, diagnoses, and descriptions. They often provide the only means for separation of cryptic species that mostly lack distinguishing qualitative characters. Additionally, they provide an obvious way to study differences in body proportions, as ratios reflect geometric shape differences. However, when it comes to multivariate analysis of body measurements, for instance, with linear discriminant analysis (LDA) or principal component analysis (PCA), interpretation using body ratios is difficult. Both techniques are commonly applied for separating similar taxa or for exploring the structure of variation, respectively, and require standardized raw or log-transformed variables as input. Here, we develop statistical procedures for the analysis of body ratios in a consistent multivariate statistical framework. In particular, we present algorithms adapted to LDA and PCA that allow the interpretation of numerical results in terms of body proportions. We first introduce a method called the "LDA ratio extractor," which reveals the best ratios for separation of two or more groups with the help of discriminant analysis. We also provide measures for deciding how much of the total differences between individuals or groups of individuals is due to size and how much is due to shape. The second method, a graphical tool called the "PCA ratio spectrum," aims at the interpretation of principal components in terms of body ratios. Based on a similar idea, the "allometry ratio spectrum" is developed which can be used for studying the allometric behavior of ratios. Because size can be defined in different ways, we discuss several concepts of size. Central to this discussion is Jolicoeur's multivariate generalization of the allometry equation, a concept that was derived only with a heuristic argument. Here we present a statistical derivation of the allometric size vector using the method of least squares. The application of the above methods is extensively demonstrated using published data sets from parasitic wasps and rock crabs.
41316575|It has long been recognized that phylogenetic trees are more unbalanced than those generated by a Yule process. Recently, the degree of this imbalance has been quantified using the large set of phylogenetic trees available in the TreeBASE data set. In this article, a more precise analysis of imbalance is undertaken. Trees simulated under a range of models are compared with trees from TreeBASE and two smaller data sets. Several simple models can match the amount of imbalance measured in real data. Most of them also match the variance of imbalance among empirical trees to a remarkable degree. Statistics are developed to measure balance and to distinguish between trees with the same overall imbalance. The match between models and data for these statistics is investigated. In particular, age-dependent (Bellman-Harris) branching process are studied in detail. It remains difficult to separate the process of macroevolution from biases introduced by sampling. The lessons for phylogenetic analysis are clearer. In particular, the use of the usual proportional to distinguishable arrangements (uniform) prior on tree topologies in Bayesian phylogenetic analysis is not recommended.
41316576|A Bayesian coalescent-based method has recently been proposed to delimit species using multilocus genetic sequence data. Posterior probabilities of different species delimitation models are calculated using reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms. The method accounts for species phylogenies and coalescent events in both extant and extinct species and accommodates lineage sorting and uncertainties in the gene trees. Although the method is theoretically appealing, its utility in practical data analysis is yet to be rigorously examined. In particular, the analysis may be sensitive to priors on ancestral population sizes and on species divergence times and to gene flow between species. Here we conduct a computer simulation to evaluate the statistical performance of the method, such as the false negatives (the error of lumping multiple species into one) and false positives (the error of splitting one species into several). We found that the correct species model was inferred with high posterior probability with only one or two loci when 5 or 10 sequences were sampled from each population, or with 50 loci when only one sequence was sampled. We also simulated data allowing migration under a two-species model, a mainland-island model and a stepping-stone model to assess the impact of gene flow (hybridization or introgression). The behavior of the method was diametrically different depending on the migration rate. Low rates at < 0.1 migrants per generation had virtually no effect, so that the method, while assuming no hybridization between species, identified distinct species despite small amounts of gene flow. This behavior appears to be consistent with biologists' practice. In contrast, higher migration rates at 10 migrants per generation caused the method to infer one species. At intermediate levels of migration, the method is indecisive. Our results suggest that Bayesian analysis under the multispecies coalescent model may provide important insights into population divergences, and may be useful for generating hypotheses of species delimitation, to be assessed with independent information from anatomical, behavioral, and ecological data.
27896403|There is an emerging consensus that the intent of most species concepts is to identify evolutionarily distinct lineages. However, the criteria used to identify lineages differ among concepts depending on the perceived importance of various attributes of evolving populations. We have examined five different species criteria to ask whether the three taxonomic varieties of Humulus lupulus (hops) native to North America are distinct lineages. Three criteria (monophyly, absence of genetic intermediates, and diagnosability) focus on evolutionary patterns and two (intrinsic reproductive isolation and niche specialization) consider evolutionary processes. Phylogenetic analysis of amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) data under a relaxed molecular clock, a stochastic Dollo substitution model, and parsimony identified all varieties as monophyletic, thus they satisfy the monophyly criterion for species delimitation. Principal coordinate analysis and a Bayesian assignment procedure revealed deep genetic subdivisions and little admixture between varieties, indicating an absence of genetic intermediates and compliance with the genotypic cluster species criterion. Diagnostic morphological and AFLP characters were found for all varieties, thus they meet the diagnosability criterion. Natural history information suggests that reproductive isolating barriers may have evolved in var. pubescens, potentially qualifying it as a species under a criterion of intrinsic reproductive isolation. Environmental niche modeling showed that the preferred habitat of var. neomexicanus is climatically unique, suggesting niche specialization and thus compliance with an ecological species criterion. Isolation by distance coupled with imperfect sampling can lead to erroneous lineage identification using some species criteria. Compliance with complementary pattern- and process-oriented criteria provides powerful corroboration for a species hypothesis and mitigates the necessity for comprehensive sampling of the entire species range, a practical impossibility in many systems. We hypothesize that var. pubescens maintains its genetic identity, despite substantial niche overlap with var. lupuloides, via the evolution of partial reproductive isolating mechanisms. Variety neomexicanus, conversely, will likely persist as a distinct lineage, regardless of limited gene flow with vars. lupuloides and pubescens because of ecological isolationadaptation to the unique conditions of the Rocky Mountain cordillera. Thus, we support recognition of vars. neomexicanus and pubescens as species, but delay making a recommendation for var. lupuloides until sampling of genetic variation is complete or a stable biological process can be identified to explain its observed genetic divergence.
27896404|Nearly all commonly used methods of phylogenetic inference assume that characters in an alignment evolve independently of one another. This assumption is attractive for simplicity and computational tractability but is not biologically reasonable for RNAs and proteins that have secondary and tertiary structures. Here, we simulate RNA and protein-coding DNA sequence data under a general model of dependence in order to assess the robustness of traditional methods of phylogenetic inference to violation of the assumption of independence among sites. We find that the accuracy of independence-assuming methods is reduced by the dependence among sites; for proteins this reduction is relatively mild, but for RNA this reduction may be substantial. We introduce the concept of effective sequence length and its utility for considering information content in phylogenetics.
27896402|For the last 2 decades, supertree reconstruction has been an active field of research and has seen the development of a large number of major algorithms. Because of the growing popularity of the supertree methods, it has become necessary to evaluate the performance of these algorithms to determine which are the best options (especially with regard to the supermatrix approach that is widely used). In this study, seven of the most commonly used supertree methods are investigated by using a large empirical data set (in terms of number of taxa and molecular markers) from the worldwide flowering plant family Sapindaceae. Supertree methods were evaluated using several criteria: similarity of the supertrees with the input trees, similarity between the supertrees and the total evidence tree, level of resolution of the supertree and computational time required by the algorithm. Additional analyses were also conducted on a reduced data set to test if the performance levels were affected by the heuristic searches rather than the algorithms themselves. Based on our results, two main groups of supertree methods were identified: on one hand, the matrix representation with parsimony (MRP), MinFlip, and MinCut methods performed well according to our criteria, whereas the average consensus, split fit, and most similar supertree methods showed a poorer performance or at least did not behave the same way as the total evidence tree. Results for the super distance matrix, that is, the most recent approach tested here, were promising with at least one derived method performing as well as MRP, MinFlip, and MinCut. The output of each method was only slightly improved when applied to the reduced data set, suggesting a correct behavior of the heuristic searches and a relatively low sensitivity of the algorithms to data set sizes and missing data. Results also showed that the MRP analyses could reach a high level of quality even when using a simple heuristic search strategy, with the exception of MRP with Purvis coding scheme and reversible parsimony. The future of supertrees lies in the implementation of a standardized heuristic search for all methods and the increase in computing power to handle large data sets. The latter would prove to be particularly useful for promising approaches such as the maximum quartet fit method that yet requires substantial computing power.
27896405|The general Markov model (GMM) of nucleotide substitution does not assume the evolutionary process to be stationary, reversible, or homogeneous. The GMM can be simplified by assuming the evolutionary process to be stationary. A stationary GMM is appropriate for analyses of phylogenetic data sets that are compositionally homogeneous; a data set is considered to be compositionally homogeneous if a statistical test does not detect significant differences in the marginal distributions of the sequences. Though the general time-reversible (GTR) model assumes stationarity, it also assumes reversibility and homogeneity. We propose two new stationary and nonhomogeneous modelsone constrains the GMM to be reversible, whereas the other does not. The two models, coupled with the GTR model, comprise a set of nested models that can be used to test the assumptions of reversibility and homogeneity for stationary processes. The two models are extended to incorporate invariable sites and used to analyze a seven-taxon hominoid data set that displays compositional homogeneity. We show that within the class of stationary models, a nonhomogeneous model fits the hominoid data better than the GTR model. We note that if one considers a wider set of models that are not constrained to be stationary, then an even better fit can be obtained for the hominoid data. However, the methods for reducing model complexity from an extremely large set of nonstationary models are yet to be developed.
27896401|Estimation of divergence times is usually done using either the fossil record or sequence data from modern species. We provide an integrated analysis of palaeontological and molecular data to give estimates of primate divergence times that utilize both sources of information. The number of preserved primate species discovered in the fossil record, along with their geological age distribution, is combined with the number of extant primate species to provide initial estimates of the primate and anthropoid divergence times. This is done by using a stochastic forwards-modeling approach where speciation and fossil preservation and discovery are simulated forward in time. We use the posterior distribution from the fossil analysis as a prior distribution on node ages in a molecular analysis. Sequence data from two genomic regions (CFTR on human chromosome 7 and the CYP7A1 region on chromosome 8) from 15 primate species are used with the birthdeath model implemented in mcmctree in PAML to infer the posterior distribution of the ages of 14 nodes in the primate tree. We find that these age estimates are older than previously reported dates for all but one of these nodes. To perform the inference, a new approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) algorithm is introduced, where the structure of the model can be exploited in an ABC-within-Gibbs algorithm to provide a more efficient analysis.
27896400|Identifying and dating historical biological events is a fundamental goal of evolutionary biology, and recent analytical advances permit the modeling of factors known to affect both the accuracy and the precision of molecular date estimates. As the use of multilocus data sets becomes increasingly routine, it becomes more important to evaluate the potentially confounding effects of rate heterogeneity both within (e.g., codon positions) and among loci when estimating divergence times. Here, using Plestiodon lizards as a test case, we examine the effects of accommodating rate heterogeneity among data partitions on divergence time estimation. Plestiodon inhabits both East Asia and North America, yet both the geographic origin of the genus and timing of dispersal between the continents have been debated. For each of the eight independently evolving loci and a combined data set, we conduct single model and partitioned analyses. We found that extreme saturation has obscured the underlying rate of evolution in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), resulting in severe underestimation of the rate in this locus. As a result, the age of the crown Plestiodon clade was overestimated by 1517 Myr by the unpartitioned analysis of the combined loci data. However, the application of partition-specific models to the combined data resulted in ages that were fully congruent with those inferred by the individual nuclear loci. Although partitioning improved divergence date estimates of the mtDNA-only analysis, the ages were nonetheless overestimated, thus indicating an inadequacy of our current models to capture the complex nature of mtDNA evolution in over large time scales. Finally, the statistically incongruent age distributions inferred by the partitioned and unpartitioned analyses of the combined data support mutually exclusive hypotheses of the timing of intercontinental dispersal of Plestiodon from Asia to North America. Analyses that best capture the rate of evolution in the combined data set infer that this exchange occurred via Beringia 18.030 Ma.
41316549|Were molecular data available for extinct taxa, questions regarding the origins of many groups could be settled in short order. As this is not the case, various strategies have been proposed to combine paleontological and neontological data sets. The use of fossil dates as node age calibrations for divergence time estimation from molecular phylogenies is commonplace. In addition, simulations suggest that the addition of morphological data from extinct taxa may improve phylogenetic estimation when combined with molecular data for extant species, and some studies have merged morphological and molecular data to estimate combined evidence phylogenies containing both extinct and extant taxa. However, few, if any, studies have attempted to estimate divergence times using phylogenies containing both fossil and living taxa sampled for both molecular and morphological data. Here, I infer both the phylogeny and the time of origin for Lissamphibia and a number of stem tetrapods using Bayesian methods based on a data set containing morphological data for extinct taxa, molecular data for extant taxa, and molecular and morphological data for a subset of extant taxa. The results suggest that Lissamphibia is monophyletic, nested within Lepospondyli, and originated in the late Carboniferous at the earliest. This research illustrates potential pitfalls for the use of fossils as post hoc age constraints on internal nodes and highlights the importance of explicit phylogenetic analysis of extinct taxa. These results suggest that the application of fossils as minima or maxima on molecular phylogenies should be supplemented or supplanted by combined evidence analyses whenever possible.
41316550|One of the major tenets of the modern synthesis is that genetic differentiation among subpopulations is translated over time into genetic differentiation among species. Phylogeographic exploration is therefore essential to the study of speciation because it can reveal the presence of subpopulations that may go on to become species or that may already represent cryptic species. Acoustic species-specific mating signals provide a significant advantage for the recognition of cryptic or incipient species. Because the majority of species do not have such easily recognized premating signals, data from acoustically signaling species can serve as a valuable heuristic tool. Acoustic signals are also convenient tools for recognizing hybridization events. Here, we demonstrate that evidence of hybridization in the form of intermediate song phenotypes is present in many contact zones between species of the New Zealand grass cicadas of the Kikihia muta species complex and that recurring mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) introgression has created misleading patterns that make it difficult to identify certain taxa using song or mtDNA alone. In one case, introgression appears to have occurred between allopatric taxa by dispersal of introgressed populations of an intermediary species (" hybridization by proxy"). We also present a comparison of mtDNA-tree-and song-based taxonomies obtained for the K. muta complex. We find that 12 mtDNA candidate species are identified using shifts in phylogenetic branching rate found by a single-threshold mixed Yule-coalescent lineage model, while only 7 candidate species are identified using songs. Results from the Yule-coalescent model are dependent on factors such as the number of modeled thresholds and the inclusion of duplicate haplotypes. Genetic distances within song species reach a maximum at about 0.028 substitutions/site when likely cases of hybridization and introgression are excluded. Large genetic breaks or "gaps" are not observed between some northern (warmer climate) song clades, possibly because climate-induced bottlenecks have been less severe. These results support ongoing calls for multimarker genetic studies as well as "integrative taxonomy" that combines information from multiple character sources, including behavior, ecology, geography, and morphology.
41316544|Phylogenetic relationships and taxonomie distinctiveness of closely related species and subspecies are most accurately inferred from data derived from multiple independent loci. Here, we apply several approaches for understanding species-level relationships using data from 18 nuclear DNA loci and 1 mitochondrial DNA locus within currently described species and subspecies of Sistrurus rattlesnakes. Collectively, these methods provide evidence that a currently described species, the massasauga rattlesnake (Sistrurus catenatus), consists of two well-supported clades, one composed of the two western subspecies (S. c tergeminus and S. c edwardsii) and the other the eastern subspecies (S. c catenatus). Within pigmy rattlesnakes (S. miliarius), however, there is not strong support across methods for any particular grouping at the subspecific level. Monophyly based tests for taxonomie distinctiveness show evidence for distinctiveness of all subspecies but this support is strongest by far for the S. c catenatus clade. Because support for the distinctiveness of S. c catenatus is both strong and consistent across methods, and due to its morphological distinctiveness and allopatric distribution, we suggest that this subspecies be elevated to full species status, which has significant conservation implications. Finally, most divergence time estimates based upon a fossil-calibrated species tree are > 50% younger than those from a concatenated gene tree analysis and suggest that an active period of speciation within Sistrurus occurred within the late Pliocene /Pleistocene eras.
41316546|Reconstruction of the phylogeny of the five extant classes of the phylum Echinodermata has proven difficult. Results concerning higher-level taxonomie relationships among echinoderms are sensitive to the choice of analytical parameters and methods. Moreover, the proposal of a putative sixth class based on a small enigmatic disc-shaped echinoderm, Xyloplax, from the deep seas of the Bahamas and New Zealand in the 1980s further complicated the problem. Although clearly an echinoderm, Xyloplax did not have clear affinity among known groups. Using molecular sequence and developmental data from recently collected Xyloplax adults and embryos, we show that rather than representing an ancient distinct lineage as implied by its status as a class, Xyloplax is simply a starfish that is closely related to the asteroid family Pterasteridae. Many members of the Pterasteridae and all Xyloplax inhabit deep or polar seas and brood young. Brooding pterasterids and Xyloplax hold their young in specialized adult chambers until the young reach an advanced juvenile stage after which they are released as free-living individuals. We hypothesize that the unique morphology of Xyloplax evolved via progenesis the truncation of somatic growth at a juvenile body plan but with gonadal growth to maturity. Although the overall phylogeny of extant echinoderms remains sensitive to the choice of analytical methods, the placement of Xyloplax as sister to pterasterid asteroids is unequivocal. Based on this, we argue that the proposed class and infraclass status of Xyloplax should be suppressed.
41316552|The selection of fossil data to use as calibration age priors in molecular divergence time estimates inherently links neontological methods with paleontological theory. However, few neontological studies have taken into account the possibility of a taphonomic bias in the fossil record when developing approaches to fossil calibration selection. The Sppil-Rongis effect may bias the first appearance of a lineage toward the recent causing most objective calibration selection approaches to erroneously exclude appropriate calibrations or to incorporate multiple calibrations that are too young to accurately represent the divergence times of target lineages. Using turtles as a case study, we develop a Bayesian extension to the fossil selection approach developed by Marshall (2008. A simple method for bracketing absolute divergence times on molecular phylogenies using multiple fossil calibrations points. Am. Nat. 171: 726-742) that takes into account this taphonomic bias. Our method has the advantage of identifying calibrations that may bias age estimates to be too recent while incorporating uncertainty in phylogenetic parameter estimates such as tree topology and branch lengths. Additionally, this method is easily adapted to assess the consistency of potential calibrations to any one calibration in the candidate pool.
41316548|Geographic characters traits describing the spatial distribution of a species may both affect and be affected by processes associated with lineage birth and death. This is potentially confounding to comparative analyses of species distributions because current models do not allow reciprocal interactions between the evolution of ranges and the growth of phylogenetic trees. Here, we introduce a likelihood-based approach to estimating region-dependent rates of speciation, extinction, and range evolution from a phylogeny, using a new model in which these processes are interdependent. We demonstrate the method with simulation tests that accurately recover parameters relating to the mode of speciation and source-sink dynamics. We then apply it to the evolution of habitat occupancy in Californian plant communities, where we find higher rates of speciation in chaparral than in forests and evidence for expanding habitat tolerances.
41316547|Robertsonian chromosomal fusions predominate in shaping the genomes of many species of Bovidae. These and other cytogenetic data (from 52 taxa representing 51 species and 9 tribes of Bovidae) were (i) examined for usefulness in defining phylogenetic relationships and (ii) subsequently mapped to a consensus tree based on mitochondrial and nuclear DNA gene sequences with divergence dates of the corresponding species calculated from cytochrome b sequences. This permitted persistence time estimates for the various rearrangements. The chromosomal data resulted in an unsupported higher-level topology, but with recognition of the monophyly of some genera and tribes within Bovidae. The distribution and temporal spread of character states on the species tree is suggestive of a restricted role for hemiplasy (the retention of an ancestral chromosomal polymorphism through multiple speciation events) and for introgression (resulting from secondary contact among taxa), processes that can potentially lead to phylogenetic discordance. We conclude that the most probable interpretation for these data is that genuine karyotypic homoplasy predominates, but that hemiplasy (and/or introgression) is a realistic hypothesis for the observed patterns of several snared characters in Bovidae.
41316554|In popular use of Bayesian phylogenetics, a default branch-length prior is almost universally applied without knowing how a different prior would have affected the outcome. We performed Bayesian and maximum likelihood (ML) inference of phylogeny based on empirical nucleotide sequence data from a family of lichenized ascomycetes, the Psoraceae, the morphological delimitation of which has been controversial. We specifically assessed the influence of the combination of Bayesian branch-length prior and likelihood model on the properties of the Markov chain Monte Carlo tree sample, including node support, branch lengths, and taxon stability. Data included two regions of the mitochondrial ribosomal RNA gene, the internal transcribed spacer region of the nuclear ribosomal RNA gene, and the protein-coding largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. Data partitioning was performed using Bayes' factors, whereas the best-fitting model of each partition was selected using the Bayesian information criterion (BIC). Given the data and model, short Bayesian branch-length priors generate higher numbers of strongly supported nodes as well as short and topologically similar trees sampled from parts of tree space that are largely unexplored by the ML bootstrap. Long branch-length priors generate fewer strongly supported nodes and longer and more dissimilar trees that are sampled mostly from inside the range of tree space sampled by the ML bootstrap. Priors near the ML distribution of branch lengths generate the best marginal likelihood and the highest frequency of "rogue" (unstable) taxa. The branch-length prior was shown to interact with the likelihood model. Trees inferred under complex partitioned models are more affected by the stretching effect of the branch-length prior. Fewer nodes are strongly supported under a complex model given the same branch-length prior. Irrespective of model, internal branches make up a larger proportion of total tree length under the shortest branch-length priors compared with longer priors. Relative effects on branch lengths caused by the branch-length prior can be problematic to downstream phylogenetic comparative methods making use of the branch lengths. Furthermore, given the same branch-length prior, trees are on average more dissimilar under a simple unpartitioned model compared with a more complex partitioned models. The distribution of ML branch lengths was shown to better fit a gamma or Pareto distribution than an exponential one. Model adequacy tests indicate that the best-fitting model selected by the BIC is insufficient for describing data patterns in 5 of 8 partitions. More general substitution models are required to explain the data in three of these partitions, one of which also requires nonstationarity. The two mitochondrial ribosomal RNA gene partitions need heterotachous models. We found no significant correlations between, on the one hand, the amount of ambiguous data or the smallest branch-length distance to another taxon and, on the other hand, the topological stability of individual taxa. Integrating over several exponentially distributed means under the best-fitting model, node support for the family Psoraceae, including Psora, Protoblastenia, and the Micarea sylvicola group, is approximately 0.96. Support for the genus Psora is distinctly lower, but we found no evidence to contradict the current classification.
41316551|Evolutionary biologists have long debated the relative influence of species selection on evolutionary patterns. As a test, we apply a statistical phylogenetic approach to evaluate the influence of traits related to species distribution and life-history characteristics on patterns of diversification in salamanders. We use independent contrasts to test traitmediated diversification while accommodating phylogenetic uncertainty in relationships among all salamander families. Using a neontological data set, we find several species-level traits to be variable, heritable, and associated with differential success (i. e., higher diversification rates) at higher taxonomie categories. Specifically, the macroecological trait of small geographic-range size is strongly correlated with a higher rate of net diversification. We further consider the role that plasticity in life-history traits appears to fulfill in macroevolutionary processes of lineage divergence and durability. We find that pedotypy wherein some, but not all, organisms of a species mature in the gilled form without metamorphosing is also associated with higher net diversification rate than is the absence of developmental plasticity. Often dismissed as an insignificant process in evolution, we provide direct evidence for the role of species selection in lineage diversification of salamanders.
41316545|A common pattern found in phylogeny-based empirical studies of diversification is a decrease in the rate of lineage accumulation toward the present. This early-burst pattern of cladogenesis is often interpreted as a signal of adaptive radiation or density-dependent processes of diversification. However, incomplete taxonomie sampling is also known to artifactually produce patterns of rapid initial diversification. The Monte Carlo constant rates (MCCR) test, based upon Pybus and Harvey's gamma ()-statistic, is commonly used to accommodate incomplete sampling, but this test assumes that missing taxa have been randomly pruned from the phylogeny. Here we use simulations to show that preferentially sampling disparate lineages within a clade can produce severely inflated type-I error rates of the MCCR test, especially when taxon sampling drops below 75%. We first propose two corrections for the standard MCCR test, the proportionally deeper splits that assumes missing taxa are more likely to be recently diverged, and the deepest splits only MCCR that assumes that all missing taxa are the youngest lineages in the clade, and assess their statistical properties. We then extend these two tests into a generalized form that allows the degree of nonrandom sampling (NRS) to be controlled by a scaling parameter, . This generalized test is then applied to two recent studies. This new test allows systematists to account for nonrandom taxonomie sampling when assessing temporal patterns of lineage diversification in empirical trees. Given the dramatic affect NRS can have on the behavior of the MCCR test, we argue that evaluating the sensitivity of this test to NRS should become the norm when investigating patterns of cladogenesis in incompletely sampled phylogenies.
41316553|Tree reconstruction methods are often judged by their accuracy, measured by how close they get to the true tree. Yet, most reconstruction methods like maximum likelihood (ML) do not explicitly maximize this accuracy. To address this problem, we propose a Bayesian solution. Given tree samples, we propose finding the tree estimate that is closest on average to the samples. This "median" tree is known as the Bayes estimator (BE). The BE literally maximizes posterior expected accuracy, measured in terms of closeness (distance) to the true tree. We discuss a unified framework of BE trees, focusing especially on tree distances that are expressible as squared euclidean distances. Notable examples include Robinson-Foulds (RF) distance, quartet distance, and squared path difference. Using both simulated and real data, we show that BEs can be estimated in practice by hill-climbing. In our simulation, we find that BEs tend to be closer to the true tree, compared with ML and neighbor joining. In particular, the BE under squared path difference tends to perform well in terms of both path difference and RF distances.
41316517|The monophyletic group Caniformia (dog-like carnivores) in the order Carnivora comprises 9 families. Except for the general consensus for the earliest divergence of Canidae and the grouping of Procyonidae and Mustelidae, conflicting phylogenetic hypotheses exist for the other caniformian families. In the present study, a data set comprising >22 kb of 22 nuclear intron loci from 16 caniformian species is used to investigate the phylogenetic utility of nuclear introns in resolving the interfamilial relationships of Caniformia. Our phylogenetic analyses support Ailuridae as the sister taxon to a clade containing Procyonidae and Mustelidae, with Mephitinae being the sister taxon to all of them. The unresolved placements of Ursidae and Pinnipeds here emphasize a need to add more data and include more taxa to resolve this problem. The present study not only resolves some of the ambiguous relationships in Caniformia phylogeny but also shows that the noncoding nuclear markers can offer powerful complementary data for estimating the species tree. None of the newly developed introns here have previously been used for phylogeny reconstruction, thus increasing the spectrum of molecular markers available to mammalian systematics. Interestingly, all the newly developed intron data partitions exhibit intraindividual allele heterozygotes (IIAHs). There are 115 cases of IIAHs in total. The incorporation of IIAHs into phylogenetic analysis not only provides insights into the interfamilial relationships of Caniformia but also identifies two potential hybridization events occurred within Ursidae and Otariidae, respectively. Finally, the powers and pitfalls of phylogenetics using nuclear introns as markers are discussed in the context of Caniformia phylogeny.
41316514|Analyses of the increasingly available genomic data continue to reveal the extent of hybridization and its role in the evolutionary diversification of various groups of species. We show, through extensive coalescent-based simulations of multilocus data sets on phylogenetic networks, how divergence times before and after hybridization events can result in incomplete lineage sorting with gene tree incongruence signatures identical to those exhibited by hybridization. Evolutionary analysis of such data under the assumption of a species tree model can miss all hybridization events, whereas analysis under the assumption of a species network model would grossly overestimate hybridization events. These issues necessitate a paradigm shift in evolutionary analysis under these scenarios, from a model that assumes a priori a single source of gene tree incongruence to one that integrates multiple sources in a unifying framework. We propose a framework of coalescence within the branches of a phylogenetic network and show how this framework can be used to detect hybridization despite incomplete lineage sorting. We apply the model to simulated data and show that the signature of hybridization can be revealed as long as the interval between the divergence times of the species involved in hybridization is not too small. We reanalyze a data set of 106 loci from 7 in-group Saccharomyces species for which a species tree with no hybridization has been reported in the literature. Our analysis supports the hypothesis that hybridization occurred during the evolution of this group, explaining a large amount of the incongruence in the data. Our findings show that an integrative approach to gene tree incongruence and its reconciliation is needed. Our framework will help in systematically analyzing genomic data for the occurrence of hybridization and elucidating its evolutionary role.
41316515|The marginal likelihood is commonly used for comparing different evolutionary models in Bayesian phylogenetics and is the central quantity used in computing Bayes Factors for comparing model fit. A popular method for estimating marginal likelihoods, the harmonic mean (HM) method, can be easily computed from the output of a Markov chain Monte Carlo analysis but often greatly overestimates the marginal likelihood. The thermodynamic integration (TI) method is much more accurate than the HM method but requires more computation. In this paper, we introduce a new method, stepping stone sampling (SS), which uses importance sampling to estimate each ratio in a series (the "stepping stones") bridging the posterior and prior distributions. We compare the performance of the SS approach to the TI and HM methods in simulation and using real data. We conclude that the greatly increased accuracy of the SS and TI methods argues for their use instead of the HM method, despite the extra computation needed.
41316512|Phylogenetic analyses using genome-scale data sets must confront incongruence among gene trees, which in plants is exacerbated by frequent gene duplications and losses. Gene tree parsimony (GTP) is a phylogenetic optimization criterion in which a species tree that minimizes the number of gene duplications induced among a set of gene trees is selected. The run time performance of previous implementations has limited its use on large-scale data sets. We used new software that incorporates recent algorithmic advances to examine the performance of GTP on a plant data set consisting of 18,896 gene trees containing 510,922 protein sequences from 136 plant taxa (giving a combined alignment length of >2.9 million characters). The relationships inferred from the GTP analysis were largely consistent with previous large-scale studies of backbone plant phylogeny and resolved some controversial nodes. The placement of taxa that were present in few gene trees generally varied the most among GTP bootstrap replicates. Excluding these taxa either before or after the GTP analysis revealed high levels of phylogenetic support across plants. The analyses supported magnoliids sister to a eudicot + monocot clade and did not support the eurosid I and II clades. This study presents a nuclear genomic perspective on the broad-scale phylogenic relationships among plants, and it demonstrates that nuclear genes with a history of duplication and loss can be phylogenetically informative for resolving the plant tree of life.
41316513|Numerous simulation studies have investigated the accuracy of phylogenetic inference of gene trees under maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian techniques. The relative accuracy of species tree inference methods under simulation has received less study. The number of analytical techniques available for inferring species trees is increasing rapidly, and in this paper, we compare the performance of several species tree inference techniques at estimating recent species divergences using computer simulation. Simulating gene trees within species trees of different shapes and with varying tree lengths (T) and population sizes (), and evolving sequences on those gene trees, allows us to determine how phylogenetic accuracy changes in relation to different levels of deep coalescence and phylogenetic signal. When the probability of discordance between the gene trees and the species tree is high (i. e., T is small and/or  is large), Bayesian species tree inference using the multispecies coalescent (BEST) outperforms other methods. The performance of all methods improves as the total length of the species tree is increased, which reflects the combined benefits of decreasing the probability of discordance between species trees and gene trees and gaining more accurate estimates for gene trees. Decreasing the probability of deep coalescences by reducing  also leads to accuracy gains for most methods. Increasing the number of loci from 10 to 100 improves accuracy under difficult demographic scenarios (i.e., coalescent units  4N e ), but 10 loci are adequate for estimating the correct species tree in cases where deep coalescence is limited or absent. In general, the correlation between the phylogenetic accuracy and the posterior probability values obtained from BEST is high, although posterior probabilities are overestimated when the prior distribution for  is misspecified.
41316518|Recent and rapid radiations provide rich material to examine the factors that drive speciation. Most recent and rapid radiations that have been well-characterized involve species that exhibit overt ecomorphological differences associated with clear partitioning of ecological niches in sympatry. The most diverse genus of rodents, Rattus (66 species), evolved fairly recently, but without overt ecomorphological divergence among species. We used multilocus molecular phylogenetic data and five fossil calibrations to estimate the tempo of diversification in Rattus, and their radiation on Australia and New Guinea (Sahul, 24 species). Based on our analyses, the genus Rattus originated at a date centered on the Pliocene-Pleistocene boundary (1.84-3.17 Ma) with a subsequent colonization of Sahul in the middle Pleistocene (0.85-1.28 Ma). Given these dates, the per lineage diversification rates in Rattus and Sahulian Rattus are among the highest reported for vertebrates (1.1-1.9 and 1.6-3.0 species per lineage per million years, respectively). Despite their rapid diversification, Rattus display little ecomorphological divergence among species and do not fit clearly into current models of adaptive radiations. Lineage through time plots and ancestral state reconstruction of ecological characters suggest that diversification of Sahulian Rattus was most rapid early on as they expanded into novel ecological conditions. However, rapid lineage accumulation occurred even when morphological disparity within lineages was low suggesting that future studies consider other phenotypes in the diversification of Rattus.
41316516|Most phylogenetic models of protein evolution assume that sites are independent and identically distributed. Interactions between sites are ignored, and the likelihood can be conveniently calculated as the product of the individual site likelihoods. The calculation considers all possible transition paths (also called substitution histories or mappings) that are consistent with the observed states at the terminals, and the probability density of any particular reconstruction depends on the substitution model. The likelihood is the integral of the probability density of each substitution history taken over all possible histories that are consistent with the observed data. We investigated the extent to which transition paths that are incompatible with a protein's three-dimensional structure contribute to the likelihood. Several empirical amino acid models were tested for sequence pairs of different degrees of divergence. When simulating substitutional histories starting from a real sequence, the structural integrity of the simulated sequences quickly disintegrated. This result indicates that simple models are clearly unable to capture the constraints on sequence evolution. However, when we sampled transition paths between real sequences from the posterior probability distribution according to these same models, we found that the sampled histories were largely consistent with the tertiary structure. This suggests that simple empirical substitution models may be adequate for interpolating changes between observed sequences during phylogenetic inference despite the fact that the models cannot predict the effects of structural constraints from first principles. This study is significant because it provides a quantitative assessment of the biological realism of substitution models from the perspective of protein structure, and it provides insight on the prospects for improving models of protein sequence evolution.
41316563|Chorotypesstatistically significant groups of coincident distribution areasconstitute biogeographic units that are fuzzy by nature. This quality has been referred to in the literature but has not been analyzed in depth or methodologically developed. The present work redefines chorotypes as fuzzy sets from a pragmatic perspective and basically focuses on the methodological and interpretative implications of this approach. The amphibian fauna in the Iberian Peninsula was used as an example to explore the fuzzy nature of chorotypes. The method on which this article is based is a widely used technique to define chorotypes. This method involves the fuzziness that is inherent to the identification between degree of similarity and degree of membership and includes a probabilistic analysis of the classification for the objective delimitation of chorotypes. The main innovation of this paper is a procedure to analyze chorotypes as fuzzy biogeographic units. A set of fuzzy parameters to deal with the biogeographic interpretation of fuzzy chorotypes is also described. A computer program has been developed and is freely available. History may be related to the degree of fuzziness of chorotypes. In our example, with amphibian distributions in Iberia, less fuzzy chorotypes could have a historical explanation, and the internal fuzziness of chorotypes increases with their distance to hypothetical Pleistocene refugia.
41316560|Chloranthaceae is a small family of flowering plants (65 species) with an extensive fossil record extending back to the Early Cretaceous. Within Chloranthaceae, Hedyosmum is remarkable because of its disjunct distribution1 species in the Paleotropics and 44 confined to the Neotropicsand a long "temporal gap" between its stem age (Early Cretaceous) and the beginning of the extant radiation (late Cenozoic). Is this gap real, reflecting low diversification and a recent radiation, or the signature of extinction? Here we use paleontological data, relaxed-clock molecular dating, diversification analyses, and parametric ancestral area reconstruction to investigate the timing, tempo, and mode of diversification in Hedyosmum. Our results, based on analyses of plastid and nuclear sequences for 40 species, suggest that the ancestor of Chloranthaceae and the Hedyosmum stem lineages were widespread in the Holarctic in the Late Cretaceous. High extinction rates, possibly associated with Cenozoic climatic fluctuations, may have been responsible for the low extant diversity of the family. Crown group Hedyosmum originated c. 36-43 Ma and colonized South America from the north during the Early-Middle Miocene (c. 20 Ma). This coincided with an increase in diversification rates, probably triggered by the uplift of the Northern Andes from the Mid-Miocene onward. This study illustrates the advantages of combining paleontological, phylogenetic, and biogeographic data to reconstruct the spatiotemporal evolution of an ancient lineage, for which the extant diversity is only a remnant of past radiations. It also shows the difficulties of inferring patterns of lineage diversification when incomplete taxon sampling is combined with high extinction rates.
41316565|Generalized least squares (GLS) methods provide a relatively fast means of constructing a confidence set of topologies. Because they utilize information about the covariances between distances, it is reasonable to expect additional efficiency in estimation and confidence set construction relative to other least squares (LS) methods. Difficulties have been found to arise in a number of practical settings due to estimates of covariance matrices being ill conditioned or even noninvertible. We present here new ways of estimating the covariance matrices for distances that are much more likely to be positive definite, as the actual covariance matrices are. A thorough investigation of performance is also conducted. An alternative to GLS that has been proposed for constructing confidence sets of topologies is weighted least squares (WLS). As currently implemented, this approach is equivalent to the use of GLS but with covariances set to zero rather than being estimated. In effect, this approach assumes normality of the estimated distances and zero covariances. As the results here illustrate, this assumption leads to poor performance. A 95% confidence set is almost certain to contain the true topology but will contain many more topologies than are needed. On the other hand, the results here also indicate that, among LS methods, WLS performs quite well at estimating the correct topology. It turns out to be possible to improve the performance of WLS for confidence set construction through a relatively inexpensive normal parametric bootstrap that utilizes the same variances and covariances of GLS. The resulting procedure is shown to perform at least as well as GLS and thus provides a reasonable alternative in cases where covariance matrices are ill conditioned.
41316564|In this study, we develop a distance method for inferring unrooted species trees from a collection of unrooted gene trees. The species tree is estimated by the neighbor joining (NJ) tree built from a distance matrix in which the distance between two species is defined as the average number of internodes between two species across gene trees, that is, average gene-tree internode distance. The distance method is named NJ<L>st</L> to distinguish it from the original NJ method. Under the coalescent model, we show that if gene trees are known or estimated correctly, the NJ<L>st</L> method is statistically consistent in estimating unrooted species trees. The simulation results suggest that NJ<L>st</L> and STAR (another coalescence-based method for inferring species trees) perform almost equally well in estimating topologies of species trees, whereas the Bayesian coalescence-based method, BEST, outperforms both NJ<L>st</L> and STAR. Unlike BEST and STAR, the NJ<L>st</L> method can take unrooted gene trees to infer species trees without using an outgroup. In addition, the NJ<L>st</L> method can handle missing data and is thus useful in phylogenomic studies in which data sets often contain missing loci for some individuals.
41316561|The Anomura presents the greatest degree of morphological disparity in the decapod Crustacea, with body forms ranging from the symmetrical and asymmetrical hermit crabs to squat lobsters and king crabs. The phylogeny of the anomurans has been fraught with controversy. Recent debate has focused primarily on the phenomenon of carcinization, the evolution of crab-like form from a non-crab-like ancestor, focused chiefly on derivation of king crabs from asymmetrical hermit crabsthe "hermit to king" hypothesis. We show by phylogenetic analysis of five nuclear protein-coding gene sequences that hermit crabs have a single origin, but surprisingly, that almost all other major clades and body forms within the Anomura, are derived from within the hermit crabs. The crab-like form and squat lobster form have each evolved at least twice from separate symmetrical hermit crab ancestors. In each case, a carcinization trend can be posited via a transition series from the initial symmetrical long-tailed hermit crab form, through the intermediate squat lobster or asymmetrical hermit crab form, to the final crab-like form. Adaptation to dextral shell habitation evolved at least twice, once in an exclusively deep-water clade and once in the common ancestor of all other asymmetrical hermit crabs (from which king crabs are derived). These remarkable cases of parallelism suggest considerable phenotypic flexibility within the hermit crab ground plan, with a general tendency toward carcinization. Rather than having a separate origin from other major clades, hermit crabs have given rise to most other major anomuran body types.
41316567|Phylogenetic inference and evaluating support for inferred relationships is at the core of many studies testing evolutionary hypotheses. Despite the popularity of nonparametric bootstrap frequencies and Bayesian posterior probabilities, the interpretation of these measures of tree branch support remains a source of discussion. Furthermore, both methods are computationally expensive and become prohibitive for large data sets. Recent fast approximate likelihood-based measures of branch supports (approximate likelihood ratio test [aLRT] and Shimodaira-Hasegawa [SH]-aLRT) provide a compelling alternative to these slower conventional methods, offering not only speed advantages but also excellent levels of accuracy and power. Here we propose an additional method: a. Bayesian-like transformation of aLRT (aBayes). Considering both probabilistic and frequentisi frameworks, we compare the performance of the three fast likelihood-based methods with the standard bootstrap (SBS), the Bayesian approach, and the recently introduced rapid bootstrap. Our simulations and real data analyses show that with moderate model violations, all tests are sufficiently accurate, but aLRT and aBayes offer the highest statistical power and are very fast. With severe model violations aLRT, aBayes and Bayesian posteriors can produce elevated false-positive rates. With data sets for which such violation can be detected, we recommend using SH-aLRT, the nonparametric version of aLRT based on a procedure similar to the Shimodaira-Hasegawa tree selection. In general, the SBS seems to be excessively conservative and is much slower than our approximate likelihood-based methods.
41316566|In this paper, I develop efficient tools to simulate trees with a fixed number of extant species. The tools are provided in my open source R-package TreeSim available on CRAN. The new model presented here is a constant rate birth-death process with mass extinction and/or rate shift events at arbitrarily fixed times 1) before the present or 2) after the origin. The simulation approach for case (2) can also be used to simulate under more general models with fixed events after the origin. I use the developed simulation tools for showing that a mass extinction event cannot be distinguished from a model with constant speciation and extinction rates interrupted by a phase of stasis based on trees consisting of only extant species. However, once we distinguish between mass extinction and period of stasis based on paleontological data, fast simulations of trees with a fixed number of species allow inference of speciation and extinction rates using approximate Bayesian computation and allow for robustness analysis once maximum likelihood parameter estimations are available.
41316559|Discussions aimed at resolution of the Tree of Life are most often focused on the interrelationships of major organismal lineages. In this study, we focus on the resolution of some of the most apical branches in the Tree of Life through exploration of the phylogenetic relationships of darters, a species-rich clade of North American freshwater fishes. With a near-complete taxon sampling of close to 250 species, we aim to investigate strategies for efficient multilocus data sampling and the estimation of divergence times using relaxed-clock methods when a clade lacks a fossil record. Our phylogenetic data set comprises a single mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) gene and two nuclear genes sampled from 245 of the 248 darter species. This dense sampling allows us to determine if a modest amount of nuclear DNA sequence data can resolve relationships among closely related animal species. Darters lack a fossil record to provide age calibration priors in relaxed-clock analyses. Therefore, we use a near-complete species-sampled phylogeny of the perciform clade Centrarchidae, which has a rich fossil record, to assess two distinct strategies of external calibration in relaxed-clock divergence time estimates of darters: using ages inferred from the fossil record and molecular evolutionary rate estimates. Comparison of Bayesian phylogenies inferred from mtDNA and nuclear genes reveals that heterospecific mtDNA is present in approximately 12.5% of all darter species. We identify three patterns of mtDNA introgression in darters: proximal mtDNA transfer, which involves the transfer of mtDNA among extant and sympatric darter species, indeterminate introgression, which involves the transfer of mtDNA from a lineage that cannot be confidently identified because the introgressed haplotypes are not clearly referable to mtDNA haplotypes in any recognized species, and deep introgression, which is characterized by species diversification within a recipient clade subsequent to the transfer of heterospecific mtDNA. The results of our analyses indicate that DNA sequences sampled from single-copy nuclear genes can provide appreciable phylogenetic resolution for closely related animal species. A well-resolved near-complete species-sampled phylogeny of darters was estimated with Bayesian methods using a concatenated mtDNA and nuclear gene data set with all identified heterospecific mtDNA haplotypes treated as missing data. The relaxed-clock analyses resulted in very similar posterior age estimates across the three sampled genes and methods of calibration and therefore offer a viable strategy for estimating divergence times for clades that lack a fossil record. In addition, an informative rank-free clade-based classification of darters that preserves the rich history of nomenclature in the group and provides formal taxonomie communication of darter clades was constructed using the mtDNA and nuclear gene phylogeny. On the whole, the appeal of mtDNA for phylogeny inference among closely related animal species is diminished by the observations of extensive mtDNA introgression and by finding appreciable phylogenetic signal in a modest sampling of nuclear genes in our phylogenetic analyses of darters.
41316562|Despite the recent surge of interest in studying the evolution of development, surprisingly little work has been done to investigate the phylogenetic signal in developmental characters. Yet, both the potential usefulness of developmental characters in phylogenetic reconstruction and the validity of inferences on the evolution of developmental characters depend on the presence of such a phylogenetic signal and on the ability of our coding scheme to capture it. In a recent study, we showed, using simulations, that a new method (called the continuous analysis) using standardized time or ontogenetic sequence data and squared-change parsimony outperformed event pairing and event cracking in analyzing developmental data on a reference phylogeny. Using the same simulated data, we demonstrate that all these coding methods (event pairing and standardized time or ontogenetic sequence data) can be used to produce phylogenetically informative data. Despite some dependence between characters (the position of an event in an ontogenetic sequence is not independent of the position of other events in the same sequence), parsimony analysis of such characters converges on the correct phylogeny as the amount of data increases. In this context, the new coding method (developed for the continuous analysis) outperforms event pairing; it recovers a lower proportion of incorrect clades. This study thus validates the use of ontogenetic data in phylogenetic inference and presents a simple coding scheme that can extract a reliable phylogenetic signal from these data.
41316530|We present an evolutionary placement algorithm (EPA) and a Web server for the rapid assignment of sequence fragments (short reads) to edges of a given phylogenetic tree under the maximum-likelihood model. The accuracy of the algorithm is evaluated on several real-world data sets and compared with placement by pair-wise sequence comparison, using edit distances and BLAST. We introduce a slow and accurate as well as a fast and less accurate placement algorithm. For the slow algorithm, we develop additional heuristic techniques that yield almost the same run times as the fast version with only a small loss of accuracy. When those additional heuristics are employed, the run time of the more accurate algorithm is comparable with that of a simple BLAST search for data sets with a high number of short query sequences. Moreover, the accuracy of the EPA is significantly higher, in particular when the sample of taxa in the reference topology is sparse or inadequate. Our algorithm, which has been integrated into RAxML, therefore provides an equally fast but more accurate alternative to BLAST for tree-based inference of the evolutionary origin and composition of short sequence reads. We are also actively developing a Web server that offers a freely available service for computing read placements on trees using the EPA.
41316531|Fruiting body evolution is one of the central topics in fungal evolutionary biology. A number of hypotheses have been developed to explain the contemporary diversity of fruiting body forms, but their evaluation has been hampered by the lack of well-sampled data sets and suitable statistical methods. Phylogenetic evidence of the physiological changes that accompany switches in fruiting body type is lacking, and very little is known about the age of major events of fruiting body evolution. Based on a new multigene phylogeny, by using Bayesian methods, we demonstrate the existence of correlation between a number of morphological features and switches from nondeliquescent to deliquescent (autodigesting) fruiting bodies in the mushroom family Psathyrellaceae. Our results show that switches in the anatomy of two types of spacer cells (cystidia and pseudoparaphyses) and basidia (bimorphic or monomorphic) as well as the structure of the mushroom cap follow the evolution of deliquescent fruiting bodies, which suggests strong functional linkage between these traits. We performed Bayes factor-based tests, referred hereafter to as evolutionary pathway test (EPT), to decide which of the correlated characters were gained first during evolution. The EPTs strongly suggest that deliquescence was gained first, followed after short waiting times by the other morphological features. Bayesian relaxed molecular clock analyses suggest that the various events of switching between fruiting body types occurred independently at various ages during the history of the family. The utility of two mushroom fossils (Archaemarasmius and Protomycena), the only ones with unambiguous taxonomie for the calibration of agaric trees were also examined. Based on our results, we suggest that the evolutionary benefit of deliquescence may be prevention against desiccation via accelerated ontogeny of the fruiting body. Hypotheses regarding the functional significance of the correlated evolution are presented and discussed. Further, we argue that the changes in fruiting body types in mushrooms in general can be attributed to independent events (e.g., dispersal and adaptation) and not to particular geologic ages.
41316528|With the increasing interest in recognizing the discordance between gene genealogies, various gene tree/species tree reconciliation methods have been developed. We present here the first attempt to assess and compare two such Bayesian methods, Bayesian estimation of species trees (BEST) and BUCKy (Bayesian untangling of concordance knots), in the presence of several known processes of gene tree discordance. DNA alignments were simulated under the influence of incomplete lineage sorting (ILS) and of horizontal gene transfer (HGT). BEST and BUCKy both account for uncertainty in gene tree estimation but differ substantially in their assumptions of what caused gene tree discordance. BEST estimates a species tree using the coalescent model, assuming that all gene tree discordance is due to ILS. BUCKy does not assume any specific biological process of gene tree discordance through the use of a nonparametric clustering of concordant genes. BUCKy estimates the concordance factor (CF) of a clade, which is defined as the proportion of genes that truly have the clade in their trees. The estimated concordance tree is then built from clades with the highest estimated CFs. Because of their different assumptions, it was expected that BEST would perform better in the presence of ILS and that BUCKy would perform better in the presence of HGT. As expected, the species tree was more accurately reconstructed by BUCKy in the presence of HGT, when the HGT events were unevenly placed across the species tree. BUCKy and BEST performed similarly in most other cases, including in the presence of strong ILS and of HGT events that were evenly placed across the tree. However, BUCKy was shown to underestimate the uncertainty in CF estimation, with short credibility intervals. Despite this, the discordance pattern estimated by BUCKy could be compared with the signature of ILS. The resulting test for the adequacy of the coalescent model proved to have low Type I error. It was powerful when HGT was the major source of discordance and when HGT events were unevenly placed across the species tree.
41316534|The Cape region of South Africa is one of the most remarkable hotspots of biodiversity with a flora comprising more than 9000 plant species, almost 70% of which are endemic, within an area of only  90,000 km 2. Much of the diversity is due to an exceptionally large contribution of just a few clades that radiated substantially within this region, but little is known about the causes of these radiations. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of plant diversification, using near complete species-level phylogenies of four major Cape clades (more than 470 species): the genus Protea, a tribe of legumes (Podalyrieae) and two speciose genera within the iris family (Babiana and Moraea), representing three of the seven largest plant families in this biodiversity hotspot. Combining these molecular phylogenetic data with ecological and biogeographical information, we tested key hypotheses that have been proposed to explain the radiation of the Cape flora. Our results show that the radiations started throughout the Oligocene and Miocene and that net diversification rates have remained constant through time at globally moderate rates. Furthermore, using sister-species comparisons to assess the impact of different factors on speciation, we identified soil type shifts as the most important cause of speciation in Babiana, Moraea, and Protea, whereas shifts in fire-survival strategy is the most important factor for Podalyrieae. Contrary to previous findings in other groups, such as orchids, pollination syndromes show a high degree of phylogenetic conservatism, including groups with a large number of specialized pollination syndromes like Moraea. We conclude that the combination of complex environmental conditions together with relative climatic stability promoted high speciation and/or low extinction rates as the most likely scenario leading to present-day patterns of hyperdiversity in the Cape.
41316533|We have evaluated the performance of two classes of probabilistic models for substitution rate variation over phylogenetic trees. In the first class, branch rates are considered to be independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) stochastic variables. Three versions with respect to the underlying distribution (Gamma, Inverse Gaussian, and LogNormal) are considered. The i.i.d. models are compared with the autocorrelated (AC) model, where rates of adjacent nodes in the tree are AC, so that a node rate is LogNormal distributed around the rate of the parent node. The performance of different models is evaluated using three empirical data sets. For all data sets, it was clear that all tested models extracted substantial knowledge from data when posterior divergence time distributions were compared with the prior distributions and, furthermore, that they clearly outperformed a molecular clock. Moreover, the descriptive power of the i.i.d. models, as evaluated by Bayes factors, was either equal to or clearly better than that of the AC model. The latter effect increased with extended taxon sampling. Likewise, under none of the models could we find compelling evidence, in any of the data sets, for rate correlation between adjacent branches/nodes. These findings challenge previous suggestions of universality of autocorrelation in sequence evolution. We also performed an additional comparison with a divergence time prior including calibration information from fossil evidence. Adding fossil information to the prior had negligible effect on Bayes factors and mainly affected the width of the posterior distribution of the divergence times, whereas the relative position of the mean divergence times were largely unaffected.
41316529|Although most of the important evolutionary events in the history of biology can only be studied via interspecific comparisons, it is challenging to apply the rich body of population genetic theory to the study of interspecific genetic variation. Probabilistic modeling of the substitution process would ideally be derived from first principles of population genetics, allowing a quantitative connection to be made between the parameters describing mutation, selection, drift, and the patterns of interspecific variation. There has been progress in reconciling population genetics and interspecific evolution for the case where mutation rates are sufficiently low, but when mutation rates are higher, reconciliation has been hampered due to complications from how the loss or fixation of new mutations can be influenced by linked nonneutral polymorphisms (i.e., the Hill-Robertson effect). To investigate the generation of interspecific genetic variation when concurrent fitnessaffecting polymorphisms are common and the Hill-Robertson effect is thereby potentially strong, we used the Wright-Fisher model of population genetics to simulate very many generations of mutation, natural selection, and genetic drift. This was done so that the chronological history of advantageous, deleterious, and neutral substitutions could be traced over time along the ancestral lineage. Our simulations show that the process by which a nonrecombining sequence changes over time can markedly deviate from the Markov assumption that is ubiquitous in molecular phylogenetics. In particular, we find tendencies for advantageous substitutions to be followed by deleterious ones and for deleterious substitutions to be followed by advantageous ones. Such non-Markovian patterns reflect the fact that the fate of the ancestral lineage depends not only on its current allelic state but also on gene copies not belonging to the ancestral lineage. Although our simulations describe nonrecombining sequences, we conclude by discussing how non-Markovian behavior of the ancestral lineage is plausible even when recombination rates are not low. As a result, we believe that increased attention needs to be devoted to the robustness of evolutionary inference procedures that rely upon the Markov assumption.
41316532|Stochastic modeling of phylogenies raises five questions that have received varying levels of attention from quantitatively inclined biologists. 1) How large do we expect (from the model) the ratio of maximum historical diversity to current diversity to be? 2) From a correct phylogeny of the extant species of a clade, what can we deduce about past speciation and extinction rates? 3) What proportion of extant species are in fact descendants of still-extant ancestral species, and how does this compare with predictions of models? 4) When one moves from trees on species to trees on sets of species (whether traditional higher order taxa or clades within PhyloCode), does one expect trees to become more unbalanced as a purely logical consequence of tree structure, without signifying any real biological phenomenon? 5) How do we expect that fluctuation rates for counts of higher order taxa should compare with fluctuation rates for number of species? We present a mathematician's view based on an oversimplified modeling framework in which all these questions can be studied coherently.
41316527|The phylogenetic comparative method uses estimates of evolutionary relationships to explicitly model the covariance structure of interspecific data. By accounting for common ancestry, the coevolution between 2 or more traits, as a response to one another or to environmental variables, can be studied without confounding similarities due to identity by descent. Because the true phylogeny is unknowable, an estimate must be used, introducing a source of error into phylogenetic comparative analysis that can be difficult to quantify. This manuscript aims to elucidate how tree misspecification is propagated through a comparative analysis. I focus on the phylogenetic regression under a Brownian motion model of evolution and consider the effect of local phylogenetic perturbations on the regression fit. Motivated by Felsenstein's method of independent contrasts, I derive a matrix square root of the phylogenetic covariance matrix that has an obvious phylogenetic interpretation. I use this result to transform the perturbed phylogenetic regression model into an ordinary linear regression in which one interpretable point has been affected. The simplicity of this formulation allows the contributions of data and phylogeny to be disentangled when studying the effect of tree misspecification. Consequentially, I find that branch length misspecification can be easily explained in terms of the reweighting of contrast scores between subtrees. An analytical consideration of this and other perturbations helps to explain why the phylogenetic regression appears generally to be robust to tree misspecification, and I am able to identify conditions under which the regression may not yield robust results. I discuss why soft polytomies do not meet these problematic conditions, leading to the conclusion that unresolved bifurcations should have only modest effects on the regression fit.
10.2307/2413509|The use of comparative methods to test evolutionary hypotheses has become more common at both the macro- and microevolutionary levels. The application of such techniques is especially troublesome at the interface of these levels because phylogenetic relationships are often difficult to estimate. The use of a technique developed to estimate intraspecific cladograms combined with more traditional methods of phylogenetic estimation can improve the estimate in data sets containing a range of diversity when the lower bound of the range approaches 0% divergence. For nucleotide sequence data from the 16S region of the mitochondrial DNA from 72 individuals representing 37 species, this combined-procedures approach improved the estimate of phylogenetic relationships using maximum-parsimony, maximum-likelihood, and neighbor-joining methods. The estimated trees were used to examine systematic hypotheses relating to the crayfish genus Orconectes and species relationships within the subgenus Procericambarus. The monophyly of Procericambarus is not supported by the mitochondrial data, and the hypotheses of unique origins of various morphological features previously used in determining crayfish relationships is unsupported.
10.2307/2413510|We examined the statistical performance (in terms of type I error rates) of Felsenstein's (1985, Am. Nat. 125:1-15) comparative method of phylogenetically independent contrasts for testing hypotheses about evolutionary correlations of continuous-valued characters. We simulated data along two different phylogenies, one for 15 species of plethodontid salamanders and the other for 49 species of Carnivora and ungulates. We implemented 15 different models of character evolution, 14 of which deviated from Brownian motion, which is in effect assumed by the method. The models studied included the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process and punctuated equilibrium (change allowed in only one daughter at each bifurcation) both with and without trends and limits on how far phenotypes could evolve. As has been shown in several previous simulation studies, a nonphylogenetic Pearson correlation of species' mean values yielded inflated type I error rates under most models, including that of simple Brownian motion. Independent contrasts yielded acceptable type I error rates under Brownian motion (and in preliminary studies under slight deviations from this model), but they were inflated under most other models. This new result confirms the model dependence of independent contrasts. However, when branch lengths were checked and transformed, then type I error rates of independent contrasts were reduced. Moreover, the maximum observed type I error rates never exceeded twice the nominal P value at  = 0.05. In comparison, the nonphylogenetic correlation tended to yield extremely inflated (and highly variable) type I error rates. These results constitute another demonstration of the general superiority of phylogenetically based statistical methods over nonphylogenetic ones, even under extreme deviations from a Brownian motion model. These results also show the necessity of checking the assumptions of statistical comparative methods and indicate that diagnostic checks and remedial measures can substantially improve the performance of the independent contrasts method.
10.2307/2413512|Finite mixture coding (FMC) is a new method of coding continuous characters. FMC uses a three-step goodness-of-fit procedure to assign codes. First, for a given measurement, parameters are estimated for a number of density functions that describe a data set either of species means or of measurements of specimens from several species. The density functions represent either a single population or a mixture of populations (e.g., a mixture of two normal distributions). Next, a goodness-of-fit criterion (the Akaike information criterion) is used to determine which of the density functions best describes the data set. The best function indicates the number of populations into which the variates of the data set can be segregated. Finally, species are assigned to the population for which its probability of membership is highest. Each population is then assigned a code, and species falling within the same population share the same code. Although other coding methods incorporate statistical tests or parameters into the coding process, FMC is the only method that produces codes as the direct output of a statistical procedure.
10.2307/2413513|The method of minimum evolution was introduced by Edwards and Cavalli-Sforza (1963, Heredity 18:553, Ann. Hum. Genet. 27:104-105) for the reconstruction of phylogenetic trees. Its relationship to the subsequently developed parsimony methods and the logical basis of the methods are discussed, with special reference to probability models. The minimum evolution method did not derive from Hennig's phylogenetic systematics but rather as an approximation to the maximum-likelihood solution for a model of random evolution.
10.2307/2413511|The correlation that exists among multiple cladograms is often taken as evidence of some underlying macroevolutionary phenomenon common to the histories of those clades and, thus, as an explanation of the patterns of association of the constituent taxa. Such studies have various forms, the most common of which are cladistic biogeography and host-parasite coevolution. The issue of confidence has periodically been a theoretical consideration of vicariance biogeographers but in practice has been largely ignored by others. Previous approaches to assessing confidence in historical associations are examined here in relation to the difference between simple-event and cumulative probabilities and in relation to the restrictiveness of joint hypothesis testing. The phylogenetic covariance probability (PCP) test, a novel approach to assessing confidence in hypotheses of historical association, employs the empirical protocol of Brooks parsimony analysis (BPA) in an iterative, computer-intensive randomization routine. The PCP value consists of the frequency with which a solution as efficient or more efficient than the observed hypothesis of correlated phylogeny is achieved with random associations (e.g., of parasites and hosts or of taxa and areas). Because only the associations, and not the contributing phylogenies, are subjected to randomization, the test is not prone to certain criticisms leveled at other cladistic randomization routines. The behavior of the PCP test is examined in relation to eight published studies of historical association. This test is appropriately sensitive to the degrees of freedom allowed by the number of contributing clades and the number of taxa in those clades, to the extent of noncorrelated associations in the observed hypothesis, and to the relative information content contributing to that hypothesis.
10.2307/2413514|Molecular data are commonly used to reconstruct the evolutionary histories of organisms. However, evolutionary reconstructions from different molecular data sets sometimes conflict. It is generally unknown whether these different estimates of history result from random variation in the processes of nucleotide substitution or from fundamentally different evolutionary mechanisms underlying the histories of the genes analyzed. We describe a novel likelihood ratio test that compares different topologies (each estimated from a different data partition for the same taxa) to determine if they are significantly different. The results of this test indicate that different genes provide significantly different phylogenies for amniotes, supporting earlier suggestions based on less direct tests. These results suggest that some molecular data can give misleading information about evolutionary history.
10.2307/2413515|Several recent studies have included attempts to use the balance of phylogenetic trees, i.e., the extent to which sister groups within a tree tend to be the same size, to test hypotheses about the macroevolutionary processes that produced them. Such tests require measures of balance or imbalance and the moments or probability distributions of these measures under some null models. In earlier work, I developed recursion equations for the mean, variance, skewness, and complete probability distribution of Colless's coefficient of imbalance (I) (Rogers, 1994, Evolution 48:2026-2036). In this paper, I report the extension of these techniques to two additional imbalance measures, the number of unbalanced nodes on a tree (J) and Sackin's index (K), under both the equal-rates Markov (ERM) model and the equal probability (EP) model. I also show how to find the correlations and joint probability distributions of all pairs of these three coefficients. I and K are so highly correlated for trees of all sizes that K contains little additional information about tree balance that is not conveyed by I. The correlation of I and J, however, decreases rapidly with increasing tree size, indicating that the testing of macroevolutionary hypotheses may be refined by employing the joint distribution of these two coefficients. The results of two simulation studies of non-ERM speciation processes are used to illustrate how the joint distribution of I and J may be used.
10.2307/2413527|Cladistic analyses of molecular (chloroplast DNA restriction site) and morphological data matrices for species of Andira, a genus of Neotropical woody plants, were performed. The molecular data provided considerable phylogenetic resolution but failed to resolve relationships within species groups. The morphological data produced large numbers of equally most-parsimonious trees that yielded an entirely unresolved strict consensus tree. This lack of resolution reflects the small number of macromorphological characters in Andira that display discontinuous variation and thus are suitable for cladistic analysis. A directly combined cladistic analysis resulted in four far more highly resolved equally most-parsimonious trees. In contrast, combining the data sets using consensus techniques yielded poor phylogenetic resolution. The increased resolution of the directly combined analysis is explained by the molecular and morphological characters providing phylogenetic resolution at different hierarchical levels. The utility of the phylogenetic framework provided by this combined analysis is demonstrated by using the phylogeny to study the evolution of dispersal syndromes in Andira. Patterns of morphological variation in Andira are typical of many species-rich genera of woody tropical plants, which are an important component of diversity in tropical vegetation. This example demonstrates that cladistic analysis of combined molecular and morphological data may greatly improve phylogeny reconstruction of these organisms.
10.2307/2413525|Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed for salamanders of the plethodontid subfamily Desmognathinae to examine evolution of morphology, ecology, and life history. Mitochondrial DNA sequences encoding 12S and 16S ribosomal RNA and the valine transfer RNA provided 259 phylogenetically informative sites from approximately 1,200 nucleotide positions for 21 specimens representing 15 species and subspecies. These data were analyzed in conjunction with 13 morphological and reproductive characters to generate phylogenetic hypotheses. The directly developing terrestrial desmognathines Phaeognathus hubrichti and Desmognathus wrighti represent, respectively, the first and second phylogenetic branching events within the subfamily, and the remaining terrestrial lineage, D. aeneus, also branches near the base of the phylogenetic tree. These results challenge earlier hypotheses that within Desmognathus the small nonmetamorphosing species, D. aeneus and D. wrighti, represent the end of a graded phylogenetic decrease in size and decrease in use of aquatic habitats. In contrast to previous hypotheses, our results suggest that desmognathine evolution includes transformations in the direction of larger body sizes, lengthened larval periods, and greater use of aquatic habitats.
10.2307/2413524|A phylogenetic analysis of modern and selected fossil geese and swans was performed using 165 characters of the skeleton, trachea, and natal and definitive integument. Five shortest trees were found (length = 318; consistency index for informative characters = 0.634), which differed only in details of relationships among three species of Branta. The trees supported (1) Cnemiornis as sister group to other taxa analyzed; (2) a sister group relationship between the moa-nalos of Hawaii and other geese and swans; (3) Cereopsis as sister group of Anser, Branta, Coscoroba, and Cygnus (contra Livezey, 1986, Auk 103:737-754); (4) monophyly of Anser, Branta, and Geochen and confirmation of generic monophyly of each; and (5) Coscoroba as sister group to Cygnus. Selective exclusion of fossil taxa from the analysis variably affected inferred relationships and had substantial impacts on computational efficiency. Some nodes were not robust to bootstrapping: (1) nodes relating species groups within Anser, Cygnus, and Thambetochen and (2) the node uniting Anser, Branta, Coscoroba, and Cygnus relative to Cereopsis. Bremer (decay) indices indicated similar differences in relative support for nodes. Skeletal characters were comparatively important in establishing higher order relationships, whereas integumentary characters were critical for lower order inferences. Constrained analyses revealed that other proposed phylogenetic hypotheses entailed variable penalities in parsimony. The shortest tree(s) was considered with respect to selected ecomorphological attributes (e.g., body mass, sexual size dimorphism, clutch size) and biogeography, and a revised phylogenetic classification of the geese and swans is proposed.
10.2307/2413530|Many phylogenetic analyses are inspired by or depend upon the monophyly of a group specified a priori. Also, many evolutionary problems for which phylogenies are useful do not require every detail of the phylogeny to be estimated correctly but depend upon the monophyly (or lack thereof) of a particular group. We propose a likelihood-ratio test that compares whether the best trees estimated with and without the constraint of monophyly are significantly different. Simulation suggests that the test is conservative when the null hypothesis (a particular specified constraint) is correct. We applied the likelihood-ratio test of monophyly to the question of the relationship of the presumed-extinct marsupial wolf (Thylacinus). Specifically, we examined the null hypotheses that (1) the marsupial wolf does not form a monophyletic group with dasyurids and (2) the marsupial wolf is a basal member of the Australian radiation of mammals. Both hypotheses were rejected using the likelihood-ratio test of monophyly.
10.2307/2413526|The phylogeny of oscine passerines was estimated by comparing 27 species using DNA-DNA hybridization. In the process, the finer structure of the "sylvioids" was examined (1) to assess the phylogenetic proposals of Sibley and Ahlquist (1990, Phylogeny and classification of birds, Yale Univ. Press, New Haven, Connecticut) and (2) to develop a framework for studies of sylvioid historical ecology. Many of Sibley and Ahlquist's phylogenetic proposals were supported, including their division of the oscines into two clades: corvids and passerids. However, their division of the passerids into three clades, Muscicapoidea, Sylvioidea, and Passeroidea, was not supported; neither their Sylvioidea nor their Passeroidea is monophyletic. The improved picture of oscine phylogeny presented here permits a more rigorous historical analysis of convergence, adaptation, phylogenetic constraint, and other evolutionary phenomena. For example, the sister group of the seed-caching Paridae is the Remizidae (including the verdin, Auriparus), not the nuthatches (Sittidae), which also cache seeds. Thus, seed caching arose separately in the Paridae and Sittidae and is likely to be a key innovation for these groups, i.e., an adaptation responsible for their diversification. Similar cases of convergence and thus potential opportunities for ecophylogenetic study are common throughout the passerines. Unfortunately, such study is hampered by the difficulty of resolving passerine phylogeny, which is characterized by many short internodes.
10.2307/2413528|A Monte Carlo approach was used to estimate the accuracy of a given tree reconstruction method for any number of taxa. In this procedure, we sampled randomly over all possible bifurcating trees assigning substitution rates (branch lengths) to each edge from an exponential distribution to obtain a biologically sensible maximal observed distance. Three different sets of trees were studied: the unrestricted tree space, the biologically meaningful tree space as introduced by Nei et al. (1995, Science 267:253-254), and the population data tree space. We used this technique to elucidate the performance of neighbor joining as a function of the number of taxa, assuming that distances are uncorrected and sequences evolve according to the Jukes-Cantor model. The accuracy of neighbor joining decreases almost exponentially with the number of taxa. However, the rate of decrease depends on the tree space studied. Although the accuracy decreases towards zero, the similarity, i.e., the number of partitions that are identical between model tree and reconstructed tree, is in all cases studied much higher than the value expected for two randomly chosen trees. Although the probability of recovering the true tree is dramatically influenced by sequence length, the average similarity does not decrease substantially if branch lengths are not too short.
10.2307/2413529|Four molecular data sets are available for the diploid intersterile genera of the cereal grain tribe Triticcac, and there are numerous differences among the four published trees. All six pairwise combinations of data sets were examined using tree comparisons, the incongruence length difference test, the Wilcoxon signed ranks test, and a permutation test. We describe some advantages, disadvantages, and properties of the different comparison methods. Test results provide no evidence for significant differences in the phylogenetic signal among the three nuclear data sets, with the exception of the placement of a single taxon. The chloroplast DNA restriction site data, however, support a significantly different tree, and the differences probably reflect a separate evolutionary history of the chloroplast genome.
10.2307/2413523|Published sets of systematic data on crocodilians (18S and 28S nuclear ribosomal DNA [rDNA] restriction fragments, mitochondrial rDNA restriction fragments, 12S mitochondrial rDNA sequences, osteology, external morphology, dentition, nest type, albumin, parasites) were used to test hypotheses of data set incongruence and phylogeny. Comparing incongruence indices between molecular versus molecular data set comparisons and molecular versus morphological data set comparisons showed the orphological/molecular comparisons to be significantly more incongruent, and experiments removing taxa suggested that morphological incongruence can be localized to the separation of Gavialis from Tomistoma. Significance tests of incongruence between the five larger crocodilian data sets relative to each other and to combined data sets supported these hypotheses and demonstrated that only 1 (12S sequences vs. morphology) of the 10 pairwise comparisons of data sets show significant incongruence. Three hypotheses of crocodilian phylogeny were evaluated using combined parsimony analysis, separate parsimony analyses, and evaluation of uncombinable data. The (alligatorids(crocodylids(Gavialis, Tomistoma))) hypothesis of crocodilian relationships was best supported. Although this hypothesis is not supported by one of the molecular data sets and requires additional morphological homoplasy beyond that required in most-parsimonious trees based on morphology, other hypotheses require even more homoplasy, and any particular hypothesis of crocodilian evolution requires additional homoplasy in more than one data set. Alligatorid relationships were robustly supported in both combined and separate analyses. Crocodylus relationships were not well resolved in most-parsimonious trees from any individual data set but were completely resolved in the combined analysis.
10.2307/2413612|Molecular phylogenies can be used to test hypotheses of cospeciation between hosts and parasites by comparing both cladistic relationships and branch lengths. Molecular data can also help discriminate between competing reconstructions of the history of the host-parasite association. Methods for comparing sequence divergence in hosts and parasites are described and applied to data for pocket gophers and their chewing lice. The hypothesis of cospeciation between these two clades is strongly supported. The lengths of homologous branches in the gopher and louse phylogenies are positively correlated, but there is little support for the hypothesis that lice are evolving an order of magnitude faster than are their hosts.
10.2307/2413613|The importance of choice of taxa in phylogenetic analysis has been explored mainly with reference to its effect on the accuracy of tree estimation. Taxon sampling can also introduce other kinds of errors. Even if the sampled topology agrees with the true topology, it may not include the true root node of a clade, a node that is of interest for many reasons. Using a simple Yule model for the diversification process, the probability of identifying this node is derived under random sampling of taxa. For large clades, the minimum sample size needed to be 95% confident of identifying the root node is approximately 40 and is independent of the size of the clade. If rates of diversification differ in the two sister groups descended from the root node, the minimum sample size needed increases markedly. If these two sister groups are so different in diversity that a Yule model would be rejected by conventional diversification tests, then the necessary sample size is an order of magnitude greater than when diversification is homogeneous.
10.2307/2413614|In phylogenetic taxonomy, the clade denoted by a taxon name is determined by the phylogenetic definition of the name and by the phylogenetic context. The clade referred to by the phylogenetic definition of a taxon name depends on (1) the reference phylogeny, (2) the meanings of taxon names referred to in the definition, and (3) whether the name is defined as a node-, stem-, or apomorphy-based taxon. Ambiguity in the clade referred to by the definition results from (1) imprecise wording so that no single ancestor is specified, the clade identified by the definition changes with the extinction of taxa, or the definition is a tautology, (2) failure to specify a reference phylogeny, and (3) the lack of phylogenetic definitions of taxon names referred to in the definition. In phylogenetic taxonomy, phylogenetic pattern has the central role in determining the identity and attributes of the clades denoted by particular taxon names. Because phylogenetic definitions may associate taxon names with different clades on different cladograms, definitions may have to be emended with changes in our understanding of phylogeny to preserve the association between a taxon name and a particular clade. As phylogenetic hypotheses stabilize, so will the definitions and usage of taxon names. Conventions can promote universality in the formation, definition, and usage of taxon names in phylogenetic taxonomy. Ambiguity is reduced by using standard formats for node- and stem-based definitions and by citing authorities for the meaning of taxon names used in definitions. Reference to undefined taxon names in definitions can be avoided by referring instead to the species referred to that taxon in a standard taxonomic reference. Recommended usages of taxon names provide a mechanism for restricting the use of a name to a clade with a particular exclusive common ancestry. Continuity of usage should help to promote the acceptance of phylogenetic taxonomy by biologists. These issues are discussed within the context of the phylogenetic taxonomy of the Carnivora.
10.2307/2413611|Morphometric data from longitudinal growth studies with multiple measurements made in several growth stages on the same specimens confront researchers with difficult statistical problems because traits are correlated both within and across stages. Here, we introduce a statistical model especially designed to deal with this complexity. The common principal component (CPC) model for dependent random vectors is based on the assumption that the same pattern underlies both variation within stages and covariation across stages. Thus, a single transformation, when applied to all stages, renders the resulting CPCs uncorrelated not only within but also across stages. Because of these simplifying assumptions, the CPC model greatly reduces the number of parameters to be estimated; it is thus an efficient tool for data reduction. This model is demonstrated using growth of the water strider Limnoporus canaliculatus. The CPCs can be interpreted as patterns of "size" variation and contrasts between parts that are common to all stages, although there are minor deviations from the model. The "size" CPC accounts for most variation in all instars and is therefore an effective measure of overall growth. Moreover, the CPC model clarifies the link between static and ontogenetic variation by including both levels in a joint analysis and can be used to study morphological integration and constraints on the evolution of ontogenies.
10.2307/2413610|We describe a simple method for generating tighter confidence intervals for the date of divergence of two monophyletic groups of taxa. This technique exploits the variation that exists within each of two groups that have evolved separately from a common ancestor. We illustrate the method (plus a technique to test the molecular clock hypothesis) using sequence dissimilarity within the orders of ratites and of tinamous (small birds from South America commonly regarded as the closest relative to ratites).
10.2307/2413615|A number of Vendian (latest Precambrian) body fossils have traditionally been considered arthropods or arthropodlike organisms. Several Cambrian "weird wonders" have also been linked with the arthropods. However, these relationships are difficult to express in traditional Linnean systematics. I present a morphological cladistic analysis of seven Vendian "arthropodlike" taxa compared with 21 representative Cambrian arthropods, lobopods, and weird wonders. Four arthropods from the later Phanerozoic (a pycnogonid, a monuran, and the problematic Cheloniellon and Arthropleura), five extant tardigrades, two extant kinorhynchs, and an extant priapulid, myriapod, pycnogonid, and onychophoran are also included. Monophyly of the Arthropoda is supported, but the anomalocarids and their relatives (Anomalopoda) fall out very close to the base of the traditional Arthropoda and should be included within it. The relationships among arthropods with uniramous appendages are not well resolved, but the group does not appear to be monophyletic. The biramous arthropods do form a clade and are divided into a crustaceanomorph clade and an arachnomorph clade that includes the trilobites. Most Vendian arthropodlike fossils form two clades, the Vendiamorpha and the Sprigginidae, in the arthropod stem group. The Lobopoda is a monophyletic clade with three branches: tardigrades, onychophorans, and marine lobopods. An unranked taxonomic scheme is proposed for the major clades identified here. There is no compelling reason to accept the hypothesis that the Vendian organisms included here are not metazoans.
10.2307/2413616|Many hypotheses regarding the phylogenetic position of the Chaetognatha (arrow worms) have been proposed; these organisms are problematic primarily because their morphology offers few unambiguous systematic characters that ally them with other taxa. Early researchers proposed a plethora of phylogenetic placements for the Chaetognatha, grouping them with such divergent taxa as acanthocephalans and mollusks, but more traditional hypotheses posit that chaetognaths are, in fact, deuterostomes. Recently, Telford and Holland (1993, Mol. Biol. Evol. 10: 660-676) and Wada and Satoh (1994, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91:1801-1804) disputed the deuterostome affinities of chaetognaths based on 18S nuclear ribosomal RNA (rDNA) gene sequence data. By employing published 18S rDNA gene sequence data, I extended these previous analyses by testing specific hypotheses of chaetognath affinities to nematodes, mollusks, acanthocephalans, and deuterostomes. Both parsimony and neighbor-joining analyses supported the monophyly of a chaetognath-nematode clade. Faith's T-PTP test and winning-sites analyses were employed to discriminate among competing hypotheses. The possibility of long-branch attraction accounting for the chaetognath-nematode relationship was explored by analyzing alternative four-taxon trees. An evolutionary scenario for the origin of the chaetognath lineage from a vermiform benthic organism is presented.
10.2307/2413567|We investigated the triples distance as a measure of the distance between two rooted bifurcating phylogenetic trees. The triples distance counts the number of subtrees of three taxa that are different in the two trees. Exact expressions are given for the mean and variance of the sampling distribution of this distance measure. Also, a normal approximation is proved under the class of label-invariant models on the distribution of trees. The theory is applied to the usage of the triples distance as a statistic for testing the null hypothesis that the similarities in two trees can be explained by independent random structures. In an example, two phylogenies that describe the same seven species of chloroccalean zoosporic green algae are compared: one phylogeny based on morphological characteristics and one based on ribosomal RNA gene sequence data.
10.2307/2413564|There are a number of species of Southeast Asian Rana that are characterized by an unusual suite of sexually dimorphic features and derived reproductive modes. These frogs lack the usual secondary sexual characteristics of ranid frogs: nuptial pads, vocal sacs, and enlarged flexor muscles. Secondary sexual characteristics in frogs are under androgenic control. Phylogenetic analyses using morphological and molecular data indicate that a drop in androgen level and/or a shift in androgen sensitivity may have been involved in the evolution of male parental care and the loss of the common suite of secondary sexual characteristics in these Asian frogs. Phylogenetic analyses also provide important information on experimental design by indicating the most appropriate taxa to use in the exploration of physiological processes controlling the expression of sexual dimorphism. This work is an example of how emergent properties from phylogenetic analyses can be used to formulate and test hypotheses of process and pattern of evolutionary change.
10.2307/2413566|The switch from feeding to nonfeeding larvae is an ecologically important transformation that has evolved on several separate occasions within the echinoids. In each case, this life history transformation has been accompanied by extensive changes in larval morphology. A phylogenetic approach is used here to reconstruct these morphological changes, to begin asking why they have taken the particular forms observed, and to assess the degree of parallel transformation in separate cases. Both traditional character mapping and a less usual aggregate analysis indicate massively parallel transformations in larval morphology associated with, and only with, this particular life history transformation. Some of these parallel morphological transformations may be due to relaxed functional constraints associated with the ancestral life history mode, but many are probably the result of new functional constraints associated with the derived mode. The comparative data suggest a simple and testable model for the switch from feeding to nonfeeding larvae involving three sequential steps.
10.2307/2413565|Robust phylogenetic information can be instrumental to the study of the evolution of female mating preferences and preferred male traits. In this paper, the evolution of a preexisting female bias favoring a sword in male swordtail fish and the evolution of the sword, a complex character, are used to demonstrate how the evolution of mating preferences and preferred traits can be examined in a phylogenetic context. Phylogenetic information suggests that a preference for a sword arose prior to the evolution of the sword in the genus Xiphophorus and that the sword was adaptive at its origin. A phylogenetic approach to the study of female preferences and male traits can also be informative when used in conjunction with mate choice theory in making predictions about evolutionary changes in an initial bias, both prior to the appearance of the male trait it favors and subsequent to the appearance of the trait.
10.2307/2413569|We illustrate one approach to bridging the gap between the statistical methodology of multivariate morphometrics and the graphically oriented methods of geometric morphometrics for landmark data. Partial-warp scores (elements of the weight matrix from relative-warp analysis) are used as variables to describe nonaffine shape variation. The results of various multivariate analyses can then be visualized by reconstruction of images as weighted linear combinations of thin-plate splines. The method was applied to data on seven species of Old World moles of the family Talpidae. There was no evidence for sexual dimorphism or any interaction between sex differences and species differences. There were large statistically significant differences among species with respect to nonaffine shape differences (local deformations). Small but statistically significant differences were found among species with respect to the uniform component of shape variation.
10.2307/2413563|Both male and female gasterosteid fishes display nuptial coloration. Male nuptial coloration originated in the ancestor of the Pungitius + Culaea + Gasterosteus clade. Patterns of origin and diversification of characters involved in male-male, male-female, and parental interactions indicate that the evolution of male color was influenced by intersexual selection, natural selection during parental care, and intrasexual selection, in decreasing order of importance. This macroevolutionary hypothesis was corroborated by examining changes in male color across the breeding cycle for two stickleback species, Gasterosteus aculeatus and Culaea inconstans. Female nuptial coloration may have originated before the male signal. The phylogenetic diversification of the male and female signals are decoupled, suggesting that they have been subject to different selection pressures throughout their evolutionary histories. Macroevolutionary patterns and experimental studies indicate that color signal evolution has been more complex in this group of fishes than was previously thought.
10.2307/2413570|Inconsistency of phylogenetic estimations refers to the property of certain estimation methods to converge on the positively wrong estimate with increasing amounts of data. This property, at least with respect to the maximum parsimony method, has been given the catch phrase "long branches attract." It has also been suggested that this problem can be alleviated by inclusion of more taxa to break up the long branches. Unfortunately, these observations have been based on computations for trees with small numbers of taxa. Here, I present a decomposition equation that allows determination of inconsistency conditions for large numbers of taxa. I show by counterexamples that long branches are a poor predictor of inconsistent conditions and that even trees with equal branch lengths can produce inconsistent estimates. I also tested the idea of breaking up long branches with additional taxa. The addition of taxa alleviates the inconsistency problem only if the average rate of change in the added taxa is low. If the rate is high, the inconsistency problem can become worse. Sampling of random tree models indicates that the inconsistency problem becomes increasingly acute as the number of taxa becomes larger. Conclusions: (1) low rates of change are of paramount importance if the inconsistency problem is to be avoided, (2) if the evolutionary question of interest does not require large numbers of taxa, it seems best to use fewer taxa because larger trees are more likely to contain inconsistent branches, and (3) if taxa are added to counter inconsistency problems, the added taxa should have low rates of change and be close to the common ancestor of the clade (which may be measured by comparison with the outgroup taxa). Longer branches require large numbers of added taxa, but such additions should only be used to resolve the particular branch of interest. Other parts of the tree, especially the branches within the added taxa, may still be inconsistently estimated.
10.2307/2413568|Previous studies using partial regression Mantel tests of matrix correspondence on within-island geographic variation in the color pattern of the Tenerife (Canary Islands) lacertid lizard (Gallotia galloti) support natural selection for different north-south climatically determined biotopes but do not support any historical cause. However, tests on the DNA phylogeny based primarily on population data from 57 localities on Tenerife support the hypothesis that there were populations on two putative precursor islands that have come into secondary contact and introgressed after these islands were joined to form Tenerife by the eruption of the Canadas edifice. Subsequent partial Mantel tests continue to support the hypothesis that color pattern is adapted to the climatic biotopes even when this phylogenetic information is taken into account by (1) testing for color pattern adaptation separately within each lineage and (2) testing for color pattern adaptation across the entire island and simultaneously considering the molecular phylogenetic relationships as representing an alternative explanation. Selection has largely expunged any trace of the geological history from current morphological variation, and the introgression of these island populations after an estimated 0.7 million years of separation gives an insight into the relationships between allopatric divergence and reproductive isolation.
10.2307/2992556|In this empirical study of species boundaries in a small genus of plants, we take the view that species are ambivalent; some appear to be monophyletic taxa, but some lack autapomorphies and are metataxa. As an operational definition, we recognized species from differentiated clusters in phenetic space whose distinctness was assumed to be the manifestation of underlying, fixed, and qualitative differences following speciation. These units were considered appropriate as terminals for phylogenetic reconstruction. The appropriateness of different phenetic methods in relation to models of infraspecific geographic variation and evolution is discussed. At the population level, ordination was more suitable than either cladistics or cluster analysis because it does not impose a rigidly hierarchical pattern on the data when none is expected. Variation among populations of Telopea was investigated by phenetic analysis of adult morphology. The main questions were whether the conventional distinction of T. mongaensis Cheel from T. oreades F. Muell. could be justified and whether disjunct populations referred to T. speciosissima (Smith) R.Br. in the Gibraltar Range, northern New South Wales, constituted a distinguishable taxon. The Gibraltar Range waratahs were distinguishable from typical T. speciosissima by their abundant ferruginous hairs, elliptic to obovate leaves, and numerous teeth along the lower half of the leaf margin; we propose recognizing them as a new species. Ordination analysis revealed a strong ontogenetic pattern within populations of T. speciosissima sensu lato, indicating that adult plants were retaining lobed intermediate leaves. Canonical variate analysis confirmed that this pattern was distinguishable from the between-population geographic pattern, but cluster analysis confounded the geographic and ontogenetic patterns. Conventional recognition of T. oreades and T. mongaensis as distinct species was supported by both ordination and cluster analysis. One population was mixed, with little evidence of hybridization between the sympatric species. Canonical variate analysis of populations was confounded by the heterogeneous population.
10.2307/2992555|The robustness of DNA-hybridization estimates of distance, phylogeny, and rates of evolution was examined via a technique called absorption. Single-copy nuclear DNAs of a study group consisting of four heron species and an ibis were hybridized with DNA from absorber species (either a swallow or stork) to remove shared sequences before they were hybridized among themselves. The amount and kind of DNA that was removed by absorption depended largely upon whether the absorber species was closely or distantly related to the study group and whether it was an outgroup or ingroup member. Absorption with outgroups, which removed between 25% and 80% of the genome, did not alter branching or evolutionary rate patterns but did increase distances slightly and reciprocal measurement asymmetry and tree-fitting error markedly. Increases in distances and homoplasy are expected when conservative sequences have been removed and mainly rapidly evolving sequences are left to hybridize. Absorption with ingroup DNA (i.e., ibis absorbed with stork) also did not affect branching, but it yielded other contrasting results. Genetic distances between ibis and herons were shortened rather than lengthened, and the pattern of rate variation known to occur among heron lineages was negated. The DNA sequences remaining after ingroup absorption appeared to be paraphyletically conserved; they were common to ibis and herons but not to ibis and its sister taxon, the storks. Overall, the effect of our sequence removal experiments was to increase site- and sequence-level noise in the DNA hybridization data without obliterating the phylogenetic signal.
10.2307/2992553|Despite long-standing interest in reconstructing rates of branching in the history of groups and recent attempts to use cladistic information to make inferences about such rates, the conditions under which genealogy affects rate reconstruction have not been demonstrated because studies of branching rates rely on methods that either ignore genealogy (and focus on changes in species richness through time) or do not reconstruct absolute rates. We consider stochastic and deterministic approaches that associate branching rates with branches of a phylogeny, allowing the influence of genealogy to be directly assessed. Both approaches assume that the phylogeny is known. The stochastic approach uses maximum likelihood to estimate one or more parameters of a Yule model in which individual lineages branch according to a Poisson process. In a model with only one rate parameter over the entire tree, genealogy affects the estimation of rate whenever some taxa are not extant (i.e., are known only from fossils) or are direct descendants of fossils of known age. In more complex multiparameter models, the estimated rates always depend on genealogy regardless of when the taxa are observed in time. The deterministic model uses nonlinear optimization methods to reconstruct local branching rates in a tree. This procedure minimizes the transformation in local rate required by the data on topology and times of occurrence. A uniform tree need not entail any transformation in local rate, but a nonuniform tree does. Genealogy therefore affects reconstructed branching rates in both deterministic and stochastic approaches. The approaches are illustrated using Vrba's phylogeny of fossil and extant African bovids.
10.2307/2992554|The evolution of mitochondrial ribosomal DNA sequences was investigated to infer the phylogenetic position of the Asian viper Azemiops feae and to refine weighting methodology for phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences. To compare characteristics of sequence evolution and weighting methodology in a different group of vertebrates, the published mitochondrial ribosomal DNA data included in the study of chiropteran monophyly by Mindell et al. (1991, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88:10322-10326) were also analyzed. Sequence evolution in all taxa was marked by extreme substitution bias. For the L-strand, both mono- and ditypic substitutions involving G were rare in comparison with expected occurrences based on sequence composition. Character state weights were assigned prior to phylogenetic analysis in proportion to the ratio of expected to observed nucleotide differences in pairwise comparisons of sequences. Application of expected to observed ratio (EOR) weights strengthened support for an Azemiops/pitviper clade and for the monophyly of Chiroptera. This method may help in resolving rapid radiations and other relationships obscured by homoplasy
10.2307/2992557|The presence of multiple species lineages can cause problems in biogeographic and cospeciation studies analogous to the problems gene paralogy can cause in molecular systematics. The differential survival of these lineages, coupled with inadequate sampling, can distort estimates of area relationships in biogeography or host-parasite relationships in parasitology
10.2307/2992482|Model organisms provide opportunities to explore the linkages between genetics and phylogenetics. Zea mays ssp. mays is an ideal system for making these links, in part because it is well known genetically and also because it is within the grass family (Gramineae or Poaceae), which is well known phylogenetically. The phylogeny of the genus Zea is reviewed, and cladograms are presented that locate the genus within the tribe Andropogoneae. Study of the genus and its relatives has been biased toward New World taxa, and thus knowledge of many character systems is incomplete. A number of genes and gene systems have been studied in a comparative context, and all of these could be examined more carefully with an appropriate sample of taxa. Cytogenetics has been extensively explored in some groups, but others are largely unknown. Maps of restriction fragment length polymorphisms are yielding information on the arrangement of the nuclear genome and indicating that significant linkage groups are shared between maize and some of its more distant relatives. The alcohol dehydrogenase genes could provide insights into phenomena of gene duplication and intron loss. The anthocyanin pathway and the C<sub>4</sub> photosynthetic pathway are both well understood at the gene level and could provide the basis for comparative studies of patterns of gene expression. Molecular work on developmental mutants is still in its infancy, but these genes might provide the most direct connection with known cladistic characters. Geneticists and phylogeneticists appear to be moving toward common ground.
10.2307/2992483|Fungal model organisms are widely used because, in general, they are less expensive to maintain under laboratory conditions than are members of the two other higher eukaryotic kingdoms, the animals and plants. Ascomycetes have been the most popular fungi with geneticists and molecular developmental biologists, beginning with Neurospora and recently with Saccharomyces and Aspergillus. Fungal molecular evolution studies of 18S ribosomal RNA and DNA have recently produced a robust phylogeny of ascomycetes, and molecular genetic studies of fungal development are unraveling the pathway of spore production. We wondered if systematists and developmental biologists were taking advantage of each other's knowledge. The majority of molecular biology studies of fungi still use model species, and only a few studies of nonmodel organisms have used phylogenetic information in their design. Likewise, studies of asexual spore development and mating type genes have emphasized model fungi, but studies of mating type in nonmodel fungi are beginning to yield results. We predict that truly comparative molecular biological studies of fungal development will be available shortly because the prerequisites have been completed, e.g., a well-supported phylogeny, sophisticated molecular techniques, including complementation by transformation and gene disruption, and morphological developmental pathways that are simpler than those of plants or animals.
10.2307/2992487|We evaluated the house mouse (Mus musculus species complex) and its laboratory descendents as models for three aspects of systematic biology: hybrid zone biology, chromosomal evolution and speciation, and tests for methods of phylogenetic reconstruction. The taxonomy and genetic relationships of the species in the complex are summarized. The comparative phylogenetic method was used to illucidate biogeographical, ecological, and chromosomal events in the group. Hybridization in house mice was evaluated with respect to the emerging discipline of hybrid zone biology Inter- and intraspecific contact zones are described and compared. Zone-specific electrophoretic alleles, new metacentric chromosomes, and increased levels of parasitism are explained as consequences of genome disruption. The interspecific zone is widest in the area of most recent contact between species. Variation in the widths of individual clines is discussed. Chromosomal evolution is proceeding along alternative paths in different commensal lineages of house mice. A karyotypic revolution occurred within the species M. domesticus that led to the reproductive isolation between two local populations. The recency of this karyotypic revolution permits a study of how Robertsonian populations evolve and an evaluation of whether the stasipatric model of speciation is a good explanation for this case. The genealogical history of the inbred strains of mice is well known, and this information has been used to test how faithfully different kinds of data and different kinds of analytical techniques recreate the known phylogeny. Molecular data recapture the correct phylogeny better than do morphological data, and the commonly used analytical methods are all equally robust in producing this phylogeny.
10.2307/2992485|Model organisms are often assumed to be representative of some more inclusive taxon of which the species is a part. This assumption leads to mistaken generalizations about the evolutionary and comparative significance of the data gathered. This paper reviews comparative and evolutionary studies of Xenopus laevis and its relatives. Phylogenetic analysis of data from DNA sequences and morphology indicate that Xenopus is monophyletic and that Silurana is its sister group. The most basal lineages of Pipidae diverged prior to the breakup of Gondwana. The bizarre morphology of Xenopus is in part due to changes in the mode of metamorphosis. Speciation in Xenopus is unique among Anura in being associated with various levels of polyploidy owing to allopolyploidy Several kinds of molecular studies indicate substantial divergence between Xenopus and Silurana. The contribution of data from model studies of Xenopus would be greatly enhanced if comparable data were available from a more basally placed lineage such as Bombina.
10.2307/2992484|Recent molecular and morphological results on the phylogenetics of Drosophila and other Drosophilidae are reviewed. There is some consensus on the redefinition of Drosophila to make it a monophyletic group, except for the controversial placement of the Hawaiian Drosophila and the subgenus Sophophora. The possibility of Hawaiian Drosophila as a group that is morphologically atavistic (e.g., with many character reversals) is discussed. Drosophila development is reviewed, with focus on understanding the developmental genetic and molecular bases of character convergence and reversal in drosophilid phylogenetics and its applications to homology decisions. The clustering of convergent characters on cladograms is discussed as a consequence of developmental constraints. The convergent evolution of broadened head shape in male drosophilids is presented as an example. Molecular and developmental analysis of homoplastic characters pivotal to phylogenetic schemes, such as eye setae in Drosophila sensu stricto and the Hawaiian species, can be of fundamental importance for homology assessment.
10.2307/2992486|The axolotl, Ambystoma mexicanum, has been an important model system in both developmental and evolutionary biology for over 100 years. The axolotl is a recently derived member of the Ambystoma tigrinum complex (Ambystomatidae), a rapidly evolving clade of 17 closely related species ranging from southern Canada to central Mexico. The relationships of the A. tigrinum complex to the remaining species of ambystomatids are controversial; morphological data are ambiguous, although allozyme data suggest a sister-group relationship with A. macrodactylum-A. jeffersonianum with moderate statistical support. At the familial level, ribosomal RNA sequence data strongly suggest that Dicamptodon is the sister group to the Ambystomatidae, followed by the newts (Salamandridae). Two primary foci of laboratory research on the axolotl are the developmental mechanisms of pigment pattern and the physiological control of metamorphosis. Both pigment pattern and metamorphosis are extremely variable within the A. tigrinum complex and are important systematic characters at the inter- and intraspecific levels. Current comparative studies on postmetamorphic color pattern and metamorphosis across the A. tigrinum complex will be particularly important in elucidating the developmental bases of rapid divergence and speciation, and our existing phylogenetic information provides a historical framework to help guide the choice of taxa for additional developmental analyses.
10.2307/2992535|The inconsistency of the maximum-parsimony method for the case of five taxa with a molecular clock was studied using an analytical approach and Monte Carlo simulation. The inconsistency occurs in the case of a symmetrical tree with short internal branches and long external branches but can be avoided by using slowly evolving sequences. The neighbor-joining method is consistent if the evolutionary distances between taxa are estimated accurately However, for short sequences, estimates of distances are subject to large statistical errors, and the probability of obtaining a certain erroneous tree by this method can be larger than the probability of obtaining the true tree. The implications for phylogenetic reconstruction are discussed.
10.2307/2992537|Explicit cladistic and evolutionary methods are available to infer dendrogram structures that represent cladistic and anagenetic relationships. Formal Linnaean ranking from these dendrograms, however, has largely been done subjectively For a classification of 20 species of fusilier fishes restricted to three ranks, there are 18 possible combinations of taxa that can be used for supraspecific ranks from the quantitative evolutionary analysis presented here and a minimum of 13 possible ranks for a cladistic classification. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate with the Caesionidae a method of choosing objectively among possible evolutionary and cladistic classifications, using the dendrogram structure of the Linnaean hierarchy and the optimality criterion of information content. A sequenced, annotated, quantitative evolutionary classification is chosen to represent the Caesionidae based on its ability to reflect both cladistic and patristic relationships, its high information content, and its stability with respect to previously used classifications.
10.2307/2992536|Measures of dissimilarity (metrics) for comparing trees are important tools in the quantitative analysis of evolutionary trees, but many of their properties are incompletely known. The present paper reports formulae for the distributions of three classes of tree comparison metrics: the partition (or symmetric difference) metric, the quartet metric (which compares subsets of four taxa), and a metric based on path-length differences between pairs of taxa. The properties studied include the mean and variance for several underlying distributions of trees, the range, the effect of the number of taxa, and methods of calculation. Three basic theorems and their proofs are reported, one for each class of tree comparison metric. The partition metric generates an asymptotic Poisson distribution for most distributions of trees (its mean is given for three tree distributions). Exact expressions are derived for the variance of the quartet metric and the mean square value of a metric based on path differences. Factors that affect the choice of a metric for a particular study include the degree of similarity of the trees being compared and the type of hypothesis being tested (e.g., whether the trees estimate the same underlying phylogeny or are simply related in some, perhaps unknown, way).
10.2307/2992539|Limitations for using polymorphic characters in phylogenetic analysis include the lack of computer algorithms that allow input of complex branched or reticulate character state trees and the inability to use polymorphisms as data in tree building and character optimization. The step matrix option in PAUP version 3.0 and MacClade versions 2.1 and 3.0 provides a solution to these problems, allowing all homology information among character states to be utilized while retaining a biologically realistic definition of characters. For genetic data, this means that the locus can be coded as the character and allelic combinations can be coded as the character states. For ontogenetic data, this means that the entire ontogenetic sequence can be coded as the character and combinations of observed conditions within ontogenies can be coded as the character states. The unity of the locus or character ontogeny is preserved, and homology information from shared electrophoretic or ontogenetic conditions is not lost. Attention has not been called to the loss of homology information that accompanies coding the locus or an entire ontogeny as the character, possibly because of the lack of a coding option through which these data could be retained. The step matrix option allows any and all assumptions of transformation (order) among character states while retaining the unity of the locus or a whole ontogeny as the character and can be utilized for coding these and other polymorphic characters for phylogenetic analysis.
10.2307/2992538|Multistate morphological characters have generally been treated as either "unordered" or "ordered" in phylogenetic analyses using parsimony Because ordering relations do not apply to the states of characters treated under these methods, I prefer "maximally connected" character to "unordered" character and "minimally connected" character to "ordered" character. This paper formally defines the two character types, compares their properties, and considers the consequences of the two methods for both resolution and congruence. The results demonstrate that minimally connected characters increase resolution relative to maximally connected characters. Minimally connected characters do not, however, necessarily increase congruence among data sets. Because both methods produce nonrandom congruence among data sets, both character types constitute valid phylogenetic methods. A mixed-parsimony approach is advocated, wherein multistate characters are treated as minimally connected whenever reasonable but treated as maximally connected otherwise.
10.2307/2992540|Bootstrapping is a common method for assessing confidence in phylogenetic analyses. Although bootstrapping was first applied in phylogenetics to assess the repeatability of a given result, bootstrap results are commonly interpreted as a measure of the probability that a phylogenetic estimate represents the true phylogeny. Here we use computer simulations and a laboratory-generated phylogeny to test bootstrapping results of parsimony analyses, both as measures of repeatability (i.e., the probability of repeating a result given a new sample of characters) and accuracy (i.e., the probability that a result represents the true phylogeny). Our results indicate that any given bootstrap proportion provides an unbiased but highly imprecise measure of repeatability, unless the actual probability of replicating the relevant result is nearly one. The imprecision of the estimate is great enough to render the estimate virtually useless as a measure of repeatability. Under conditions thought to be typical of most phylogenetic analyses, however, bootstrap proportions in majority-rule consensus trees provide biased but highly conservative estimates of the probability of correctly inferring the corresponding clades. Specifically, under conditions of equal rates of change, symmetric phylogenies, and internodal change of 20% of the characters, bootstrap proportions of 70% usually correspond to a probability of 95% that the corresponding clade is real. However, under conditions of very high rates of internodal change (approaching randomization of the characters among taxa) or highly unequal rates of change among taxa, bootstrap proportions >50% are overestimates of accuracy.
10.2307/2992467|Three methods of phylogenetic tree estimation, UPGMA clustering (UP), maximum parsimony (MP), and neighbor joining (NJ), were used to estimate trees from a large simulation study of 5,400 eight-taxon data sets. The data sets represented nine evolutionary models and 20 tree topologies. The agreement of the trees estimated by the three methods was highly correlated (0.71) with the average agreement with the true tree from which the data sets had been generated. A simple index is proposed for the agreement of different estimation methods that can serve as a measure of the reliability of the joint estimate. This index was coupled with an unbiased character weighting procedure to increase the accuracy of estimation. Accuracy was increased by an average of 24% by use of this procedure in 47 of 61 data sets examined.
10.2307/2992464|Biologists often compare average phenotypes of groups of species defined cladistically or on behavioral, ecological, or physiological criteria (e.g., carnivores vs. herbivores, social vs. nonsocial species, endotherms vs. ectotherms). Hypothesis testing typically is accomplished via analysis of variance (ANOVA) or covariance (ANCOVA; often with body size as a covariate). Because of the hierarchical nature of phylogenetic descent, however, species may not represent statistically independent data points, degrees of freedom may be inflated, and significance levels derived from conventional tests cannot be trusted. As one solution to this degrees of freedom problem, we propose using empirically scaled computer simulation models of continuous traits evolving along "known" phylogenetic trees to obtain null distributions of F statistics for ANCOVA of comparative data sets. These empirical null distributions allow one to set critical values for hypothesis testing that account for nonindependence due to specified phylogenetic topology, branch lengths, and model of character change. Computer programs that perform simulations under a variety of evolutionary models (gradual and speciational Brownian motion, Ornstein-Uhlenbeck, punctuated equilibrium; starting values, trends, and limits to phenotypic evolution can also be specified) and that will analyze simulated data by ANCOVA are available from the authors on request. We apply the proposed procedures to the analysis of differences in homerange area between two clades of mammals, Carnivora and ungulates, that differ in diet. We also apply the phylogenetic autocorrelation approach and show how phylogenetically independent contrasts can be used to test for clade differences. All three phylogenetic analyses lead to the same surprising conclusion: for our sample of 49 species, members of the Carnivora do not have significantly larger home ranges than do ungulates. The power of such tests can be increased by sampling species so as to reduce the correlation between phylogeny and the independent variable (e.g., diet), thus increasing the number of independent evolutionary transitions available for study.
10.2307/2992468|Finite element scaling analysis (FESA) can be improved by using elements with curved outlines and by projection of strain. Elements with curved outlines can be used to improve the approximation of the outlines of a structure. Projection of strain (Zienkiewicz and Taylor, 1988, The finite element method, Volume 1, McGraw-Hill, London) uses variational theory to calculate the distribution of strains at the nodes, i.e., landmark points. With that information, the distribution of strains can be extrapolated over the whole structure. This method helps to smooth out the discontinuities encountered if strains are estimated by conventional methods. The approximate statistical distribution of coordinate-independent quantities of the strain matrix, i.e., trace, determinant and discriminant, and eigenvalues, are shown at the nodes, given the element design and the reference specimen under the assumption of a Gaussian model.
10.2307/2992469|Large head scales distinguish the three species of Sistrurus from other rattlesnakes assigned to the speciose genus Crotalus, but this trait is plesiomorphic and therefore not indicative of monophyly. Do rattlesnakes comprise two clades, one with large head scales and one with fragmented head scales, or must the traditional taxonomy of this group be revised? Evidence from comparative DNA sequence analysis of portions of the 12S and 16S mitochondrial ribosomal RNA genes supports the monophyly of Sistrurus. These data also suggest that rattlesnakes are monophyletic with a mid-Cenozoic origin. A phylogenetic hypothesis is proposed that is congruent with morphological and DNA sequence data. Alternative hypotheses were close in length, and the monophyly of Sistrurus was rather unstable, as determined by bootstrap resampling. Maximum parsimony failed to identify the correct tree topology (as indicated by morphology). Character-state differences, as determined by patristic and pairwise measures, were observed between an outgroup (Agkistrodon) and each rattlesnake species. The tree that agreed best with relative rates of evolution as determined by pairwise comparisons was chosen. A monophyletic Sistrurus was favored over competing alternatives by this best-fit rate test.
10.2307/2992462|The species problem is one of the oldest controversies in natural history. Its persistence suggests that it is something more than a problem of fact or definition. Considerable light is shed on the species problem when it is viewed as a problem in the representation of the natural system (sensu Griffiths, 1974, Acta Biotheor. 23:85-131; de Queiroz, 1988, Philos. Sci. 55:238-259). Just as maps are representations of the earth and are subject to what is called cartographic generalization, so diagrams of the natural system (evolutionary trees) are representations of the evolutionary chronicle and are subject to a temporal version of cartographic generalization, which may be termed systematic generalization. Cartographic generalization is based on judgements of geographical importance, and systematic generalization is based on judgements of historical importance, judgements expressed in narrative sentences (sensu Danto, 1985, Narration and knowledge, Columbia Univ Press, New York). At higher systematic levels, these narrative sentences are conventional and retrospective, but near the species level they become prospective, that is, dependent upon expectations of the future. The truth of prospective narrative sentences is logically indeterminable in the present, and since all the common species concepts depend upon prospective narration, it is impossible for any of them to be applied with precision.
10.2307/2992466|We apply a new morphometric technique in a comparative study of facial growth patterns in three primate species: Macaca fascicularis, Cercopithecus aethiops, and Cebus apella. This method, Euclidean distance matrix analysis (Lele, 1991, Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 85:407-418; Lele and Richtsmeier, 1991, Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 86:415-428), enables a three-dimensional description of differences in facial geometries and statistical testing of differences among forms. We adapt the method to enable comparison of growth patterns among species and to produce hypothetical forms by joining the immature morphology of a given species with the growth pattern of another species. Our results demonstrate the unique properties of postnatal growth patterns for the three species considered. Interspecific differences in adult skeletal morphology are more than an extension of the morphological differences established during prenatal ontogeny. Statistical tests for difference in form between the hypothetical forms and samples of real forms demonstrate that differences in immature facial morphology established by prenatal growth patterns cannot totally account for the suite of differences in adult facial morphologies. Some components of adult morphology are influenced strictly by differences in postnatal growth. We present suggestions for future use of our methodology for the comparison of growth patterns, including the investigation of phylogenies using growth pattern data.
10.2307/2992465|Parthenogenetic lines of the Heteronotia binoei complex are genetically diverse, of hybrid origin, and geographically widespread, ranging from central Australia to the west coast. Analysis of the western populations revealed a class of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) approximately 12% different from the mtDNAs found among parthenogens further east. Detailed analysis of mtDNAs from 59 western individuals revealed far greater diversity than previously reported for any parthenogenetic vertebrate. Phylogenetic comparisons with mtDNAs from the bisexual parental species identified the maternal parent(s) as coming from the SM6 species, most probably from west coast populations. This ancestry contrasts with that of the more eastern parthenogenetic lines, which had as parents females of the other bisexual parental species, CA6. The nucleotide diversity of mtDNA among the western parthenogens, although higher than usual (x = 0.38%), is low compared with the variation found within (2.1%) and among (3.9-7.8%) SM6 populations. This diversity illustrates the importance of rigorous sampling of related bisexual populations for interpreting variation among unisexuals. Despite the high mtDNA diversity, these parthenogens probably arose from a relatively small geographic area. The distinct geographic ranges of parthenogens that have the two major classes of mtDNA suggest that the western populations arose separately and further to the west than did the other lines. If so, then the two groups of parthenogenetic lines should be regarded as separate species.
10.2307/2992463|The success of 16 methods of phylogenetic inference was examined using consistency and simulation analysis. Success-the frequency with which a tree-making method correctly identified the true phylogeny-was examined for an unrooted four-taxon tree. In this study, tree-making methods were examined under a large number of branch-length conditions and under three models of sequence evolution. The results are plotted to facilitate comparisons among the methods. The consistency analysis indicated which methods converge on the correct tree given infinite sample size. General parsimony, transversion parsimony, and weighted parsimony are inconsistent over portions of the graph space examined, although the area of inconsistency varied. Lake's method of invariants consistently estimated phylogeny over all of the graph space when the model of sequence evolution matched the assumptions of the invariants method. However, when one of the assumptions of the invariants method was violated, Lake's method of invariants became inconsistent over a large portion of the graph space. In general, the distance methods (neighbor joining, weighted least squares, and unweighted least squares) consistently estimated phylogeny over all of the graph space examined when the assumptions of the distance correction matched the model of evolution used to generate the model trees. When the assumptions of the distance methods were violated, the methods became inconsistent over portions of the graph space. UPGMA was inconsistent over a large area of the graph space, no matter which distance was used. The simulation analysis showed how tree-making methods perform given limited numbers of character data. In some instances, the simulation results differed quantitatively from the consistency analysis. The consistency analysis indicated that Lake's method of invariants was consistent over all of the graph space under some conditions, whereas the simulation analysis showed that Lake's method of invariants performs poorly over most of the graph space for up to 500 variable characters. Parsimony, neighbor-joining, and the least-squares methods performed well under conditions of limited amount of character change and branch-length variation. By weighting the more slowly evolving characters or using distances that correct for multiple substitution events, the area in which tree-making methods are misleading can be reduced. Good performance at high rates of change was obtained only by giving increased weight to slowly evolving characters (e.g., transversion parsimony, weighted parsimony). UPGMA performed well only when branch lengths were close in length.
3070824|Current models of diversification with evolving speciation rates have trouble mimicking the extreme imbalance seen in estimated phylogenies. However, these models have not incorporated extinction. Here, we report on a simple simulation model that includes heritable and evolving speciation rates coupled with mass extinctions, Random (but not selective) mass extinctions, coupled with evolving among-lineage variation in speciation rates, increase imbalance of postrecovery clades. Thus, random mass extinctions are plausible contributors to the imbalance of modern clades. Paleontological evidence suggests that mass extinctions are often random with respect to ecological and morphological traits, consistent with our simulations. In contrast, evidence that the current anthropogenic mass extinction is phylogenetically selective suggests that the current extinction episode may be qualitatively different from past ones in the way it reshapes future biotas.
3070818|The heritability of speciation rates and extinction risks is a crucial parameter in models of macroevolution, but little direct evidence has been available to assess the occurrence, strength, or generality of this heritability. We tested for heritability using correlations between ancestral and descendent branch lengths in phylogenetic trees, an approach first applied to a bird phylogeny by Harvey et al. (1991, pages 123-137 in Genes in ecology [R. J. Berry et al., eds.], Blackwell Scientific, Oxford). We applied Harvey et al.'s test to some of the largest DNA sequence-based phylogenetic analyses published to date for plants, insects, fungi, and bacteria. If one of two parent lineages splits first and if this is the case for any heritable reason, then on average we expect its daughter lineages to also split first. We also used a randomization procedure to assess significance of branch length heritability. Using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood branch lengths and trees made ultrametric after nonparametric rate smoothing or by enforcing a molecular clock, we found a pattern for most clades consistent with heritable net cladogenesis. Heritability of cladogenesis may be a general phenomenon, detectable across a large number of lineages and a broad range of taxa.
3070823|The relative positions of branching events in a phylogeny contain information about evolutionary and population dynamic processes. We provide new summary statistics of branching event times and describe how these statistics can be used to infer rates of species diversification from interspecies trees or rates of population growth from intraspecies trees. We also introduce a phylogenetic method for estimating the level of taxon sampling in a clade. Different evolutionary models and different sampling regimes can produce similar patterns of branching events, so it is important to consider explicitly the model assumptions involved when making evolutionary inferences. Results of an analysis of the phylogeny of the mosquito-borne flaviviruses suggest that there could be several thousand currently unidentified viruses in this clade.
3070827|Key innovations have often been invoked to explain the exceptional diversification of particular groups. However, there are few convincing examples of traits that are repeatedly and consistently associated with increased diversification. The paucity of such cases may reflect the contingent nature of the diversifying effect of key traits. These contingencies can be viewed as statistical interactions between the trait and at least three kinds of factors: (1) other taxa, (2) other traits of the group itself, and (3) the physical environment. I describe tentative examples in each of these categories: (1) a dampening of the diversification of clades with image-forming eyes by groups that earlier evolved such eyes, (2) an effect of growth form (woody or herbaceous) on the diversifying effect of biotic seed dispersal in angiosperms, and (3) an effect of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> level on the diversifying effect of C<sub>4</sub> photosynthesis in monocots. These examples suggest the need for more complex analyses of the relationship between possible key traits and diversification. They also suggest that radiations may be predictable given certain circumstances, thus supporting a view of evolution as both predictable and contingent. Ironically, a certain degree of predictability may be critical to arguments for evolutionary contingency.
3070828|The phylogeny of grouse (Aves: Tetraoninae) was reconstructed using four noncoding loci: two were W-linked, one was autosomal, and one was the mitochondrial control region (CR). The rapidly evolving CR provided resolution throughout the tree, whereas the slowly evolving nuclear loci failed to resolve deeper nodes. The tree based on all four loci combined was almost identical to the CR tree and did not improve resolution or bootstrap support. The stemminess and imbalance of the trees were good determinants of the quality of the phylogenetic signal. The skewness of the tree score distribution (g<sub>1</sub>) behaved contrary to prediction; loci that had a more symmetric tree score distribution produced trees that had greater stemminess and balance. The quality of the phylogenetic signal was related to the evolutionary rate. Four clades of grouse were discovered. Two of these clades corresponded to currently recognized genera Bonasa and Lagopus. Bonasa was the sister to other grouse and Lagopus was the sister to the other two non-Bonasa clades. The third clade included Falcipennis, Tetrao, and Lyrurus. The fourth clade included the genera Centrocercus, Dendragapus, and Tympanuchus. The data support recognition of Falcipennis canadensis franklinii and Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus as species.
3070820|Prolific cladogenesis, adaptive radiation, species selection, key innovations, and mass extinctions are a few examples of biological phenomena that lead to differential diversification among lineages. Central to the study of differential diversification rates is the ability to distinguish chance variation from that which requires deterministic explanation. To detect diversification rate variation among lineages, we propose a number of methods that incorporate information on the topological distribution of species diversity from all internal nodes of a phylogenetic tree. These whole-tree methods (M<sub></sub>, M<sub></sub>, and M<sub>R</sub>) are explicitly connected to a null model of random diversification-the equal-rates Markov (ERM) random branching model-and an alternative model of differential diversification: M<sub></sub> is based on the product of individual nodal ERM probabilities; M<sub></sub> is based on the sum of individual nodal ERM probabilities, and M<sub>R</sub> is based on a transformation of ERM probabilities that corresponds to a formalized system that orders trees by their relative symmetry. These methods have been implemented in a freely available computer program, SymmeTREE, to detect clades with variable diversification rates, thereby allowing the study of biological processes correlated with and possibly causal to shifts in diversification rate. Application of these methods to several published phylogenies demonstrates their ability to contend with relatively large, incompletely resolved trees. These topology-based methods do not require estimates of relative branch lengths, which should facilitate the analysis of phylogenies, such as supertrees, for which such data are unreliable or unavailable.
3070819|Two lines of evidence indicate that the degree of symmetry in phylogenetic topologies differs at different hierarchical levels. First, in a set of 61 phylogenies with superspecific taxa as their terminals, trees were on average more unbalanced (asymmetric) when the species richness of terminals was considered than when it was not. Second, nodes with a given number of higher taxa descended from them were on average more unbalanced than were nodes with the same number of species as descendants. There are several possible reasons-some biological, some artifactual-for the differences. Whatever the reason, these results caution against treating species-level and higher level phylogenies as equivalent when considering tree shape. The imbalance measure adopted here permits the use of trees that contain polytomies, facilitating a larger sample than has been achieved previously.
3070829|The Cracidae is one of the most endangered and distinctive bird families in the Neotropics, yet the higher relationships among taxa remain uncertain. The molecular phylogeny of its 11 genera was inferred using 10,678 analyzable sites (5,412 from seven different mitochondrial segments and 5,266 sites from four nuclear genes). We performed combinability tests to check conflicts in phylogenetic signals of separate genes and genomes. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the unrooted tree of ((curassows, horned guan) (guans, chachalacas)) was favored by most data partitions and that different data partitions provided support for different parts of the tree. In particular, the concatenated mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genes resolved shallower nodes, whereas the combined nuclear sequences resolved the basal connections among the major clades of curassows, horned guan, chachalacas, and guans. Therefore, we decided that for the Cracidae all data should be combined for phylogenetic analysis. Maximum parsimony (MP), maximum likelihood (ML), and Bayesian analyses of this large data set produced similar trees. The MP tree indicated that guans are the sister group to (horned guan, (curassows, chachalacas)), whereas the ML and Bayesian analysis recovered a tree where the horned guan is a sister clade to curassows, and these two clades had the chachalacas as a sister group. Parametric bootstrapping showed that alternative trees previously proposed for the cracid genera are significantly less likely than our estimate of their relationships. A likelihood ratio test of the hypothesis of a molecular clock for cracid mtDNA sequences using the optimal ML topology did not reject rate constancy of substitutions through time. We estimated cracids to have originated between 64 and 90 million years ago (MYA), with a mean estimate of 76 MYA. Diversification of the genera occurred approximately 41-3 MYA, corresponding with periods of global climate change and other Earth history events that likely promoted divergences of higher level taxa.
3070821|We used simulations to compare the relative power of eight statistical tests to detect imbalance in phylogenies that is too great to be ascribed to an equal-rates Markov null model. Three of these tests have never had their power assessed before. Our simulations are the first to assess performance under scenarios in which the speciation rates of various lineages can evolve independently. In one of the scenarios explored, rates depend upon the value of an evolving trait, whereas in the other the probability that a species will speciate declines with the time since it last did so. The results indicate that the relative performance of the methods depends upon how the imbalance is generated. Different types of processes lead to different imbalance signatures, i.e., different patterns of imbalance at different depths in the phylogeny, and the measures of tree shape differ in the depth of phylogeny at which they are most sensitive. Relative performance is also affected by tree size but does not appear to depend greatly upon the degree of speciation rate variation among lineages. Two of the indices (Colless's index I<sub>c</sub> and Shao and Sokal's N, show reasonable performance throughout, but another (Shao and Sokal's B<sub>2</sub>) is never indicated to be a preferred method. Two tests that do not require completely resolved phylogenies, mean I<sup></sup> and mean I<sup></sup><sub>10</sub>, have reasonable power.
3070826|Studies of phylogenetic tree shape often concentrate on the balance of phylogenies of extant taxa. Paleontological phylogenies (which include extinct taxa) can contain additional useful information and can directly document changes in tree shape through evolutionary time. Unfortunately, the inclusion of extinct taxa lowers the power of direct examinations of tree balance because it increases the range of tree shapes expected under null models of evolution (with equal rates of speciation and extinction across lineages). A promising approach for the analysis of tree shape in paleontological phylogenies is to break the phylogeny down into time slices, examining the shape of the phylogeny of taxa alive at each time slice and changes in that shape between successive time slices. This method was illustrated with 57 time slices through a stratophenetic phylogeny of the Cretaceous planktonic foraminiferal superfamily Globotruncanacea. At 3 of 56 intervals between time slices, 93-92.5 million years ago (MYA), 89-88.5 MYA, and 85.5-84 MYA, the group showed steep increases in imbalance. Although none of these increases were significant after Bonferroni correction, these points in the history of the Globotruncanacea were nevertheless identified as deserving of further macroevolutionary investigation. The 84 MYA time slice coincides with a peak in species turnover for the superfamily. Time slices through phylogenies may prove useful for identifying periods of time when evolution was proceeding in a nonstochastic manner.
3070822|We explored the impact of phylogeny shape on the results of interspecific statistical analyses incorporating phylogenetic information. In most phylogenetic comparative methods (PCMs), the phylogeny can be represented as a relationship matrix, and the hierarchical nature of interspecific phylogenies translates into a distinctive blocklike matrix that can be described by its eigenvectors (topology) and eigenvalues (branch lengths). Thus, differences in the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of different relationship matrices can be used to gauge the impact of possible phylogeny errors by comparing the actual phylogeny used in a PCM analysis with a second phylogenetic hypothesis that may be more accurate. For example, we can use the sum of inverse eigenvalues as a rough index to compare the impact of phylogenies with different branch lengths. Topological differences are better described by the eigenvectors. In general, phylogeny errors that involve deep splits in the phylogeny (e.g., moving a taxon across the base of the phylogeny) are likely to have much greater impact than will those involving small perturbations in the fine structure near the tips. Small perturbations, however, may have more of an impact if the phylogeny structure is highly dependent (with many recent splits near the tips of the tree). Unfortunately, the impact of any phylogeny difference on the results of a PCM depends on the details of the data being considered. Recommendations regarding the choice, design, and statistical power of interspecific analyses are also made.
3070825|The frequency distribution of numbers of species in taxonomic groups, where many species belong to a few very diverse higher taxa, is mirrored by that of species in most communities, where many individuals belong to a few very abundant species. Various hypotheses mechanistically link a species' community abundance with the diversity of the higher level taxon (genus, family, order) to which it belongs, but empirical data are equivocal about general trends in the relation between rank-taxon diversity and mean abundance. One reason for this inconclusive result may be the effect of the semisubjective nature of rank-based classification. We assessed the relationship between clade diversity and mean species abundance for two diverse tropical tree communities, using both traditional rank-based analysis and two new phylogenetic analyses (based on the ratio of individuals to taxa at each node in the phylogeny). Both rank-based and phylogenetic analyses using taxonomic ranks above the species level as terminal taxa detected a trend associating common species with species-rich families. In contrast, phylogenetic analyses using species as terminal taxa could not distinguish the observed distribution of species abundances from a random distribution with respect to clade diversity. The difference between these results might be due to (1) the absence of a real phylogeny-wide relationship between clade abundance and diversity, (2) the influence of poor phylogenetic resolution within families in our phylogenies, or (3) insufficient sensitivity of our metrics to subtle tree-wide effects. Further development and application of phylogeny-based methods for testing abundance-diversity relationships is needed.
3070830|A cladistic analysis of the tinamous, including the 47 currently recognized species and some distinct subspecies, was conducted based on 80 integumentary characters from adult and natal plumage, ramphoteca (corneum sheath of bill), and podoteca (horny scales of legs). For the adult plumage (50 characters), we studied feather pigmentation patterns from different pterylae (feather tracts). A criterion of overlap of basic pigmentation elements was used to assign costs to the transformation between the states in most of these characters in such a way that transformations between more similar conditions were less costly. The consensus tree was almost fully resolved, and about 50% of its groups were relatively well supported. Because the only outgroup that could be used provided a poor root, two possible rootings of the ingroup subtree were considered; in both cases, only one of the two traditional subfamilies (the steppe tinamous) was recovered, and the other (the forest tinamous) appeared as paraphyletic. The results of the present analysis are compared with those from an osteological data set, using a strict supertree technique. The combined tree has a large number of nodes, indicating a high degree of congruence between the two data sets.
3070894|Comprehensive phylogenetic analyses utilize data from distinct sources, including nuclear, mitochondrial, and plastid molecular sequences and morphology. Such heterogeneous datasets are likely to require distinct models of analysis, given the different histories of mutational biases operating on these characters. The incongruence length difference (ILD) test is increasingly being used to arbitrate between competing models of phylogenetic analysis in cases where multiple data partitions have been collected. Our work suggests that the ILD test is unlikely to be an effective measure of congruence when two datasets differ markedly in size. We show that models that increase the contribution of one data partition over another are likely to increase congruence, as measured by this test. More alarmingly, for many bipartition comparisons, character congruence increases bimodally-either increasing or decreasing the contribution of one data partition will increase congruence-making it impossible to arrive at a single optimally congruent model of analysis.
3070895|Phylogenetic trees can be rooted by a number of criteria. Here, we introduce a Bayesian method for inferring the root of a phylogenetic tree by using one of several criteria: the outgroup, molecular clock, and nonreversible model of DNA substitution. We perform simulation analyses to examine the relative ability of these three criteria to correctly identify the root of the tree. The outgroup and molecular clock criteria were best able to identify the root of the tree, whereas the nonreversible model was able to identify the root only when the substitution process was highly nonreversible. We also examined the performance of the criteria for a tree of four species for which the topology and root position are well supported. Results of the analyses of these data are consistent with the simulation results.
3070900|Large and comprehensive phylogenetic trees are desirable for studying macroevolutionary processes and for classification purposes. Such trees can be obtained in two different ways. Either the widest possible range of taxa can be sampled and used in a phylogenetic analysis to produce a "big tree," or preexisting topologies can be used to create a supertree. Although large multigene analyses are often favored, combinable data are not always available, and supertrees offer a suitable solution. The most commonly used method of supertree reconstruction, matrix representation with parsimony (MRP), is presented here. We used a combined data set for the Poaceae to (1) assess the differences between an approach that uses combined data and one that uses different MRP modifications based on the character partitions and (2) investigate the advantages and disadvantages of these modifications. Baum and Ragan and Purvis modifications gave similar results. Incorporating bootstrap support associated with pre-existing topologies improved Baum and Ragan modification and its similarity with a combined analysis. Finally, we used the supertree reconstruction approach on 55 published phylogenies to build one of most comprehensive phylogenetic trees published for the grass family including 403 taxa and discuss its strengths and weaknesses in relation to other published hypotheses.
3070902|Many biogeographic problems are tested on phylogenetic trees. Typically, the uncertainty in the phylogeny is not accommodated when investigating the biogeography of the organisms. Here we present a method that accommodates uncertainty in the phylogenetic trees. Moreover, we describe a simple method for examining the support for competing biogeographic scenarios. We illustrate the method using mitochondrial DNA sequences sampled from modern humans. The geographic origin of modern human mtDNA is inferred to be in Africa, although support for this hypothesis was ambiguous for data from an early paper.
3070899|Lake Tanganyika, the oldest of the East African Great Lakes, harbors the ecologically, morphologically, and behaviorally most complex of all assemblages of cichlid fishes, consisting of about 200 described species. The evolutionary old age of the cichlid assemblage, its extreme degree of morphological differentiation, the lack of species with intermediate morphologies, and the rapidity of lineage formation have made evolutionary reconstruction difficult. The number and origin of seeding lineages, particularly the possible contribution of riverine haplochromine cichlids to endemic lacustrine lineages, remains unclear. Our phylogenetic analyses, based on mitochondrial DNA sequences of three gene segments of 49 species (25% of all described species, up to 2,400 bp each), yield robust phylogenies that provide new insights into the Lake Tanganyika adaptive radiation as well as into the origin of the Central- and East-African haplochromine faunas. Our data suggest that eight ancient African lineages may have seeded the Tanganyikan cichlid radiation. One of these seeding lineages, probably comprising substrate spawning Lamprologus-like species, diversified into six lineages that evolved mouthbrooding during the initial stage of the radiation. All analyzed haplochromines from surrounding rivers and lakes seem to have evolved within the radiating Tanganyikan lineages. Thus, our findings contradict the current hypothesis that ancestral riverine haplochromines colonized Lake Tanganyika to give rise to at least part of its spectacular endemic cichlid species assemblage. Instead, the early phases of the Tanganyikan radiation affected Central and East African rivers and lakes. The haplochromines may have evolved in the Tanganyikan basin before the lake became a hydrologically and ecologically closed system and then secondarily colonized surrounding rivers. Apparently, therefore, the current diversity of Central and East African haplochromines represents a relatively young and polyphyletic fauna that evolved from or in parallel to lineages now endemic to Lake Tanganyika.
3070893| We have applied Bayesian and maximum likelihood methods of phylogenetic estimation to data from four mitochondrial genes (COI, COII, 12S, and 16S) and a single nuclear gene (EF1) from several genera of New Zealand, Australian, and New Caledonian cicada taxa. We specifically focused on the heterogeneity of phylogenetic signal among the different data partitions and the biogeographic origins of the New Zealand cicada fauna. The Bayesian analyses circumvent many of the problems associated with other statistical tests for comparing data partitions. We took an information-theoretic approach to model selection based on the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC). This approach indicated that there was considerable uncertainty in identifying the best-fit model for some of the partitions. Additionally, a large amount of uncertainty was associated with many parameter estimates from the substitution model. However, a sensitivity analysis on the combined dataset indicated that the model selection uncertainty had little effect on estimates of topology because these estimates were largely insensitive to changes in the assumed model. This outcome suggests strong signal in our data. Our analyses support a New Caledonian affiliation of the New Zealand cicada genera Maoricicada, Kikihia, and Rhodopsalta and Australian affinities for the genera Amphipsalta and Notopsalta. This result was surprising, given that previous cicada biologists suspected a close relationship between Amphipsalta, Notopsalta, and Rhodopsalta based on genitalic characters. Relationships among the closely related genera Maoricicada, Kikihia, and Rhodopsalta were poorly resolved, the mitochondrial data and the EF1 data favoring different arrangements within this clade. 
3070896|Phylogenetic analysis of large datasets using complex nucleotide substitution models under a maximum likelihood framework can be computationally infeasible, especially when attempting to infer confidence values by way of nonparametric bootstrapping. Recent developments in phylogenetics suggest the computational burden can be reduced by using Bayesian methods of phylogenetic inference. However, few empirical phylogenetic studies exist that explore the efficiency of Bayesian analysis of large datasets. To this end, we conducted an extensive phylogenetic analysis of the wide-ranging and geographically variable Eastern Fence Lizard (Sceloporus undulatus). Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian phylogenetic analyses were performed on a combined mitochondrial DNA dataset (12S and 16S rRNA, ND1 protein-coding gene, and associated tRNA; 3,688 bp total) for 56 populations of S. undulatus (78 total terminals including other S. undulatus group species and outgroups). Maximum parsimony analysis resulted in numerous equally parsimonious trees (82,646 from equally weighted parsimony and 335 from weighted parsimony). The majority rule consensus tree derived from the Bayesian analysis was topologically identical to the single best phylogeny inferred from the maximum likelihood analysis, but required ~80% less computational time. The mtDNA data provide strong support for the monophyly of the S. undulatus group and the paraphyly of "S. undulatus" with respect to S. belli, S. cautus, and S. woodi. Parallel evolution of ecomorphs within "S. undulatus" has masked the actual number of species within this group. This evidence, along with convincing patterns of phylogeographic differentiation suggests "S. undulatus" represents at least four lineages that should be recognized as evolutionary species.
3070897|Haplotype phylogenies based on DNA sequence data are increasingly being used to test traditional species-level taxonomies based on morphology. However, few studies have critically compared species limits based on morphological and DNA data, and the methods used to delimit species using either type of data are only rarely explained. In this paper, we review three approaches for species delimitation (tree-based with DNA data and tree-based and character-based with morphological data) and propose explicit protocols for each. We then compare species limits inferred from these approaches, using morphological and mtDNA data for the Yarrow's spiny lizard (Sceloporus jarrovii), a traditionally polytypic species from the southwestern United States and Mexico. All three approaches support division of S. jarrovii into five species, but only two species are the same among the three approaches. We find the greatest support for the five species that are delimited based on mtDNA data, and we argue that mtDNA data may have important (and previously unappreciated) advantages for species delimitation. Because different data and approaches can disagree so extensively, our results demonstrate that the methodology of species delimitation is a critical issue in systematics.
3070898|Notoriously slow rates of molecular evolution and convergent evolution among some morphological characters have limited phylogenetic resolution for the palm family (Arecaceae). This study adds nuclear DNA (18S SSU rRNA) and chloroplast DNA (cpDNA; atpB and rbcL) sequence data for 65 genera of palms and characterizes molecular variation for each molecule. Phylogenetic relationships were estimated with maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony techniques for the new data and for previously published molecular data for 45 palm genera. Maximum parsimony analysis was also used to compare molecular and morphological data for 33 palm genera. Incongruence among datasets was detected between cpDNA and 18S data and between molecular and morphological data. Most conflict between nuclear and cpDNA data was associated with the genus Nypa. Several taxa showed relatively long branches with 18S data, but phylogenetic resolution of these taxa was essentially the same for 18S and cpDNA data. Base composition bias for 18S that contributed to erroneous phylogenetic resolution in other taxa did not seem to be present in Palmae. Morphological data were incongruent with all molecular data due to apparent morphological homoplasy for Caryoteae, Ceroxyloideae, Iriarteae, and Thrinacinae. Both cpDNA and nuclear 18S data firmly resolved Caryoteae with Borasseae of Coryphoideae, suggesting that at least some morphological characters used to place Caryoteae in Arecoideae are homoplastic. In this study, increased character sampling seems to be more important than increased taxon sampling; a comparison of the full (65-taxon) and reduced (45- and 33-taxon) datasets suggests little difference in core topology but considerably more nodal support with the increased character sample sizes. These results indicate a general trend toward a stable estimate of phylogenetic relationships for the Palmae. Although the 33-taxon topologies are even better resolved, they lack several critical taxa and are affected by incongruence between molecular and morphological data. As such, a comparison of results from the 45- and 33-taxon trees offers the best available reference for phylogenetic inference on palms.
3070938|Computer simulations were used to test the effect of increasing phylogenetic topological inaccuracy on the results obtained from correlation tests of independent contrasts. Predictably, increasing the number of disruptions in the tree increases the likelihood of significant error in the r values produced and in the statistical conclusions drawn from the analysis. However, the position of the disruption in the tree is important: Disruptions closer to the tips of the tree have a greater effect than do disruptions that are close to the root of the tree. Independent contrasts derived from inaccurate topologies are more likely to lead to erroneous conclusions when there is a true significant relationship between the variables being tested (i.e., they tend to be conservative). The results also suggest that random phylogenies perform no better than nonphylogenetic analyses and, under certain conditions, may perform even worse than analyses using raw species data. Therefore, the use of random phylogenies is not beneficial in the absence of knowledge of the true phylogeny.
3070939|The use of color (as distinct from color pattern) in comparative evolutionary studies is important, and objective, independent characters are needed. A new method was employed to investigate geographic color variation in the small arboreal lizard Anolis trinitatis on the island of St. Vincent. The simple delta analysis (based on the difference between eigenvector coefficients for adjacent regions of the spectrum) is aimed at increasing the objectivity with which a spectrum is cut into independent segments and does not predetermine segment width or number. There are distinct habitat types within this small island and distinct phylogenetic lineages (based on a kilobase of cytochrome b sequence) within this species. A series of matrix correspondence (Mantel) tests indicate that aspects of color are associated with habitat type (e.g., green dorsum in rain forest lizards), molecular phylogeny, or both. Hence, both adaptation by selection and historical processes are implicated as causes of geographic variation in color. The dewlap variation (e.g., strong ultraviolet reflectance in some Atlantic coastal sites) is very pronounced and, contrary to some expectations, may result in reproductive isolation even within small Lesser Antillean islands.
3070940|Conserved genes have found their way into the mainstream of molecular systematics. Many of these genes are members of multigene families. A difficulty with using single genes of multigene families for phylogenetic inference is that genes from one species may be paralogous to those from another taxon. We focus attention on this problem using heat shock 70 (HSP70) genes. Using polymerase chain reaction techniques with genomic DNA, we isolated and sequenced 123 distinct sequences from 12 species of sharks. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the sequences cluster with constituitively expressed cytoplasmic heat shock-like genes. Three highly divergent gene clades were sampled. A number of similar sequences were sampled from each species within each distinct gene clade. Comparison of published species trees with an HSP70 gene tree inferred using Bayesian phylogenetic analysis revealed several cases of gene duplication and differential sorting of gene lineages within this group of sharks. Gene tree parsimony based on the objective criteria of duplication and losses showed that previously published hypotheses of species relationships and two novel hypothesis based on Bayesian phylogenetics were concordant with the history of HSP70 gene duplication and loss. By contrast, two published hypotheses based on morphological data were not significantly different from the null hypothesis of a random association between species relatedness and the HSP70 gene tree. These results suggest that gene tree parsimony using data from multigene families can be used for inferring species relationships or testing published alternative hypotheses. More importantly, the results suggest that systematic studies relying on phylogenetic inferences from HSP70 genes may by plagued by unrecognized paralogy of sampled genes. Our results underscore the distinction between gene and species trees and highlight an underappreciated source of discordance between gene trees and organismal phylogeny, i.e., unrecognized paralogy of sampled genes.
3070941|Several authors have argued recently that extensive taxon sampling has a positive and important effect on the accuracy of phylogenetic estimates. However, other authors have argued that there is little benefit of extensive taxon sampling, and so phylogenetic problems can or should be reduced to a few exemplar taxa as a means of reducing the computational complexity of the phylogenetic analysis. In this paper we examined five aspects of study design that may have led to these different perspectives. First, we considered the measurement of phylogenetic error across a wide range of taxon sample sizes, and conclude that the expected error based on randomly selecting trees (which varies by taxon sample size) must be considered in evaluating error in studies of the effects of taxon sampling. Second, we addressed the scope of the phylogenetic problems defined by different samples of taxa, and argue that phylogenetic scope needs to be considered in evaluating the importance of taxon-sampling strategies. Third, we examined the claim that fast and simple tree searches are as effective as more thorough searches at finding near-optimal trees that minimize error. We show that a more complete search of tree space reduces phylogenetic error, especially as the taxon sample size increases. Fourth, we examined the effects of simple versus complex simulation models on taxonomic sampling studies. Although benefits of taxon sampling are apparent for all models, data generated under more complex models of evolution produce higher overall levels of error and show greater positive effects of increased taxon sampling. Fifth, we asked if different phylogenetic optimality criteria show different effects of taxon sampling. Although we found strong differences in effectiveness of different optimality criteria as a function of taxon sample size, increased taxon sampling improved the results from all the common optimality criteria. Nonetheless, the method that showed the lowest overall performance (minimum evolution) also showed the least improvement from increased taxon sampling. Taking each of these results into account re-enforces the conclusion that increased sampling of taxa is one of the most important ways to increase overall phylogenetic accuracy.
3070942|The molecular systematics of vertebrates has been based entirely on alignments of primary structures of macromolecules; however, higher order features of DNA sequences not used in traditional studies also contain valuable phylogenetic information. Recent molecular data sets conflict over the phylogenetic placement of flightless birds (ratites - paleognaths), but placement of this clade critically influences interpretation of character change in birds. To help resolve this issue, we applied a new bioinformatics approach to the largest molecular data set currently available. We distilled nearly one megabase (1 million base pairs) of heterogeneous avian genomic DNA from 20 birds and an alligator into genomic signatures, defined as the complete set of frequencies of short sequence motifs (strings), thereby providing a way to directly compare higher order features of nonhomologous DNA sequences. Phylogenetic analysis and principal component analysis of the signatures strongly support the traditional hypothesis of basal ratites and monophyly of the nonratite birds (neognaths) and imply that ratite genomes are linguistically primitive within birds, despite their base compositional similarity to neognath genomes. Our analyses show further that the phylogenetic signal of genomic signatures are strongest among deep splits within vertebrates. Despite clear problems with phylogenetic analysis of genomic signatures, our study raises intriguing issues about the biological and genomic differences that fundamentally differentiate paleognaths and neognaths.
3070792|The Hawaiian flora, because of its great isolation, high levels of endemism, known lineages, and high rates of endangerment, offers unique opportunities to explore patterns of endangerment related to phylogeny, ecological and life history traits, and geographic patterns. Nine percent of the native flora of 1159 taxa are already extinct, and 52.5% are at risk (extinct, endangered, vulnerable, or rare). Risk is strongly associated with limited geographic distribution at several scales: endemic taxa (native only to the Hawaiian Islands) are at far greater risk than indigenous taxa (with both Hawaiian and extra-Hawaiian ranges); single-island endemics are more at risk than multi-island endemics; small islands have the highest proportion of endemic taxa at risk; and endemics with more limited habitat distributions (elevation, community type) are more at risk. Historic population density is a strong predictor of risk, and taxa with low historic population densities are at greatest risk with rapid anthropogenic changes. Among the major islands, Maui Nui has the highest percent of taxa that are extinct. Kaua'i has the lowest percent of extinct taxa and the highest proportion of single-island endemic taxa that are rare. Endemic taxa at risk are associated with distributions in shrublands, forests, bogs, and cliff habitats. Endemic taxa with distributions in low elevation dry habitats have the highest proportion of taxa at risk, but the greatest absolute numbers of taxa at risk have distributions in mesic lowland and montane forests, and in wet montane forests. The life history patterns associated with risk are complicated, and inclusion of the effects of evolutionary relationships (lineages) changes some of these patterns. Species level analyses without respect to lineage shows risk associated with monomorphic (hermaphroditic) breeding systems and bird pollination because of the large number of hermaphroditic, bird-pollinated species in the Campanulaceae. Analyses incorporating the effect of lineage greatly reduce the impact of large lineages and result in an association of risk with insect pollination, and no effect of breeding system. There is no association of lineage size and the percent of taxa at risk within the lineage; endemic taxa from lineages with large radiations are at no greater risk than endemic single-taxon lineages. The percentages of taxa at risk at the family level in the Hawaiian Islands and worldwide (excluding Hawaiian taxa) are positively correlated, although flowering plant families in the Hawaiian Islands have a much greater proportion of taxa at risk. Some of the approaches described here may be useful to predict geographical and biological patterns of endangerment in island and island-like ecosystems under increasing pressures of endangerment and extinction.
3070794|In this paper we explore the role that biosystematists can play in conservation planning. Conservation planning concerns the location and design of reserves that both represent the biodiversity of a region and enable the persistence of that biodiversity by maintaining key ecological and evolutionary processes. For conservation planning to be effective, quantitative targets are needed for the spatial components of a region that reflect evolutionary processes. Using examples from southern Africa's Succulent Karoo, we demonstrate how spatially explicit data on morphological variation within taxa provide essential information for conservation planning in that such variation represents an important surrogate for the spatial component of lineage diversification. We also provide an example of how the spatial components of evolutionary processes can be identified and targeted for conservation action. Key to this understanding are the recognition and description of taxonomic units at all spatial scales. Without the recognition of subspecific variation, it is difficult to formulate evolutionary hypotheses, let alone set quantitative targets for the conservation of this variation. Given the escalating threats to biodiversity, and the importance of planning for persistence by incorporating ecological and evolutionary processes into conservation plans, it is essential that systematists develop hypotheses on the spatial surrogates for these processes for a wide range of lineages. The important questions for systematists to be asking are (1) how is variation distributed in the landscape, and (2) how did it come about? Conservation planners too need to highlight these spatial components for conservation action.
3070790|Conservation planning has tended to focus more on pattern (representation) than process (persistence) and, for the former, has emphasized species and ecosystem or community diversity over genetic diversity. Here I consider how best to incorporate knowledge of evolutionary processes and the distribution of genetic diversity into conservation planning and priority setting for populations within species and for biogeographic areas within regions. Separation of genetic diversity into two dimensions, one concerned with adaptive variation and the other with neutral divergence caused by isolation, highlights different evolutionary processes and suggests alternative strategies for conservation. Planning for both species and areas should emphasize protection of historically isolated lineages (Evolutionarily Significant Units) because these cannot be recovered. By contrast, adaptive features may best be protected by maintaining the context for selection, heterogeneous landscapes, and viable populations, rather than protecting specific phenotypes. A useful strategy may be to (1) identify areas that are important to represent species and (vicariant) genetic diversity and (2) maximize within these areas the protection of contiguous environmental gradients across which selection and migration can interact to maintain population viability and (adaptive) genetic diversity. These concepts are illustrated with recent results from analysis of a rainforest fauna from northeast Australia.
3070793|Systematic data in the form of collections data are useful in biodiversity studies in many ways, most importantly because they serve as the only direct evidence of species distributions. However, collecting bias has been demonstrated for most areas of the world and has led some to propose methods that circumvent the need for collections data. New methods that model collections data in combination with abiotic data and predict potential total species distribution are examined using 25,111 records representing 5,123 species of plants and animals from Guyana; some methods use the reduced number of 320 species. These modeled species distributions are evaluated and potential high-priority biodiversity sites are selected based on the concept of irreplaceability, a measure of uniqueness. The major impediments to using collections data are the lack of data that are available in a useful format and the reluctance of most systematists to become involved in biodiversity and conservation research.
3070787| A reticulogram is a general network capable of representing a reticulate evolutionary structure. It is particularly useful for portraying relationships among organisms that may be related in a nonunique way to their common ancestor-relationships that cannot be represented by a dendrogram or a phylogenetic tree. We propose a new method for constructing reticulograms that represent a given distance matrix. Reticulate evolution applies first to phylogenetic problems; it has been found in nature, for example, in the within-species microevolution of eukaryotes and in lateral gene transfer in bacteria. In this paper, we propose a new method for reconstructing reticulation networks and we develop applications of the reticulate evolution model to ecological biogeographic, population microevolutionary, and hybridization problems. The first example considers a spatially constrained reticulogram representing the postglacial dispersal of freshwater fishes in the Qubec peninsula; the reticulogram provides a better model of postglacial dispersal than does a tree model. The second example depicts the morphological similarities among local populations of muskrats in a river valley in Belgium; adding supplementary branches to a tree depicting the river network leads to a better representation of the morphological distances among local populations of muskrats than does a tree structure. A third example involves hybrids between plants of the genus Aphelandra. 
3070791|Biodiversity of North American freshwaters is among the greatest in the world. However, due to extensive habitat degradation, pollution, and introductions of nonindigenous species, this biodiversity is also among the most endangered. Unlike habitat degradation and pollution, nonindigenous species represent a permanent loss of biodiversity because their removal or control is often impossible. Most species introduced into nonnative North American ranges, however, are not from Eurasia but have been introduced from geographically isolated regions within North America. Although the ecological effects of introduced species have been widely documented, the effects of hybridization, especially between closely related species, represents an equally serious mechanism of extinction but is much less studied. Identification of which species are likely to hybridize after contact is of critical importance to prevent the further loss of native species. Molecular phylogenetics serves as a powerful tool to identify freshwater species at risk of introgression, if we can assume that genetic distance is a good predictor of the potential for hybridization. Although not a thorough review of all cases of hybridization, this article documents the extent and effects of hybridization in fishes, crayfishes, mussels, and other invertebrates in light of the currently accepted phylogenetic relationships. We suggest this approach may be the first step in addressing the potential threat of hybridization between many of the closely related species in North American fresh waters.
3070788|A new method, ParaFit, has been developed to test the significance of a global hypothesis of coevolution between parasites and their hosts. Individual host-parasite association links can also be tested. The test statistics are functions of the host and parasite phylogenetic trees and of the set of host-parasite association links. Numerical simulations are used to show that the method has correct rate of type I error and good power except under extreme error conditions. An application to real data (pocket gophers and chewing lice) is presented.
3070795|Vast gaps in available information on the spatial distribution of biodiversity pose a major challenge for regional conservation planning in many parts of the world. This problem is often addressed by basing such planning on various biodiversity surrogates. In some situations, distributional data for selected taxa may be used as surrogates for biodiversity as a whole. However, this approach is less effective in data-poor regions, where there may be little choice but to base conservation planning on some form of remote environmental mapping, derived, for example, from interpretation of satellite imagery or from numerical classification of abiotic environmental layers. Although this alternative approach confers obvious benefits in terms of cost-effectiveness and rapidity of application, problems may arise if congruence is poor between mapped land-classes and actual biological distributions. I propose three strategies for making more effective use of available biological data and knowledge to alleviate such problems by (1) more closely integrating biological and environmental data through predictive modeling, with increased emphasis on modeling collective properties of biodiversity rather than individual entities; (2) making more rigorous use of remotely mapped surrogates in conservation planning by incorporating knowledge of heterogeneity within land-classes, and of varying levels of distinctiveness between classes, into measures of conservation priority and achievement; and (3) using relatively data-rich regions as test-beds for evaluating the performance of surrogates that can be readily applied across data-poor regions.
3070912|Mapping of mutations on a phylogeny has been a commonly used analytical tool in phylogenetics and molecular evolution. However, the common approaches for mapping mutations based on parsimony have lacked a solid statistical foundation. Here, I present a Bayesian method for mapping mutations on a phylogeny. I illustrate some of the common problems associated with using parsimony and suggest instead that inferences in molecular evolution can be made on the basis of the posterior distribution of the mappings of mutations. A method for simulating a mapping from the posterior distribution of mappings is also presented, and the utility of the method is illustrated on two previously published data sets. Applications include a method for testing for variation in the substitution rate along the sequence and a method for testing whether the d<sub>N</sub>/d<sub>S</sub> ratio varies among lineages in the phylogeny.
3070914|Methods for Bayesian inference of phylogeny using DNA sequences based on Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques allow the incorporation of arbitrarily complex models of the DNA substitution process, and other aspects of evolution. This has increased the realism of models, potentially improving the accuracy of the methods, and is largely responsible for their recent popularity. Another consequence of the increased complexity of models in Bayesian phylogenetics is that these models have, in several cases, become overparameterized. In such cases, some parameters of the model are not identifiable; different combinations of nonidentifiable parameters lead to the same likelihood, making it impossible to decide among the potential parameter values based on the data. Overparameterized models can also slow the rate of convergence of MCMC algorithms due to large negative correlations among parameters in the posterior probability distribution. Functions of parameters can sometimes be found, in overparameterized models, that are identifiable, and inferences based on these functions are legitimate. Examples are presented of overparameterized models that have been proposed in the context of several Bayesian methods for inferring the relative ages of nodes in a phylogeny when the substitution rate evolves over time.
3070910|The molecular clock, i.e., constancy of the rate of evolution over time, is commonly assumed in estimating divergence dates. However, this assumption is often violated and has drastic effects on date estimation. Recently, a number of attempts have been made to relax the clock assumption. One approach is to use maximum likelihood, which assigns rates to branches and allows the estimation of both rates and times. An alternative is the Bayes approach, which models the change of the rate over time. A number of models of rate change have been proposed. We have extended and evaluated models of rate evolution, i.e., the lognormal and its recent variant, along with the gamma, the exponential, and the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes. These models were first applied to a small hominoid data set, where an empirical Bayes approach was used to estimate the hyperparameters that measure the amount of rate variation. Estimation of divergence times was sensitive to these hyperparameters, especially when the assumed model is close to the clock assumption. The rate and date estimates varied little from model to model, although the posterior Bayes factor indicated the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process outperformed the other models. To demonstrate the importance of allowing for rate change across lineages, this general approach was used to analyze a larger data set consisting of the 18S ribosomal RNA gene of 39 metazoan species. We obtained date estimates consistent with paleontological records, the deepest split within the group being about 560 million years ago. Estimates of the rates were in accordance with the Cambrian explosion hypothesis and suggested some more recent lineage-specific bursts of evolution.
3070909|Bayesian methods for estimating evolutionary divergence times are extended to multigene data sets, and a technique is described for detecting correlated changes in evolutionary rates among genes. Simulations are employed to explore the effect of multigene data on divergence time estimation, and the methodology is illustrated with a previously published data set representing diverse plant taxa. The fact that evolutionary rates and times are confounded when sequence data are compared is emphasized and the importance of fossil information for disentangling rates and times is stressed.
3070913|The objective of this study was to obtain a quantitative assessment of the monophyly of morning glory taxa, specifically the genus Ipomoea and the tribe Argyreieae. Previous systematic studies of morning glories intimated the paraphyly of Ipomoea by suggesting that the genera within the tribe Argyreieae are derived from within Ipomoea; however, no quantitative estimates of statistical support were developed to address these questions. We applied a Bayesian analysis to provide quantitative estimates of monophyly in an investigation of morning glory relationships using DNA sequence data. We also explored various approaches for examining convergence of the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulation of the Bayesian analysis by running 18 separate analyses varying in length. We found convergence of the important components of the phylogenetic model (the tree with the maximum posterior probability, branch lengths, the parameter values from the DNA substitution model, and the posterior probabilities for clade support) for these data after one million generations of the MCMC simulations. In the process, we identified a run where the parameter values obtained were often outside the range of values obtained from the other runs, suggesting an aberrant result. In addition, we compared the Bayesian method of phylogenetic analysis to maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony. The results from the Bayesian analysis and the maximum likelihood analysis were similar for topology, branch lengths, and parameters of the DNA substitution model. Topologies also were similar in the comparison between the Bayesian analysis and maximum parsimony, although the posterior probabilities and the bootstrap proportions exhibited some striking differences. In a Bayesian analysis of three data sets (ITS sequences, waxy sequences, and ITS + waxy sequences) no supoort for the monophyly of the genus Ipomoea, or for the tribe Argyreieae, was observed, with the estimate of the probability of the monophyly of these taxa being less than 3.4 x 10<sup>-7</sup>.
3070908|Only recently has Bayesian inference of phylogeny been proposed. The method is now a practical alternative to the other methods; indeed, the method appears to possess advantages over the other methods in terms of ability to use complex models of evolution, ease of interpretation of the results, and computational efficiency. However, the method should be used cautiously. The results of a Bayesian analysis should be examined with respect to the sensitivity of the results to the priors used and the reliability of the Markov chain Monte Carlo approximation of the probabilities of trees.
3070916|The melanogaster species group of Drosophila (subgenus Sophophora) has long been a favored model for evolutionary studies because of its morphological and ecological diversity and wide geographic distribution. However, phylogenetic relationships among species and subgroups within this lineage are not well understood. We reconstructed the phylogeny of 17 species representing 7 "oriental" species subgroups, which are especially closely related to D. melanogaster. We used DNA sequences of four nuclear and two mitochondrial loci in an attempt to obtain the best possible estimate of species phylogeny and to assess the extent and sources of remaining uncertainties. Comparison of trees derived from single-gene data sets allowed us to identify several strongly supported clades, which were also consistently seen in combined analyses. The relationships among these clades are less certain. The combined data set contains data partitions that are incongruent with each other. Trees reconstructed from the combined data set and from internally homogenous data sets consisting of three or four genes each differ at several deep nodes. The total data set tree is fully resolved and strongly supported at most nodes. Statistical tests indicated that this tree is compatible with all individual and combined data sets. Therefore, we accepted this tree as the most likely model of historical relationships. We compared the new molecular phylogeny to earlier estimates based on morphology and chromosome structure and discuss its taxonomic and evolutionary implications.
3070911|Current methods to identify recombination between subtypes of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) fall into a sequential testing trap, in which significance is assessed conditional on parental representative sequences and crossover points (COPs) that maximize the same test statistic. We overcame this shortfall by testing for recombination while inferring parental heritage and COPs using an extended Bayesian multiple change-point model. The model assumes that aligned molecular sequence data consist of an unknown number of contiguous segments that may support alternative topologies or varying evolutionary pressures. We allowed for heterogeneity in the substitution process and specifically tested for intersubtype recombination using Bayes factors. We also developed a new class of priors to assess significance across a wide range of support for recombination in the data. We applied our method to three putative gag gene recombinants. HIV-1 isolate RW024 decisively supported recombination with an inferred parental heritage of AD and a COP 95% Bayesian credible interval of (1152, 1178) using the HXB2 numbering scheme. HIV-1 isolate VI557 barely supported recombination. HIV-1 isolate RF decisively rejected recombination as expected, given that the sequence is commonly used as a reference sequence for subtype B. We employed scaled regeneration quantile plots to assess convergence and found this approach convenient to use even for our variable dimensional model parameter space.
3070915|The main goals of this study were to provide a robust phylogeny for the families of the superfamily Curculionoidea, to discover relationships and major natural groups within the family Curculionidae, and to clarify the evolution of larval habits and host-plant associations in weevils to analyze their role in weevil diversification. Phylogenetic relationships among the weevils (Curculionoidea) were inferred from analysis of nucleotide sequences of 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA; ~2,000 bases) and 115 morphological characters of larval and adult stages. A worldwide sample of 100 species was compiled to maximize representation of weevil morphological and ecological diversity. All families and the main subfamilies of Curculionoidea were represented. The family Curculionidae sensu lato was represented by about 80 species in 30 "subfamilies" of traditional classifications. Phylogenetic reconstruction was accomplished by parsimony analysis of separate and combined molecular and morphological data matrices and Bayesian analysis of the molecular data; tree topology support was evaluated. Results of the combined analysis of 18S rDNA and morphological data indicate that monophyly of and relationships among each of the weevil families are well supported with the topology ((Nemonychidae, Anthribidae) (Belidae (Attelabidae (Caridae (Brentidae, Curculionidae))))). Within the clade Curculionidae sensu lato, the basal positions are occupied by mostly monocot-associated taxa with the primitive type of male genitalia followed by the Curculionidae sensu stricto, which is made up of groups with the derived type of male genitalia. High support values were found for the monophyly of some distinct curculionid groups such as Dryophthorinae (several tribes represented) and Platypodinae (Tesserocerini plus Platypodini), among others. However, the subfamilial relationships in Curculionidae are unresolved or weakly supported. The phylogeny estimate based on combined 18S rDNA and morphological data suggests that diversification in weevils was accompanied by niche shifts in host-plant associations and larval habits. Pronounced conservatism is evident in larval feeding habits, particularly in the host tissue consumed. Multiple shifts to use of angiosperms in Curculionoidea were identified, each time associated with increases in weevil diversity and subsequent shifts back to gymnosperms, particularly in the Curculionidae.
3070917|A formal method was developed to determine areas of endemism. The study region is divided into cells, and the number of species that can be considered as endemic is counted for a given set of cells (= area). Thus, the areas with the maximum number of species considered endemic are preferred. This is the first method for the identification of areas of endemism that implements an optimality criterion directly based on considering the aspects of species distribution that are relevant to endemism. The method is implemented in two computer programs, NDM and VNDM, available from the authors.
3070882|We used mitochondrial DNA sequences to determine the phylogenetic placement of southern smelts (Retropinnidae), a group of diadromous fishes endemic to New Zealand and Australia. Our genetic data strongly support a sister group relationship between retropinnids and northern hemisphere smelts (Osmeridae), a relationship that seems consistent with the similar appearance and life history strategies of these two groups. Our analysis indicates that Retropinnidae and Osmeridae together represent the sister group to the southern hemisphere galaxiid fishes (Galaxiidae). However, this finding conflicts with several recent osteological analyses, which supported a sister relationship for Retropinnidae and Galaxiidae, giving a monophyletic southern hemisphere assemblage (Galaxioidea). We review cases of incongruence and discuss factors that might explain significant disagreement between molecular and morphological data matrices. We suggest that repeated evolutionary simplification may have undermined the accuracy of morphological hypotheses of osmeroid relationships. Although equally weighted parsimony analysis of morphological data rejects the molecular hypothesis (Osmeridae + Retropinnidae), implementation of a range of weighting schemes suggests that incongruence is nonsignificant under asymmetric character transformation models. We propose that a simple "equal transformation cost" parsimony analysis may be biologically unrealistic, especially when reductive homoplasy is widespread; as is increasingly being accepted, complex character states are more readily lost than gained. Therefore, we recommend that morphological systematists routinely implement a range of character transformation models to assess the sensitivity of their phylogenetic reconstructions. We discuss the antitropical biogeography of osmeroid fishes in the context of vicariance and transequatorial dispersal.
3070883|We test hypotheses for the evolution of a life history trait among a group of parasitoid wasps (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonoidea), namely, the transition among koinobiont parasitoids (parasitoids whose hosts continue development after oviposition) between attacking exposed hosts and attacking hosts that are concealed within plant tissue. Using a range of phylogeny estimates based on 28S rDNA sequences, we use maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) methods to estimate the ancestral life history traits for the main clades in which both traits occur (using the programs MacClade and Discrete, respectively). We also assess the robustness of these estimates; for MP, we use step matrices in PAUP<sup>*</sup> to find the minimum weight necessary to reverse estimates or make them ambiguous, and for ML, we measure the differences in likelihood after fixing the ancestral nodes at the alternative states. We also measure the robustness of the MP ancestral state estimate against uncertainties in the phylogeny estimate, manipulating the most-parsimonious tree in MacClade to find the shortest suboptimal tree in which the ancestral state estimate is reversed or made ambiguous. Using these methods, we find strong evidence supporting two transitions among koinobiont Ichneumonoidea: (1) to attacking exposed hosts in a clade consisting of the Helconinae and related subfamilies, and (2) the reverse transition in a clade consisting of the Euphorinae and related subfamilies. In exploring different methods of analyzing variable-length DNA sequences, we found that direct optimization with POY gave some clearly erroneous results that had a profound effect on the overall phylogeny estimate. We also discuss relationships within the superfamily and expand the Mesostoinae to include all the gall-associated braconids that form the sister group of the Aphidiinae.
3070886|Probabilistic tests of topology offer a powerful means of evaluating competing phylogenetic hypotheses. The performance of the nonparametric Shimodaira-Hasegawa (SH) test, the parametric Swofford-Olsen-Waddell-Hillis (SOWH) test, and Bayesian posterior probabilities were explored for five data sets for which all the phylogenetic relationships are known with a very high degree of certainty. These results are consistent with previous simulation studies that have indicated a tendency for the SOWH test to be prone to generating Type 1 errors because of model misspecification coupled with branch length heterogeneity. These results also suggest that the SOWH test may accord overconfidence in the true topology when the null hypothesis is in fact correct. In contrast, the SH test was observed to be much more conservative, even under high substitution rates and branch length heterogeneity. For some of those data sets where the SOWH test proved misleading, the Bayesian posterior probabilities were also misleading. The results of all tests were strongly influenced by the exact substitution model assumptions. Simple models, especially those that assume rate homogeneity among sites, had a higher Type 1 error rate and were more likely to generate misleading posterior probabilities. For some of these data sets, the commonly used substitution models appear to be inadequate for estimating appropriate levels of uncertainty with the SOWH test and Bayesian methods. Reasons for the differences in statistical power between the two maximum likelihood tests are discussed and are contrasted with the Bayesian approach.
3070888|Primate lentiviruses (PLV) from closely related primate species have been observed to be more closely related to each other than to PLV from more distantly related primate species. The current explanation for this observation is the codivergence hypothesis; that is, the divergence of a virus lineage results from the divergence of the host lineage. We show that, alternatively, frequent cross-species transmission of PLV, coupled with a tendency for more closely related primate species to exchange viruses "successfully," can result in apparent codivergence. This host-switching hypothesis reconciles several puzzling observations related to the evolution of PLV.
3070885|An approximately unbiased (AU) test that uses a newly devised multiscale bootstrap technique was developed for general hypothesis testing of regions in an attempt to reduce test bias. It was applied to maximum-likelihood tree selection for obtaining the confidence set of trees. The AU test is based on the theory of Efron et al. (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 13429-13434; 1996), but the new method provides higher-order accuracy yet simpler implementation. The AU test, like the Shimodaira-Hasegawa (SH) test, adjusts the selection bias overlooked in the standard use of the bootstrap probability and Kishino-Hasegawa tests. The selection bias comes from comparing many trees at the same time and often leads to overconfidence in the wrong trees. The SH test, though safe to use, may exhibit another type of bias such that it appears conservative. Here I show that the AU test is less biased than other methods in typical cases of tree selection. These points are illustrated in a simulation study as well as in the analysis of mammalian mitochondrial protein sequences. The theoretical argument provides a simple formula that covers the bootstrap probability test, the Kishino-Hasegawa test, the AU test, and the Zharkikh-Li test. A practical suggestion is provided as to which test should be used under particular circumstances.
3070881|Several species in the rodent genus Mus are used as model research organisms, but comparative studies of these mice have been hampered by the lack of a well-supported phylogeny. We used DNA sequences from six genes representing paternally, maternally, and biparentally inherited regions of the genome to infer phylogenetic relationships among 10 species of Mus commonly used in laboratory research. Our sample included seven species from the subgenus Mus; one species each from the subgenera Pyromys, Coelomys, and Nannomys; and representatives from three additional murine genera, which served as outgroups in the phylogenetic analyses. Although each of the six genes yielded a unique phylogeny, several clades were supported by four or more gene trees. Nodes that conflicted between trees were generally characterized by weak support for one or both of the alternative topologies, thus providing no compelling evidence that any individual gene, or part of the genome, was misleading with respect to the evolutionary history of these mice. Analysis of the combined data resulted in a fully resolved tree that strongly supports monophyly of the genus Mus, monophyly of the subgenus Mus, division of the subgenus Mus into Palearctic (M. musculus, M. macedonicus, M. spicilegus, and M. spretus) and Asian (M. cervicolor, M. cookii, and M. caroli) clades, monophyly of the house mice (M. m. musculus, "M. m. molossinus," M. m. castaneus, and M. m. domesticus), and a sister-group relationship between M. macedonicus and M. spicilegus. Other clades that were strongly supported by one or more gene partitions were not strongly supported by the combined data. This appears to reflect a localized homoplasy in one partition obscuring the phylogenetic signal from another, rather than differences in gene or genome histories.
3070880|A new approach to a nomenclatural system, including elements from both Linnaean and phylogenetic nomenclature, is proposed. It is compatible with the existing Linnaean system, including "standard names" corresponding to principal and secondary ranks, and uses a variant of the definitions from the Phylocode system. A new infrafamilial classification, using this nomenclatural approach, of the Apocynaceae s.l. (i.e., including the Asclepiadaceae) based mainly on analyses of rbcL and ndhF data is discussed. Twenty-one tribes and four rankless taxa are defined.
3070884|Heterochrony is important as a potential mechanism of evolutionary change. However, the analysis of developmental timing data within a phylogenetic framework to identify important shifts has proven difficult. In particular, analytical problems with sequence (event) heterochrony revolve around the lack of an absolute time frame in development to allow standardization of timing data across species. An important breakthrough in this regard is the method of "event-pairing," which compares the relative timing of developmental events in a pairwise fashion. The resulting event-pair-encoded data can be mapped onto a phylogeny, which can provide important biological information. However, event-paired data are cumbersome to work with and lack a rigorous quantitative framework under which to analyze them. Critically, the otherwise advantageous relativity of event-pairing prevents an assessment of whether one or both events in a single event-pair have changed position during evolutionary history. Building on the method of event-pairing, we describe a protocol whereby event-pair transformations along a given branch are analyzed en bloc. Our method of "event-pair cracking" thereby allows developmental timing data to be analyzed quantitatively within a phylogenetic framework to infer key heterochronic shifts. We demonstrate the utility of event-pair cracking through a worked example and show how it provides a set of desired features identified by previous authors.
3651100|Matrix representation with parsimony (MRP) supertree construction has been criticized because the supertree may specify clades that are contradicted by every source tree contributing to it. Such unsupported clades may also occur using other supertree methods; however, their incidence is largely unknown. In this study, I investigated the frequency of unsupported clades in both simulated and empirical MRP supertrees. Here, I propose a new index, QS, to quantify the qualitative support for a supertree and its clades among the set of source trees. Results show that unsupported clades are very rare in MRP supertrees, occurring most often when there are few source trees that all possess the same set of taxa. However, even under these conditions the frequency of unsupported clades was <0.2%. Unsupported clades were absent from both the Carnivora and Lagomorpha supertrees, reflecting the use of large numbers of source trees for both. The proposed QS indices are correlated broadly with another measure of quantitative clade support (bootstrap frequencies, as derived from resampling of the MRP matrix) but appear to be more sensitive. More importantly, they sample at the level of the source trees and thus, unlike the bootstrap, are suitable for summarizing the support of MRP supertree clades.
3651095|The insect order Diptera, the true flies, contains one of the four largest Mesozoic insect radiations within its suborder Brachycera. Estimates of phylogenetic relationships and divergence dates among the major brachyceran lineages have been problematic or vague because of a lack of consistent evidence and the rarity of well-preserved fossils. Here, we combine new evidence from nucleotide sequence data, morphological reinterpretations, and fossils to improve estimates of brachyceran evolutionary relationships and ages. The 28S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) gene was sequenced for a broad diversity of taxa, and the data were combined with recently published morphological scorings for a parsimony-based phylogenetic analysis. The phylogenetic topology inferred from the combined 28S rDNA and morphology data set supports brachyceran monophyly and the monophyly of the four major brachyceran infraorders and suggests relationships largely consistent with previous classifications. Weak support was found for a basal brachyceran clade comprising the infraorders Stratiomyomorpha (soldier flies and relatives), Xylophagomorpha (xylophagid flies), and Tabanomorpha (horse flies, snipe flies, and relatives). This topology and similar alternative arrangements were used to obtain Bayesian estimates of divergence times, both with and without the assumption of a constant evolutionary rate. The estimated times were relatively robust to the choice of prior distributions. Divergence times based on the 28S rDNA and several fossil constraints indicate that the Brachycera originated in the late Triassic or earliest Mesozoic and that all major lower brachyceran fly lineages had near contemporaneous origins in the mid-Jurassic prior to the origin of flowering plants (angiosperms). This study provides increased resolution of brachyceran phylogeny, and our revised estimates of fly ages should improve the temporal context of evolutionary inferences and genomic comparisons between fly model organisms.
3651099|Systematic and biogeographical relationships within the Hawaiian clade of the pantropical understory shrub genus Psychotria (Rubiaceae) were investigated using phylogenetic analysis of 18S-26S ribosomal DNA internal (ITS) and external (ETS) transcribed spacers. Phylogenetic analyses strongly suggest that the Hawaiian Psychotria are monophyletic and the result of a single introduction to the Hawaiian Islands. The results of phylogenetic analyses of ITS and ETS partitions alone give slightly different topologies among basal lineages of the Hawaiian clade; however, such differences are not well supported. Relationships in the section Straussia clade in particular are not well resolved because of few nucleotide changes on internal branches, suggesting extremely rapid radiation in the lineage. Parsimony and likelihood reconstructions of ancestral geographical distributions using the topologies inferred from both parsimony and likelihood analysis of combined data and using different combinations of models and branch lengths gave highly congruent results. However, for one internal node (corresponding to the majority of the "greenwelliae" clade), parsimony reconstructions were unable to distinguish between three possible island states, whereas likelihood reconstructions resulted in clear ordering of possible states, with the island of O'ahu slightly more probable than other islands under all but one model and branch length combination considered (the Jukes-Cantor-like model with branch lengths inferred under parsimony, under which conditions Maui Nui is more probable). A pattern of colonization from oldest to youngest islands was inferred from the phylogeny, using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood. Additionally, a much higher incidence of intraisland versus interisland speciation was inferred.
3651098|The interface of the Asian and Australian faunal zones is defined by a network of deep ocean trenches that separate intervening islands of the Philippines and Wallacea (Sulawesi, the Lesser Sundas, and the Moluccas). Studies of this region by Wallace marked the genesis of the field of biogeography, yet few workers have used molecular methods to investigate the biogeography of taxa whose distribution spans this interface. Some taxa, such as the fanged frogs of the ranid genus Limnonectes, have distributions on either side of the zoogeographical lines of Wallace and Huxley, offering an opportunity to ask how frequently these purported barriers were crossed and by what paths. To examine diversification of Limnonectes in Southeast Asia, the Philippines, and Wallacea, we estimated a phylogeny from mitochondrial DNA sequences obtained from a robust geographic sample. Our analyses suggest that these frogs dispersed from Borneo to the Philippines at least twice, from Borneo to Sulawesi once or twice, from Sulawesi to the Philippines once, and from the Philippines to Sulawesi once. Dispersal to the Moluccas occurred from Sulawesi and to the Lesser Sundas from Java/Bali. Species distributions are generally concordant with Pleistocene aggregate island complexes of the Philippines and with areas of endemism on Sulawesi. We conclude that the recognition of Zoogeographic lines, though insightful, may oversimplify the biogeography of widespread taxa in this region.
3651096|We conducted a phylogenetic study of pygopodid lizards, a group of 38 species endemic to Australia and New Guinea, with two major goals: to reconstruct a taxonomically complete and robustly supported phylogeny for the group and to use this information to gain insights into the tempo, mode, and timing of the pygopodid radiation. Phylogenetic analyses of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), nuclear DNA (nDNA), and previously published morphological data using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods on the independent and combined three data sets yielded trees with similar and largely stable ingroup topologies. However, relationships among the six most inclusive and unambiguously supported clades (Aprasia, Delma, Lialis, Ophidiocephalus, Pletholax, and Pygopus) varied depending on data set analyzed. We used parametric bootstrapping to help us understand which of the three-branch schemes linking these six taxa was most plausible given our data. We conclude based on our results that the arrangement ((((Delma, Lialis)Pygopus)Pletholax)(Aprasia, Ophidiocephalus)) represents the best hypothesis of intergeneric relationships. A second major problem to arise in our study concerned the inability of our two outgroup taxa (Diplodactylus) to root trees properly; three different rooting locations were suggested depending upon analysis. This long-branch attraction problem was so severe that the outgroup branch also interfered with estimation of ingroup relationships. We therefore used the molecular clock method to root the pygopodid tree. Results of two independent molecular clock analyses (mtDNA and nDNA) converged upon the same root location (branch leading to Delma). We are confident that we have found the correct root because the possibility of our clock estimates agreeing by chance alone is remote given that there are 65 possible root locations (branches) on the pygopodid tree (~1 in 65 odds). Our analysis also indicated that Delma fraseri is not monophyletic, a result supported by a parametric bootstrapping test. We elevated the Western Australian race, Delma f. petersoni, to species status (i.e., Delma petersoni) because hybridization and incomplete lineage sorting could be ruled out as potential causes of this paraphyletic gene tree and because D. grayii is broadly sympatric with its sister species D. fraseri. Climate changes over the past 23 million years, which transformed Australia from a wet, green continent to one that is largely dry and brown, have been suspected as playing a major role in the diversification of Australia's temperate biotas. Our phylogenetic analyses of pygopodid speciation and biogeography revealed four important findings consistent with this climate change diversification model: (1) our fossil-calibrated phylogeny shows that although some extant pygopodid lineages predate the onset of aridification, 28 of 33 pygopodid species included in our study seem to have originated in the last 23 million years; (2) relative cladogenesis tests suggest that several major clades underwent higher than expected rates of speciation; (3) our findings support earlier studies showing that speciation of mesic-adapted biotas in the southeastern and southwestern corners of Australia largely occurred within each of these regions between 12 and 23 million years ago as opposed to repeated dispersal between these regions; and (4) we have identified for the first time the existence of several pairs of sympatric sister species of lizards living in arid and semiarid ecosystems. These sympatric sister species seem to be younger than allopatric or parapatric sister-species pairs, which is not consistent with previous beliefs.
3651097|Several tests of molecular phylogenies have been proposed over the last decades, but most of them lead to strikingly different P-values. I propose that such discrepancies are principally due to different forms of null hypotheses. To support this hypothesis, two new tests are described. Both consider the composite null hypothesis that all the topologies are equidistant from the true but unknown topology. This composite hypothesis can either be reduced to the simple hypothesis at the least favorable distribution (frequentist significance test [FST]) or to the maximum likelihood topology (frequentist hypothesis test [FHT]). In both cases, the reduced null hypothesis is tested against each topology included in the analysis. The tests proposed have an information-theoretic justification, and the distribution of their test statistic is estimated by a nonparametric bootstrap, adjusting P-values for multiple comparisons. I applied the new tests to the reanalysis of two chloroplast genes, psaA and psbB, and compared the results with those of previously described tests. As expected, the FST and the FHT behaved approximately like the Shimodaira-Hasegawa test and the bootstrap, respectively. Although the tests give overconfidence in a wrong tree when an overly simple nucleotide substitution model is assumed, more complex models incorporating heterogeneity among codon positions resolve some conflicts. To further investigate the influence of the null hypothesis, a power study was conducted. Simulations showed that FST and the Shimodaira-Hasegawa test are the least powerful and FHT is the most powerful across the parameter space. Although the size of all the tests is affected by misspecification, the two new tests appear more robust against misspecification of the model of evolution and consistently supported the hypothesis that the Gnetales are nested within gymnosperms.
3651094|Previous studies have demonstrated that the agent of Pneumocystis pneumonia (PcP), Pneumocystis carinii, is actually a complex of eukaryotic organisms, and cophylogeny could explain the distribution of the hosts and parasites. In the present work, we tested the hypothesis of cophylogeny between the primate-derived Pneumocystis group and their hosts. Specific strains isolated from 20 primate species, including humans, were used to produce a phylogeny of the parasites. Aligned sequences corresponding to DNA sequences of three genes (DHPS, mtSSU-rRNA, and mtLSU-rRNA) were separately analyzed and then combined in a single data set. The resulting parasite phylogeny was compared with different controversial phylogenies for the hosts. This comparison demonstrated that, depending upon which topology is accepted for the hosts, at least 61% and perhaps 77% of the homologous nodes of the respective cladograms of the hosts and parasites may be interpreted as resulting from codivergence events. This finding and the high specificity of these parasites suggests that cophylogeny may be considered the dominant pattern of evolution for Pneumocystis organisms, representing a new example of parallel evolution between primates and their specific parasites. Because the phylogeny of Pneumocystis followed very closely the differentiation of their hosts at the species level, the study of the parasites could provide valuable information on the phylogeny of their hosts. We used this information to explore controversial hypotheses of the phylogeny of the Platyrrhini by comparison with the phylogeny of their specific Pneumocystis parasites. If these organisms were closely associated as lung parasites with primates through the ages, the hypothesis of the Pneumocystis spp. being new pathogenic agents could be refuted. However, these organisms are opportunistic symbionts, becoming pathogenic whenever the immunological defences of their hosts decline. This study also provides support for the hypothesis that the different Pneumocystis species are genetically independent organisms, helping to clarify their taxonomic status.
3651084|Any change in shape of a configuration of landmark points in two or three dimensions includes a uniform component, a component that is a wholly linear (affine) transformation. The formulas for estimating this component have been standardized for two-dimensional data but not for three-dimensional data. We suggest estimating the component by way of the complementarity between the uniform component and the space of partial warps. The component can be estimated by regression in either one space or the other: regression on the partial warps, followed by their removal, or regression on a basis for the uniform component itself. Either of the new methods can be used for both two- and three-dimensional landmark data and thus generalize Bookstein's (1996, pages 153-168 in Advances in morphometrics [L. F. Marcus et al., eds.], Plenum, New York) linearized Procrustes formula for estimating the uniform component in two dimensions.
3651086|Damselflies of the endemic Hawaiian genus Megalagrion have radiated into a wide variety of habitats and are an excellent model group for the study of adaptive radiation. Past phylogenetic analysis based on morphological characters has been problematic. Here, we examine relationships among 56 individuals from 20 of the 23 described species using maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrial (1,287 bp) and nuclear (1,039 bp) DNA sequence data. Models of evolution were chosen using the Akaike information criterion. Problems with distant outgroups were accommodated by constraining the best ML ingroup topology but allowing the outgroups to attach to any ingroup branch in a bootstrap analysis. No strong contradictions were obtained between either data partition and the combined data set. Areas of disagreement are mainly confined to clades that are strongly supported by the mitochondrial DNA and weakly supported by the elongation factor 1 data because of lack of changes. However, the combined analysis resulted in a unique tree. Correlation between Bayesian posterior probabilities and bootstrap percentages decreased in concert with decreasing information in the data partitions. In cases where nodes were supported by single characters bootstrap proportions were dramatically reduced compared with posterior probabilities. Two speciation patterns were evident from the phylogenetic analysis. First, most speciation is interisland and occurred as members of established ecological guilds colonized new volcanoes after they emerged from the sea. Second, there are several instances of rapid radiation into a variety of specialized habitats, in one case entirely within the island of Kauai. Application of a local clock procedure to the mitochondrial DNA topology suggests that two of these radiations correspond to the development of habitat on the islands of Kauai and Oahu. About 4.0 million years ago, species simultaneously moved into fast streams and plant leaf axils on Kauai, and about 1.5 million years later another group moved simultaneously to seeps and terrestrial habitats on Oahu. Results from the local clock analysis also strongly suggest that Megalagrion arrived in Hawaii about 10 million years ago, well before the emergence of Kauai. Date estimates were more sensitive to the particular node that was fixed in time than to the model of local branch evolution used. We propose a general model for the development of endemic damselfly species on Hawaiian Islands and document five potential cases of hybridization (M. xanthomelas x M. pacificum, M. eudytum x M. vagabundum, M. orobates x M. oresitrophum, M. nesiotes x M. oahuense, and M. mauka x M. paludicola).
3651082|We propose a Bayesian method for testing molecular clock hypotheses for use with aligned sequence data from multiple taxa. Our method utilizes a nonreversible nucleotide substitution model to avoid the necessity of specifying either a known tree relating the taxa or an outgroup for rooting the tree. We employ reversible jump Markov chain Monte Carlo to sample from the posterior distribution of the phylogenetic model parameters and conduct hypothesis testing using Bayes factors, the ratio of the posterior to prior odds of competing models. Here, the Bayes factors reflect the relative support of the sequence data for equal rates of evolutionary change between taxa versus unequal rates, averaged over all possible phylogenetic parameters, including the tree and root position. As the molecular clock model is a restriction of the more general unequal rates model, we use the Savage-Dickey ratio to estimate the Bayes factors. The Savage-Dickey ratio provides a convenient approach to calculating Bayes factors in favor of sharp hypotheses. Critical to calculating the Savage-Dickey ratio is a determination of the prior induced on the modeling restrictions. We demonstrate our method on a well-studied mtDNA sequence data set consisting of nine primates. We find strong support against a global molecular clock, but do find support for a local clock among the anthropoids. We provide mathematical derivations of the induced priors on branch length restrictions assuming equally likely trees. These derivations also have more general applicability to the examination of prior assumptions in Bayesian phylogenetics.
3651083|Systematists expect their hypotheses to be asymptotically precise. As the number of phylogenetically informative characters for a set of taxa increases, the relationships implied should stabilize on some topology. If true, this increasing stability should clearly manifest itself if an index of congruence is plotted against the accumulating number of characters. Continuous jackknife function (CJF) analysis is a new graphical method that portrays the extent to which available data converge on a specified phylogenetic hypothesis, the reference tree. The method removes characters with increasing probability, analyzes the rarefied data matrices phylogenetically, and scores the clades shared between each of the resulting trees and the reference tree. As more characters are removed, the number of shared clades must decrease, but the rate of decrease will depend on how decisively the data support the reference tree. Curves for stable phylogenies are clearly asymptotic with nearly 100% congruence for a substantial part of the curve. Less stable phylogenies lose congruent nodes quickly as characters are excluded, resulting in a more linear or even a sigmoidal relationship. Curves can be interpreted as predictors of whether the addition of new data of the same type is likely to alter the hypothesis under test. Continuous jackknife function analysis makes statistical assumptions about the collection of character data. To the extent that CJF curves are sensitive to violations of unbiased character collection, they will be misleading as predictors. Convergence of data on a reference tree does not guarantee historical accuracy, but it does predict that the accumulation of further data under the sampling model will not lead to rapid changes in the hypothesis.
3651087|We developed a recurrence relation that counts the number of tandem duplication trees (either rooted or unrooted) that are consistent with a set of n tandemly repeated sequences generated under the standard unequal recombination (or crossover) model of tandem duplications. The number of rooted duplication trees is exactly twice the number of unrooted trees, which means that on average only two positions for a root on a duplication tree are possible. Using the recurrence, we tabulated these numbers for small values of n. We also developed an asymptotic formula that for large n provides estimates for these numbers. These numbers give a priori probabilities for phylogenies of the repeated sequences to be duplication trees. This work extends earlier studies where exhaustive counts of the numbers for small n were obtained. One application showed the significance of finding that most maximum-parsimony trees constructed from repeat sequences from human immunoglobins and T-cell receptors were tandem duplication trees. Those findings provided strong support to the proposed mechanisms of tandem gene duplication. The recurrence relation also suggests efficient algorithms to recognize duplication trees and to generate random duplication trees for simulation. We present a linear-time recognition algorithm.
3651079|In simultaneous analyses of multiple data partitions, the trees relevant when measuring support for a clade are the optimal tree, and the best tree lacking the clade (i.e., the most reasonable alternative). The parsimony-based method of partitioned branch support (PBS) "forces" each data set to arbitrate between the two relevant trees. This value is the amount each data set contributes to clade support in the combined analysis, and can be very different to support apparent in separate analyses. The approach used in PBS can also be employed in likelihood: a simultaneous analysis of all data retrieves the maximum likelihood tree, and the best tree without the clade of interest is also found. Each data set is fitted to the two trees and the log-likelihood difference calculated, giving "partitioned likelihood support" (PLS) for each data set. These calculations can be performed regardless of the complexity of the ML model adopted. The significance of PLS can be evaluated using a variety of resampling methods, such as the Kishino-Hasegawa test, the Shimodiara-Hasegawa test, or likelihood weights, although the appropriateness and assumptions of these tests remains debated.
3651078|Allodapine bees have long been regarded as providing useful material for examining the origins of social behavior. Previous researchers have assumed that sociality arose within the Allodapini and have linked the evolution of sociality to a transition from mass provisioning to progressive provisioning of brood. Early phylogenetic studies of allodapines were based on morphological and life-history data, but critical aspects of these studies relied on small character sets, where the polarity and coding of characters is problematic. We used nucleotide sequence data from one nuclear and two mitochondrial gene fragments to examine phylogenetic structure among nine allodapine genera. Our data set comprised 1,506 nucleotide positions, of which 402 were parsimony informative. Maximum parsimony, log determinant, and maximum likelihood analyses produced highly similar phylogenetic topologies, and all analyses indicated that the tropical African genus Macrogalea was the sister group to all other allodapines. This finding conflicts with that of previous studies, in which Compsomelissa + Halterapis formed the most basal group. Changing the basal node of the Allodapini has major consequences for understanding evolution in this tribe. Our results cast doubt on the previous hypotheses that progressive provisioning and castelike social behavior evolved among lineages leading to the extant allodapine taxa. Instead, our results suggest that mass provisioning in Halterapis is a derived feature and that social behavior is an ancestral trait for all allodapine lineages. The forms of social behavior present in extant allodapines are likely to have resulted from a long evolutionary history, which may help explain the complexity of social traits found in many allodapine bees.
3651081|Cospeciation generally increases the similarity between host and parasite phylogenies. Incongruence between host and parasite phylogenies has previously been explained in terms of host switching, sorting, and duplication events. Here, we describe an additional process, failure of the parasite to speciate in response to host speciation, that may be important in some host-parasite systems. Failure to speciate is likely to occur when gene flow among parasite populations is much higher than that of their hosts. We reconstructed trees from mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences for pigeons and doves (Aves: Columbiformes) and their feather lice in the genus Columbicola (Insecta: Phthiraptera). Although comparisons of the trees from each group revealed a significant amount of cospeciation, there was also a significant degree of incongruence. Cophylogenetic analyses generally indicated that host switching may be an important process in the history of this host-parasite association. Using terminal sister taxon comparisons, we also identified three apparent cases where the host has speciated but the associated parasite has not. In two of these cases of failure to speciate, these comparisons involve allopatric sister taxa of hosts whose lice also occur on hosts sympatric with both of the allopatric sisters. These additional hosts for generalist lice may promote gene flow with lice on the allopatric sister species. Relative rate comparisons for the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene indicate that molecular substitution occurs about 11 times faster in lice than in their avian hosts.
3651085|Spiders of the recently described linyphiid genus Orsonwelles (Araneae, Linyphiidae) are one of the most conspicuous groups of terrestrial arthropods of Hawaiian native forests. There are 13 known Orsonwelles species, and all are single-island endemics. This radiation provides an excellent example of insular gigantism. We reconstructed the cladistic relationships of Orsonwelles species using a combination of morphological and molecular characters (both mitochondrial and nuclear sequences) within a parsimony framework. We explored and quantified the contribution of different character partitions and their sensitivity to changes in the traditional parameters (gap, transition, and transversion costs). The character data show a strong phylogenetic signal, robust to parameter changes. The monophyly of the genus Orsonwelles is strongly supported. The parsimony analysis of all character evidence combined recovered a clade with of all the non-Kauai Orsonwelles species; the species from Kauai form a paraphyletic assemblage with respect to the latter former clade. The biogeographic pattern of the Hawaiian Orsonwelles species is consistent with colonization by island progression, but alternative explanations for our data exist. Although the geographic origin of the radiation remains unknown, it appears that the ancestral colonizing species arrived first on Kauai (or an older island). The ambiguity in the area cladogram (i.e., post-Oahu colonization) is not derived from conflicting or unresolved phylogenetic signal among Orsonwelles species but rather from the number of taxa on the youngest islands. Speciation in Orsonwelles occurred more often within islands (8 of the 12 cladogenic events) than between islands. A molecular clock was rejected for the sequence data. Divergence times were estimated by using the nonparametric rate smoothing method of Sanderson (1997, Mol. Biol. Evol. 14:1218-1231) and the available geological data for calibration. The results suggest that the oldest divergences of Orsonwelles spiders (on Kauai) go back about 4 million years.
3651080|We performed a phylogenetic analysis of the species, species groups, and subgenera within the predominantly eusocial lineage of Lasioglossum (the Hemihalictus series) based on three protein coding genes: mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I, nuclear elongation factor 1 and long-wavelength rhodopsin. The entire data set consisted of 3,421 aligned nucleotide sites, 854 of which were parsimony informative. Analyses by equal weights parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods yielded good resolution among the 53 taxa/populations, with strong bootstrap support and high posterior probabilities for most nodes. There was no significant incongruence among genes, and parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods yielded congruent results. We mapped social behavior onto the resulting tree for 42 of the taxa/populations to infer the likely history of social evolution within Lasioglossum. Our results indicate that eusociality had a single origin within Lasioglossum. Within the predominantly eusocial clade, however, there have been multiple (six) reversals from eusociality to solitary nesting, social polymorphism, or social parasitism, suggesting that these reversals may be more common in primitively eusocial Hymenoptera than previously anticipated. Our results support the view that eusociality is hard to evolve but easily lost. This conclusion is potentially important for understanding the early evolution of the advanced eusocial insects, such as ants, termites, and corbiculate bees.
3651137|We conducted a geometric morphometric analysis of interspecific body shape variation among representatives of 31 species of darters (Pisces: Percidae) to determine whether there is evidence of a phylogenetic effect in body shape variation. Cartesian transformation grids representing relative shape differences of individual species and subspecies revealed qualitative similarities within most traditionally recognized taxonomic groups (genera and subgenera). Canonical variates analysis and a UPGMA cluster analysis were conducted to explore further the relationships among body shapes of species; both analyses revealed patterns of variation consistent with the interpretation that shape is associated with taxonomic affinities. Normalized Mantel statistics revealed a significant positive association between body shape differences and phylogenetic interrelatedness for each of four recent phylogenetic hypotheses, providing evidence of a phylogenetic effect. This result is somewhat surprising, however, given the largely incompatible nature of these four phylogenies. We provide evidence that this result may be due to (1) the inclusion of multiple sets of closely related species to represent the traditionally recognized genera and subgenera within each phylogeny and/or (2) the inclusion of several species with relatively divergent shapes and their particular positions within the phylogenies relative to one another or to the other species of darters.
3651139|Haeckel created much of our current vocabulary in evolutionary biology, such as the term phylogeny, which is currently used to designate trees. Assuming that Haeckel gave the same meaning to this term, one often reproduces Haeckel's trees as the first illustrations of phylogenetic trees. A detailed analysis of Haeckel's own evolutionary vocabulary and theory revealed that Haeckel's trees were genealogical trees and that Haeckel's phylogeny was a morphological concept. However, phylogeny was actually the core of Haeckel's tree reconstruction, and understanding the exact meaning Haeckel gave to phylogeny is crucial to understanding the information Haeckel wanted to convey in his famous trees. Haeckel's phylogeny was a linear series of main morphological stages along the line of descent of a given species. The phylogeny of a single species would provide a trunk around which lateral branches were added as mere ornament; the phylogeny selected for drawing a tree of a given group was considered the most complete line of progress from lower to higher forms of this group, such as the phylogeny of Man for the genealogical tree of Vertebrates. Haeckel's phylogeny was mainly inspired by the idea of the scala naturae, or scale of being. Therefore, Haeckel's genealogical trees, which were only branched on the surface, mainly represented the old idea of scale of being. Even though Haeckel decided to draw genealogical trees after reading "On the Origin of Species" and was called the German Darwin, he did not draw Darwinian branching diagrams. Although Haeckel always saw Lamarck, Goethe, and Darwin as the three fathers of the theory of evolution, he was mainly influenced by Lamarck and Goethe in his approach to tree reconstruction.
3651140|The problem of missing data is often considered to be the most important obstacle in reconstructing the phylogeny of fossil taxa and in combining data from diverse characters and taxa for phylogenetic analysis. Empirical and theoretical studies show that including highly incomplete taxa can lead to multiple equally parsimonious trees, poorly resolved consensus trees, and decreased phylogenetic accuracy. However, the mechanisms that cause incomplete taxa to be problematic have remained unclear. It has been widely assumed that incomplete taxa are problematic because of the proportion or amount of missing data that they bear. In this study, I use simulations to show that the reduced accuracy associated with including incomplete taxa is caused by these taxa bearing too few complete characters rather than too many missing data cells. This seemingly subtle distinction has a number of important implications. First, the so-called missing data problem for incomplete taxa is, paradoxically, not directly related to their amount or proportion of missing data. Thus, the level of completeness alone should not guide the exclusion of taxa (contrary to common practice), and these results may explain why empirical studies have sometimes found little relationship between the completeness of a taxon and its impact on an analysis. These results also (1) suggest a more effective strategy for dealing with incomplete taxa, (2) call into question a justification of the controversial phylogenetic supertree approach, and (3) show the potential for the accurate phylogenetic placement of highly incomplete taxa, both when combining diverse data sets and when analyzing relationships of fossil taxa.
3651136|Assessment of the reliability of a given phylogenetic hypothesis is an important step in phylogenetic analysis. Historically, the nonparametric bootstrap procedure has been the most frequently used method for assessing the support for specific phylogenetic relationships. The recent employment of Bayesian methods for phylogenetic inference problems has resulted in clade support being expressed in terms of posterior probabilities. We used simulated data and the four-taxon case to explore the relationship between nonparametric bootstrap values (as inferred by maximum likelihood) and posterior probabilities (as inferred by Bayesian analysis). The results suggest a complex association between the two measures. Three general regions of tree space can be identified: (1) the neutral zone, where differences between mean bootstrap and mean posterior probability values are not significant, (2) near the two-branch corner, and (3) deep in the two-branch corner. In the last two regions, significant differences occur between mean bootstrap and mean posterior probability values. Whether bootstrap or posterior probability values are higher depends on the data in support of alternative topologies. Examination of star topologies revealed that both bootstrap and posterior probability values differ significantly from theoretical expectations; in particular, there are more posterior probability values in the range 0.85-1 than expected by theory. Therefore, our results corroborate the findings of others that posterior probability values are excessively high. Our results also suggest that extrapolations from single topology branch-length studies are unlikely to provide any general conclusions regarding the relationship between bootstrap and posterior probability values.
3651138|Convergence, i.e., similarity between organisms that is not the direct result of shared phylogenetic history (and that may instead result from independent adaptations to similar environments), is a fundamental issue that lies at the interface of systematics and evolutionary biology. Although convergence is often cited as an important problem in morphological phylogenetics, there have been few well-documented examples of strongly supported and misleading phylogenetic estimates that result from adaptive convergence in morphology. In this article, we propose criteria that can be used to infer whether or not a phylogenetic analysis has been misled by convergence. We then apply these criteria in a study of central Texas cave salamanders (genus Eurycea). Morphological characters (apparently related to cave-dwelling habitat use) support a clade uniting the species E. rathbuni and E. tridentifera, whereas mitochondrial DNA sequences and allozyme data show that these two species are not closely related. We suggest that a likely explanation for the paucity of examples of strongly misleading morphological convergence is that the conditions under which adaptive convergence is most likely to produce strongly misleading results are limited. Specifically, convergence is most likely to be problematic in groups (such as the central Texas Eurycea) in which most species are morphologically very similar and some of the species have invaded and adapted to a novel selective environment.
3651135|An intraspecific phylogeny was established for the New Zealand short-tailed bat Mystacina tuberculata using a 2,878-bp sequence alignment from multiple mitochondrial genes (control region, ND2, 12S ribosomal RNA [rRNA], 16S rRNA, and tRNA). The inferred phylogeny comprises six lineages, with estimated divergences extending back between 0.93 and 0.68 million years to the middle Pleistocene. The lineages do not correspond to the existing subspecific taxonomy. Although multiple lineages occur sympatrically in many populations, the lineages are geographically structured. This structure has persisted despite repeated cycles of range expansion and contraction in response to climatic oscillations and catastrophic volcanic eruptions. The distribution of lineages among populations in central North Island indicates that a hybrid zone was formed by simultaneous colonization from single-lineage source populations inhabiting remote forest refugia. The observed pattern is not typical of microbats, which because of their high mobility generally exhibit low levels of genetic differentiation and geographic structure over continental ranges. Although lineages of M. tuberculata occur sympatrically in many populations, genetic distances between them are sufficiently large to suggest that they may be considered evolutionary significant units or taxonomic subspecies.
3651134|Phylogenetic relationships among advanced snakes (Acrochordus + Colubroidea = Caenophidia) and the position of the genus Acrochordus relative to colubroid taxa are contentious. These concerns were investigated by phylogenetic analysis of fragments from four mitochondrial genes representing 62 caenophidian genera and 5 noncaenophidian taxa. Four methods of phylogeny reconstruction were applied: matrix representation with parsimony (MRP) supertree consensus, maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analysis. Because of incomplete sampling, extensive missing data were inherent in this study. Analyses of individual genes retrieved roughly the same clades, but branching order varied greatly between gene trees, and nodal support was poor. Trees generated from combined data sets using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analysis had medium to low nodal support but were largely congruent with each other and with MRP supertrees. Conclusions about caenophidian relationships were based on these combined analyses. The Xenoderminae, Viperidae, Pareatinae, Psammophiinae, Pseudoxyrophiinae, Homalopsinae, Natricinae, Xenodontinae, and Colubrinae (redefined) emerged as monophyletic, whereas Lamprophiinae, Atractaspididae, and Elapidae were not in one or more topologies. A clade comprising Acrochordus and Xenoderminae branched closest to the root, and when Acrochordus was assessed in relation to a colubroid subsample and all five noncaenophidians, it remained associated with the Colubroidea. Thus, Acrochordus + Xenoderminae appears to be the sister group to the Colubroidea, and Xenoderminae should be excluded from Colubroidea. Within Colubroidea, Viperidae was the most basal clade. Other relationships appearing in all final topologies were (1) a clade comprising Psammophiinae, Lamprophiinae, Atractaspididae, Pseudoxyrophiinae, and Elapidae, within which the latter four taxa formed a subclade, and (2) a clade comprising Colubrinae, Natricinae, and Xenodontinae, within which the latter two taxa formed a subclade. Pareatinae and Homalopsinae were the most unstable clades.
3651122|Many questions in evolutionary biology are best addressed by comparing traits in different species. Often such studies involve mapping characters on phylogenetic trees. Mapping characters on trees allows the nature, number, and timing of the transformations to be identified. The parsimony method is the only method available for mapping morphological characters on phylogenies. Although the parsimony method often makes reasonable reconstructions of the history of a character, it has a number of limitations. These limitations include the inability to consider more than a single change along a branch on a tree and the uncoupling of evolutionary time from amount of character change. We extended a method described by Nielsen (2002, Syst. Biol. 51:729-739) to the mapping of morphological characters under continuous-time Markov models and demonstrate here the utility of the method for mapping characters on trees and for identifying character correlation.
3651124|Marmots have a prominent role in the study of mammalian social evolution, but only recently has their systematics received the attention it deserves if sociobiological studies are to be placed in a phylogenetic context. Sciurid morphology can be used as model to test the congruence between morphological change and phylogeny because sciurid skeletal characters are considered to be inclined to convergence. However, no morphological study involving all marmot species has ever been undertaken. Geometric morphometric techniques were applied in a comparative study of the marmot mandible. The adults of all 14 living marmot species were compared, and mean mandible shape were used to investigate morphological evolution in the genus Marmota. Three major trends were observed. First, the phylogenetic signal in the variation of landmark geometry, which describes mandible morphology, seems to account for the shape differences at intermediate taxonomic levels. The subgenera Marmota and Petromarmota, recently proposed on the basis of mitochondrial cytochrome b sequence, receive support from mandible morphology. When other sciurid genera were included in the analysis, the monophyly of the genus Marmota and that of the tribe Marmotini (i.e., marmots, prairie dogs, and ground squirrels) was strengthened by the morphological data. Second, the marmotine mandible may have evolved as a mosaic of characters and does not show convergence determined by size similarities. Third, allopatric speciation in peripheral isolates may have acted as a powerful force for modeling shape. This hypothesis is strongly supported by the peculiar mandible of M. vancouverensis and, to a lesser degree, by that of M. olympus, both thought to have originated as isolated populations in Pleistocene ice-free refugia.
3651123|Recovery of evolutionary history and delimiting species boundaries in widely distributed, poorly known groups requires extensive geographic sampling, but sampling regimes are difficult to design a priori because evolutionary diversity is often "hidden" by inadequate taxonomy. Large data sets are needed, and these provide unique challenges for analysis when they span intra- and interspecific levels of divergence. However, protocols have been designed to combine methods of analysis for DNA sequences that exhibit both very shallow and relatively deeper divergences. In this study, we combined several tree-based phylogeny reconstruction methods with nested-clade analysis to extract maximum historical signal at various levels in the poorly known Liolaemus elongatus-kriegi lizard complex in temperate South America. We implemented a recently descrirbed tree-based protocol for DNA sequences to test for species boundaries, and we propose modifications to accommodate large data sets and gene regions with heterogeneous substitution rates. Combining haplotype trees with nested-clade analyses allowed testing of species boundaries on the basis of a priori defined criteria. The results obtained suggest that the number of putative species in the L. elongatus-kriegi complex could be doubled. We discuss these findings in the context of the advantages and limitations of a combined approach for retrieval of maximum historical information in large data sets and with reference to the yet formidable unresolved issues of sampling strategies.
3651125|The ruminants constitute the largest group of ungulates, with >190 species, and its distribution is widespread throughout all continents except Australia and Antarctica. Six families are traditionally recognized within the suborder Ruminantia: Antilocapridae (pronghorns), Bovidae (cattle, sheep, and antelopes), Cervidae (deer), Giraffidae (giraffes and okapis), Moschidae (musk deer), and Tragulidae (chevrotains). The interrelationships of the families have been an area of controversy among morphology, palaeontology, and molecular studies, and almost all possible evolutionary scenarios have been proposed in the literature. We analyzed a large DNA data set (5,322 nucleotides) for 23 species including both mitochondrial (cytochrome b, 12S ribosomal RNA (rRNA), and 16S rRNA) and nuclear (-casein, cytochrome P-450, lactoferrin, and -lactalbumin) markers. Our results show that the family Tragulidae occupies a basal position with respect to all other ruminant families, confirming the traditional view that separates Tragulina and Pecora. Within the pecorans, Antilocapridae and Giraffidae emerge first, and the families Bovidae, Moschidae, and Cervidae are allied, with the unexpected placement of Moschus close to bovids rather than to cervids. We used these molecular results to assess the homoplastic evolution of morphological characters within the Ruminantia. A Bayesian relaxed molecular clock approach based on the continuous autocorrelation of evolutionary rates along branches was applied to estimate the divergence ages between the major clades of ruminants. The evolutionary radiation of Pecora occurred at the Early/Late Oligocene transition, and Pecoran families diversified and dispersed rapidly during the Early and Middle Miocene. We propose a biogeographic scenario to explain the extraordinary expansion of this group during the Cenozoic era.
3651126|We conducted a simulation study of the phylogenetic methods UPGMA, neighbor joining, maximum parsimony, and maximum likelihood for a five-taxon tree under a molecular clock. The parameter space included a small region where maximum parsimony is inconsistent, so we tested inconsistency correction for parsimony and distance correction for neighbor joining. As expected, corrected parsimony was consistent. For these data, maximum likelihood with the clock assumption outperformed each of the other methods tested. The distance-based methods performed marginally better than did maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood without the clock assumption. Data correction was generally detrimental to accuracy, especially for short sequence lengths. We identified another region of the parameter space where, although consistent for a given method, some incorrect trees were each selected with up to twice the frequency of the correct (generating) tree for sequences of bounded length. These incorrect trees are those where the outgroup has been incorrectly placed. In addition to this problem, the placement of the outgroup sequence can have a confounding effect on the ingroup tree, whereby the ingroup is correct when using the ingroup sequences alone, but with the inclusion of the outgroup the ingroup tree becomes incorrect.
3651127|Character construction, the methods by which characters and character states are produced from observations of variation, is a crucial but poorly understood step in phylogenetic analysis. Alternative approaches are used in practice, but there has been relatively little investigation of their theoretical bases and analytical consequences. We reviewed three published numerical analyses of the phylogenetic relationships within the Triassic Aetosauria. Combined data from these studies were used to explore the impact of alternative approaches to character construction. Some previous aetosaurian characters represent parallel variations in the morphology of osteoderms from different body regions, and their independence is questionable, leading us to propose more composite alternative constructions. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that inferred relationships within the Aetosauria are in general poorly resolved and weakly supported by the available data and are sensitive to alternative approaches to character construction. Thus, the results from this and previous studies should not, for the most part, be accepted as robust hypotheses of aetosaurian interrelationships. The treatment of systems of intraorganismal (e.g. serial, antimeric) homologues, such as osteoderms, in character construction is discussed. Applied to parallel variations in systems of intraorganismal homologues, previous advice on choosing among alternative character constructions and Hennig's auxiliary principle agree in favoring a more composite approach, in accordance with common practice.
3651067|Debate exists over how to incorporate information from multipartite sequence data in phylogenetic analyses. Strict combined-data approaches argue for concatenation of all partitions and estimation of one evolutionary history, maximizing the explanatory power of the data. Consensus/independence approaches endorse a two-step procedure where partitions are analyzed independently and then a consensus is determined from the multiple results. Mixtures across the model space of a strict combined-data approach and a priori independent parameters are popular methods to integrate these methods. We propose an alternative middle ground by constructing a Bayesian hierarchical phylogenetic model. Our hierarchical framework enables researchers to pool information across data partitions to improve estimate precision in individual partitions while permitting estimation and testing of tendencies in across-partition quantities. Such across-partition quantities include the distribution from which individual topologies relating the sequences within a partition are drawn. We propose standard hierarchical priors on continuous evolutionary parameters across partitions, while the structure on topologies varies depending on the research problem. We illustrate our model with three examples. We first explore the evolutionary history of the guinea pig (Cavia porcellus) using alignments of 13 mitochondrial genes. The hierarchical model returns substantially more precise continuous parameter estimates than an independent parameter approach without losing the salient features of the data. Second, we analyze the frequency of horizontal gene transfer using 50 prokaryotic genes. We assume an unknown species-level topology and allow individual gene topologies to differ from this with a small estimable probability. Simultaneously inferring the species and individual gene topologies returns a transfer frequency of 17%. We also examine HIV sequences longitudinally sampled from HIV+ patients. We ask whether posttreatment development of CCR5 coreceptor virus represents concerted evolution from middisease CXCR4 virus or reemergence of initial infecting CCR5 virus. The hierarchical model pools partitions from multiple unrelated patients by assuming that the topology for each patient is drawn from a multinomial distribution with unknown probabilities. Preliminary results suggest evolution and not reemergence.
3651070|A phylogenetic comparative method is proposed for estimating historical effects on comparative data using the partitions that compose a cladogram, i.e., its monophyletic groups. Two basic matrices, Y and X, are defined in the context of an ordinary linear model. Y contains the comparative data measured over t taxa. X consists of an initial tree matrix that contains all the x<sub>j</sub> monophyletic groups (each coded separately as a binary indicator variable) of the phylogenetic tree available for those taxa. The method seeks to define the subset of groups, i.e., a reduced tree matrix, that best explains the patterns in Y. This definition is accomplished via regression or canonical ordination (depending on the dimensionality of Y) coupled with Monte Carlo permutations. It is argued here that unrestricted permutations (i.e., under an equiprobable model) are valid for testing this specific kind of groupwise hypothesis. Phylogeny is either partialled out or, more properly, incorporated into the analysis in the form of component variation. Direct extensions allow for testing ecomorphological data controlled by phylogeny in a variation partitioning approach. Currently available statistical techniques make this method applicable under most univariate/multivariate models and metrics; two-way phylogenetic effects can be estimated as well. The simplest case (univariate Y), tested with simulations, yielded acceptable type I error rates. Applications presented include examples from evolutionary ethology, ecology, and ecomorphology. Results showed that the new technique detected previously overlooked variation clearly associated with phylogeny and that many phylogenetic effects on comparative data may occur at particular groups rather than across the entire tree.
3651064|Homoplasy among morphological characters has hindered inference of higher level rodent phylogeny for over 100 years. Initial molecular studies, based primarily on single genes, likewise produced little resolution of the deep relationships among rodent families. Two recent molecular studies (Huchon et al., 2002, Mol. Biol. Evol. 19:1053-1065; Adkins et al., 2003, Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 26:409-420), using larger samples from the nuclear genome, have produced phylogenies that are generally concordant with each other, but many of the deep superfamilial nodes were still lacking substantial statistical support. Data are presented here for a total of approximately 3,600 base pairs from portions of three different nuclear protein-coding genes, CB1, IRBP, and RAG2, from 19 rodents and three outgroups. Separate analyses, with data partitioned according to both genes and codon position, produced conflicting results. Trees obtained from all partitions of CB1 and RAG2 and those obtained from the first-plus second-position sites of IRBP were generally concordant with each other and the trees from the two recent studies, whereas trees obtained from the third-position sites of IRBP were not. Although the IRBP third-position sites represent only 1/9 of the total data set, combined analyses using either parsimony or likelihood resulted in trees in agreement with the IRBP third-position sites and in disagreement with the remaining 8/9 of the sites from this data set and the two recent multigene studies. In contrast, maximum-likelihood analysis using a site-specific rates model did recover a tree that is highly congruent with the trees in the two recent studies. If the IRBP third-position sites are removed from the current data set, then combined likelihood analyses obtain a tree that is highly congruent with those of the two recent studies. This analysis also provides, for the first time in a study of rodent phylogeny, robust statistical support for every bipartition, with just one exception. This tree divides rodents into two major clades. The first contains Myodonta (Muroidea plus Dipodidae) and the only unresolved trichotomy, from which descend Geomyoidea, Pedetidae, and Castoridae. On the other side of the root is a clade containing Sciuroidea plus Gliridae, and Hystricognathi. Some uncertainty remains on the placement of the root. Trees on which the Hystricognathi are the basal sister group to Myodonta, Geomyoidea, Pedetidae, and Castoridae are also found within a Bayesian 95% credible set, as estimated by Metropolis-coupled Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling.
3651071|The increase in the number of large data sets and the complexity of current probabilistic sequence evolution models necessitates fast and reliable phylogeny reconstruction methods. We describe a new approach, based on the maximum-likelihood principle, which clearly satisfies these requirements. The core of this method is a simple hill-climbing algorithm that adjusts tree topology and branch lengths simultaneously. This algorithm starts from an initial tree built by a fast distance-based method and modifies this tree to improve its likelihood at each iteration. Due to this simultaneous adjustment of the topology and branch lengths, only a few iterations are sufficient to reach an optimum. We used extensive and realistic computer simulations to show that the topological accuracy of this new method is at least as high as that of the existing maximum-likelihood programs and much higher than the performance of distance-based and parsimony approaches. The reduction of computing time is dramatic in comparison with other maximum-likelihood packages, while the likelihood maximization ability tends to be higher. For example, only 12 min were required on a standard personal computer to analyze a data set consisting of 500 rbcL sequences with 1,428 base pairs from plant plastids, thus reaching a speed of the same order as some popular distance-based and parsimony algorithms. This new method is implemented in the PHYML program, which is freely available on our web page: http://www.lirmm.fr/w3ifa/MAAS/.
3651062|We compared the utility of five nuclear gene segments amplified with type I sequence-tagged site (STS) primers versus the complete mitochondrial cytochrome b (cyt b) gene in resolving phylogenetic relationships within the Mustelidae, a large and ecomorphologically diverse family of mammalian carnivores. Maximum parsimony and likelihood analyses of separate and combined data sets were used to address questions regarding the levels of homoplasy, incongruence, and information content within and among loci. All loci showed limited resolution in the separate analyses because of either a low amount of informative variation (nuclear genes) or high levels of homoplasy (cyt b). Individually or combined, the nuclear gene sequences had less homoplasy, retained more signal, and were more decisive, even though cyt b contained more potentially informative variation than all the nuclear sequences combined. We obtained a well-resolved and supported phylogeny when the nuclear sequences were combined. Maximum likelihood and Bayesian phylogenetic analyses of the total combined data (nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequences) were able to better accommodate the high levels of homoplasy in the cyt b data than was an equally weighted maximum parsimony analysis. Furthermore, partition Bremer support analyses of the total combined tree showed that the relative support of the nuclear and mitochondrial genes differed according to whether or not the homoplasy in the cyt b gene was downweighted. Although the cyt b gene contributed phylogenetic signal for most major groupings, the nuclear gene sequences were more effective in reconstructing the deeper nodes of the combined tree in the equally weighted parsimony analysis, as judged by the variable-length bootstrap method. The total combined data supported the monophyly of the Lutrinae (otters), whereas the Melinae (badgers) and Mustelinae (weasels, martens) were both paraphyletic. The American badger, Taxidea taxus (Taxidiinae), was the most basal taxon. Because hundreds of type I STS primer sets spanning the complete genomes of the human and mouse have been published and thus represent many independently segregating loci, the potential utility of these markers for molecular systematics of mammals and other groups is enormous.
3651073|Biotic element analysis is an alternative to the areas-of-endemism approach for recognizing the presence or absence of vicariance events in a given region. If an ancestral biota was fragmented by vicariance events, biotic elements or clusters of distribution areas should emerge. We propose a statistical test for clustering of distribution areas based on a Monte Carlo simulation with a null model that considers the spatial autocorrelation in the data. The hypothesis tested is that the observed degree of clustering of ranges can be explained by the range size distribution, the varying number of taxa per cell, and the spatial autocorrelation of the occurrences of a taxon alone. A method for the delimitation of biotic elements which uses model-based Gaussian clustering is introduced. We demonstrate our methods and show the importance of grid size by means of a case study, an analysis of the distribution patterns of southern African species of the weevil genus Scobius. The example highlights the difficulties in delimiting areas of endemism if dispersal has occurred and illustrates the advantages of the biotic element approach.
3651066|Although the conditions under which the parsimony method becomes inconsistent have been studied for almost two decades, the probability that the parsimony method would encounter conditions causing inconsistency under simple models of cladogenesis is unknown. Here, we examine the statistical behavior of the parsimony method under a birth-death model of cladogenesis, when the molecular clock holds. The parsimony method can become inconsistent a high proportion of the time even under this simple model of cladogenesis. When taxon sampling is poor or rates of evolution are high, the probability that parsimony will become inconsistent increases.
3651063|Previous work has shown that it is often essential to account for the variation in rates at different sites in phylogenetic models in order to avoid phylogenetic artifacts such as long branch attraction. In most current models, the gamma distribution is used for the rates-across-sites distributions and is implemented as an equal-probability discrete gamma. In this article, we introduce discrete distribution estimates with large numbers of equally spaced rate categories allowing us to investigate the appropriateness of the gamma model. With large numbers of rate categories, these discrete estimates are flexible enough to approximate the shape of almost any distribution. Likelihood ratio statistical tests and a nonparametric bootstrap confidence-bound estimation procedure based on the discrete estimates are presented that can be used to test the fit of a parametric family. We applied the methodology to several different protein data sets, and found that although the gamma model often provides a good parametric model for this type of data, rate estimates from an equal-probability discrete gamma model with a small number of categories will tend to underestimate the largest rates. In cases when the gamma model assumption is in doubt, rate estimates coming from the discrete rate distribution estimate with a large number of rate categories provide a robust alternative to gamma estimates. An alternative implementation of the gamma distribution is proposed that, for equal numbers of rate categories, is computationally more efficient during optimization than the standard gamma implementation and can provide more accurate estimates of site rates.
3651065|Although calyptraeid gastropods are not well understood taxonomically, in part because their simple plastic shells are the primary taxonomic character, they provide an ideal system to examine questions about evolution in the marine environment. I conducted a phylogenetic analysis of calyptraeid gastropods using DNA sequence data from mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) and 16S genes and the nuclear 28S gene. The resultant phylogeny was used to examine the biogeographic patterns of speciation in the Calyptraeidae. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of the combined data sets for 94 calyptraeid operational taxonomic units and 24 outgroups produced well-resolved phylogenies. Both approaches resulted in identical sister-species relationships, and the few differences in deeper topology did not affect biogeographic inferences. The geographic distribution of the species included here demonstrate numerous dispersal events both between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans and across the equator. When parsimony is used to reconstruct the movement from the Pacific to the Atlantic oceans on the phylogeny, there are 12 transitions between oceans, primarily from the Pacific to the Atlantic. When the latitude is coded as north versus south of the equator, the most-parsimonious reconstruction gives the origin of calyptraeids in the north followed by 15 dispersal events to regions south of the equator and no returns to the north. Many clades of the most closely related species are either sympatric or occur along a single coastline. Closely related species can, however, occur in such divergent regions as Southern California and South Africa. There is little evidence for sister-species pairs or larger clades having been split by the Isthmus of Panama or the Benguela upwelling, but the East Pacific Barrier appears to separate the most basal taxa from the rest of the family.
3651069|Phylogenetic estimation has largely come to rely on explicitly model-based methods. This approach requires that a model be chosen and that that choice be justified. To date, justification has largely been accomplished through use of likelihood-ratio tests (LRTs) to assess the relative fit of a nested series of reversible models. While this approach certainly represents an important advance over arbitrary model selection, the best fit of a series of models may not always provide the most reliable phylogenetic estimates for finite real data sets, where all available models are surely incorrect. Here, we develop a novel approach to model selection, which is based on the Bayesian information criterion, but incorporates relative branch-length error as a performance measure in a decision theory (DT) framework. This DT method includes a penalty for overfitting, is applicable prior to running extensive analyses, and simultaneously compares all models being considered and thus does not rely on a series of pairwise comparisons of models to traverse model space. We evaluate this method by examining four real data sets and by using those data sets to define simulation conditions. In the real data sets, the DT method selects the same or simpler models than conventional LRTs. In order to lend generality to the simulations, codon-based models (with parameters estimated from the real data sets) were used to generate simulated data sets, which are therefore more complex than any of the models we evaluate. On average, the DT method selects models that are simpler than those chosen by conventional LRTs. Nevertheless, these simpler models provide estimates of branch lengths that are more accurate both in terms of relative error and absolute error than those derived using the more complex (yet still wrong) models chosen by conventional LRTs. This method is available in a program called DT-ModSel.
3651068|Many empirical studies have revealed considerable differences between nonparametric bootstrapping and Bayesian posterior probabilities in terms of the support values for branches, despite claimed predictions about their approximate equivalence. We investigated this problem by simulating data, which were then analyzed by maximum likelihood bootstrapping and Bayesian phylogenetic analysis using identical models and reoptimization of parameter values. We show that Bayesian posterior probabilities are significantly higher than corresponding nonparametric bootstrap frequencies for true clades, but also that erroneous conclusions will be made more often. These errors are strongly accentuated when the models used for analyses are underparameterized. When data are analyzed under the correct model, nonparametric bootstrapping is conservative. Bayesian posterior probabilities are also conservative in this respect, but less so.
3651072|Divergence time and substitution rate are seriously confounded in phylogenetic analysis, making it difficult to estimate divergence times when the molecular clock (rate constancy among lineages) is violated. This problem can be alleviated to some extent by analyzing multiple gene loci simultaneously and by using multiple calibration points. While different genes may have different patterns of evolutionary rate change, they share the same divergence times. Indeed, the fact that each gene may violate the molecular clock differently leads to the advantage of simultaneous analysis of multiple loci. Multiple calibration points provide the means for characterizing the local evolutionary rates on the phylogeny. In this paper, we extend previous likelihood models of local molecular clock for estimating species divergence times to accommodate multiple calibration points and multiple genes. Heterogeneity among different genes in evolutionary rate and in substitution process is accounted for by the models. We apply the likelihood models to analyze two mitochondrial protein-coding genes, cytochrome oxidase II and cytochrome b, to estimate divergence times of Malagasy mouse lemurs and related outgroups. The likelihood method is compared with the Bayes method of Thorne et al. (1998, Mol. Biol. Evol. 15:1647-1657), which uses a probabilistic model to describe the change in evolutionary rate over time and uses the Markov chain Monte Carlo procedure to derive the posterior distribution of rates and times. Our likelihood implementation has the drawbacks of failing to accommodate uncertainties in fossil calibrations and of requiring the researcher to classify branches on the tree into different rate groups. Both problems are avoided in the Bayes method. Despite the differences in the two methods, however, data partitions and model assumptions had the greatest impact on date estimation. The three codon positions have very different substitution rates and evolutionary dynamics, and assumptions in the substitution model affect date estimation in both likelihood and Bayes analyses. The results demonstrate that the separate analysis is unreliable, with dates variable among codon positions and between methods, and that the combined analysis is much more reliable. When the three codon positions were analyzed simultaneously under the most realistic models using all available calibration information, the two methods produced similar results. The divergence of the mouse lemurs is dated to be around 7-10 million years ago, indicating a surprisingly early species radiation for such a morphologically uniform group of primates.
3651109|Previous phylogenetic analyses of tetrapod 18S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences support the grouping of birds with mammals, whereas other molecular data, and morphological and paleontological data favor the grouping of birds with crocodiles. The 18S rRNA gene has consequently been considered odd, serving as "definitive evidence of different genes providing significantly different estimates of phylogeny in higher organisms" (p. 156; Huelsenbeck et al., 1996, Trends Ecol. Evol. 11:152-158). Our research indicates that the previous discrepancy of phylogenetic results between the 18S rRNA gene and other genes is caused mainly by (1) the misalignment of the sequences, (2) the inappropriate use of the frequency parameters, and (3) poor sequence quality. When the sequences are aligned with the aide of the secondary structure of the 18S rRNA molecule and when the frequency parameters are estimated either from all sites or from the variable domains where substitutions have occurred, the 18S rRNA sequences no longer support the grouping of the avian species with the mammalian species.
3651113|Kluge's (2001, Syst. Biol. 50:322-330) continued arguments that phylogenetic methods based on the statistical principle of likelihood are incompatible with the philosophy of science described by Karl Popper are based on false premises related to Kluge's misrepresentations of Popper's philosophy. Contrary to Kluge's conjectures, likelihood methods are not inherently verificationist; they do not treat every instance of a hypothesis as confirmation of that hypothesis. The historical nature of phylogeny does not preclude phylogenetic hypotheses from being evaluated using the probability of evidence. The low absolute probabilities of hypotheses are irrelevant to the correct interpretation of Popper's concept termed degree of corroboration, which is defined entirely in terms of relative probabilities. Popper did not advocate minimizing background knowledge; in any case, the background knowledge of both parsimony and likelihood methods consists of the general assumption of descent with modification and additional assumptions that are deterministic, concerning which tree is considered most highly corroborated. Although parsimony methods do not assume (in the sense of entailing) that homoplasy is rare, they do assume (in the sense of requiring to obtain a correct phylogenetic inference) certain things about patterns of homoplasy. Both parsimony and likelihood methods assume (in the sense of implying by the manner in which they operate) various things about evolutionary processes, although violation of those assumptions does not always cause the methods to yield incorrect phylogenetic inferences. Test severity is increased by sampling additional relevant characters rather than by character reanalysis, although either interpretation is compatible with the use of phylogenetic likelihood methods. Neither parsimony nor likelihood methods assess test severity (critical evidence) when used to identify a most highly corroborated tree(s) based on a single method or model and a single body of data; however, both classes of methods can be used to perform severe tests. The assumption of descent with modification is insufficient background knowledge to justify cladistic parsimony as a method for assessing degree of corroboration. Invoking equivalency between parsimony methods and likelihood models that assume no common mechanism emphasizes the necessity of additional assumptions, at least some of which are probabilistic in nature. Incongruent characters do not qualify as falsifiers of phylogenetic hypotheses except under extremely unrealistic evolutionary models; therefore, justifications of parsimony methods as falsificationist based on the idea that they minimize the ad hoc dismissal of falsifiers are questionable. Probabilistic concepts such as degree of corroboration and likelihood provide a more appropriate framework for understanding how phylogenetics conforms with Popper's philosophy of science. Likelihood ratio tests do not assume what is at issue but instead are methods for testing hypotheses according to an accepted standard of statistical significance and for incorporating considerations about test severity. These tests are fundamentally similar to Popper's degree of corroboration in being based on the relationship between the probability of the evidence e in the presence versus absence of the hypothesis h, i.e., between p(e|hb) and p(e|b), where b is the background knowledge. Both parsimony and likelihood methods are inductive in that their inferences (particular trees) contain more information than (and therefore do not follow necessarily from) the observations upon which they are based; however, both are deductive in that their conclusions (tree lengths and likelihoods) follow necessarily from their premises (particular trees, observed character state distributions, and evolutionary models). For these and other reasons, phylogenetic likelihood methods are highly compatible with Karl Popper's philosophy of science and offer several advantages over parsimony methods in this context.
3651117|Morphological and molecular data sets favor robustly supported, contradictory interpretations of crocodylian phylogeny. A longstanding perception in the field of systematics is that such significantly conflicting data sets should be analyzed separately. Here we utilize a combined approach, simultaneous analyses of all relevant character data, to summarize common support and to reconcile discrepancies among data sets. By conjoining rather than separating incongruent classes of data, secondary phylogenetic signals emerge from both molecular and morphological character sets and provide solid evidence for a unified hypothesis of crocodylian phylogeny. Simultaneous analyses of four gene sequences and paleontological data suggest that putative adaptive convergences in the jaws of gavialines (gavials) and tomistomines (false gavials) offer character support for a grouping of these taxa, making Gavialinae an atavistic taxon. Simple new methods for measuring the influence of extinct taxa on topological support indicate that in this vertebrate order fossils generally stabilize relationships and accentuate hidden phylogenetic signals. Remaining inconsistencies in minimum length trees, including concentrated hierarchical patterns of homoplasy and extensive gaps in the fossil record, indicate where future work in crocodylian systematics should be directed.
3651110|Idiosyncratic markers are features of genes and genomes that are so unusual that it is unlikely that they evolved more than once in a lineage of organisms. Here we explore further the potential of idiosyncratic markers and changes to typically conserved tRNA sequences for phylogenetic inference. Hard ticks were chosen as the model group because their phylogeny has been studied extensively. Fifty-eight candidate markers from hard ticks (family Ixodidae) and 22 markers from the subfamily Rhipicephalinae sensu lato were mapped onto phylogenies of these groups. Two of the most interesting markers, features of the secondary structure of two different tRNAs, gave strong support to the hypothesis that species of the Prostriata (Ixodes spp.) are monophyletic. Previous analyses of genes and morphology did not strongly support this relationship, instead suggesting that the Prostriata is paraphyletic with respect to the Metastriata (the rest of the hard ticks). Parallel or convergent evolution was not found in the arrangements of mitochondrial genes in ticks nor were there any reversals to the ancestral arthropod character state. Many of the markers identified were phylogenetically informative, whereas others should be informative with study of additional taxa. Idiosyncratic markers and changes to typically conserved nucleotides in tRNAs that are phylogenetically informative were common in this data set, and thus these types of markers might be found in other organisms.
3651116|The phylogeny of Crocodylia offers an unusual twist on the usual molecules versus morphology story. The true gharial (Gavialis gangeticus) and the false gharial (Tomistoma schlegelii), as their common names imply have appeared in all cladistic morphological analyses as distantly related species, convergent upon a similar morphology. In contrast, all previous molecular studies have shown them to be sister taxa. We present the first phylogenetic study of Crocodylia using a nuclear gene. We cloned and sequenced the c-myc proto-oncogene from Alligator mississippiensis to facilitate primer design and then sequenced an 1,100-base pair fragment that includes both coding and noncoding regions and informative indels for one species in each extant crocodylian genus and six avian outgroups. Phylogenetic analyses using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference all strongly agreed on the same tree, which is identical to the tree found in previous molecular analyses: Gavialis and Tomistoma are sister taxa and together are the sister group of Crocodylidae. Kishino-Hasegawa tests rejected the morphological tree in favor of the molecular tree. We excluded long-branch attraction and variation in base composition among taxa as explanations for this topology. To explore the causes of discrepancy between molecular and morphological estimates of crocodylian phylogeny, we examined puzzling features of the morphological data using a priori partitions of the data based on anatomical regions and investigated the effects of different coding schemes for two obvious morphological similarities of the two gharials.
3651115|A nuclear low-copy gene phylogeny provides strong evidence for the hybrid origin of seven polyploid species in Geinae (Rosaceae). In a gene tree, alleles at homoeologous loci in an allopolyploid species are expected to be sisters to orthologues in the ancestral taxa rather than to each other. Alleles at a duplicated locus in an autopolyploid, however, are expected to be more closely related to each other than they are to any orthologous copies in closely related species. We cloned and sequenced about 1.9 kilobases from the 5' end of the GBSSI-1 gene from two diploid, one tetraploid, and six hexaploid species. Each of the three loci in the hexaploid species forms a separate group, two of which are more closely related to copies in other species than they are to each other. This finding indicates that the hexaploid lineage evolved through two consecutive allopolyploidization events. Based on the GBSSI-1 gene tree, we hypothesized that there was an initial hybridization between a diploid species from the ancestral lineage of Coluria and Waldsteinia and an unknown diploid species to form the tetraploid Geum heterocarpum lineage. Backcrossing of G. heterocarpum with a representative of the unknown diploid lineage then resulted in a hexaploid lineage that has radiated considerably since its origin, comprising at least 40 extant species with various morphologies. A penalized likelihood analysis indicated that Geinae may be about 17 million years old, implying that the hypothesized allopolyploid speciation events are relatively ancient. Six of the 22 cloned Geinae GBSSI-1 copies in this study, which all are duplicate copies in polyploid taxa, may have become pseudogenes. We compared the GBSSI-1 phylogeny with one from chloroplast data and explored implications for the evolution of some fruit characters.
3651111|Because calcareous sponges are triggering renewed interest with respect to basal metazoan evolution, a phylogenetic framework of their internal relationships is needed to clarify the evolutionary history of key morphological characters. Morphological variation was scored at the suprageneric level within Calcispongia, but little phylogenetic information could be retrieved from morphological characters. For the main subdivision of Calcispongia, the analysis of morphological data weakly supports a classification based upon cytological and embryological characters (Calcinea/Calcaronea) rather than the older classification scheme based upon the aquiferous system (Homocoela/Heterocoela). The 18S ribosomal RNA data were then analyzed, both alone and in combination with morphological characters. The monophyly of Calcispongia is highly supported, but the position of this group with respect to other sponge lineages and to eumetazoan taxa is not resolved. The monophyly of both Calcinea and Calcaronea is retrieved, and the data strongly rejected the competing Homocoela/Heterocoela hypothesis. The phylogeny implies that characters of the skeleton architecture are highly homoplastic, as are characters of the aquiferous system. However, axial symmetry seems to be primitive for all Calcispongia, a conclusion that has potentially far-reaching implications for hypotheses of early body plan evolution in Metazoa.
3651114|The existence of multiple likelihood maxima necessitates algorithms that explore a large part of the tree space. However, because of computational constraints, stepwise addition-based tree-searching methods do not allow for this exploration in reasonable time. Here, I present an algorithm that increases the speed at which the likelihood landscape can be explored. The iterative algorithm combines the computational speed of distance-based tree construction methods to arrive at approximations of the global optimum with the accuracy of optimality criterion based branch-swapping methods to improve on the result of the starting tree. The algorithm moves between local optima by iteratively perturbing the tree landscape through a process of reweighting randomly drawn samples of the underlying sequence data set. Tests on simulated and real data sets demonstrated that the optimal solution obtained using stepwise addition-based heuristic searches was found faster using the algorithm presented here. Tests on a previously published data set that established the presence of tree islands under maximum likelihood demonstrated that the algorithm identifies the same tree islands in a shorter amount of time than that needed using stepwise addition. The algorithm can be readily applied using standard software for phylogenetic inference.
3651112|We examined relationships between fragrance and phylogeny using a number of approaches to coding fragrance data and comparing the hierarchical information in fragrance data with the phylogenetic signal in a DNA sequence data set. We first used distance analyses to determine which coding method(s) best distinguishes species while grouping conspecifics. Results suggest that interspecific differences in fragrance composition were maximized by coding as presence/absence of fragrance compounds and biosynthetic pathways rather than when quantitative information was also included. Useful systematic information came from both compounds and pathways and from fragrance emitted by both floral and vegetative tissues. The coding methods that emerged from the distance analyses as best distinguishing species were then adapted for use in phylogenetic analysis. Although hierarchical signal among fragrance data sets was congruent, this signal was highly incongruent with the phylogenetic signal in the DNA sequence data. Notably, topologies inferred from fragrance data sets were congruent with the DNA topology only in the most distal portions (e.g., sister group pairs or closely related species that had similar fragrance profiles were often recovered by analyses of fragrance). Examination of consistency and retention indices for individual fragrance compounds and pathways as optimized onto one of the most-parsimonious trees inferred from DNA data revealed that although most compounds were homoplastic, some compounds were perfectly congruent with the DNA phylogeny In particular, compounds and pathways found in a few taxa were less homoplastic than those found in many taxa. Pathways that synthesize few volatiles also seem to have lower homoplasy than those that produce many. Although fragrance data as a whole may not be useful in phylogeny reconstruction, these data can provide additional support for clades reconstructed with other types of characters. Factors other than phylogeny, including pollinator interactions, also likely influence fragrance composition.
10.2307/2992506|The claim that fossils strongly influence the outcome of phylogenetic analysis for extant taxa has been recently demonstrated in a study of higher amniote relationships (Gauthier, Kluge, and Rowe, 1988, Cladistics 4:105-209). Similar, albeit more limited, effects are also apparent in the case of higher (eutherian) mammal phylogeny. For example, the incorporation of selected fossil taxa shifts the balance of evidence concerning hyracoid relationships in favor of a close affinity between this order and sirenians and proboscideans (Tethytheria). The use of fossils introduces character conflict to a grouping of hyracoids and perissodactyls, indicating that some traits shared by extant hyracoids and extant perissodactyls were acquired independently Although analysis of the combined (Recent and fossil) data set favors the hyracoid-tethythere clade over the hyracoid-perissodactyl clade in the most parsimonious tree, the former grouping is highly vulnerable to collapse when minor homoplasy is introduced. This instability is expected because the fossils function as transitional taxa, with the effect of reducing the number of characters for particular nodes. At the same time, such transitional taxa can more precisely represent the actual transformation events and accordingly provide important information on phylogenetic history. The overall effects of fossils in analysis of higher eutherian mammals is much more subtle than in the amniote case. A primary reason for this discrepancy appears to be the large proportion of characters for extant amniote taxa that show marked transformation relevant to early splitting events. This level of information loss though marked transformation is not as evident in the case of the mammalian orders. Both extant and fossil taxa can introduce major shifts to the original topology of a given tree. Nonetheless, the tendency for fossils to preserve characters lost in living taxa suggests a pivotal role for fossils in many current and pending studies.
10.2307/2992502|The reliability of phylogenies reconstructed from data on multigene families is investigated via simulation. The evolutionary scenario used is a character-based model of a two-gene family in four species in which clocklike divergence is postulated but neither convergence nor reversal is allowed except as a result of recombination and gene conversion. Thus, any homoplasy emerging from parsimony reconstructions from the simulated data matrices can be attributed to concerted evolution. The probabilities of correctly reconstructing two standard trees are estimated by replicate runs of the simulation. One standard tree (the OP or "orthology/paralogy" tree) reflects the true gene genealogy in the absence of concerted evolution; the other (the CE or "concerted evolution" tree) depicts gene relationships under complete homogenization of the gene family. The probability of correct reconstruction of the OP tree declines quickly as concerted evolution increases, but above an intermediate level of concerted evolution the probability of correctly inferring the CE tree increases rapidly Trees similar but not identical to the correct trees can be reconstructed above or below the critical intermediate level of concerted evolution. Levels of homoplasy and numbers of equally parsimonious minimal trees are maximized, and bootstrap confidence levels are minimized, near this intermediate level of concerted evolution. When reconstructing the correct gene tree is the goal, both consistency indices and bootstrap levels will show misleadingly high values when concerted evolution is high. However, because the correct species tree can be inferred from either the OP or CE tree (in the absence of homoplasy from sources other than concerted evolution), these same measures correlate well with fidelity of reconstructing the species tree.
10.2307/2992503|We discuss and clarify several aspects of applying Felsenstein's (1985, Am. Nat. 125: 1-15) procedures to test for correlated evolution of continuous traits. This is one of several available comparative methods that maps data for phenotypic traits onto an existing phylogenetic tree (derived from independent information). Application of Felsenstein's method does not require an entirely dichotomous topology. It also does not require an assumption of gradual, clocklike character evolution, as might be modeled by Brownian motion. Almost any available information can be used to estimate branch lengths (e.g., genetic distances, divergence times estimated from the fossil record or from molecular clocks, numbers of character changes from a cladistic analysis). However, the adequacy for statistical purposes of any proposed branch lengths must be verified empirically for each phylogeny and for each character. We suggest a simple way of doing this, based on graphical analysis of plots of standardized independent contrasts versus their standard deviations (i.e., the square roots of the sums of their branch lengths). In some cases, the branch lengths and/or the values of traits being studied will require transformation. An example involving the scaling of mammalian home range area is presented. Once adequately standardized, sets of independent contrasts can be analyzed using either linear or nonlinear (multiple) regression. In all cases, however, regressions (or correlations) must be computed through the origin. We also discuss ways of correcting for body size effects and how this relates to making graphical representations of relationships of standardized independent contrasts. We close with a consideration of the types of traits that can be analyzed with independent contrasts procedures and conclude that any (continuous) trait that is inherited from ancestors is appropriate for analysis, regardless of the mechanism of inheritance (e.g., genetic or cultural).
10.2307/2992504|Two new optimality indices are developed for selecting subsets of trees from a set of most parsimonious trees. The optimal character compatibility index (OCCI) quantifies, for each most parsimonious tree, the proportion of characters that are postulated to have changed only once. The tree(s) with the highest OCCI value is (are) selected. The optimum parsimonious likelihood index (OPLI) selects the tree(s), from a set of most parsimonious trees, that is (are) most likely to give the observed data under certain assumptions. In simulation trials, both the OCCI and OPLI are highly efficient at retrieving the closest approximation to the true tree.
10.2307/2992505|Hybridization is frequent in certain freshwater fishes, but evidence for introgression is usually inconclusive. Most putative cases of introgression are unsubstantiated because morphological data alone are not constrained enough to provide unambiguous evidence for it. Definitive evidence for some cases has been provided by studies of proteins and mitochondrial DNA. The ability to hybridize is a context-dependent retained plesiomorphic trait, at least among lineages separated for up to about 5 million years. Hybridization and possibly introgression occurred in the distant past; they are not limited to anthropogenically disturbed habitats. Local variation and homoplasy are usual consequences. Introgression may substitute blocks of homoplastic characters, which may then become wide-spread in a recipient lineage. The mitochondrial DNA molecule may become such a block. The consequence for evolutionary studies is the loss of hierarchical structure in phylogenetic data and the loss of evidence of evolutionary history. False cladograms and poor estimates of evolutionary rates may result. Estimates of evolutionary divergence times and rates of evolution in fishes are often based simply on phenograms of genetic distances scaled with mammalian rate estimates. Rates calculated in this way are about two times slower than those calculated from divergence times based on fossil evidence for apomorphies that diagnose branching of fish lineages.
10.2307/2992583|Just as the factors responsible for the origin of an adaptation may not be responsible for its maintenance, the processes currently operating in a community may not have been important in assembling the community Consequently, historical and ecological studies must be integrated to understand why communities are structured as they are. Examples from Caribbean Anolis assemblages indicate the unique ecological insight a historical perspective can provide. In the Lesser Antilles, phylogenetic analysis indicates that character displacement probably has occurred, but perhaps only once, and that patterns of size dissimilarity across islands result from ecological size assortment subsequent to the evolutionary change in size. In the Greater Antilles, not only are communities composed of a suite of convergent "ecomorphs," but the buildup of multispecies communities has followed a very similar trajectory, a finding not demonstrable by nonhistorical analyses. Further, phylogenetic analyses suggest the appropriate direction for ecological research concerning the occurrence of "empty niches."
10.2307/2992584|Systematists should distinguish between cladistic analysis, i.e., a numerical procedure, and phylogenetic analysis, i.e., the reconstruction of hierarchic descent relationships. Modern cladistic analysis uses parsimony to construct hierarchic arrangements (trees) of terminal units (terminals) that have been scored for a series of attributes. The interpretation of cladistic relationships as representative of phylogenetic relationships requires two conditions, both of which were identified by Hennig (1966, Phylogenetic systematics, Univ. Illinois Press, Urbana). First, descent relationships among the terminals must be hierarchic; that is, all terminals must have been generated by the subdivision or replication of previously existing ancestors. This is a necessary condition for phylogenetic analysis, rather than an empirical discovery of it, because the results of cladistic analysis are always hierarchically structured (however poorly resolved). Because resolution of a cladistic hierarchy does not demonstrate that a hierarchic descent system underlies the character distribution pattern it reflects, additional information is necessary, in any given case, to determine that phylogenetic analysis is appropriate. Second, to have congruence between an observable attribute hierarchy and the descent hierarchy that is to be inferred, the attribute must have been transmitted from an ancestor to all of its descendants, either in its original state or in a modified state. Both conditions are met by asexual organisms and by nonrecombining genetic elements (e.g., the chloroplast and mitochondrial genomes) but not by individual sexually reproducing organisms that bear such genetic elements. Populations of sexually reproducing organisms can meet the first condition (i.e., hierarchic descent) when new populations are founded by the division of previously existing populations and individuals do not disperse among existing populations. When the first condition is met, the second also is met for genetically fixed attributes of the populations, because populations descended from an ancestral population that was fixed for an attribute also will be fixed for that attribute (in original or modified state). In contrast, attributes that are not fixed in a population may not occur in all or any descendant populations, even if descent relationships among populations are hierarchic. The occurrence of a unique fixed character combination in an extended genealogical population (phylogenetic species sensu Nixon and Wheeler, 1990, Cladistics 6:211-223) is evidence that this population has diverged from other such populations and thus that descent relationships among such populations are hierarchic. The fixed characters of phylogenetic species therefore constitute evidence that a hierarchic descent system exists and provide the means for analyzing phylogenetic relationships among these species. Phylogenetic species can be delimited by a procedure (population aggregation analysis) that involves a search for fixed differences among local populations, followed by successive rounds of aggregation of populations and previously aggregated population groups that are not distinct from each other.
10.2307/2992586|A molecular approach was used to test hypotheses about the phylogeny of selected brachyuran crabs. Partial 18S ribosomal (r) RNA and rDNA sequences, ranging in length from 950 to 1,779 nucleotides, were obtained for 12 decapod crustaceans, 10 of which are generally considered to be brachyurans. Pairwise sequence-divergence estimates ranged from 0.5% to 3.9% among the so-called "true" crabs (i.e., excluding dromiids) and from 1.1% to 15.5% among the infraorders that were studied. The smallest infraorder divergence occurred between an anomuran and a dromiid crab, which suggested a dromiid-anomuran rather than a dromiid-brachyuran relationship. Results from sequence-divergence estimates and phylogenies inferred by maximum parsimony analyses of aligned sequences suggest that (1) the Raninidae demarcate the lower limit of the Brachyura and form a distinct lineage that diverged early from the lineage leading to other members of this infraorder, as indicated by a number of autapomorphic characters in the 18S rRNA molecule; (2) the Dromiidae should be removed from the Brachyura; (3) there is little support for either the family Dromiidae or the section Oxystomata as a monophyletic group; (4) there is an average substitution rate of roughly 1%/50 million years, which results in insufficient sequence variation within the 18S molecule to resolve relationships among brachyurans that share a post-Cretaceous divergence; and (5) the 18S ribosome-based brachyuran phylogeny is concordant with findings on spermatozoan ultrastructure and on larval rather than adult morphology.
10.2307/2992587|The phylogenetic significance of fossils is limited in many groups, such as freshwater fishes, by the sparse fossil record that is available. Nevertheless, even these fossils have a role in phylogenetic analysis. Fossils can be a source of new species, characters, and character states. Fossils can also suggest different character polarities. They often clarify the order in which synapomorphies were acquired and demonstrate convergence in the apparent synapomorphies of living species. In extreme cases, they can change estimated phylogenies based only on living species. Species that diverged early in the history of their group usually have more primitive features than younger species, but these early forms tend to be removed from the fauna by extinction. Therefore, important phylogenetic contributions tend to be greater for fossils that are very early members of their groups and are most revealing when several species document the stem-group lineage. However, even single and very derived fossil species can present surprising combinations of character states, suggest new characters, and alter phylogenies. Examples illustrating these points from the North American freshwater record of fishes include the oldest known (Paleocene) osmerid, the oldest (Paleocene and Cretaceous) esocids, Tertiary hiodontids, and the oldest (Eocene) salmonine.
10.2307/2992585|The search for centers of origin has fallen into disrepute because of unfounded assumptions and spurious criteria. Nevertheless, a proper approach to understanding ancestral areas would enhance the study of the natural history of organisms. If there is reason to assume that a group originally had a more restricted distribution than it has today, a method for estimating that ancestral distribution is warranted. I describe a cladistic procedure for approximating ancestral areas of individual groups from the topological information in their area cladograms. Each area is treated as a single character, which may be optimized onto the cladogram using either forward or reverse Camin-Sokal parsimony. By comparing the numbers of necessary gains and losses under the two optimizations, respectively, it is possible to estimate which areas were most likely parts of the ancestral area. By applying the method to a cladogram of the globally distributed angiosperm family Asteraceae, I estimated that the ancestral area involved both South America and the Pacific. Application to recently published cladograms of human mitochondrial DNA provides an objective evaluation of the support for any particular geographic origin of humans.
10.2307/2992588|We estimated measurement error (ME) associated with 15 skeletal characters in seven species of passerine birds. The total sample variance of the characters, from three measurements of each character on each individual, was partitioned into among- and within-individual components of variation. Measurement error, defined as that portion of the total sample variance made up by within-individual variation, ranged from <1% to >80%. Percent ME was inversely related to the size of a character, among-individual variation, and experience of the measurer. Other sources of ME included the character's flexibility and the definition of character landmarks. Although observer experience reduced ME, the effect was only substantial after more specimens were measured than are often used in morphometric studies. The magnitude of statistically detectable differences between groups was examined in relation to the level of ME and the sample sizes of groups. Measurement error increased the chances of finding no group difference, i.e., making type II errors. Type II errors can be reduced either by averaging two or more repeated measurements of the same individual, thereby reducing ME, or by increasing the sample size. We show how averaging repeated measurements changes the minimum detectable effect size between groups when both ME and sample size vary. The pattern of character-specific measurement error is consistent across passerine species; both reliable and unreliable characters for morphometric studies are identified.
10.2307/2992518|A statistical framework to test the consensus of dendrograms (=phenograms of some authors) is extended to the comparison of cladograms (additive trees). Additive trees can be compared through their associated path-length matrices. The procedure calls for a decomposition of additive trees into ultrametric and star components that are independently permuted and summed together to obtain randomized path-length matrices. This triple permutation test evaluates the null hypothesis that the trees under comparison are no more similar than random additive trees with a random topology, random labels, and randomized branch lengths. Along with the global test, the integrated approach rationalizes the simultaneous use of tests involving each component separately. The method is applied to kangaroo phylogenies to measure the congruence among trees derived from different character sets.
10.2307/2992520|Lizards of the genus Coleonyx exhibit diversity in standard metabolic rate (SMR), evaporative water-loss rate (EWLR), and temperature preference (TP). We conducted a phylogenetic analysis of these characters to reconstruct the historical sequence of character evolution and to address the adaptive significance of particular character states. Four equally parsimonious hypotheses of derived-state acquisition are presented. Our preferred hypothesis was selected by considering additional information on the natural history, distribution, and biogeography of several species. Our analysis indicates that the North American ancestor of Coleonyx was a mesophilic forest dweller characterized by a low SMR, a high EWLR, and a low TP In one stage of character transformation, both low EWLR and high TP evolved independently in two xerophilic clades: C. switaki and variegatus-brevis-fasciatus. Coleonyx reticulatus, a xeric-habitat species that occupies a somewhat mesic microhabitat, retained the ancestral states of high EWLR and low TP. A second stage of character transformation was the evolution of high SMR in the ancestral lineage of the variegatus-brevis-fasciatus clade. We tested the hypothesis that low SMR represents an adaptation in Coleonyx for inhabiting an energy-poor microhabitat. Our analysis reveals that low SMR is the ancestral state for this genus. Furthermore, within the genus low SMR is not historically correlated with energy-poor microhabitats. Although two species with low SMR, C. switaki and C. reticulatus, inhabit microhabitats in which a reduced SMR might be functional, there is no causal relationship between low SMR and energy-poor microhabitat. Thus, this adaptive hypothesis is rejected for the genus Coleonyx. We present a testable hypothesis for the evolution of high SMR in the variegatus-brevis-fasciatus clade. A historical biogeographic scenario based on phylogenetic relationships within the genus, the geological and climatological history of North and Central America, and physiological-ecological character evolution is presented. This study illustrates the importance of the phylogenetic approach to the study of physiological-ecological character evolution, a methodology that can distinguish between contemporary versus historical causal factors and produce testable adaptive hypotheses.
10.2307/2992521|Divergence in a set of area traits describing morphological form of the mandible in rats and mice was examined by finite element scaling analysis (FESA) and conventional statistical analyses. The area traits correspond to the skeletal derivatives of mesenchymal condensations involved in the production of the rodent mandible. Three major questions are addressed. (1) Can differences in the form of the adult rodent mandible be explained by changes in specific morphogenetic components? To answer this question, four specific hypotheses that might account for differences between mice and rats in morphological form of the mandible were evaluated: isometric size-scaling, mesenchymal condensation differentiation, muscle hypertrophy, and differential tooth growth. The results support all hypotheses except differential tooth growth, suggesting a complex and multidimensional differentiation in mandibular form between these taxa. The FESA and statistical analyses give qualitatively the same results for all of the hypotheses tested. (2) Has morphological change in mandible form been accompanied by significant changes in the genetic correlation structure? Genetic correlation patterns among traits are different between these species, and these differences persist after the genetic correlation between mandible dimensions and body weight is accounted for. This result differs from those of previous reports on pelvic dimensions in these animals, where no significant change in genetic correlation structures was found, suggesting mosaic evolution of the skeletal system in these taxa. (3) Does using different extrinsic and intrinsic covariates to scale animals to the same size produce equivalent effects on the covariance structure of the traits? Results show that different extrinsic and intrinsic covariates in analysis of covariance often produce very different results.
10.2307/2992522|Two conflicting hypotheses concern the origin of flying mammals. The traditional hypothesis states that the two major groups of bats, the microchiropterans and the megachiropterans, are sister groups that constitute the taxon Chiroptera. In contrast, the diphyly hypothesis suggests that megachiropterans are more closely related to primates than to microchiropterans. Different suites of morphological characters provide support for each of these hypotheses, and previous molecular studies have not provided a clear resolution of the problem. We analyzed a region of the mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA gene from 11 species of mammals, including 2 species of megachiropterans, 2 species of microchiropterans, a primate, a colugo (Dermoptera), a tree shrew (Scandentia), and 4 outgroups, to test the diphyly hypothesis. A phylogenetic analysis of 257 base pairs resulted in two shortest unrooted trees that significantly support the monophyly of the bats and also suggest that the colugo is more closely related to primates than to the bats: (((Primates, Dermoptera) Scandentia) (Microchiroptera, Megachiroptera)). The topology supporting the diphyly hypothesis is 10 steps longer than the most-parsimonious unrooted tree. Although the traditional hypothesis is supported with respect to bat monophyly, the rDNA data support the nontraditional grouping of colugo and primates (a hypothesis also supported by neurological data).
10.2307/2992519|The method of Estabrook, McMorris, and Meacham (1985, Syst. Zool. 34:193-200) to measure the similarity of two phylogenetic trees for the same collection of evolutionary units (EUs) has been generalized to include an evaluation of the similarity of the placement of individual EUs. These measures do not vary when the direction of evolutionary change along the individual branches is changed in either of the two trees being compared. Thus, these measures depend only on the convexity of various groups of EUs on the two trees. These measures are also applicable to phylogenetic trees that are only partially resolved. These concepts are illustrated with previously published pairs of estimates of the phylogenetic tree for genera of rodents and for genera of ducks.
10.2307/2992523|Two complaints against the linear functional regression model have been that the estimated regression lines are not symmetrical in x and y and that they depend on the scale of the observed data in unpredictable ways. If one takes into account the ratio of measurement errors , then the estimates from linear functional regression are symmetrical (i.e., the regression of y on x and x on y are the same line). Using nonlinear least squares estimation, functional regression is easily applied to fit both nonlinear and linear models. Again taking into account , linear and nonlinear models can be naturally rescaled (as with ordinary regression estimates) according to the units of the observed variables. The log-transformed functional regression model and the relationships between principal axis methods and the linear functional regression model are considered. Controversies surrounding the "standard major axis" are discussed; simulation results are presented, and the validity of the method is questioned. Treatment of the linear, allometry, polynomial, and von Bertalanffy models is discussed, and a numerical example is presented.
10.2307/2992517|Empirical comparison of species concepts can be made by taking advantage of a common operational exigency: the use of phenotypically irreducible clusters of individuals as first order estimates of species. A phylogenetic analysis of diatoms was undertaken using such clusters as terminal taxa. Cladistic analysis and biogeographic distributions suggest that different populations of the widespread, plesiomorphic Stephanodiscus magarae (at least 2 million years old) are ancestral to three autapomorphic taxa that emerged during the Holocene in North America. This phylogenetic hypothesis is supported in one case by a time-transgressive morphological continuity between fossils of the plesiomorphic species (S. magarae) and of one of the derived endemics (S. yellowstonensis) found only within the Yellowstone Lake basin. Given the phylogenetic hypothesis, the clusters diagnosed by autapomorphy each evolved as a unit, but the cluster identified solely by a unique combination of plesiomorphic characters did not (S. magarae). Each of the autapomorphic species is found in close proximity to lakes containing S. magarae, whereas lakes containing S. magarae populations are widely dispersed. Thus, it would be difficult to simultaneously explain evolution of autapomorphic endemics by breeding isolation and maintenance of the plesiomorphic similarity of S. magarae populations by interbreeding. Autapomorphic taxa were found on the ecological periphery of the species complex but S. magarae occurs both in the ecological center and periphery of the entire complex; therefore, the plesiomorphic cluster is not an ecological unit. The results caution against the acceptance of smallest phenetically recognizable clusters of organisms as either units or products of evolution. Cladistic analysis and the autapomorphic species concept should be a routine part of studies of speciation. Stratigraphy and parsimony analysis agreed on the ancestral morphology of S. yellowstonensis.
10.2307/2992567|Sequences (644-681 bp) from the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene were obtained for 24 individuals representing the geographic range and morphological diversity of the polytypic salamander ring species Ensatina eschscholtzii. These data were used to estimate the phylogeny of components of the ring to test the biogeographic scenario underlying current interpretations of speciation in this complex. The analysis revealed high levels of nucleotide variation among subspecies. Strong subdivision was evident within the subspecies platensis and oregonensis. The phylogenetic hypothesis of minimum length that is best supported by the data contains one monophyletic group that includes populations from the southern Sierra Nevada and mountains of southern California (croceater, klauberi, and southern platensis) and another that includes populations of the southern and central coastal regions (xanthoptica and eschscholtzii). Samples of oregonensis were typically basal, but their precise branching order was unstable. Both oregonensis and platensis were paraphyletic, with several disparate lineages in oregonensis and a strong northsouth dichotomy in platensis. The data were incompatible with a biogeographic model that required all subspecies to be monophyletic but were compatible with slightly modified predictions of a model assuming stepwise colonizations from north to south down the Sierra Nevada and independently down the coastal ranges. These features provide strong support for the biogeographic scenario central to the interpretation of Ensatina eschscholtzii as a ring species. Division of this complex into separate species on the basis of the observed patterns of monophyly for mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is unwarranted because further sampling could reveal additional instances of paraphyly across subspecies and, more generally, because mtDNA alone should not be used to infer species boundaries.
10.2307/2992569|Annelids and arthropods have long been considered to be each other's closest relatives, as evidenced by similarities in their segmented body plans. In the first cladistic analysis of metazoan morphology accompanied by an explicit data matrix, Schram (Meglitsch and Schram, 1991, Invertebrate zoology, 3rd edition, Oxford Univ Press, New York) suggested tentative support for this conventional "Articulata" hypothesis. Our reanalysis of the Schram data matrix yielded weak support for an alternative "Eutrochozoa" grouping of annelids, molluscs, and certain other spiralian phyla, exclusive of arthropods. Likewise, recent 18S ribosomal RNA sequence comparisons have favored the Eutrochozoa hypothesis. This study presents a new analysis of 141 independently assembled characters, purported to represent the current state of knowledge of metazoan morphology and embryology. This maximum parsimony analysis resulted in robust support of Eutrochozoa. For this data compilation and method of analysis, the Articulata hypothesis could only be supported by adding multiple ad hoc proposals of evolutionary events. Instead, the more parsimonious Eutrochozoa hypothesis is favored as the best-supported current reconstruction of higher level animal genealogy.
10.2307/2992568|Patterns of morphological covariation were quantified with factor analysis for 32 populations representing the seven closely related species of Partula snails from the island of Moorea, French Polynesia. Variation in the patterns of covariation shows little connection with the taxonomic hierarchy in this group and does not reflect the reproductive relationships of these species. Nevertheless, there are associations of patterns of covariation with morphologically and geographically recognized subspecies in the two most diverse species, P taeniata and P suturalis. Among species, there is an association between the similarity of morphological covariation and genetic similarity, as measured by allozymes. Morphological covariation in Partula on Moorea provides no special information for distinguishing taxa and appears to have evolved gradually, without sudden or discontinuous change, and independently of speciation.
10.2307/2992570|Genetic variation in 114 woodrats (Neotoma) from 33 locations in the eastern and central United States was examined using analysis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction sites. Results indicate that three major lineages of Neotoma floridana (southern, western, and northern) diverged in the early Pleistocene. The southern lineage exhibits substantial mtDNA variability and population structure. The pattern of mtDNA variation in the southern lineage suggests that vicariance events, including the insularization of Florida, have been important determinants of geographic variation. The low levels of sequence variation within the northern and western lineages indicate that woodrat populations in these areas are probably the result of relatively recent (Holocene) range expansions. These conclusions are not entirely consistent with the current taxonomy of eastern woodrats and suggest that taxonomic revision is warranted.
10.2307/2992571|Fossil species are often described on the basis of differences in linear dimensions among specimens. In addition, vertebrate paleontologists frequently refer individual skeletal elements to species described from different elements, based on some estimate of the relative proportions of these elements. Frequently, the variance of a particular dimension or the relative proportions among dimensions in fossil species are based on ranges and correlation structures in Recent taxa closely related to the fossil taxa. To describe a species according to size (i.e., linear distance between two landmarks), or to refer specimens to a species based on relative proportions of two or more dimensions, not only assumes that there is a historical component to morphometric data but also that population parameters in Recent species are applicable to the fossil species. In this paper, the assumption that linear dimensions of organisms reflect the evolutionary history of the species of which these organisms are a part is examined. Only those linear dimensions that reflect this history (as opposed to apomorphic dimensions reflecting drift or an adaptation) can be used in a phylogenetically based taxonomy of fossils. Methods for estimating linear dimensions and their variances in hypothesized common ancestors of Recent taxa and fossil species are described, and the variance of a dimension in a fossil species is estimated using parsimony procedures. However, calculating a size range for a fossil species is problematic because there is no theoretical basis by which the mean or any other measure of central tendency for that species can be estimated. Two methods for estimating the range for a particular dimension in a fossil species using reconstructed ancestral variances and the actual measurements of individual fossil specimens are proposed. Estimates of a linear dimension in a fossil species are made using existing phylogenetic hypotheses and the results from analyses of covariance and linear regression models. These methods and the assumptions used in the taxonomy of fossils are discussed using the morphometry and phylogenetic history of Recent and fossil Sulidae (Aves: Pelecaniformes).
43699941|When performing an analysis on a collection of molecular sequences, it can be convenient to reduce the number of sequences under consideration while maintaining some characteristic of a larger collection of sequences. For example, one may wish to select a subset of high-quality sequences that represent the diversity of a larger collection of sequences. One may also wish to specialize a large database of characterized "reference sequences" to a smaller subset that is as close as possible on average to a collection of "query sequences" of interest. Such a representative subset can be useful whenever one wishes to find a set of reference sequences that is appropriate to use for comparative analysis of environmentally derived sequences, such as for selecting "reference tree" sequences for phylogenetic placement of metagenomic reads. In this article, we formalize these problems in terms of the minimization of the Average Distance to the Closest Leaf (ADCL) and investigate algorithms to perform the relevant minimization. We show that the greedy algorithm is not effective, show that a variant of the Partitioning Around Medoids (PAM) heuristic gets stuck in local minima, and develop an exact dynamic programming approach. Using this exact program we note that the performance of PAM appears to be good for simulated trees, and is faster than the exact algorithm for small trees. On the other hand, the exact program gives solutions for all numbers of leaves less than or equal to the given desired number of leaves, whereas PAM only gives a solution for the prespecified number of leaves. Via application to real data, we show that the ADCL criterion chooses chimeric sequences less often than random subsets, whereas the maximization of phylogenetic diversity chooses them more often than random. These algorithms have been implemented in publicly available software.
43699939|Historical biogeography is increasingly studied from an explicitly statistical perspective, using stochastic models to describe the evolution of species range as a continuous-time Markov process of dispersal between and extinction within a set of discrete geographic areas. The main constraint of these methods is the computational limit on the number of areas that can be specified. We propose a Bayesian approach for inferring biogeographic history that extends the application of biogeographic models to the analysis of more realistic problems that involve a large number of areas. Our solution is based on a "data-augmentation" approach, in which we first populate the tree with a history of biogeographic events that is consistent with the observed species ranges at the tips of the tree. We then calculate the likelihood of a given history by adopting a mechanistic interpretation of the instantaneous-rate matrix, which specifies both the exponential waiting times between biogeographic events and the relative probabilities of each biogeographic change. We develop this approach in a Bayesian framework, marginalizing over all possible biogeographic histories using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). Besides dramatically increasing the number of areas that can be accommodated in a biogeographic analysis, our method allows the parameters of a given biogeographic model to be estimated and different biogeographic models to be objectively compared. Our approach is implemented in the program, BayArea.
43699944|Cat-like carnivorous mammals represent a relatively homogeneous group of species whose morphology appears constrained by exclusive adaptations for meat eating. We present the most comprehensive data set of extant and extinct cat-like species to test for evolutionary transformations in size, shape and mechanical performance, that is, von Mises stress and surface traction, of the mandible. Size and shape were both quantified by means of geometric morphometrics, whereas mechanical performance was assessed applying finite element models to 2D geometry of the mandible. Additionally, we present the first almost complete composite phylogeny of cat-like carnivorans for which well-preserved mandibles are known, including representatives of 35 extant and 59 extinct species of Felidae, Nimravidae, and Barbourofelidae. This phylogeny was used to test morphological differentiation, allometry, and covariation of mandible parts within and among clades. After taking phylogeny into account, we found that both allometry and mechanical variables exhibit a significant impact on mandible shape. We also tested whether mechanical performance was linked to morphological integration. Mechanical stress at the coronoid process is higher in sabertoothed cats than in any other clade. This is strongly related to the high degree of covariation within modules of sabertooths mandibles. We found significant correlation between integration at the clade level and per-clade averaged stress values, on both original data and by partialling out interclade allometry from shapes when calculating integration. This suggests a strong interaction between natural selection and the evolution of developmental and functional modules at the clade level.
43699942|Why some clades are more species-rich than others is a central question in macroevolution. Most hypotheses explaining exceptionally diverse clades involve the emergence of an ecological opportunity caused by a major biogeographic transition or evolution of a key innovation. The radiation of muroid rodents is an ideal model for testing theories of diversification rates in relation to biogeography and ecological opportunity because the group is exceptionally speciesrich (comprising nearly one-third of all mammal species), it is ecologically diverse, and it has colonized every major landmass except New Zealand and Antarctica, thus providing multiple replicate radiations. We present an extension of the conventional ecological opportunity model to include a geographic incumbency effect, develop the largest muroid phylogeny to date, and use this phylogeny to test the new model. The nearly 300-species phylogeny based on four nuclear genes is robustly resolved throughout. Consistent with the fossil record, we identified Eurasia as the most likely origin of the group and reconstructed five to seven colonizations of Africa, five of North America, four of Southeast Asia, two of South America, two of Sahul, one of Madagascar, and eight to ten recolonizations of Eurasia. We accounted for incomplete taxon sampling by using multiple statistical methods and identified three corroborated regions of the tree with significant shifts in diversification rates. In several cases, higher rates were associated with the first colonization of a continental area, but most colonizations were not followed by bursts of speciation. We found strong evidence for diversification consistent with the ecological opportunity model (initial burst followed by density-dependent slowdown) in the first colonization of South America and partial support for this model in the first colonization of Sahul. Primary colonizers appear to inhibit the ultimate diversity of secondary colonizers, a pattern of incumbency that is consistent with ecological opportunity, but they did not inhibit initial diversification rates of secondary colonizers. These results indicate that ecological opportunity may be a general but weak process in muroids and one that requires specific circumstances to lead to an adaptive radiation. The total land area, length of time between colonizations, and rank of colonizations did not influence the diversification rates of primary colonizers. Models currently employed to test ecological opportunity do a poor job of explaining muroid diversity. In addition, the various rate-shift metrics identified different clades, suggesting that caution should be used when only one is applied, and we discuss which methods are most appropriate to address different questions of diversification.
43699945|Gene trees record the combination of gene-level events, such as duplication, transfer and loss (DTL), and specieslevel events, such as speciation and extinction. Gene tree-species tree reconciliation methods model these processes by drawing gene trees into the species tree using a series of gene and species-level events. The reconstruction of gene trees based on sequence alone almost always involves choosing between statistically equivalent or weakly distinguishable relationships that could be much better resolved based on a putative species tree. To exploit this potential for accurate reconstruction of gene trees, the space of reconciled gene trees must be explored according to a joint model of sequence evolution and gene tree-species tree reconciliation. Here we present amalgamated likelihood estimation (ALE), a probabilistic approach to exhaustively explore all reconciled gene trees that can be amalgamated as a combination of clades observed in a sample of gene trees. We implement the ALE approach in the context of a reconciliation model (Szllsi et al. 2013), which allows for the DTL of genes. We use ALE to efficiently approximate the sum of the joint likelihood over amalgamations and to find the reconciled gene tree that maximizes the joint likelihood among all such trees. We demonstrate using simulations that gene trees reconstructed using the joint likelihood are substantially more accurate than those reconstructed using sequence alone. Using realistic gene tree topologies, branch lengths, and alignment sizes, we demonstrate that ALE produces more accurate gene trees even if the model of sequence evolution is greatly simplified. Finally, examining 1099 gene families from 36 cyanobacterial genomes we find that joint likelihood-based inference results in a striking reduction in apparent phylogenetic discord, with respectively. 24%, 59%, and 46% reductions in the mean numbers of duplications, transfers, and losses per gene family. The open source implementation of ALE is available from https://github.com/ssolo/ALE.git.
43699943|Understanding the evolution of diversity and the resulting systematics in marine systems is confounded by the lack of clear boundaries in oceanic habitats, especially for highly mobile species like marine mammals. Dolphin populations and sibling species often show differentiation between coastal and offshore habitats, similar to the pelagic/littoral or benthic differentiation seen for some species of fish. Here we test the hypothesis that lineages within the polytypic genus Tursiops track past changes in the environment reflecting ecological drivers of evolution facilitated by habitat release. We used a known recent time point for calibration (the opening of the Bosphorus) and whole mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) sequences for high phylogenetic resolution. The pattern of lineage formation suggested an origin in Australasia and several early divisions involving forms currently inhabiting coastal habitats. Radiation in pelagic environments was relatively recent, and was likely followed by a return to coastal habitat in some regions. The timing of some nodes defining different ecotypes within the genus clustered near the two most recent interglacial transitions. A signal for an increase in diversification was also seen for dates after the last glacial maximum. Together these data suggest the tracking of habitat preference during geographic expansions, followed by transition points reflecting habitat shifts, which were likely associated with periods of environmental change.
43699940|Species are a fundamental unit for biological studies, yet no uniform guidelines exist for determining species limits in an objective manner. Given the large number of species concepts available, defining species can be both highly subjective and biased. Although morphology has been commonly used to determine species boundaries, the availability and prevalence of genetic data has allowed researchers to use such data to make inferences regarding species limits. Genetic data also have been used in the detection of cryptic species, where other lines of evidence (morphology in particular) may underestimate species diversity. In this study, we investigate species limits in a complex of morphologically conserved trapdoor spiders (Mygalomorphae, Antrodiaetidae, Aliatypus) from California. Multiple approaches were used to determine species boundaries in this highly genetically fragmented group, including both multilocus discovery and validation approaches (plus a chimeric approach). Additionally, we introduce a novel tree-based discovery approach using species trees. Results suggest that this complex includes multiple cryptic species, with two groupings consistently recovered across analyses. Due to incongruence across analyses for the remaining samples, we take a conservative approach and recognize a three species complex, and formally describe two new species (Aliatypus roxxiae, sp. nov. and Aliatypus starretti, sp. nov.). This study helps to clarify species limits in a genetically fragmented group and provides a framework for identifying and defining the cryptic lineage diversity that prevails in many organismal groups.
23485174|Phylogenomic analyses of ancient relationships are usually performed using amino acid data, but it is unclear whether amino acids or nucleotides should be preferred. With the 2-fold aim of addressing this problem and clarifying pancrustacean relationships, we explored the signals in the 62 protein-coding genes carefully assembled by Regier et al. in 2010. With reference to the pancrustaceans, this data set infers a highly supported nucleotide tree that is substantially different to the corresponding, but poorly supported, amino acid one. We show that the discrepancy between the nucleotide-based and the amino acids-based trees is caused by substitutions within synonymous codon families (especially those of serineTCN and AGY). We show that different arthropod lineages are differentially biased in their usage of serine, arginine, and leucine synonymous codons, and that the serine bias is correlated with the topology derived from the nucleotides, but not the amino acids. We suggest that a parallel, partially compositionally driven, synonymous codon-usage bias affects the nucleotide topology. As substitutions between serine codon families can proceed through threonine or cysteine intermediates, amino acid data sets might also be affected by the serine codon-usage bias. We suggest that a Dayhoff recoding strategy would partially ameliorate the effects of such bias. Although amino acids provide an alternative hypothesis of pancrustacean relationships, neither the nucleotides nor the amino acids version of this data set seems to bring enough genuine phylogenetic information to robustly resolve the relationships within group, which should still be considered unresolved.
23485175|A general morphometric method for describing shape variation in a sample consisting of landmarks and multiple outline shapes is developed in this article. A distance metric is developed for such data and is used to embed the data in a low-dimensional Euclidean space. The Euclidean space is used to generate summary statistics such as mean and principal shape variation which are implicitly represented in the original space using elements of the sample. A new distance metric for outline shapes is proposed based on Procrustes distance that does not require the extraction of discrete points along the curve. The outline distance metric can be naturally combined with distances between landmarks. A method for aligning outlines and multiple outlines is developed that minimizes the distance metric. The method is compared with semilandmarks on synthetic data and 2 real data sets. Outline methods produce useful and valid results when suitably constrained by landmarks and are useful visualization aids, but questions remain about their suitability for answering biological questions until appropriate distance metrics can be biologically validated.
23485168|Large-scale multilocus studies have become common in molecular phylogenetics, but the best way to interpret these studies when their results strongly conflict with prior information about phylogeny remains unclear. An example of such a conflict is provided by the ratites (the large flightless birds of southern land masses, including ostriches, emus, and rheas). Ratite monophyly is strongly supported by both morphological data and many earlier molecular studies and is used as a textbook example of vicariance biogeography. However, recent studies have indicated that ratites are not monophyletic; instead, the volant tinamous nest inside the ratites rather than forming their sister group within the avian superorder Palaeognathae. Large-scale studies can exhibit biases that reflect a number of factors, including limitations in the fit of the evolutionary models used for analyses and problems with sequence alignment, so the unexpected conclusion that ratites are not monophyletic needs to be rigorously evaluated. A rigorous approach to testing novel hypotheses generated by large-scale studies is to collect independent evidence (i.e., excluding the loci and/or traits used to generate the hypotheses). We used 40 nuclear loci not used in previous studies that investigated the relationship among ratites and tinamous. Our results strongly support the recent molecular studies, revealing that the deepest branch within Palaeognathae separates the ostrich from other members of the clade, rather than the traditional hypothesis that separates the tinamous from the ratites. To ensure these results reflected evolutionary history, we examined potential biases in types of loci used, heterotachy, alignment biases, and discordance between gene trees and the species tree. All analyses consistently supported nonmonophyly of the ratites and no confounding biases were identified. This confirmation that ratites are not monophyletic using independent evidence will hopefully stimulate further comparative research on paleognath development and genetics that might reveal the basis of the morphological convergence in these large, flightless birds.
23485178|The presence of rogue taxa (rogues) in a set of trees can frequently have a negative impact on the results of a bootstrap analysis (e.g., the overall support in consensus trees). We introduce an efficient graph-based algorithm for rogue taxon identification as well as an interactive webservice implementing this algorithm. Compared with our previous method, the new algorithm is up to 4 orders of magnitude faster, while returning qualitatively identical results. Because of this significant improvement in scalability, the new algorithm can now identify substantially more complex and compute-intensive rogue taxon constellations. On a large and diverse collection of real-world data sets, we show that our method yields better supported reduced/pruned consensus trees than any competing rogue taxon identification method. Using the parallel version of our open-source code, we successfully identified rogue taxa in a set of 100 trees with 116 334 taxa each. For simulated data sets, we show that when removing/pruning rogue taxa with our method from a tree set, we consistently obtain bootstrap consensus trees as well as maximum-likelihood trees that are topologically closer to the respective true trees.
23485177|Single-access keys are a major tool for biologists who need to identify specimens. The construction process of these keys is particularly complex (especially if the input data set is large) so having an automatic single-access key generation tool is essential. As part of the European project ViBRANT, our aim was to develop such a tool as a web service, thus allowing end-users to integrate it directly into their workflow. IKey+ generates single-access keys on demand, for single users or research institutions. It receives user input data (using the standard SDD format), accepts several key-generation parameters (affecting the key topology and representation), and supports several output formats. IKey+ is freely available (sources and binary packages) at www.identificationkey.fr. Furthermore, it is deployed on our server and can be queried (for testing purposes) through a simple web client also available at www.identificationkey.fr (last accessed 13 August 2012). Finally, a client plugin will be integrated to the Scratchpads biodiversity networking tool (scratchpads.eu).
23485167|The accuracy and precision of species divergence date estimation from molecular data strongly depend on the models describing the variation of substitution rates along a phylogeny. These models generally assume that rates randomly fluctuate along branches from one node to the next. However, for mathematical convenience, the stochasticity of such a process is ignored when translating these rate trajectories into branch lengths. This study addresses this shortcoming. A new approach is described that explicitly considers the average substitution rates along branches as random quantities, resulting in a more realistic description of the variations of evolutionary rates along lineages. The proposed method provides more precise estimates of the rate autocorrelation parameter as well as divergence times. Also, simulation results indicate that ignoring the stochastic variation of rates along edges can lead to significant overestimation of specific node ages. Altogether, the new approach introduced in this study is a step forward to designing biologically relevant models of rate evolution that are well suited to data sets with dense taxon sampling which are likely to present rate autocorrelation. The computer programme PhyTime, part of the PhyML package and implementing the new approach, is available from http://code.google.com/p/phyml (last accessed 1 August 2012).
23485169|Correct rooting of the angiosperm radiation is both challenging and necessary for understanding the origins and evolution of physiological and phenotypic traits in flowering plants. The problem is known to be difficult due to the large genetic distance separating flowering plants from other seed plants and the sparse taxon sampling among basal angiosperms. Here, we provide further evidence for concern over substitution model misspecification in analyses of chloroplast DNA sequences. We show that support for Amborella as the sole representative of the most basal angiosperm lineage is founded on sequence site patterns poorly described by time-reversible substitution models. Improving the fit between sequence data and substitution model identifies Trithuria, Nymphaeaceae, and Amborella as surviving relatives of the most basal lineage of flowering plants. This finding indicates that aquatic and herbaceous species dominate the earliest extant lineage of flowering plants.
23485170|We investigate distances on binary (presence/absence) data in the context of a Dollo process, where a trait can only arise once on a phylogenetic tree but may be lost many times. We introduce a novel distance, the Additive Dollo Distance (ADD), that applies to data generated under a Dollo model and show that it has some useful theoretical properties including an intriguing link to the LogDet/paralinear distance. Simulations of Dollo data are used to compare a number of binary distances including ADD, LogDet, a restriction-site-based distance, and some simple, but to our knowledge previously unstudied, variations on common binary distances. The simulations suggest that ADD outperforms other distances on Dollo data. Interestingly, we found that the LogDet distance performs poorly in the context of a Dollo process; this may have implications for its use in connection with conditioned genome reconstruction. We apply the ADD to two Diversity Arrays Technology data sets, one that broadly covers Eucalyptus species and one that focuses on the Eucalyptus series Adnataria. We also reanalyze gene family presence/absence data from bacterial genomes obtained from the COG database and compare the results with previous phylogenies estimated using the conditioned genome reconstruction approach. The results for these case studies are largely congruent with previous studies, in some cases giving more phylogenetic resolution.
23485172|The timing of the origin of arthropods in relation to the Cambrian explosion is still controversial, as are the timing of other anthropod macroevolutionary events such as the colonization of land and the evolution of flight. Here we assess the power of a phylogenomic approach to shed light on these major events in the evolutionary history of life on earth. Analyzing a large phylogenomic dataset (122 taxa, 62 genes) with a Bayesian-relaxed molecular clock, we simultaneously reconstructed the phylogenetic relationships and the absolute times of divergences among the arthropods. Simulations were used to test whether our analysis could distinguish between alternative Cambrian explosion scenarios with increasing levels of autocorrelated rate variation. Our analyses support previous phylogenomic hypotheses and simulations indicate a Precambrian origin of the arthropods. Our results provide insights into the 3 independent colonizations of land by arthropods and suggest that evolution of insect wings happened much earlier than the fossil record indicates, with flight evolving during a period of increasing oxygen levels and impressively large forests. These and other findings provide a foundation for macroevolutionary and comparative genomic study of Arthropoda.
23485176|The phylogenetic diversity (PD) of a set of species is a measure of the evolutionary distance among the species in the collection, based on a phylogenetic tree. Such a tree is composed of a root, internal nodes, and leaves that correspond to the set of taxa under study. With each edge of the tree is associated a non-negative branch length (evolutionary distance). If a particular survival probability is associated with each taxon, the PD measure becomes the expected PD measure. In the Noah's Ark Problem (NAP) introduced by Weitzman (1998), these survival probabilities can be increased at some cost. The problem is to determine how best to allocate a limited amount of resources to maximize the expected PD of the considered species. It is easy to formulate the NAP as a (difficult) nonlinear 0-1 programming problem. The aim of this article is to show that a general version of the NAP (GNAP) can be solved simply and efficiently with any set of edge weights and any set of survival probabilities by using standard mixed-integer linear programming software. The crucial point to move from a nonlinear program in binary variables to a mixed-integer linear program, is to approximate the logarithmic function by the lower envelope of a set of tangents to the curve. Solving the obtained mixed-integer linear program provides not only a near-optimal solution but also an upper bound on the value of the optimal solution. We also applied this approach to a generalization of the nature reserve problem (GNRP) that consists of selecting a set of regions to be conserved so that the expected PD of the set of species present in these regions is maximized. In this case, the survival probabilities of different taxa are not independent of each other. Computational results are presented to illustrate potentialities of the approach. Near-optimal solutions with hypothetical phylogenetic trees comprising about 4000 taxa are obtained in a few seconds or minutes of computing time for the GNAP, and in about 30 min for the GNRP. In all the cases the average guarantee varies from 0% to 1.20%.
23485171|In their 2008 and 2009 articles, Sumner and colleagues introduced the "squangles"a small set of Markov invariants for phylogenetic quartets. The squangles are consistent with the general Markov (GM) model and can be used to infer quartets without the need to explicitly estimate all parameters. As the GM model is inhomogeneous and hence nonstationary, the squangles are expected to perform well compared with standard approaches when there are changes in base composition among species. However, the GM model assumes constant rates across sites, so the squangles should be confounded by data generated with invariant sites or other forms of rate-variation across sites. Here we implement the squangles in a least-squares setting that returns quartets weighted by either confidence or internal edge lengths, and we show how these weighted quartets can be used as input into a variety of supertree and supernetwork methods. For the first time, we quantitatively investigate the robustness of the squangles to breaking of the constant rates-across-sites assumption on both simulated and real data sets; and we suggest a modification that improves the performance of the squangles in the presence of invariant sites. Our conclusion is that the squangles provide a novel tool for phylogenetic estimation that is complementary to methods that explicitly account for rate-variation across sites, but rely on homogeneousand hence stationarymodels.
23485166|This study uses the amphibian species of the Mediterranean basin to develop a consistent procedure based on fuzzy sets with which biogeographic regions and biotic transition zones can be objectively detected and reliably mapped. Biogeographical regionalizations are abstractions of the geographical organization of life on Earth that provide frameworks for cataloguing species and ecosystems, for answering basic questions in biogeography, evolutionary biology, and systematics, and for assessing priorities for conservation. On the other hand, limits between regions may form sharply defined boundaries along some parts of their borders, whereas elsewhere they may consist of broad transition zones. The fuzzy set approach provides a heuristic way to analyse the complexity of the biota within an area; significantly different regions are detected whose mutual limits are sometimes fuzzy, sometimes clearly crisp. Most of the regionalizations described in the literature for the Mediterranean biogeographical area present a certain degree of convergence when they are compared within the context of fuzzy interpretation, as many of the differences found between regionalizations are located in transition zones, according to our case study. Compared with other classification procedures based on fuzzy sets, the novelty of our method is that both fuzzy logic and statistics are used together in a synergy in order to avoid arbitrary decisions in the definition of biogeographic regions and transition zones.
23485173|Accurate gene tree reconstruction is a fundamental problem in phylogenetics, with many important applications. However, sequence data alone often lack enough information to confidently support one gene tree topology over many competing alternatives. Here, we present a novel framework for combining sequence data and species tree information, and we describe an implementation of this framework in TreeFix, a new phylogenetic program for improving gene tree reconstructions. Given a gene tree (preferably computed using a maximum-likelihood phylogenetic program), TreeFix finds a "statistically equivalent" gene tree that minimizes a species tree-based cost function. We have applied TreeFix to 2 clades of 12 Drosophila and 16 fungal genomes, as well as to simulated phylogenies and show that it dramatically improves reconstructions compared with current state-of-the-art programs. Given its accuracy, speed, and simplicity, TreeFix should be applicable to a wide range of analyses and have many important implications for future investigations of gene evolution. The source code and a sample data set are available at http://compbio.mit.edu/treefix.
23485156|Quantifying integration and modularity of evolutionary changes in morphometric traits is crucial for understanding how organismal shapes evolve. For this purpose, comparative studies are necessary, which need to take into account the phylogenetic structure of interspecific data. This study applies several of the standard tools of geometric morphometrics, which mostly have been used in intraspecific studies, in the new context of analyzing integration and modularity based on comparative data. Morphometric methods such as principal component analysis, multivariate regression, partial least squares, and modularity tests can be applied to phylogenetically independent contrasts of shape data. We illustrate this approach in an analysis of cranial evolution in 160 species from all orders of birds. Mapping the shape information onto the phylogeny indicates that there is a significant phylogenetic signal in skull shape. Multivariate regression of independent contrasts of shape on independent contrasts of size reveals clear evolutionary allometry. Regardless of whether or not a correction for allometry is used, evolutionary integration between the face and braincase is strong, and tests reject the hypothesis that the face and braincase are separate evolutionary modules. These analyses can easily be applied to other taxa and can be combined with other morphometric tools to address a wide range of questions about evolutionary patterns and processes.
23485153|Guenons (tribe Cercopithecini) are one of the most diverse groups of primates. They occupy all of sub-Saharan Africa and show great variation in ecology, behavior, and morphology. This variation led to the description of over 60 species and subspecies. Here, using next-generation DNA sequencing (NGS) in combination with targeted DNA capture, we sequenced 92 mitochondrial genomes from museum-preserved specimens as old as 117 years. We infer evolutionary relationships and estimate divergence times of almost all guenon taxa based on mitochondrial genome sequences. Using this phylogenetic framework, we infer divergence dates and reconstruct ancestral geographic ranges. We conclude that the extraordinary radiation of guenons has been a complex process driven by, among other factors, localized fluctuations of African forest cover. We find incongruences between phylogenetic trees reconstructed from mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences, which can be explained by either incomplete lineage sorting or hybridization. Furthermore, having produced the largest mitochondrial DNA data set from museum specimens, we document how NGS technologies can "unlock" museum collections, thereby helping to unravel the tree-of-life.
23485155|The coalescent and multispecies coalescent model rooted genealogies backward through time. Often, the direction of time is unknown in trees estimated from molecular sequences due to reversible mutation models, absence of an appropriate outgroup, and the absence of the molecular clock. In this article, probabilities of unrooted gene-tree topologies under the multispecies coalescent are considered. The main result is that for any species-tree topology with seven or more taxa, there exist branch lengths such that there are unrooted gene-tree topologies that are more likely than the one that has the same unrooted topology as the species tree. Species trees with such anomalous unrooted gene trees (AUGTs) are characterized for trees with five and six taxa, and patterns of branch lengths leading to AUGTs and rooted anomalous gene trees are explored. The results could be useful for understanding gene tree discordance and designing simulations studies for inferring challenging species trees.
23485152|Most models of nucleotide or amino acid substitution used in phylogenetic studies assume that the evolutionary process has been homogeneous across lineages and that composition of nucleotides or amino acids has remained the same throughout the tree. These oversimplified assumptions are refuted by the observation that compositional variability characterizes extant biological sequences. Branch-heterogeneous models of protein evolution that account for compositional variability have been developed, but are not yet in common use because of the large number of parameters required, leading to high computational costs and potential overparameterization. Here, we present a new branch-nonhomogeneous and nonstationary model of protein evolution that captures more accurately the high complexity of sequence evolution. This model, henceforth called Correspondence and likelihood analysis (COaLA), makes use of a correspondence analysis to reduce the number of parameters to be optimized through maximum likelihood, focusing on most of the compositional variation observed in the data. The model was thoroughly tested on both simulated and biological data sets to show its high performance in terms of data fitting and CPU time. COaLA efficiently estimates ancestral amino acid frequencies and sequences, making it relevant for studies aiming at reconstructing and resurrecting ancestral amino acid sequences. Finally, we applied COaLA on a concatenate of universal amino acid sequences to confirm previous results obtained with a nonhomogeneous Bayesian model regarding the early pattern of adaptation to optimal growth temperature, supporting the mesophilic nature of the Last Universal Common Ancestor.
23485157|Modeling across site variation of the substitution process is increasingly recognized as important for obtaining more accurate phylogenetic reconstructions. Both finite and infinite mixture models have been proposed and have been shown to significantly improve on classical single-matrix models. Compared with their finite counterparts, infinite mixtures have a greater expressivity. However, they are computationally more challenging. This has resulted in practical compromises in the design of infinite mixture models. In particular, a fast but simplified version of a Dirichlet process model over equilibrium frequency profiles implemented in PhyloBayes has often been used in recent phylogenomics studies, while more refined model structures, more realistic and empirically more fit, have been practically out of reach. We introduce a message passing interface version of PhyloBayes, implementing the Dirichlet process mixture models as well as more classical empirical matrices and finite mixtures. The parallelization is made efficient thanks to the combination of two algorithmic strategies: a partial Gibbs sampling update of the tree topology and the use of a truncated stick-breaking representation for the Dirichlet process prior. The implementation shows close to linear gains in computational speed for up to 64 cores, thus allowing faster phylogenetic reconstruction under complex mixture models. PhyloBayes MPI is freely available from our website www.phylobayes.org.
23485151|A key challenge for biologists is to document and explain global patterns of diversification in a wide range of environments. Here, we explore patterns of continental-scale diversification in a groundwater species-rich clade, the superfamily Aselloidea (Pancrustacea: Isopoda). Our analyses supported a constant diversification rate during most of the course of Aselloidea evolution, until 415 Ma when diversification rates started to decrease. This constant accumulation of lineages challenges the view that groundwater species diversification in temperate regions might have been primarily driven by major changes in physical environment leading to the extinction of surface populations and subsequent synchronous isolation of multiple groundwater populations. Rather than acting synchronously over broad geographic regions, factors causing extinction of surface populations and subsequent reproductive isolation of groundwater populations may act in a local and asynchronous manner, thereby resulting in a constant speciation rate over time. Our phylogeny also revealed several cases of parapatric distributions among closely related surface-water and groundwater species suggesting that species diversification could also arise from a process of disruptive selection along the surface-subterranean environmental gradient. Our results call for re-evaluating the spatial scale and timing of factors causing diversification events in groundwater.
23485150|In this article I introduce the idea of conditional independence of separated subtrees as a principle by which to estimate the posterior probability of trees using conditional clade probability distributions rather than simple sample relative frequencies. I describe an algorithm for these calculations and software which implements these ideas. I show that these alternative calculations are very similar to simple sample relative frequencies for high probability trees but are substantially more accurate for relatively low probability trees. The method allows the posterior probability of unsampled trees to be calculated when these trees contain only clades that are in other sampled trees. Furthermore, the method can be used to estimate the total probability of the set of sampled trees which provides a measure of the thoroughness of a posterior sample.
23485154|An area of endemism is defined by the spatial congruence among two or more species with distributions that are limited by barriers. In this study, we explored and discussed the use of the network analysis method (NAM) and neighbor-joining (NJ) to analyze the areas of endemism of Quercus sect. Lobatae (red oak species) in Mexico and Central America. We compared the NAM and NJ with other methods commonly used in biogeographic studies to show the advantages of these new approaches and to identify the shortcomings of other approaches. The NAM used in this study is based on notions of centrality measures, such as betweenness. We incorporated the strength of the ties within the internal networks through p-cores and aggregate constraints in iterative analyses. The NAM based on betweenness is ideal for recognizing completely allopatric areas of endemism. The iterative NAMs increase the number of possible areas of endemism because they minimize the effect of minimal overlap, and the p-core is efficient at identifying the closest relationships among species in the cases in which betweenness is not informative. The number of areas of endemism increases when the sympatry matrix minimizes the dispersal effect and the sample effort is maximized, allowing the identification of the greatest number of these areas. The NJ method supports the idea that areas diverge among themselves in a differential way; the long branches correspond to zones with high speciation rates and complex histories (biotic and tectonic), and the short branches correspond to zones with low speciation rates and simple histories. In a classification scheme, NJ was capable of identifying the areas that are considered biotically complex because of their high speciation rates. The results obtained with the NAM and NJ showed that the physiographic regions of Mexico are not natural units and that many of them are composed of at least two different biotic components.
23485133|Gaussian processes, a class of stochastic processes including Brownian motion and the OrnsteinUhlenbeck process, are widely used to model continuous trait evolution in statistical phylogenetics. Under such processes, observations at the tips of a phylogenetic tree have a multivariate Gaussian distribution, which may lead to suboptimal model specification under certain evolutionary conditions, as supposed in models of punctuated equilibrium or adaptive radiation. To consider non-normally distributed continuous trait evolution, we introduce a method to compute posterior probabilities when modeling continuous trait evolution as a Lvy process. Through data simulation and model testing, we establish that single-rate Brownian motion (BM) and Lvy processes with jumps generate distinct patterns in comparative data. We then analyzed body mass and endocranial volume measurements for 126 primates. We rejected single-rate BM in favor of a Lvy process with jumps for each trait, with the lineage leading to most recent common ancestor of great apes showing particularly strong evidence against single-rate BM.
23485140|Recent analyses suggest that a few major shifts in diversification rate may be enough to explain most of the disparity in diversity among vertebrate lineages. At least one significant increase in diversification rate appears to have occurred within the birds; however, several nested lineages within birds have been identified as hyperdiverse by different studies. A clade containing the finches and relatives (within the avian order Passeriformes), including a large radiation endemic to the New World that comprises 8% of all bird species, may be the true driver of this rate increase. Understanding the patterns and processes of diversification of this diverse lineage may go a long way toward explaining the apparently rapid diversification rates of both passerines and of birds as a whole. We present the first multilocus phylogenetic analyses of this endemic New World radiation of finch relatives that include sampling of all recognized genera, a relaxed molecular clock analysis of its divergence history, and an analysis of its broad-scale diversification patterns. These analyses recovered 5 major lineages traditionally recognized as avian families, but identified an additional 10 relatively ancient lineages worthy of recognition at the family level. Time-calibrated diversification analyses suggested that at least 3 of the 15 family-level lineages were significantly species poor given the entire group's background diversification rate, whereas at least onethe tanagers of family Thraupidaeappeared significantly more diverse. Lack of an agediversity relationship within this clade suggests that, due to rapid initial speciation, it may have experienced density-dependent ecological limits on its overall diversity.
23485137|The relationships of the 3 major clades of winged insectsEphemeroptera, Odonata, and Neopteraare still unclear. Many morphologists favor a clade Metapterygota (Odonata+Neoptera), but Chiastomyaria (Ephemeroptera+ Neoptera) or Palaeoptera (Ephemeroptera+Odonata) has also been supported in some older and more recent studies. A possible explanation for the difficulties in resolving these relationships is concerted convergencethe convergent evolution of entire character complexes under the same or similar selective pressures. In this study, we analyze possible instances of this phenomenon in the context of head structures of Ephemeroptera, Odonata, and Neoptera. We apply a recently introduced formal approach to detect the occurrence of concerted convergence. We found that characters of the tentorium and mandibles in particular, but also some other head structures, have apparently not evolved independently, and thus can cause artifacts in tree reconstruction. Our subsequent analyses, which exclude character sets that may be affected by concerted convergence, corroborate the Palaeoptera concept. We show that the analysis of homoplasy and its influence on tree inference can be formally improved with important consequences for the identification of incompatibilities between data sets. Our results suggest that modified weighting (or exclusion of characters) in cases of formally identified correlated cliques of characters may improve morphology-based tree reconstruction.
23485139|The order in which the 3 groups of winged insects (the Pterygota) diverged from their common ancestor has important implications for understanding the origin of insect flight. But despite this importance, the split between the Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies), Ephemeroptera (mayflies), and Neoptera (the other winged orders) remains very much unresolved. Indeed, previous studies have obtained strong apparent support for each of the 3 possible branching patterns. Here, we present a systematic reinvestigation of the basal pterygote split. Our results suggest that outgroup choice and limited taxon sampling have been major sources of systematic error, even for data sets with a large number of characters (e.g., in phylogenomic data sets). In particular, a data set of 113 taxa provides consistent support for the Palaeoptera hypothesis (the grouping of Odonata with Ephemeroptera), whereas results from data sets with fewer taxa give inconsistent results and are highly sensitive to minor changes in data and methods. We also focus on recent methods that exploit temporal information using fossil calibrations, combined with additional assumptions about the evolutionary process, and so reduce the influence of outgroup choice. These methods are shown to provide more consistent results, for example, supporting Palaeoptera, even for data sets that previously supported other hypotheses. Together, these results have implications for understanding insect origins and for resolving other problematic splits in the tree of life.
23485134|In this article, we use supermatrix data-mining methods to reconstruct a large, highly inclusive phylogeny of Cyperaceae from nucleotide data available on GenBank. We explore the properties of these trees and their utility for phylogenetic inference, and show that even the highly incomplete alignments characteristic of supermatrix approaches may yield very good estimates of phylogeny. We present a novel pipeline for filtering sparse alignments to improve their phylogenetic utility by maximizing the partial decisiveness of the matrices themselves through a technique we call "phylogenetic scaffolding," and we present a new method of scoring tip instability (i.e. "rogue taxa") based on the I statistic implemented in the software Mesquite. The modified statistic, which we call I S , is somewhat more straightforward to interpret than similar statistics, and our implementation of it may be applied to large sets of large trees. The largest sedge trees presented here contain more than 1500 tips (about one quarter of all sedge species) and are based on multigene alignments with more than 20 000 sites and more than 90% missing data. These trees match well with previously supported phylogenetic hypotheses, but have lower overall support values and less resolution than more heavily filtered trees. Our best-resolved trees are characterized by stronger support values than any previously published sedge phylogenies, and show some relationships that are incongruous with previous studies. Overall, we show that supermatrix methods offer powerful means of pursuing phylogenetic study and these tools have high potential value for many systematic biologists.
23485136|Supertree methods combine a collection of source trees into a single parent tree or supertree. For almost all such methods, the terminal taxa across the source trees have to be non-nested for the output supertree to make sense. Motivated by Page, the first supertree method for combining rooted source trees where the taxa can be hierarchically nested is called AncestralBuild. In addition to taxa labeling the leaves, this method allows the rooted source trees to have taxa labeling some of the interior nodes at a higher taxonomic level than their descendants (e.g., genera vs. species). However, the utility of AncestralBuild is somewhat restricted as it is mostly intended to decide if a collection of rooted source trees is compatible. If the initial collection is not compatible, then no tree is returned. To overcome this restriction, we introduce here the MultiLevelSupertree (MLS) supertree method whose input is the same as that for AncestralBuild, but which accommodates incompatibilities among rooted source trees using a MinCut-like procedure. We show that MLS has several desirable properties including the preservation of common subtrees among the source trees, the preservation of ancestral relationships whenever they are compatible, as well as running in polynomial time. Furthermore, application to a small test data set (the mammalian carnivore family Phocidae) indicates that the method correctly places nested taxa at different taxonomic levels (reflecting vertical signal), even in cases where the input trees harbor a significant level of conflict between their clades (i.e., in their horizontal signal).
23485132|In recent years, likelihood-based approaches have been used with increasing frequency to evaluate macroevolutionary hypotheses of phenotypic evolution under distinct evolutionary processes in a phylogenetic context (e.g., Brownian motion, Ornstein-Uhlenbeck, etc.), and to compare one or more evolutionary rates for the same phenotypic trait along a phylogeny. It is also of interest to determine whether one trait evolves at a faster rate than another trait. However, to date no study has compared phylogenetic evolutionary rates between traits using likelihood, because a formal approach has not yet been proposed. In this article, I describe a new likelihood procedure for comparing evolutionary rates for two or more phenotypic traits on a phylogeny. This approach compares the likelihood of a model where each trait evolves at a distinct evolutionary rate to the likelihood of a model where all traits are constrained to evolve at a common evolutionary rate. The method can also account for within-species measurement error and within-species trait covariation if available. Simulations revealed that the method has appropriate Type I error rates and statistical power. Importantly, when compared with existing approaches based on phylogenetically independent contrasts and methods that compare confidence intervals for model parameters, the likelihood method displays preferable statistical properties for a wide range of simulated conditions. Thus, this likelihood-based method extends the phylogenetic comparative biology toolkit and provides evolutionary biologists with a more powerful means of determining when evolutionary rates differ between phenotypic traits. Finally, I provide an empirical example illustrating the approach by comparing rates of evolution for several phenotypic traits in Plethodon salamanders.
23485138|Incorporation of fossils into biogeographic studies can have a profound effect on the conclusions that result, particularly when fossil ranges are nonoverlapping with extant ranges. This is the case in archaeid spiders, where there are known fossils from the Northern Hemisphere, yet all living members are restricted to the Southern Hemisphere. To better understand the biogeographic patterns of archaeid spiders and their palpimanoid relatives, we estimate a dated phylogeny using a relaxed clock on a combined molecular and morphological data set. Dating information is compared with treating the archaeid fossil taxa as both node calibrations and as noncontemporaneous terminal tips, both with and without additional calibration points. Estimation of ancestral biogeographic ranges is then performed, using likelihood and Bayesian methods to take into account uncertainty in phylogeny and in dating. We find that treating the fossils as terminal tips within a Bayesian framework, as opposed to dating the phylogeny based only on molecular data with the dates coming from node calibrations, removes the subjectivity involved in assigning priors, which has not been possible with previous methods. Our analyses suggest that the diversification of the northern and southern archaeid lineages was congruent with the breakup of Pangaea into Laurasia and Gondwanaland. This analysis provides a rare example, and perhaps the most strongly supported, where a dated phylogeny confirms a biogeographical hypothesis based on vicariance due to the breakup of the ancient continental plates.
23485135|Speciation and extinction rates can be estimated from molecular phylogenies. Recently, a number of methods have been published showing that these rates can be estimated even if the phylogeny is incomplete, that is, if not all extant species are included. We show that the accuracy of such methods strongly depends on making the correct assumptions about how the sampling process was performed. We focus on phylogenies that are incomplete because some subclades (e.g., genera and families) are each represented as a single lineage. We show that previous methods implicitly assumed that such subclades are defined by randomly (or in an extreme deterministic way) choosing the edges that define the subclades from the complete species phylogeny. We show that these methods produce biased results if higher taxa are defined in a different manner. We introduce strict higher level phylogenies where subclades are defined so that the phylogeny is fully resolved from its origin to time xcut, and fully unresolved thereafter, so that for all subclades, stem age > x cut > crown age. We present estimates of speciation and extinction rates from a phylogeny of birds in which this subclade definition was applied. However, for most higher level phylogenies in the literature, it is unclear how higher taxa were defined, but often such phylogenies can be easily transformed into strict higher level phylogenies, as we illustrate by estimating speciation and extinction rates from a near-complete but only partly resolved species-level phylogeny of mammals. The accuracy of our methods is verified using simulations.
23485419|We review Bayesian approaches to model testing in general and to the assessment of topological hypotheses in particular. We show that the standard way of setting up Bayes factor tests of the monophyly of a group, or the placement of a sample sequence in a known reference tree, can be misleading. The reason for this is related to the well-known dependency of Bayes factors on model-specific priors. Specifically, when testing tree hypotheses it is important that each hypothesis is associated with an appropriate tree space in the prior. This can be achieved by using appropriately constrained searches or by filtering trees in the posterior sample, but in a more elaborate way than typically implemented. If it is difficult to find the appropriate tree sets to be contrasted, then the posterior model odds may be more informative than the Bayes factor. We illustrate the recommended techniques using an empirical test case addressing the issue of whether two genera of diving beetles (Coleoptera: Dytiscidae), Suphrodytes and Hydroporus, should be synonymized. Our refined Bayes factor tests, in contrast to standard analyses, show that there is strong support for Suphrodytes nesting inside Hydroporus, and the genera are therefore synonymized.
23485420|We develop a Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm for estimating divergence times using sequentially sampled molecular sequences. This type of data is commonly collected during viral epidemics and is sometimes available from different species in ancient DNA studies. We derive the distribution of ages of nodes in the tree under a birthdeath-sequential-sampling (BDSS) model and use it as the prior for divergence times in the dating analysis. We implement the prior in the MCMCtree program in the PAML package for divergence dating. The BDSS prior is very flexible and, with different parameters, can generate trees of very different shapes, suitable for examining the sensitivity of posterior time estimates. We apply the method to a data set of SIV/HIV-2 genes in comparison with a likelihood-based dating method, and to a data set of influenza H1 genes from different hosts in comparison with the Bayesian program BEAST. We examined the impact of tree topology on time estimates and suggest that multifurcating consensus trees should be avoided in dating analysis. We found posterior time estimates for old nodes to be sensitive to the priors on times and rates and suggest that previous Bayesian dating studies may have produced overconfident estimates.
23485418|Taxonomic descriptions are unparalleled sources of knowledge of life's phenotypic diversity. As natural language prose, these data sets are largely refractory to computation and integration with other sources of phenotypic data. By formalizing taxonomic descriptions using ontology-based semantic representation, we aim to increase the reusability and computability of taxonomists' primary data. Here, we present a revision of the ensign wasp (Hymenoptera: Evaniidae) fauna of New Caledonia using this new model for species description. Descriptive matrices, specimen data, and taxonomic nomenclature are gathered in a unified Web-based application, mx, then exported as both traditional taxonomic treatments and semantic statements using the OWL Web Ontology Language. Character:character-state combinations are then annotated following the entityquality phenotype model, originally developed to represent mutant model organism phenotype data; concepts of anatomy are drawn from the Hymenoptera Anatomy Ontology and linked to phenotype descriptors from the Phenotypic Quality Ontology. The resulting set of semantic statements is provided in Resource Description Framework format. Applying the model to real data, that is, specimens, taxonomic names, diagnoses, descriptions, and redescriptions, provides us with a foundation to discuss limitations and potential benefits such as automated data integration and reasoner-driven queries. Four species of ensign wasp are now known to occur in New Caledonia: Szepligetella levipetiolata, Szepligetella deercreeki Deans and Mik sp. nov., Szepligetella irwini Deans and Mik sp. nov., and the nearly cosmopolitan Evania appendigaster. A fifth species, Szepligetella sericea, including Szepligetella impressa, syn. nov., has not yet been collected in New Caledonia but can be found on islands throughout the Pacific and so is included in the diagnostic key.
23485426|Non-homogeneous processes and, in particular, base compositional non-stationarity have long been recognized as a critical source of systematic error. But only a small fraction of current molecular systematic studies methodically examine and effectively account for the potentially confounding effect of non-stationarity. The problem is especially overlooked in multi-locus or phylogenomic scale analyses, in part because no efficient tools exist to accommodate base composition heterogeneity in large data sets. We present a detailed analysis of a data set with 20 genes and 214 taxa to study the phylogeny of flatfishes (Pleuronectiformes) and their position among percomorphs. Most genes vary significantly in base composition among taxa and fail to resolve flatfish monophyly and other emblematic groups, suggesting that non-stationarity may be causing systematic error. We show a strong association between base compositional bias and topological discordance among individual gene partitions and their inferred trees. Phylogenetic methods applying non-homogeneous models to accommodate non-stationarity have relatively minor effect to reduce gene tree discordance, suggesting that available computer programs applying these methods do not scale up efficiently to the data set of modest size analysed in this study. By comparing phylogenetic trees obtained with species tree (STAR) and concatenation approaches, we show that gene tree discordance in our data set is most likely due to base compositional biases than to incomplete lineage sorting. Multi-locus analyses suggest that the combined phylogenetic signal from all loci in a concatenated data set overcomes systematic biases induced by non-stationarity at each partition. Finally, relationships among flatfishes and their relatives are discussed in the light of these results. We find support for the monophyly of flatfishes and confirm findings from previous molecular phylogenetic studies suggesting their close affinity with several carangimorph groups (i.e., jack and allies, barracuda, archerfish, billfish and swordfish, threadfin, moonfish, beach salmon, and snook and barramundi).
23485424|Hybridization plays an important evolutionary role in several groups of organisms. A phylogenetic approach to detect hybridization entails sequencing multiple loci across the genomes of a group of species of interest, reconstructing their gene trees, and taking their differences as indicators of hybridization. However, methods that follow this approach mostly ignore population effects, such as incomplete lineage sorting (ILS). Given that hybridization occurs between closely related organisms, ILS may very well be at play and, hence, must be accounted for in the analysis framework. To address this issue, we present a parsimony criterion for reconciling gene trees within the branches of a phylogenetic network, and a local search heuristic for inferring phylogenetic networks from collections of gene-tree topologies under this criterion. This framework enables phylogenetic analyses while accounting for both hybridization and ILS. Further, we propose two techniques for incorporating information about uncertainty in gene-tree estimates. Our simulation studies demonstrate the good performance of our framework in terms of identifying the location of hybridization events, as well as estimating the proportions of genes that underwent hybridization. Also, our framework shows good performance in terms of efficiency on handling large data sets in our experiments. Further, in analysing a yeast data set, we demonstrate issues that arise when analysing real data sets. Although a probabilistic approach was recently introduced for this problem, and although parsimonious reconciliations have accuracy issues under certain settings, our parsimony framework provides a much more computationally efficient technique for this type of analysis. Our framework now allows for genome-wide scans for hybridization, while also accounting for ILS.
23485421|Phylogenetic relationships among recently diverged species are often difficult to resolve due to insufficient phylogenetic signal in available markers and/or conflict among gene trees. Here we explore the use of reduced-representation genome sequencing, specifically in the form of restriction-site associated DNA (RAD), for phylogenetic inference and the detection of ancestral hybridization in non-model organisms. As a case study, we investigate Pedicularis section Cyathophora, a systematically recalcitrant clade of flowering plants in the broomrape family (Orobanchaceae). Two methods of phylogenetic inference, maximum likelihood and Bayesian concordance, were applied to data sets that included as many as 40,000 RAD loci. Both methods yielded similar topologies that included two major clades: a "rex-thamnophila" clade, composed of two species and several subspecies with relatively low floral diversity, and geographically widespread distributions at lower elevations, and a "superba" clade, composed of three species characterized by relatively high floral diversity and isolated geographic distributions at higher elevations. Levels of molecular divergence between subspecies in the rex-thamnophila clade are similar to those between species in the superba clade. Using Patterson's D-statistic test, including a novel extension of the method that enables finer-grained resolution of introgression among multiple candidate taxa by removing the effect of their shared ancestry, we detect significant introgression among nearly all taxa in the rex-thamnophila clade, but not between clades or among taxa within the superba clade. These results suggest an important role for geographic isolation in the emergence of species barriers, by facilitating local adaptation and differentiation in the absence of homogenizing gene flow.
23485422|DNA barcoding-type studies assemble single-locus data from large samples of individuals and species, and have provided new kinds of data for evolutionary surveys of diversity. An important goal of many such studies is to delimit evolutionarily significant species units, especially in biodiversity surveys from environmental DNA samples. The Generalized Mixed Yule Coalescent (GMYC) method is a likelihood method for delimiting species by fitting within- and between-species branching models to reconstructed gene trees. Although the method has been widely used, it has not previously been described in detail or evaluated fully against simulations of alternative scenarios of true patterns of population variation and divergence between species. Here, we present important reformulations to the GMYC method as originally specified, and demonstrate its robustness to a range of departures from its simplifying assumptions. The main factor affecting the accuracy of delimitation is the mean population size of species relative to divergence times between them. Other departures from the model assumptions, such as varying population sizes among species, alternative scenarios for speciation and extinction, and population growth or subdivision within species, have relatively smaller effects. Our simulations demonstrate that support measures derived from the likelihood function provide a robust indication of when the model performs well and when it leads to inaccurate delimitations. Finally, the so-called single-threshold version of the method outperforms the multiple-threshold version of the method on simulated data: we argue that this might represent a fundamental limit due to the nature of evidence used to delimit species in this approach. Together with other studies comparing its performance relative to other methods, our findings support the robustness of GMYC as a tool for delimiting species when only single-locus information is available.
23485425|Rooting phylogenies is critical for understanding evolution, yet the importance, intricacies and difficulties of rooting are often overlooked. For rooting, polymorphic characters among the group of interest (ingroup) must be compared to those of a relative (outgroup) that diverged before the last common ancestor (LCA) of the ingroup. Problems arise if an outgroup does not exist, is unknown, or is so distant that few characters are shared, in which case duplicated genes originating before the LCA can be used as proxy outgroups to root diverse phylogenies. Here, we describe a genome-wide expansion of this technique that can be used to solve problems at the other end of the evolutionary scale: where ingroup individuals are all very closely related to each other, but the next closest relative is very distant. We used shared orthologous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from 10 whole genome sequences of Coxiella burnetii, the causative agent of Q fever in humans, to create a robust, but unrooted phylogeny. To maximize the number of characters informative about the rooting, we searched entire genomes for polymorphic duplicated regions where orthologs of each paralog could be identified so that the paralogs could be used to root the tree. Recent radiations, such as those of emerging pathogens, often pose rooting challenges due to a lack of ingroup variation and large genomic differences with known outgroups. Using a phylogenomic approach, we created a robust, rooted phylogeny for C. burnetii.
23485423|The growth of phylogenetic trees in scope and in size is promising from the standpoint of understanding a wide variety of evolutionary patterns and processes. With trees comprised of larger, older, and globally distributed clades, it is likely that the lability of a binary character will differ significantly among lineages, which could lead to errors in estimating transition rates and the associated inference of ancestral states. Here we develop and implement a new method for identifying different rates of evolution in a binary character along different branches of a phylogeny. We illustrate this approach by exploring the evolution of growth habit in Campanulidae, a flowering plant clade containing some 35,000 species. The distribution of woody versus herbaceous species calls into question the use of traditional models of binary character evolution. The recognition and accommodation of changes in the rate of growth form evolution in different lineages demonstrates, for the first time, a robust picture of growth form evolution across a very large, very old, and very widespread flowering plant clade.
23485201|Long-term specialization may limit the ability of a species to respond to new environmental conditions and lead to a higher likelihood of extinction. For permanent parasites and other symbionts, the most intriguing question is whether these organisms can return to a free-living lifestyle and, thus, escape an evolutionary "dead end." This question is directly related to Dollo's law, which stipulates that a complex trait (such as being free living vs. parasitic) cannot re-evolve again in the same form. Here, we present conclusive evidence that house dust mites, a group of medically important free-living organisms, evolved from permanent parasites of warm-blooded vertebrates. A robust, multigene topology (315 taxa, 8942 nt), ancestral character state reconstruction, and a test for irreversible evolution (Dollo's law) demonstrate that house dust mites have abandoned a parasitic lifestyle, secondarily becoming free living, and then speciated in several habitats. Hence, as exemplified by this model system, highly specialized permanent parasites may drastically de-specialize to the extent of becoming free living and, thus escape from dead-end evolution. Our phylogenetic and historical ecological framework explains the limited cross-reactivity between allergens from the house dust mites and "storage" mites and the ability of the dust mites to inhibit host immune responses. It also provides insights into how ancestral features related to parasitism (frequent ancestral shifts to unrelated hosts, tolerance to lower humidity, and pre-existing enzymes targeting skin and keratinous materials) played a major role in reversal to the free-living state. We propose that parasitic ancestors of pyroglyphids shifted to nests of vertebrates. Later the nest-inhabiting pyroglyphids expanded into human dwellings to become a major source of allergens.
23485198|Despite being the objects of numerous macroevolutionary studies, many of the best represented constituents of the fossil recordincluding diverse examples such as foraminifera, brachiopods, and molluskshave mineralized skeletons with limited discrete characteristics, making morphological phylogenies difficult to construct. In contrast to their paucity of phylogenetic characters, the mineralized structures (tests and shells) of these fossil groups frequently have distinctive shapes that have long proved useful for their classification. The recent introduction of methodologies for including continuous data directly in a phylogenetic analysis has increased the number of available characters, making it possible to produce phylogenies based, in whole or part, on continuous character data collected from such taxa. Geometric morphometric methods provide tools for accurately characterizing shape variation and can produce quantitative data that can therefore now be included in a phylogenetic matrix in a nonarbitrary manner. Here, the marine gastropod genus Conus is used to evaluate the ability of continuous charactersgenerated from a geometric morphometric analysis of shell shapeto contribute to a total evidence phylogenetic hypothesis constructed using molecular and morphological data. Furthermore, the ability of continuous characters derived from geometric morphometric analyses to place fossil taxa with limited discrete characters into a phylogeny with their extant relatives was tested by simulating the inclusion of fossil taxa. This was done by removing the molecular partition of individual extant species to produce a "cladistic pseudofossil" with only the geometric morphometric derived characters coded. The phylogenetic position of each cladistic pseudofossil taxon was then compared with its placement in the total evidence tree and a symmetric resampling tree to evaluate the degree to which morphometric characters alone can correctly place simulated fossil species. In 3345% of the test cases (depending upon the approach used for measuring success), it was possible to place the pseudofossil taxon into the correct regions of the phylogeny using only the morphometric characters. This suggests that the incorporation of extinct Conus taxa into phylogenetic hypotheses will be possible, permitting a wide range of macroevolutionary questions to be addressed within this genus. This methodology also has potential to contribute to phylogenetic reconstructions for other major components of the fossil record that lack numerous discrete characters.
23485202|Genome-scale data offer the opportunity to clarify phylogenetic relationships that are difficult to resolve with few loci, but they can also identify genomic regions with evolutionary history distinct from that of the species history. We collected whole-genome sequence data from 29 taxa in the legume genus Medicago, then aligned these sequences to the Medicago truncatula reference genome to confidently identify 87 596 variable homologous sites. We used this data set to estimate phylogenetic relationships among Medicago species, to investigate the number of sites needed to provide robust phylogenetic estimates and to identify specific genomic regions supporting topologies in conflict with the genome-wide phylogeny. Our full genomic data set resolves relationships within the genus that were previously intractable. Subsampling the data reveals considerable variation in phylogenetic signal and power in smaller subsets of the data. Even when sampling 5000 sites, no random sample of the data supports a topology identical to that of the genome-wide phylogeny. Phylogenetic relationships estimated from 500-site sliding windows revealed genome regions supporting several alternative species relationships among recently diverged taxa, consistent with the expected effects of deep coalescence or introgression in the recent history of Medicago.
23485205|Polyploidy is an important speciation mechanism, particularly in land plants. Allopolyploid species are formed after hybridization between otherwise intersterile parental species. Recent theoretical progress has led to successful implementation of species tree models that take population genetic parameters into account. However, these models have not included allopolyploid hybridization and the special problems imposed when species trees of allopolyploids are inferred. Here, 2 new models for the statistical inference of the evolutionary history of allopolyploids are evaluated using simulations and demonstrated on 2 empirical data sets. It is assumed that there has been a single hybridization event between 2 diploid species resulting in a genomic allotetraploid. The evolutionary history can be represented as a species network or as a multilabeled species tree, in which some pairs of tips are labeled with the same species. In one of the models (AlloppMUL), the multilabeled species tree is inferred directly. This is the simplest model and the most widely applicable, since fewer assumptions are made. The second model (AlloppNET) incorporates the hybridization event explicitly which means that fewer parameters need to be estimated. Both models are implemented in the BEAST framework. Simulations show that both models are useful and that AlloppNET is more accurate if the assumptions it is based on are valid. The models are demonstrated on previously analyzed data from the genera Pachycladon (Brassicaceae) and Silene (Caryophyllaceae).
23485199|In phylogenetic studies, the evolution of molecular sequences is assumed to have taken place along the phylogeny traced by the ancestors of extant species. In the presence of lateral gene transfer, however, this may not be the case, because the species lineage from which a gene was transferred may have gone extinct or not have been sampled. Because it is not feasible to specify or reconstruct the complete phylogeny of all species, we must describe the evolution of genes outside the represented phylogeny by modeling the speciation dynamics that gave rise to the complete phylogeny. We demonstrate that if the number of sampled species is small compared with the total number of existing species, the overwhelming majority of gene transfers involve speciation to and evolution along extinct or unsampled lineages. We show that the evolution of genes along extinct or unsampled lineages can to good approximation be treated as those of independently evolving lineages described by a few global parameters. Using this result, we derive an algorithm to calculate the probability of a gene tree and recover the maximum-likelihood reconciliation given the phylogeny of the sampled species. Examining 473 near-universal gene families from 36 cyanobacteria, we find that nearly a third of transfer events (28%) appear to have topological signatures of evolution along extinct species, but only approximately 6% of transfers trace their ancestry to before the common ancestor of the sampled cyanobacteria.
23485203|The branching structure of biological evolution confers statistical dependencies on phenotypic trait values in related organisms. For this reason, comparative macroevolutionary studies usually begin with an inferred phylogeny that describes the evolutionary relationships of the organisms of interest. The probability of the observed trait data can be computed by assuming a model for trait evolution, such as Brownian motion, over the branches of this fixed tree. However, the phylogenetic tree itself contributes statistical uncertainty to estimates of rates of phenotypic evolution, and many comparative evolutionary biologists regard the tree as a nuisance parameter. In this article, we present a framework for analytically integrating over unknown phylogenetic trees in comparative evolutionary studies by assuming that the tree arises from a continuous-time Markov branching model called the Yule process. To do this, we derive a closed-form expression for the distribution of phylogenetic diversity (PD), which is the sum of branch lengths connecting the species in a clade. We then present a generalization of PD which is equivalent to the expected trait disparity in a set of taxa whose evolutionary relationships are generated by a Yule process and whose traits evolve by Brownian motion. We find expressions for the distribution of expected trait disparity under a Yule tree. Given one or more observations of trait disparity in a clade, we perform fast likelihood-based estimation of the Brownian variance for unresolved clades. Our method does not require simulation or a fixed phylogenetic tree. We conclude with a brief example illustrating Brownian rate estimation for 12 families in the mammalian order Carnivora, in which the phylogenetic tree for each family is unresolved.
23485204|Public DNA databases are becoming too large and too complex for manual methods to generate phylogenetic supermatrices from multiple gene sequences. Delineating the terminals based on taxonomic labels is no longer practical because species identifications are frequently incomplete and gene trees are incongruent with Linnaean binomials, which results in uncertainty about how to combine species units among unlinked loci. We developed a procedure that minimizes the problem of forming multilocus species units in a large phylogenetic data set using algorithms from graph theory. An initial step established sequence clusters for each locus that broadly correspond to the species level. These clusters frequently include sequences labeled with various binomials and specimen identifiers that create multiple alternatives for concatenation. To choose among these possibilities, we minimize taxonomic conflict among the species units globally in the data set using a multipartite heuristic algorithm. The procedure was applied to all available GenBank data for Coleoptera (beetles) including > 10 500 taxon labels and > 23 500 sequences of 4 loci, which were grouped into 11 241 clusters or divergent singletons by the BlastClust software. Within each cluster, unidentified sequences could be assigned to a species name through the association with fully identified sequences, resulting in 510 new identifications (13.9% of total unidentified sequences) of which nearly half were "trans-locus" identifications by clustering of sequences at a secondary locus. The limits of DNA-based clusters were inconsistent with the Linnaean binomials for 1518 clusters (13.5%) that contained more than one binomial or split a single binomial among multiple clusters. By applying a scoring scheme for full and partial name matches in pairs of clusters, a maximum weight set of 7366 global species units was produced. Varying the match weights for partial matches had little effect on the number of units, although if partial matches were disallowed, the number increased greatly. Trees from the resulting supermatrices generally produced tree topologies in good agreement with the higher taxonomy of Coleoptera, with fewer terminals compared with trees generated according to standard filtering of sequences using species labels. The study illustrates a strategy for assembling the tree-of-life from an ever more complex primary database.
23485200|Understanding factors driving diversity across biodiversity hotspots is critical for formulating conservation priorities in the face of ongoing and escalating environmental deterioration. While biodiversity hotspots encompass a small fraction of Earth's land surface, more than half the world's plants and two-thirds of terrestrial vertebrate species are endemic to these hotspots. Tropical Southeast (SE) Asia displays extraordinary species richness, encompassing four biodiversity hotspots, though disentangling multiple potential drivers of species richness is confounded by the region's dynamic geological and climatic history. Here, we use multilocus molecular genetic data from dense multispecies sampling of freshwater fishes across three biodiversity hotspots, to test the effect of Quaternary climate change and resulting drainage rearrangements on aquatic faunal diversification. While Cenozoic geological processes have clearly shaped evolutionary history in SE Asian halfbeak fishes, we show that paleo-drainage re-arrangements resulting from Quaternary climate change played a significant role in the spatiotemporal evolution of lowland aquatic taxa, and provide priorities for conservation efforts.
23485197|Despite African rivers containing high species diversity, continental-scale studies investigating the mechanisms generating biological diversity of African riverine faunas are limited compared with lacustrine systems. To investigate the build-up of diversity in a tropical aquatic continental radiation, we test different models of lineage diversification and reconstruct the biogeographic history in a species-rich siluriform genus, Synodontis (130 species), with a broad distribution across all major tropical African drainage basins. The resulting robust species-level phylogeny (60% complete, based on a multigene data set) exhibits a near constant rate of lineage accumulation throughout the mid-Cenozoic to recent, irrespective of missing species and despite the changing environmental conditions that were prevalent during this time period. This pattern contrasts with the findings for species-level diversification of large clades that commonly show an early burst of cladogenesis followed by declining rates through time. The identification of distinct biogeographic clades demonstrates a correlation between river hydrology and cladogenesis, although there is evidence of recent repeat dispersal into the southern range of the focal group. We conclude that diverse freshwater fish radiations with tropical continental distributions represent important organisms to test hypotheses of diversification and investigate the effects of palaeo-landscapes and climates on present day biodiversity.
20142996|Mobile elements have been recognized as powerful tools for phylogenetic and population-level analyses. However, issues regarding potential sources of homoplasy and other misleading events have been raised. We have collected available data for all phylogenetic and population level studies of primates utilizing Alu insertion data and examined them for potentially homoplasious and other misleading events. Very low levels of each potential confounding factor in a phylogenetic or population analysis (i.e., lineage sorting, parallel insertions, and precise excision) were found. Although taxa known to be subject to high levels of these types of events may indeed be subject to problems when using SINE analysis, we propose that most taxa will respond as the order Primates has--by the resolution of several long-standing problems observed using sequence-based methods.
20142997|Transposed elements constitute an attractive, useful source of phylogenetic markers to elucidate the evolutionary history of their hosts. Frequent and successive amplifications over evolutionary time are important requirements for utilizing their presence or absence as landmarks of evolution. Although transposed elements are well distributed in rodent taxa, the generally high degree of genomic sequence divergence among species complicates our access to presence/absence data. With this in mind we developed a novel, high-throughput computational strategy, called CPAL (Conserved Presence/Absence Locus-finder), to identify genome-wide distributed, phylogenetically informative transposed elements flanked by highly conserved regions. From a total of 232 extracted chromosomal mouse loci we randomly selected 14 of these plus 2 others from previous test screens and attempted to amplify them via PCR in representative rodent species. All loci were amplifiable and ultimately contributed 31 phylogenetically informative markers distributed throughout the major groups of Rodentia.
20142995|The family Geoemydidae is one of three in the superfamily Testudinoidea and is the most diversified family of extant turtle species. The phylogenetic relationships in this family and among related families have been vigorously investigated from both morphological and molecular viewpoints. The evolutionary history of Geoemydidae, however, remains controversial. Therefore, to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships of Geoemydidae and related species, we applied the SINE insertion method to investigate 49 informative SINE loci in 28 species. We detected four major evolutionary lineages (Testudinidae, Batagur group, Siebenrockiella group, and Geoemyda group) in the clade Testuguria (a clade of Geoemydidae + Testudinidae). All five specimens of Testudinidae form a monophyletic clade. The Batagur group comprises five batagurines. The Siebenrockiella group has one species, Siebenrockiella crassicollis. The Geoemyda group comprises 15 geoemydines (including three former batagurines, Mauremys reevesii, Mauremys sinensis, and Heosemys annandalii). Among these four groups, the SINE insertion patterns were inconsistent at four loci, suggesting that an ancestral species of Testuguria radiated and rapidly diverged into the four lineages during the initial stage of its evolution. Furthermore, within the Geoemyda group we identified three evolutionary lineages, namely Mauremys, Cuora, and Heosemys. The Heosemys lineage comprises Heosemys, Sacalia, Notochelys, and Melanochelys species, and its monophyly is a novel assemblage in Geoemydidae. Our SINE phylogenetic tree demonstrates extensive convergent morphological evolution between the Batagur group and the three species of the Geoemyda group, M. reevesii, M. sinensis, and H. annandalii.
20143000|The number of nuclear small subunit (SSU) ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences for Nematoda has increased dramatically in recent years, and although their use in constructing phylogenies has also increased, relatively little attention has been given to their alignment. Here we examined the sensitivity of the nematode SSU data set to different alignment parameters and to the removal of alignment ambiguous regions. Ten alignments were created with CLUSTAL W using different sets of alignment parameters (10 full alignments), and each alignment was examined by eye and alignment ambiguous regions were removed (creating 10 reduced alignments). These alignment ambiguous regions were analyzed as a third type of data set, culled alignments. Maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining, and parsimony bootstrap analyses were performed. The resulting phylogenies were compared to each other by the symmetric difference distance tree comparison metric (SymD). The correlation of the phylogenies with the alignment parameters was tested by comparing matrices from SymD with corresponding matrices of Manhattan distances representing the alignment parameters. Differences among individual parsimony trees from the full alignments were frequently correlated with the differences among alignment parameters (580/1000 tests), as were trees from the culled alignments (403/1000 tests). Differences among individual parsimony trees from the reduced alignments were less frequently correlated with the differences among alignment parameters (230/1000 tests). Differences among majority-rule consensus trees (50%) from the parsimony analysis of the full alignments were significantly correlated with the differences among alignment parameters, whereas consensus trees from the reduced and culled analyses were not correlated with the alignment parameters. These patterns of correlation confirm that choice of alignment parameters has the potential to bias the resultant phylogenies for the nematode SSU data set, and suggest that the removal of alignment ambiguous regions reduces this effect. Finally, we discuss the implications of conservative phylogenetic hypotheses for Nematoda produced by exploring alignment space and removing alignment ambiguous regions for SSU rDNA.
20142994|It is unlikely that taxonomically diverse phylogenetic studies will be completed rapidly in the near future for nonmodel organisms on a whole-genome basis. However, one approach to advancing the field of "phylogenomics" is to estimate the structure of poorly known genomes by mining libraries of clones from suites of taxa, rather than from single species. The present analysis adopts this approach by taking advantage of megabase-scale end-sequence scanning of reptilian genomic clones to characterize diversity of CR1-like LINEs, the dominant family of transposable elements (TEs) in the sister group of mammals. As such, it helps close an important gap in the literature on the molecular systematics and evolution of retroelements in nonavian reptiles. Results from aligning more than 14 Mb of sequence from the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), painted turtle (Chrysemys picta), Bahamian green anole (Anolis smaragdinus.), Tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus), Emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae), and Zebra Finch (Taeniopygia guttata) against a comprehensive library 3000 TE-encoding peptides reflect an increasing abundance of LINE and non-long-terminal-repeat (non-LTR) retrotransposon repeat types with the age of common ancestry among exemplar reptilian clades. The hypothesis that repeat diversity is correlated with basal metabolic rate was tested using comparative methods and a significant nonlinear relationship was indicated. This analysis suggests that the age of divergence between an exemplary clade and its sister group as well as metabolic correlates should be considered in addition to genome size in explaining patterns of retroelement diversity. The first phylogenetic analysis of the largely unexplored chicken repeat 1 (CR1) 3 reverse transcriptase (RT) conserved domains 8 and 9 in nonavian reptiles reveals a pattern of multiple lineages with variable branch lengths, suggesting presence of both old and young elements and the existence of several distinct well-supported clades not apparent from previous characterization of CR1 subfamily structure in birds and the turtle. This mode of CR1 evolution contrasts with historical patterns of LINE 1 diversification in mammals and hints toward the existence of a rich but still largely unexplored diversity of nonavian retroelements of importance to advancing both comparative vertebrate genomics and amniote systematics.
20142998|Short interspersed elements (SINEs) are a class of dispersed mobile sequences that use RNA as an intermediate in an amplification process called retroposition. The presence-absence of a SINE at a given locus has been used as a meaningful classification criterion to evaluate phylogenetic relations among species. We review here recent developments in the characterisation of plant SINEs and their use as molecular makers to retrace phylogenetic relations among wild and cultivated Oryza and Brassica species. In Brassicaceae, further use of SINE markers is limited by our partial knowledge of endogenous SINE families (their origin and evolution histories) and by the absence of a clear classification. To solve this problem, phylogenetic relations among all known Brassicaceae SINEs were analyzed and a new classification, grouping SINEs in 15 different families, is proposed. The relative age and size of each Brassicaceae SINE family was evaluated and new phylogenetically supported subfamilies were described. We also present evidence suggesting that new potentially active SINEs recently emerged in Brassica oleracea from the shuffling of preexisting SINE portions. Finally, the comparative evolution history of SINE families present in Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica oleracea revealed that SINEs were in general more active in the Brassica lineage. The importance of these new data for the use of Brassicaceae SINEs as molecular markers in future applications is discussed.
20142991|The emerging field of phylogenomics is influencing both the amount and type of characters being brought to bear on long-standing problems in systematic biology. Moreover, the proliferation of sequence information from genome projects in concert with the development of new informatics tools is widening access to comparative data on retroelements to a broad cross section of investigators. Motivated by this, the Society of Systematic Biologists sponsored a symposium entitled "Genome Analysis and the Molecular Systematics of Retroelements," and the resulting papers illustrate this theme of new discoveries and cover three basic areas of research: (i) the taxonomic distribution and phylogenetic structure of families of retroelements; (ii) the use of SINE and LINE insertions for phylogenetic inference; and (iii) the informatics and classification of repetitive elements. Contributions of each article are briefly discussed in this context and particularly fruitful directions for future research illuminated by results of this symposium are reviewed.
20142999|The evolution of species traits along a phylogeny can be examined through an increasing number of possible, but not necessarily complementary, approaches. In this paper, we assess whether deriving ancestral states of discrete morphological characters from a model whose parameters are (i) optimized by ML on a most likely tree; (ii) optimized by ML onto each of a Bayesian sample of trees; and (iii) sampled by a MCMC visiting the space of a Bayesian sample of trees affects the reconstruction of ancestral states in the moss genus Brachytheciastrum. In the first two methods, the choice of a single- or two-rate model and of a genetic distance (wherein branch lengths are used to determine the probabilities of change) or speciational (wherein changes are only driven by speciation events) model based upon a likelihood-ratio test strongly depended on the sampled trees. Despite these differences in model selection, reconstructions of ancestral character states were strongly correlated to each others across nodes, often at r &gt 0.9, for all the characters. The Bayesian approach of ancestral character state reconstruction offers, however, a series of advantages over the single-tree approach or the ML model optimization on a Bayesian sample of trees because it does not involve restricting model parameters prior to reconstructing ancestral states, but rather allows a range of model parameters and ancestral character states to be sampled according to their posterior probabilities. From the distribution of the latter, conclusions on trait evolution can be made in a more satisfactorily way than when a substantial part of the uncertainty of the results is obscured by the focus on a single set of model parameters and associated ancestral states. The reconstructions of ancestral character states in Brachytheciastrum reveal rampant parallel morphological evolution. Most species previously described based on phenetic grounds are thus resolved of polyphyletic origin. Species polyphylly has been increasingly reported among mosses, raising severe reservations regarding current species definition.
20142993|L1 retrotransposons constitute the largest single component of mammalian genomes. In contrast to the single remaining lineage of L1 retrotransposons in mammalian genomes, some teleost fishes contain a highly diverse L1 retrotransposon repertoire. Major evolutionary changes in L1 retrotransposon repertoires have therefore taken place in the land vertebrates (Tetrapoda). The lack of sequence data for L1 retrotransposons in the basal living Tetrapoda lineages prompted an investigation of their distribution and evolution in the genomes of the key tetrapod lineages, amphibians and reptiles, and in lungfishes. In this study, we combined genome database searches with PCR analysis to demonstrate that L1 retrotransposons are present in the genomes of lungfishes, amphibians, and lepidosaurs. Phylogenomic analysis shows that the genomes of Deuterostomia possess three highly divergent groups of L1 retrotransposons, with distinct distribution patterns. The analysis of L1 diversity shows the presence of a very large number of diverse L1 families, each with very low copy numbers, at the time of the origin of tetrapods. During the evolution of synapsids, all but one L1 lineage have been lost. This study establishes that the loss of L1 diversity and explosion in copy numbers occurred in the synapsid ancestors of mammals, and was most probably caused by severe population bottlenecks.
20142992|Penelope-like elements (PLEs) are a relatively little studied class of eukaryotic retroelements, distinguished by the presence of the GIY-YIG endonuclease domain, the ability of some representatives to retain introns, and the similarity of PLE-encoded reverse transcriptases to telomerases. Although these retrotransposons are abundant in many animal genomes, the reverse transcriptase moiety can also be found in several protists, fungi, and plants, indicating its ancient origin. A comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of PLEs was conducted, based on extended sequence alignments and a considerably expanded data set. PLEs exhibit the pattern of evolution similar to that of non-LTR retrotransposons, which form deep-branching clades dating back to the Precambrian era. However, PLEs seem to have experienced a much higher degree of lineage losses than non-LTR retrotransposons. It is suggested that PLEs and non-LTR retrotransposons are included into a larger eTPRT (eukaryotic target-primed) group of retroelements, characterized by 5 truncation, variable target-site duplication, and the potential of the 3 end to participate in formation of non-autonomous derivatives.
20142904|Australasian marsupials include three major radiations, the insectivorous/carnivorous Dasyuromorphia, the omnivorous bandicoots (Peramelemorphia), and the largely herbivorous diprotodontians. Morphologists have generally considered the bandicoots and diprotodontians to be closely related, most prominently because they are both syndactylous (with the 2nd and 3rd pedal digits being fused). Molecular studies have been unable to confirm or reject this Syndactyla hypothesis. Here we present new mitochondrial (mt) genomes from a spiny bandicoot (Echymipera rufescens) and two dasyurids, a fat-tailed dunnart (Sminthopsis crassicaudata) and a northern quoll (Dasyurus hallucatus). By comparing trees derived from pairwise base-frequency differences between taxa with standard (absolute, uncorrected) distance trees, we infer that composition bias among mt protein-coding and RNA sequences is sufficient to mislead tree reconstruction. This can explain incongruence between trees obtained from mt and nuclear data sets. However, after excluding major sources of compositional heterogeneity, both the "reduced-bias" mt and nuclear data sets clearly favor a bandicoot plus dasyuromorphian association, as well as a grouping of kangaroos and possums (Phalangeriformes) among diprotodontians. Notably, alternatives to these groupings could only be confidently rejected by combining the mt and nuclear data. Elsewhere on the tree, Dromiciops appears to be sister to the monophyletic Australasian marsupials, whereas the placement of the marsupial mole (Notoryctes) remains problematic. More generally, we contend that it is desirable to combine mt genome and nuclear sequences for inferring vertebrate phylogeny, but as separately modeled process partitions. This strategy depends on detecting and excluding (or accounting for) major sources of nonhistorical signal, such as from compositional nonstationarity.
20142898|We describe some new and recent results that allow for the analysis and representation of reticulate evolution by nontree networks. In particular, we (1) present a simple result to show that, despite the presence of reticulation, there is always a well-defined underlying tree that corresponds to those parts of life that do not have a history of reticulation; (2) describe and apply new theory for determining the smallest number of hybridization events required to explain conflicting gene trees; and (3) present a new algorithm to determine whether an arbitrary rooted network can be realized by contemporaneous reticulation events. We illustrate these results with examples.
20142896|It is now well known that incomplete lineage sorting can cause serious difficulties for phylogenetic inference, but little attention has been paid to methods that attempt to overcome these difficulties by explicitly considering the processes that produce them. Here we explore approaches to phylogenetic inference designed to consider retention and sorting of ancestral polymorphism. We examine how the reconstructability of a species (or population) phylogeny is affected by (a) the number of loci used to estimate the phylogeny and (b) the number of individuals sampled per species. Even in difficult cases with considerable incomplete lineage sorting (times between divergences less than 1
20142903|Using a four-taxon example under a simple model of evolution, we show that the methods of maximum likelihood and maximum posterior probability (which is a Bayesian method of inference) may not arrive at the same optimal tree topology. Some patterns that are separately uninformative under the maximum likelihood method are separately informative under the Bayesian method. We also show that this difference has impact on the bootstrap frequencies and the posterior probabilities of topologies, which therefore are not necessarily approximately equal. Efron et al. (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93:13429-13434, 1996) stated that bootstrap frequencies can, under certain circumstances, be interpreted as posterior probabilities. This is true only if one includes a noninformative prior distribution of the possible data patterns, and most often the prior distributions are instead specified in terms of topology and branch lengths.
20142900|The 22 genera and 64 species of rodents (Muridae: Murinae) distributed in the Philippine Islands provide a unique opportunity to study patterns and processes of diversification in island systems. Over 90% of these rodent species are endemic to the archipelago, but the relative importance of dispersal from the mainland, dispersal within the archipelago, and in situ differentiation as explanations of this diversity remains unclear, as no phylogenetic hypothesis for these species and relevant mainland forms is currently available. Here we report the results of phylogenetic analyses of the endemic Philippine murines and a wide sampling of murine diversity from outside the archipelago, based on the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene and the nuclear-encoded IRBP exon 1. Analysis of our combined gene data set consistently identified five clades comprising endemic Philippine genera, suggesting multiple invasions of the archipelago. Molecular dating analyses using parametric and semiparametric methods suggest that colonization occurred in at least two stages, one ca. 15 Mya, and another 8 to 12 million years later, consistent with the previous recognition of "Old" and "New" endemic rodent faunas. Ancestral area analysis suggests that the Old Endemics invaded landmasses that are now part of the island of Luzon, whereas the three New Endemic clades may have colonized through either Mindanao, Luzon, or both. Further, our results suggest that most of the diversification of Philippine murines took place within the archipelago. Despite heterogeneity between nuclear and mitochondrial genes in most model parameters, combined analysis of the two data sets using both parsimony and likelihood increased phylogenetic resolution; however, the effect of data combination on support for resolved nodes was method dependent. In contrast, our results suggest that combination of mitochondrial and nuclear data to estimate relatively ancient divergence times can severely compromise those estimates, even when specific methods that account for rate heterogeneity among genes are employed.
20142899|Nuclear introns are commonly used as phylogenetic markers, but a number of issues related to alignment strategies, indel treatments, and the incorporation of length-variant heterozygotes (LVHs) are not routinely addressed when generating phylogenetic hypotheses. Topological congruence in relation to an extensive mitochondrial DNA multigene phylogeny (derived from 2423 bp of 12S, 16S, ND4, and CYTB genes) of the Asian pitviper "Trimeresurus" radiation was used to compare combinations of "by eye" and edited and unedited ClustalX 1.8 alignments of two nuclear introns. Indels were treated as missing data, fifth character states, and assigned simple and multistate codes. Upon recovery of the optimal alignment and indel treatment strategy, a total evidence approach was used to investigate the phylogenetic utility of the indels and test new generic arrangements within Trimeresurus. Approximately one third of the intron data partitions exhibited LVHs, suggesting that they are common in introns. Furthermore, a simple concatenation approach can facilitate the incorporation of LVHs into phylogenetic analyses to make use of all available data and investigate mechanisms of molecular evolution. Analyses of ClustalX 1.8-assisted alignments were generally more congruent than the "by eye" alignment and the analysis of a simple coded, edited ClustalX 1.8 (gap opening cost 5, gap extension cost 1) alignment revealed the most congruent tree. The total evidence approach supported the new arrangements within Trimeresurus, suggesting that the phylogeny should be considered as a working benchmark in Asian pitviper systematics. Finally, a critical appraisal of the diverse array of indels (56 to 57 per intron, ranging from 1 to 151 bp in length) suggested that they are a combination of Hennigian and homoplasious events unrelated to indel size or location within the intron.
20142897|Previous phylogenetic studies of the bee tribe Allodapini suggested a puzzling biogeographic problem: one of the key basal divergences involved separation of the southern African and southern Australian clades at a very early stage in allodapine evolution, but no taxa occur in the Palaearctic or Asian regions that might suggest a Laurasian dispersal route. However, these studies lacked sufficient sequence data and appropriate maximum likelihood partition models to provide reliable phylogenetic estimates and enable alternative biogeographic hypotheses to be distinguished. Using Bayesian and penalized likelihood approaches and an expanded sequence and taxon set we examine phylogenetic relationships between the Australian, African, and Malagasy groups and estimate divergence times for key nodes. We show that divergence of the three basal Australian clades (known as the exoneurines) occurred at least 25 Mya following a single colonization event, and that this group diverged from the African + Madagascan clade at least 30 Mya, but actual divergence dates are likely to be much older than these very conservative limits. The bifurcation order of the exoneurine clades was not resolved and analyses could not rule out the existence of a hard polytomy, suggesting rapid radiation after colonization of Australia. Their divergence involved major transitions in life history traits and these placed constraints on the kinds of social organization that subsequently evolved in each lineage. Early divergence between the African, Malagasy, and Australian clades presents a major puzzle for historical biogeography: node ages are too recent for Gondwanan vicariance hypotheses, but too early for Laurasian dispersal scenarios. We suggest a scenario involving island hopping across the Indian Ocean via a series of now largely submerged elements of the Kergulen Plateau and Broken Ridge provinces, both of which are known to have had subaerial formations during the Cenozoic.
20142901|Reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (RJ-MCMC) is a technique for simultaneously evaluating multiple related (but not necessarily nested) statistical models that has recently been applied to the problem of phylogenetic model selection. Here we use a simulation approach to assess the performance of this method and compare it to Akaike weights, a measure of model uncertainty that is based on the Akaike information criterion. Under conditions where the assumptions of the candidate models matched the generating conditions, both Bayesian and AIC-based methods perform well. The 95% credible interval contained the generating model close to 95% of the time. However, the size of the credible interval differed with the Bayesian credible set containing approximately 25% to 50% fewer models than an AIC-based credible interval. The posterior probability was a better indicator of the correct model than the Akaike weight when all assumptions were met but both measures performed similarly when some model assumptions were violated. Models in the Bayesian posterior distribution were also more similar to the generating model in their number of parameters and were less biased in their complexity. In contrast, Akaike-weighted models were more distant from the generating model and biased towards slightly greater complexity. The AIC-based credible interval appeared to be more robust to the violation of the rate homogeneity assumption. Both AIC and Bayesian approaches suggest that substantial uncertainty can accompany the choice of model for phylogenetic analyses, suggesting that alternative candidate models should be examined in analysis of phylogenetic data.
20142902|A newly compiled data set of nearly complete sequences of the large subunit of the nuclear ribosome (LSU or 28S) sampled from 31 diverse medusozoans greatly clarifies the phylogenetic history of Cnidaria. These data have substantial power to discern among many of the competing hypotheses of relationship derived from prior work. Moreover, LSU data provide strong support at key nodes that were equivocal based on other molecular markers. Combining LSU sequences with those of the small subunit of the nuclear ribosome (SSU or 18S), we present a detailed working hypothesis of medusozoan relationships and discuss character evolution within this diverse clade. Stauromedusae, comprising the benthic, so-called stalked jellyfish, appears to be the sister group of all other medusozoans, implying that the free-swimming medusa stage, the motor nerve net, and statocysts of ecto-endodermal origin are features derived within Medusozoa. Cubozoans, which have had uncertain phylogenetic affinities since the elucidation of their life cycles, form a clade--named Acraspeda--with the scyphozoan groups Coronatae, Rhizostomeae, and Semaeostomeae. The polyps of both cubozoans and hydrozoans appear to be secondarily simplified. Hydrozoa is comprised by two well-supported clades, Trachylina and Hydroidolina. The position of Limnomedusae within Trachylina indicates that the ancestral hydrozoan had a biphasic life cycle and that the medusa was formed via an entocodon. Recently hypothesized homologies between the entocodon and bilaterian mesoderm are therefore suspect. Laingiomedusae, which has often been viewed as a close ally of the trachyline group Narcomedusae, is instead shown to be unambiguously a member of Hydroidolina. The important model organisms of the Hydra species complex are part of a clade, Aplanulata, with other hydrozoans possessing direct development not involving a ciliated planula stage. Finally, applying phylogenetic mixture models to our data proved to be of little additional value over a more traditional phylogenetic approach involving explicit hypothesis testing and bootstrap analyses under multiple optimality criteria.
20142895|Even though relationships within Annelida are poorly understood, Eunicida is one of only a few major annelid lineages well supported by morphology. The seven recognized eunicid families possess sclerotized jaws that include mandibles and a maxillary apparatus. The maxillary apparatuses vary in shape and number of elements, and three main types are recognized in extant taxa: ctenognath, labidognath, and prionognath. Ctenognath jaws are usually considered to represent the plesiomorphic state of Eunicida, whereas taxa with labidognath and prionognath are thought to form a derived monophyletic assemblage. However, this hypothesis has never been tested in a statistical framework even though it holds considerable importance for understanding annelid phylogeny and possibly lophotrochozoan evolution because Eunicida has the best annelid fossil record. Therefore, we used maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference approaches to reconstruct Eunicida phylogeny using sequence data from nuclear 18S and 28S rDNA genes and mitochondrial 16S rDNA and cytochrome c oxidase subunit I genes. Additionally, we conducted three different tests to investigate suitability of combining data sets. Incongruence length difference (ILD) and Shimodaira-Hasegawa (SH) test comparisons of resultant trees under different data partitions have been widely used previously but do not give a good indication as to which nodes may be causing the conflict. Thus, we developed a partition addition bootstrap alteration (PABA) approach that evaluates congruence or conflict for any given node by determining how bootstrap scores are altered when different data partitions are added. PABA shows the contribution of each partition to the phylogeny obtained in the combined analysis. Generally, the ILD test performed worse than the other approaches in detecting incongruence. Both PABA and the SH approach indicated the 28S and COI data sets add conflicting signal, but PABA is more informative for elucidating which data partition may be misleading at a given node. All our analyses indicate that the monophyly of the labidognath/prionognath taxa and even a labidognath clade (i.e., a "Eunicidae"/Onuphidae/Lumbrineridae clade) is significantly rejected. We show that the definition of both the labidognath and ctenognath jaw type does not address adequately the variation within Eunicida and thus misleads our current evolutionary understanding. Based on the presented results a symmetric maxillary apparatus with a carrier and four to six maxillae is most likely the plesiomorphic condition for Eunicida.
20142954| Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) is a methodology that is gaining widespread use in the phylogenetics community and is central to phylogenetic software packages such as MrBayes. An important issue for users of MCMC methods is how to select appropriate values for adjustable parameters such as the length of the Markov chain or chains, the sampling density, the proposal mechanism, and, if Metropolis-coupled MCMC is being used, the number of heated chains and their temperatures. Although some parameter settings have been examined in detail in the literature, others are frequently chosen with more regard to computational time or personal experience with other data sets. Such choices may lead to inadequate sampling of tree space or an inefficient use of computational resources. We performed a detailed study of convergence and mixing for 70 randomly selected, putatively orthologous protein sets with different sizes and taxonomic compositions. Replicated runs from multiple random starting points permit a more rigorous assessment of convergence, and we developed two novel statistics,  and , for this purpose. Although likelihood values invariably stabilized quickly, adequate sampling of the posterior distribution of tree topologies took considerably longer. Our results suggest that multimodality is common for data sets with 30 or more taxa and that this results in slow convergence and mixing. However, we also found that the pragmatic approach of combining data from several short, replicated runs into a "metachain" to estimate bipartition posterior probabilities provided good approximations, and that such estimates were no worse in approximating a reference posterior distribution than those obtained using a single long run of the same length as the metachain. Precision appears to be best when heated Markov chains have low temperatures, whereas chains with high temperatures appear to sample trees with high posterior probabilities only rarely. 
20142957|Cataloging the very large number of undescribed species of insects could be greatly accelerated by automated DNA based approaches, but procedures for large-scale species discovery from sequence data are currently lacking. Here, we use mitochondrial DNA variation to delimit species in a poorly known beetle radiation in the genus Rivacindela from arid Australia. Among 468 individuals sampled from 65 sites and multiple morphologically distinguishable types, sequence variation in three mtDNA genes (cytochrome oxidase subunit 1, cytochrome b, 16S ribosomal RNA) was strongly partitioned between 46 or 47 putative species identified with quantitative methods of species recognition based on fixed unique ("diagnostic") characters. The boundaries between groups were also recognizable from a striking increase in branching rate in clock-constrained calibrated trees. Models of stochastic lineage growth (Yule models) were combined with coalescence theory to develop a new likelihood method that determines the point of transition from species-level (speciation and extinction) to population-level (coalescence) evolutionary processes. Fitting the location of the switches from speciation to coalescent nodes on the ultrametric tree of Rivacindela produced a transition in branching rate occurring at 0.43 Mya, leading to an estimate of 48 putative species (confidence interval for the threshold ranging from 47 to 51 clusters within 2 logL units). Entities delimited in this way exhibited biological properties of traditionally defined species, showing coherence of geographic ranges, broad congruence with morphologically recognized species, and levels of sequence divergence typical for closely related species of insects. The finding of discontinuous evolutionary groupings that are readily apparent in patterns of sequence variation permits largely automated species delineation from DNA surveys of local communities as a scaffold for taxonomy in this poorly known insect group.
20142960|The node-density effect is an artifact of phylogeny reconstruction that can cause branch lengths to be underestimated in areas of the tree with fewer taxa. Webster, Payne, and Pagel (2003, Science 301:478) introduced a statistical procedure (the "delta" test) to detect this artifact, and here we report the results of computer simulations that examine the test's performance. In a sample of 50,000 random data sets, we find that the delta test detects the artifact in 94.4% of cases in which it is present. When the artifact is not present (n = 10,000 simulated data sets) the test showed a type I error rate of approximately 1.69%, incorrectly reporting the artifact in 169 data sets. Three measures of tree shape or "balance" failed to predict the size of the node-density effect. This may reflect the relative homogeneity of our randomly generated topologies, but emphasizes that nearly any topology can suffer from the artifact, the effect not being confined only to highly unevenly sampled or otherwise imbalanced trees. The ability to screen phylogenies for the node-density artifact is important for phylogenetic inference and for researchers using phylogenetic trees to infer evolutionary processes, including their use in molecular clock dating.
20142953| We revisit statistical tests for branches of evolutionary trees reconstructed upon molecular data. A new, fast, approximate likelihood-ratio test (aLRT) for branches is presented here as a competitive alternative to nonparametric bootstrap and Bayesian estimation of branch support. The aLRT is based on the idea of the conventional LRT, with the null hypothesis corresponding to the assumption that the inferred branch has length 0. We show that the LRT statistic is asymptotically distributed as a maximum of three random variables drawn from the  +  distribution. The new aLRT of interior branch uses this distribution for significance testing, but the test statistic is approximated in a slightly conservative but practical way as 2( - ), i.e., double the difference between the maximum log-likelihood values corresponding to the best tree and the second best topological arrangement around the branch of interest. Such a test is fast because the log-likelihood value  is computed by optimizing only over the branch of interest and the four adjacent branches, whereas other parameters are fixed at their optimal values corresponding to the best ML tree. The performance of the new test was studied on simulated 4-, 12-, and 100-taxon data sets with sequences of different lengths. The aLRT is shown to be accurate, powerful, and robust to certain violations of model assumptions. The aLRT is implemented within the algorithm used by the recent fast maximum likelihood tree estimation program PHYML (Guindon and Gascuel, 2003). 
20142958|Most implementations of molecular clocks require resolved topologies. However, one of the Bayesian relaxed clock approaches accepts input topologies that include polytomies. We explored the effects of resolved and polytomous input topologies in a rate-heterogeneous sequence data set for Gnetum, a member of the seed plant lineage Gnetales. Gnetum has 10 species in South America, 1 in tropical West Africa, and 20 to 25 in tropical Asia, and explanations for the ages of these disjunctions involve long-distance dispersal and/or the breakup of Gondwana. To resolve relationships within Gnetum, we sequenced most of its species for six loci from the chloroplast (rbcL, matK, and the trnT-trnF region), the nucleus (rITS/5.8S and the LEAFY gene second intron), and the mitochondrion (nad1 gene second intron). Because Gnetum has no fossil record, we relied on fossils from other Gnetales and from the seed plant lineages conifers, Ginkgo, cycads, and angiosperms to constrain a molecular clock and obtain absolute times for within-Gnetum divergence events. Relationships among Gnetales and the other seed plant lineages are still unresolved, and we therefore used differently resolved topologies, including one that contained a basal polytomy among gymnosperms. For a small set of Gnetales exemplars (n = 13) in which rbcL and matK satisfied the clock assumption, we also obtained time estimates from a strict clock, calibrated with one outgroup fossil. The changing hierarchical relationships among seed plants (and accordingly changing placements of distant fossils) resulted in small changes of within-Gnetum estimates because topologically closest constraints overrode more distant constraints. Regardless of the seed plant topology assumed, relaxed clock estimates suggest that the extant clades of Gnetum began diverging from each other during the Upper Oligocene. Strict clock estimates imply a mid-Miocene divergence. These estimates, together with the phylogeny for Gnetum from the six combined data sets, imply that the single African species of Gnetum is not a remnant of a once Gondwanan distribution. Miocene and Pliocene range expansions are inferred for the Asian subclades of Gnetum, which stem from an ancestor that arrived from Africa. These findings fit with seed dispersal by water in several species of Gnetum, morphological similarities among apparently young species, and incomplete concerted evolution in the nuclear ITS region.
20142963|The estimation of ever larger phylogenies requires consideration of alternative inference strategies, including divide-and-conquer approaches that decompose the global inference problem to a set of smaller, more manageable component problems. A prominent locus of research in this area is the development of supertree methods, which estimate a composite tree by combining a set of partially overlapping component topologies. Although promising, the use of component tree topologies as the primary data dissociates supertrees from complexities within the underling character data and complicates the evaluation of phylogenetic uncertainty. We address these issues by exploring three approaches that variously incorporate nonparametric bootstrapping into a common supertree estimation algorithm (matrix representation with parsimony, although any algorithm might be used), including bootstrap-weighting, source-tree bootstrapping, and hierarchical bootstrapping. We illustrate these procedures by means of hypothetical and empirical examples. Our preliminary experiments suggest that these methods have the potential to improve the correspondence of supertree estimates to those derived from simultaneous analysis of the combined data and to allow uncertainty in supertree topologies to be quantified. The ability to increase the transparency of supertrees to the underlying character data has several practical implications and sheds new light on an old debate. These methods have been implemented in the freely available program, tREeBOOT.
20142956| Ranidae is a large anuran group with a nearly cosmopolitan distribution. We investigated the phylogenetic relationships and early biogeographic history of ranid frogs, using 104 representatives of all subfamilies and families, sampled from throughout their distribution. Analyses of 1570 bp of nuclear gene fragments (Rag-1, rhod, Tyr) and 2100 bp of the mitochondrial genome (12S rRNA,
20142959|Allelic variation within individuals holds information regarding the relationships of organisms, which is expected to be particularly important for reconstructing the evolutionary history of closely related taxa. However, little effort has been committed to incorporate such information for reconstructing the phylogeny of organisms. Haplotype trees represent a solution when one nonrecombinant marker is considered, but there is no satisfying method when multiple genes are to be combined. In this paper, we propose an algorithm that converts a distance matrix of alleles to a distance matrix among organisms. This algorithm allows the incorporation of allelic variation for reconstructing the phylogeny of organisms from one ore more genes. The method is applied to reconstruct the phylogeny of the seven native diploid species of Rosa sect. Cinnamomeae in North America. The glyceralgehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), the triose phosphate isomerase (TPI), and the malate synthase (MS) genes were sequenced for 40 individuals from these species. The three genes had little genetic variation, and most species showed incomplete lineage sorting, suggesting these species have a recent origin. Despite these difficulties, the networks (NeighborNet) of organisms reconstructed from the matrix obtained with the algorithm recovered groups that more closely match taxonomic boundaries than did the haplotype trees. The combined network of individuals shows that species west of the Rocky Mountains, Rosa gymnocarpa and R. pisocarpa, form exclusive groups and that together they are distinct from eastern species. In the east, three groups were found to be exclusive: R. nitida-R. palustris, R. foliolosa, and R. blanda-R. woodsii. These groups are congruent with the morphology and the ecology of species. The method is also useful for representing hybrid individuals when the relationships are reconstructed using a phylogenetic network.
20142962|This article presents a new way to quantify the descriptive ability of tree shape statistics. Where before, tree shape statistics were chosen by their ability to distinguish between macroevolutionary models, the resolution presented in this paper quantifies the ability of a statistic to differentiate between similar and different trees. This is termed the geometric approach to differentiate it from the model-based approach previously explored. A distinct advantage of this perspective is that it allows evaluation of multiple tree shape statistics describing different aspects of tree shape. After developing the methodology, it is applied here to make specific recommendations for a suite of three statistics that may prove useful in applications. The article ends with an application of the statistics of clarify the impact of taxa omission on tree shape.
20142955|Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed among chironemid fishes based on morphological and molecular (lrRNA, NADH4, S7 ribosomal protein) characters. Two sympatric species from Juan Fernndez in the southeast Pacific are not sister taxa, but rather exhibit independent relationships to Australian/New Zealand chironemids. The most plausible explanation for these relationships and contemporary distributions is an Australian/New Zealand origin of the family, followed by two trans-Pacific dispersal and colonization events, facilitated by larval entrapment within the West Wind Drift. This study demonstrates that the diversity of taxa on an island can reflect multiple colonizations, rather than in situ diversification, even in the case of very small, isolated, and geologically recent islands. When taken in conjunction with studies of related taxa, our results indicate that transoceanic dispersal of temperate cirrhitoid fishes in the South Pacific has been frequent and unidirectional. Molecular estimates of divergence time between southeast Pacific chironemids and their western relatives predate the emergence of Juan Fernndez, consistent with hypotheses that much of the marine nearshore faunas of young southeast Pacific islands may be the product of successive transfer from older, now submerged islands.
20142961|The Noah's Ark Problem (NAP) is a comprehensive cost-effectiveness methodology for biodiversity conservation that was introduced by Weitzman (1998) and utilizes the phylogenetic tree containing the taxa of interest to assess biodiversity. Given a set of taxa, each of which has a particular survival probability that can be increased at some cost, the NAP seeks to allocate limited funds to conserving these taxa so that the future expected biodiversity is maximized. Finding optimal solutions using this framework is a computationally difficult problem to which a simple and efficient "greedy" algorithm has been proposed in the literature and applied to conservation problems. We show that, although algorithms of this type cannot produce optimal solutions for the general NAP, there are two restricted scenarios of the NAP for which a greedy algorithm is guaranteed to produce optimal solutions. The first scenario requires the taxa to have equal conservation cost; the second scenario requires an ultrametric tree. The NAP assumes a linear relationship between the funding allocated to conservation of a taxon and the increased survival probability of that taxon. This relationship is briefly investigated and one variation is suggested that can also be solved using a greedy algorithm.
20142924|Phylogenies are often thought to be more dependent upon the specifics of the sequence alignment rather than on the method of reconstruction. Simulation of sequences containing insertion and deletion events was performed in order to determine the role that alignment accuracy plays during phylogenetic inference. Data sets were simulated for pectinate, balanced, and random tree shapes under different conditions (ultrametric equal branch length, ultrametric random branch length, nonultrametric random branch length). Comparisons between hypothesized alignments and true alignments enabled determination of two measures of alignment accuracy, that of the total data set and that of individual branches. In general, our results indicate that as alignment error increases, topological accuracy decreases. This trend was much more pronounced for data sets derived from more pectinate topologies. In contrast, for balanced, ultrametric, equal branch length tree shapes, alignment inaccuracy had little average effect on tree reconstruction. These conclusions are based on average trends of many analyses under different conditions, and any one specific analysis, independent of the alignment accuracy, may recover very accurate or inaccurate topologies. Maximum likelihood and Bayesian, in general, outperformed neighbor joining and maximum parsimony in terms of tree reconstruction accuracy. Results also indicated that as the length of the branch and of the neighboring branches increase, alignment accuracy decreases, and the length of the neighboring branches is the major factor in topological accuracy. Thus, multiple-sequence alignment can be an important factor in downstream effects on topological reconstruction.
20142915|Due in part to scarcity of material, no published study has yet cladistically addressed the systematics of living and fossil Tenrecidae (Mammalia, Afrotheria). Using a noninvasive technique for sampling nuclear DNA from museum specimens, we investigate the evolution of the Tenrecidae and assess the extent to which tenrecids fit patterns of relationships proposed for other terrestrial mammals on Madagascar. Application of several tree-reconstruction techniques on sequences of the nuclear growth hormone receptor gene and morphological data for all recognized tenrecid genera supports monophyly of Malagasy tenrecids to the exclusion of the two living African genera. However, both parsimony and Bayesian methods favor a close relationship between fossil African tenrecs and the Malagasy Geogale, supporting the hypothesis of island paraphyly, but not polyphyly. More generally, the noninvasive extraction technique can be applied with minimal risk to rare/unique specimens and, by better utilizing museum collections for genetic work, can greatly mitigate field expenses and disturbance of natural populations.
20142919|Greater phylogenetic signal is often found in parsimony-based analyses of third codon positions of protein-coding genes relative to their corresponding first and second codon positions, even for early-derived ("basal") clades. We used the Soltis et al. (2000; Bot. J. Linn. Soc. 133:381-461) data matrix of atpB and rbcL from 567 seed plants to quantify how each of six factors (observed character-state space, frequencies of observed character states, substitution probabilities among nucleotides, rate heterogeneity among sites, overall rate of evolution, and number of parsimony-informative characters) contributed to this phenomenon. Each of these six factors was estimated from the original data matrix for parsimony-informative third codon positions considered separately from first and second codon positions combined. One of the most parsimonious trees found was used as the constraint topology; branch lengths were estimated using likelihood-based distances, and characters were simulated on this tree. Differential frequencies of observed character states were found to be the most limiting of the factors simulated for all three codon positions. Differential frequencies of observed character states and differential substitution probabilities among states were relatively advantageous for first and second codon positions. In contrast, differential numbers of observed character states, differential rate heterogeneity among sites, the greater number of parsimony-informative characters, and the higher overall rate of evolution were relatively advantageous for third codon positions. The amount of possible synapomorphy was predictive of the overall success of resolution.
20142918|Platyrrhine primates and caviomorph rodents are clades of mammals that colonized South America during its period of isolation from the other continents, between 100 and 3 million years ago (Mya). Until now, no molecular study investigated the timing of the South American colonization by these two lineages with the same molecular data set. Using sequences from three nuclear genes (ADRA2B, vWF, and IRBP, both separate and combined) from 60 species, and eight fossil calibration constraints, we estimated the times of origin and diversification of platyrrhines and caviomorphs via a Bayesian relaxed molecular clock approach. To account for the possible effect of an accelerated rate of evolution of the IRBP gene along the branch leading to the anthropoids, we performed the datings with and without IRBP (3768 sites and 2469 sites, respectively). The time window for the colonization of South America by primates and by rodents is demarcated by the dates of origin (upper bound) and radiation (lower bound) of platyrrhines and caviomorphs. According to this approach, platyrrhine primates colonized South America between 37.0  3.0 Mya (or 38.9  4.0 Mya without IRBP) and 16.8  2.3 (or 20.1  3.3) Mya, and caviomorph rodents between 45.4  4.1 (or 43.7  4.8) Mya and 36.7  3.7 (or 35.8  4.3) Mya. Considering both the fossil record and these molecular datings, the favored scenarios are a trans-Atlantic migration of primates from Africa at the end of the Eocene or beginning of the Oligocene, and a colonization of South America by rodents during the Middle or Late Eocene. Based on our nuclear DNA data, we cannot rule out the possibility of a concomitant arrival of primates and rodents in South America. The caviomorphs radiated soon after their arrival, before the Oligocene glaciations, and these early caviomorph lineages persisted until the present. By contrast, few platyrrhine fossils are known in the Oligocene, and the present-day taxa are the result of a quite recent, Early Miocene diversification.
20142925| Nuclear DNA sequence data for diploid organisms are potentially a rich source of phylogenetic information for disentangling the evolutionary relationships of closely related organisms, but present special phylogenetic problems owing to difficulties arising from heterozygosity and recombination. We analyzed allelic relationships for two nuclear gene regions (phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and elongation factor-1), along with a mitochondrial gene region (NADH dehydrogenase subunit5), for an assemblage of closely related species of carabid beetles (Carabus subgenus Ohomopterus). We used a network approach to examine whether the nuclear gene sequences provide substantial phylogenetic information on species relationships and evolutionary history. The mitochondrial gene genealogy strongly contradicted the morphological species boundary as a result of introgression of heterospecific mitochondria. Two nuclear gene regions showed high allelic diversity within species, and this diversity was partially attributable to recombination between various alleles and high variability in the intron region. Shared nuclear alleles among species were rare and were considered to represent shared ancestral polymorphism. Despite the presence of recombination, nuclear allelic networks recovered species monophyly more often and presented genetic differentiation patterns (low to high) among species more clearly. Overall, nuclear gene networks provide clear evidence for separate biological species and information on the phylogenetic relationships among closely related carabid beetles. 
20142922| The mitochondrial genome is one of the most frequently used loci in phylogenetic and phylogeographic analyses, and it is becoming increasingly possible to sequence and analyze this genome in its entirety from diverse taxa. However, sequencing the entire genome is not always desirable or feasible. Which genes should be selected to best infer the evolutionary history of the mitochondria within a group of organisms, and what properties of a gene determine its phylogenetic performance? The current study addresses these questions in a Bayesian phylogenetic framework with reference to a phylogeny of plethodontid and related salamanders derived from 27 complete mitochondrial genomes; this topology is corroborated by nuclear DNA and morphological data. Evolutionary rates for each mitochondrial gene and divergence dates for all nodes in the plethodontid mitochondrial genome phylogeny were estimated in both Bayesian and maximum likelihood frameworks using multiple fossil calibrations, multiple data partitions, and a clock-independent approach. Bayesian analyses of individual genes were performed, and the resulting trees compared against the reference topology. Ordinal logistic regression analysis of molecular evolution rate, gene length, and the -shape parameter  demonstrated that slower rate of evolution and longer gene length both increased the probability that a gene would perform well phylogenetically. Estimated rates of molecular evolution vary 84-fold among different mitochondrial genes and different salamander lineages, and mean rates among genes vary 15-fold. Despite having conserved amino acid sequences, cox1, cox2, cox3, and cob have the fastest mean rates of nucleotide substitution, and the greatest variation in rates, whereas rrnS and rrnL have the slowest rates. Reasons underlying this rate variation are discussed, as is the extensive rate variation in cox1 in light of its proposed role in DNA barcoding. 
20142923|A recent molecular phylogeny of the mammalian order Carnivora implied large body size as the ancestral condition for the caniform subclade Arctoidea using the distribution of species mean body sizes among living taxa. "Extant taxa--only" approaches such as these discount character state observations for fossil members of living clades and completely ignore data from extinct lineages. To more rigorously reconstruct body sizes of ancestral forms within the Caniformia, body size and first appearance data were collected for 149 extant and 367 extinct taxa. Body sizes were reconstructed for four ancestral nodes using weighted squared-change parsimony on log-transformed body mass data. Reconstructions based on extant taxa alone favored large body sizes (on the order of 10 to 50 kg) for the last common ancestors of both the Caniformia and Arctoidea. In contrast, reconstructions incorporating fossil data support small body sizes (&lt5 kg) for the ancestors of those clades. When the temporal information associated with fossil data was discarded, body size reconstructions became ambiguous, demonstrating that incorporating both character state and temporal information from fossil taxa unambiguously supports a small ancestral body size, thereby falsifying hypotheses derived from extant taxa alone. Body size reconstructions for Caniformia, Arctoidea, and Musteloidea were not sensitive to potential errors introduced by uncertainty in the position of extinct lineages relative to the molecular topology, or to missing body size data for extinct members of an entire major clade (the aquatic Pinnipedia). Incorporating character state observations and temporal information from the fossil record into hypothesis testing has a significant impact on the ability to reconstruct ancestral characters and constrains the range of potential hypotheses of character evolution. Fossil data here provide the evidence to reliably document trends of both increasing and decreasing body size in several caniform clades. More generally, including fossils in such analyses incorporates evidence of directional trends, thereby yielding more reliable ancestral character state reconstructions.
20142921|Typically, supertree methods combine a collection of source trees in which just the leaves are labeled by taxa. In such methods the resulting supertree is also leaf labeled. An underlying assumption in these methods is that across all trees in the collection, no two of the taxa are nested; for example, "buttercups" and "plants" are nested taxa. Motivated by Page, the first supertree algorithm for allowing the source trees to collectively have nested taxa is called AncestralBuild. Here, in addition to taxa labeling the leaves, the source trees may have taxa labeling some of their interior nodes. Taxa-labeling interior nodes are at a higher taxonomic level than that of their descendants (for example, genera versus species). Analogous to the supertree method Build for deciding the compatibility of a collection of source trees in which just the leaves are labeled, AncestralBuild is a polynomial-time algorithm for deciding the compatibility of a collection of source trees in which some of the interior nodes are also labeled by taxa. Although a more general method, in this paper we show that the original description of AncestralBuild can be modified so that the running time is as fast as the current fastest running time for Build. Fast computation for deciding compatibility is essential if one is to make use of phylogenetic databases that contain thousands of trees on tens of thousands of taxa. This is particularly so as AncestralBuild is incorporated as a basic tool inside more general supertree methods (that is, methods that always output a tree regardless of the compatibility of the source trees). We apply the method to propose a comprehensive phylogeny of the strepsirrhines, a major group of the primates.
20142920|A new method is developed for calculating sequence substitution probabilities using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. The basic strategy is to use uniformization to transform the original continuous time Markov process into a Poisson substitution process and a discrete Markov chain of state transitions. An efficient MCMC algorithm for evaluating substitution probabilities by this approach using a continuous gamma distribution to model site-specific rates is outlined. The method is applied to the problem of inferring branch lengths and site-specific rates from nucleotide sequences under a general time-reversible (GTR) model and a computer program BYPASSR is developed. Simulations are used to examine the performance of the new program relative to an existing program BASEML that uses a discrete approximation for the gamma distributed prior on site-specific rates. It is found that BASEML and BYPASSR are in close agreement when inferring branch lengths, regardless of the number of rate categories used, but that BASEML tends to underestimate high site-specific substitution rates, and to overestimate intermediate rates, when fewer than 50 rate categories are used. Rate estimates obtained using BASEML agree more closely with those of BYPASSR as the number of rate categories increases. Analyses of the posterior distributions of site-specific rates from BYPASSR suggest that a large number of taxa are needed to obtain precise estimates of site-specific rates, especially when rates are very high or very low. The method is applied to analyze 45 sequences of the alpha 2B adrenergic receptor gene (A2AB) from a sample of eutherian taxa. In general, the pattern expected for regions under negative selection is observed with third codon positions having the highest inferred rates, followed by first codon positions and with second codon positions having the lowest inferred rates. Several sites show exceptionally high substitution rates at second codon positions that may represent the effects of positive selection.
20142917|The fossil record indicates that Myzostomida, an enigmatic group of marine worms, traditionally considered as annelids, have exhibited a symbiotic relationship with echinoderms, especially crinoids, for nearly 350 million years. All known extant myzostomids are associated with echinoderms and infest their integument, gonads, celom, or digestive system. Using nuclear (18S rDNA) and mitochondrial (16S and COI) DNA sequence data from 37 myzostomid species representing nine genera, we report here the first molecular phylogeny of the Myzostomida and investigate the evolution of their various symbiotic associations. Our analyses indicate that the two orders Proboscidea and Pharyngidea do not constitute natural groupings. Character reconstruction analyses strongly suggest that (1) the ancestor of all extant myzostomids was an ectocommensal that first infested crinoids, and then asteroids and ophiuroids, and (2) parasitism in myzostomids emerged multiple times independently.
20142916|In the Bayesian paradigm, a common method for comparing two models is to compute the Bayes factor, defined as the ratio of their respective marginal likelihoods. In recent phylogenetic works, the numerical evaluation of marginal likelihoods has often been performed using the harmonic mean estimation procedure. In the present article, we propose to employ another method, based on an analogy with statistical physics, called thermodynamic integration. We describe the method, propose an implementation, and show on two analytical examples that this numerical method yields reliable estimates. In contrast, the harmonic mean estimator leads to a strong overestimation of the marginal likelihood, which is all the more pronounced as the model is higher dimensional. As a result, the harmonic mean estimator systematically favors more parameter-rich models, an artefact that might explain some recent puzzling observations, based on harmonic mean estimates, suggesting that Bayes factors tend to overscore complex models. Finally, we apply our method to the comparison of several alternative models of amino-acid replacement. We confirm our previous observations, indicating that modeling pattern heterogeneity across sites tends to yield better models than standard empirical matrices.
20142980|We investigate the impact of past climates on plant diversification by tracking the "footprint" of climate change on a phylogenetic tree. Diversity within the cosmopolitan carnivorous plant genus Drosera (Droseraceae) is focused within Mediterranean climate regions. We explore whether this diversity is temporally linked to Mediterranean-type climatic shifts of the mid-Miocene and whether climate preferences are conservative over phylogenetic timescales. Phyloclimatic modeling combines environmental niche (bioclimatic) modeling with phylogenetics in order to study evolutionary patterns in relation to climate change. We present the largest and most complete such example to date using Drosera. The bioclimatic models of extant species demonstrate clear phylogenetic patterns; this is particularly evident for the tuberous sundews from southwestern Australia (subgenus Ergaleium). We employ a method for establishing confidence intervals of node ages on a phylogeny using replicates from a Bayesian phylogenetic analysis. This chronogram shows that many clades, including subgenus Ergaleium and section Bryastrum, diversified during the establishment of the Mediterranean-type climate. Ancestral reconstructions of bioclimatic models demonstrate a pattern of preference for this climate type within these groups. Ancestral bioclimatic models are projected into palaeo-climate reconstructions for the time periods indicated by the chronogram. We present two such examples that each generate plausible estimates of ancestral lineage distribution, which are similar to their current distributions. This is the first study to attempt bioclimatic projections on evolutionary time scales. The sundews appear to have diversified in response to local climate development. Some groups are specialized for Mediterranean climates, others show wide-ranging generalism. This demonstrates that Phyloclimatic modeling could be repeated for other plant groups and is fundamental to the understanding of evolutionary responses to climate change.
20142983| Collections of phylogenetic trees are usually summarized using consensus methods. These methods build a single tree, supposed to be representative of the collection. However, in the case of heterogeneous collections of trees, the resulting consensus may be poorly resolved (strict consensus, majority-rule consensus,...), or may perform arbitrary choices among mutually incompatible clades, or splits (greedy consensus). Here, we propose an alternative method, which we call the multipolar consensus (MPC). Its aim is to display all the splits having a support above a predefined threshold, in a minimum number of consensus trees, or poles. We show that the problem is equivalent to a graph-coloring problem, and propose an implementation of the method. Finally, we apply the MPC to real data sets. Our results indicate that, typically, all the splits down to a weight of 10% can be displayed in no more than 4 trees. In addition, in some cases, biologically relevant secondary signals, which would not have been present in any of the classical consensus trees, are indeed captured by our method, indicating that the MPC provides a convenient exploratory method for phylogenetic analysis. The method was implemented in a package freely available at http://www.lirmm.fr/cbonnard/MPC.html. 
20142979|A combination approach between the rules and recommendations from the Linnean (rank-based) and phylogenetic nomenclature is proposed, with a review of the debate. Advantages and drawbacks of both systems are discussed. Too often the debates are biased and unconstructive, and there is a need for dialogue and compromise. Our recommendations for the future of biological classification, to be considered by new editions of all codes of nomenclature, would enable the Linnean and the phylogenetic nomenclatural systems to coexist, or be combined. (1) We see it as essential that species binomen, including the formal rank of genus, are retained, and (2) species should continue to be linked to type specimens. (3) The use of other formal ranks should be minimized; however, we suggest retaining the classical supergeneric ranks (family, class, order, phylum, kingdom) for purely practical reasons. (4) For these ranks and any formally defined clades, type taxa (species, genera) should be replaced by phylogenetic definitions that explicitly hypothesize monophyly. (5) In contrast, species monophyly should not be required, because theory predicts that many species are not monophyletic. (6) It should be stressed that equal ranks do not imply comparable evolutionary histories.
20142981|The ancestral distance test is introduced to detect correlated evolution between two binary traits in large phylogenies that may lack resolved subclades, branch lengths, and/or comparative data. We define the ancestral distance as the time separating a randomly sampled taxon from its most recent ancestor (MRA) with extant descendants that have an independent trait. The sampled taxon either has (target sample) or lacks (nontarget sample) a dependent trait. Modeled as a Markov process, we show that the distribution of ancestral distances for the target sample is identical to that of the nontarget sample when characters are uncorrelated, whereas ancestral distances are smaller on average for the target sample when characters are correlated. Simulations suggest that the ancestral distance can be estimated using the time, total branch length, taxonomic rank, or number of speciation events between a sampled taxon and the MRA. These results are shown to be robust to deviations from Markov assumptions. A Monte Carlo technique estimates P-values when fully resolved phylogenies with branch lengths are available, and we evaluate the Monte Carlo approach using a data set with known correlation. Measures of relatedness were found to provide a robust means to test hypotheses of correlated character evolution.
20142978|We consider a (phylogenetic) tree with n labeled leaves, the taxa, and a length for each branch in the tree. For any subset of k taxa, the phylogenetic diversity is defined as the sum of the branch-lengths of the minimal subtree connecting the taxa in the subset. We introduce two time-efficient algorithms (greedy and pruning) to compute a subset of size k with maximal phylogenetic diversity in O(n log k) and O[n + (n - k) log(n - k)] time, respectively. The greedy algorithm is an efficient implementation of the so-called greedy strategy (Steel, 2005; Pardi and Goldman, 2005), whereas the pruning algorithm provides an alternative description of the same problem. Both algorithms compute within seconds a subtree with maximal phylogenetic diversity for trees with 100,000 taxa or more.
20142976|Phylogenomic studies aim to build phylogenies from large sets of homologous genes. Such "genome-sized" data require fast methods, because of the typically large numbers of taxa examined. In this framework, distance-based methods are useful for exploratory studies and building a starting tree to be refined by a more powerful maximum likelihood (ML) approach. However, estimating evolutionary distances directly from concatenated genes gives poor topological signal as genes evolve at different rates. We propose a novel method, named super distance matrix (SDM), which follows the same line as average consensus supertree (ACS; Lapointe and Cucumel, 1997) and combines the evolutionary distances obtained from each gene into a single distance supermatrix to be analyzed using a standard distance-based algorithm. SDM deforms the source matrices, without modifying their topological message, to bring them as close as possible to each other; these deformed matrices are then averaged to obtain the distance supermatrix. We show that this problem is equivalent to the minimization of a least-squares criterion subject to linear constraints. This problem has a unique solution which is obtained by resolving a linear system. As this system is sparse, its practical resolution requires
20142982|A comprehensive phylogeny of papilionoid legumes was inferred from sequences of 2228 taxa in GenBank release 147. A semiautomated analysis pipeline was constructed to download, parse, assemble, align, combine, and build trees from a pool of 11,881 sequences. Initial steps included all-against-all BLAST similarity searches coupled with assembly, using a novel strategy for building length-homogeneous primary sequence clusters. This was followed by a combination of global and local alignment protocols to build larger secondary clusters of locally aligned sequences, thus taking into account the dramatic differences in length of the heterogeneous coding and noncoding sequence data present in GenBank. Next, clusters were checked for the presence of duplicate genes and other potentially misleading sequences and examined for combinability with other clusters on the basis of taxon overlap. Finally, two supermatrices were constructed: a "sparse" matrix based on the primary clusters alone (1794 taxa  53,977 characters), and a somewhat more "dense" matrix based on the secondary clusters (2228 taxa  33,168 characters). Both matrices were very sparse, with 95% of their cells containing gaps or question marks. These were subjected to extensive heuristic parsimony analyses using deterministic and stochastic heuristics, including bootstrap analyses. A "reduced consensus" bootstrap analysis was also performed to detect cryptic signal in a subtree of the data set corresponding to a "backbone" phylogeny proposed in previous studies. Overall, the dense supermatrix appeared to provide much more satisfying results, indicated by better resolution of the bootstrap tree, excellent agreement with the backbone papilionoid tree in the reduced bootstrap consensus analysis, few problematic large polytomies in the strict consensus, and less fragmentation of conventionally recognized genera. Nevertheless, at lower taxonomic levels several problems were identified and diagnosed. A large number of methodological issues in supermatrix construction at this scale are discussed, including detection of annotation errors in GenBank sequences; the shortage of effective algorithms and software for local multiple sequence alignment; the difficulty of overcoming effects of fragmentation of data into nearly disjoint blocks in sparse supermatrices; and the lack of informative tools to assess confidence limits in very large trees.
20142975|With increasing force, genetic divergence of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is being argued as the primary tool for discovery of animal species. Two thresholds of single-gene divergence have been proposed: reciprocal monophyly, and 10 times greater genetic divergence between than within species (the "10 rule"). To explore quantitatively the utility of each approach, we couple neutral coalescent theory and the classical Bateson-Dobzhansky-Muller (BDM) model of speciation. The joint stochastic dynamics of these two processes demonstrate that both thresholds fail to "discover" many reproductively isolated lineages under a single incompatibility BDM model, especially when BDM loci have been subject to divergent selection. Only when populations have been isolated for &gt4 million generations did these thresholds achieve error rates of &lt10% under our model that incorporates variable population sizes. The high error rate evident in simulations is corroborated with six empirical data sets. These properties suggest that single-gene, high-throughput approaches to discovering new animal species will bias large-scale biodiversity surveys, particularly toward missing reproductively isolated lineages that have emerged by divergent selection or other mechanisms that accelerate reproductive isolation. Because single-gene thresholds for species discovery can result in substantial error at recent divergence times, they will misrepresent the correspondence between recently isolated populations and reproductively isolated lineages (= species).
20142974|DNA barcoding and DNA taxonomy have recently been proposed as solutions to the crisis of taxonomy and received significant attention from scientific journals, grant agencies, natural history museums, and mainstream media. Here, we test two key claims of molecular taxonomy using 1333 mitochondrial COI sequences for 449 species of Diptera. We investigate whether sequences can be used for species identification ("DNA barcoding") and find a relatively low success rate (&lt70%) based on tree-based and newly proposed species identification criteria. Misidentifications are due to wide overlap between intra- and interspecific genetic variability, which causes 6.5% of all query sequences to have allospecific or a mixture of allo- and conspecific (3.6%) best-matching barcodes. Even when two COI sequences are identical, there is a 6% chance that they belong to different species. We also find that 21% of all species lack unique barcodes when consensus sequences of all conspecific sequences are used. Lastly, we test whether DNA sequences yield an unambiguous species-level taxonomy when sequence profiles are assembled based on pairwise distance thresholds. We find many sequence triplets for which two of the three pairwise distances remain below the threshold, whereas the third exceeds it; i.e., it is impossible to consistently delimit species based on pairwise distances. Furthermore, for species profiles based on a 3% threshold, only 47% of all profiles are consistent with currently accepted species limits, 20% contain more than one species, and 33% only some sequences from one species; i.e., adopting such a DNA taxonomy would require the redescription of a large proportion of the known species, thus worsening the taxonomic impediment. We conclude with an outlook on the prospects of obtaining complete barcode databases and the future use of DNA sequences in a modern integrative taxonomy.
20142977|Recent advances in heuristics have made maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree estimation tractable for hundreds of sequences. Noticeably, these algorithms are currently limited to reversible models of evolution, in which Felsenstein's pulley principle applies. In this paper we show that by reorganizing the way likelihood is computed, one can efficiently compute the likelihood of a tree from any of its nodes with a nonreversible model of DNA sequence evolution, and hence benefit from cutting-edge heuristics. This computational trick can be used with reversible models of evolution without any extra cost. We then introduce nhPhyML, the adaptation of the nonhomogeneous nonstationary model of Galtier and Gouy (1998; Mol. Biol. Evol. 15:871-879) to the structure of PhyML, as well as an approximation of the model in which the set of equilibrium frequencies is limited. This new version shows good results both in terms of exploration of the space of tree topologies and ancestral G+C content estimation. We eventually apply it to rRNA sequences slowly evolving sites and conclude that the model and a wider taxonomic sampling still do not plead for a hyperthermophilic last universal common ancestor.
20142973|The study of the historical biogeography of butterflies has been hampered by a lack of well-resolved phylogenies and a good estimate of the temporal span over which butterflies have evolved. Recently there has been surge of phylogenetic hypotheses for various butterfly groups, but estimating ages of divergence is still in its infancy for this group of insects. The main problem has been the sparse fossil record for butterflies. In this study I have used a surprisingly good fossil record for the subfamily Nymphalinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) to estimate the ages of diversification of major lineages using Bayesian relaxed clock methods. I have investigated the effects of varying priors on posterior estimates in the analyses. For this data set, it is clear that the prior of the rate of molecular evolution at the ingroup node had the largest effect on the results. Taking this into account, I have been able to arrive at a plausible history of lineage splits, which appears to be correlated with known paleogeological events. The subfamily appears to have diversified soon after the K/T event about 65 million years ago. Several splits are coincident with major paleogeological events, such as the connection of the African and Asian continents about 21 million years ago and the presence of a peninsula of land connecting the current Greater Antilles to the South American continent 35 to 33 million years ago. My results suggest that the age of Nymphalidae is older than the 70 million years speculated to be the age of butterflies as a whole.
20142936|The interaction between yuccas and yucca moths has been central to understanding the origin and loss of obligate mutualism and mutualism reversal. Previous systematic research using mtDNA sequence data and characters associated with genitalic morphology revealed that a widespread pollinator species in the genus Tegeticula was in fact a complex of pollinator species that differed in host use and the placement of eggs into yucca flowers. Within this mutualistic clade two nonpollinating "cheater" species evolved. Cheaters feed on yucca seeds but lack the tentacular mouthparts necessary for yucca pollination. Previous work suggested that the species complex formed via a rapid radiation within the last several million years. In this study, we use an expanded mtDNA sequence data set and AFLP markers to examine the phylogenetic relationships among this rapidly diverging clade of moths and compare these relationships to patterns in genitalic morphology. Topologies obtained from analyses of the mtDNA and AFLP data differed significantly. Both data sets, however, corroborated the hypothesis of a rapid species radiation and suggested that there were likely two independent species radiations. Morphological analyses based on oviposition habit produced species groupings more similar to the AFLP topology than the mtDNA topology and suggested the two radiations coincided with differences in oviposition habit. The evolution of cheating was reaffirmed to have evolved twice and the closest pollinating relative for one cheater species was identified by both mtDNA and AFLP markers. For the other cheater species, however, the closest pollinating relative remains ambiguous, and mtDNA, AFLP, and morphological data suggest this cheater species may be diverged based on host use. Much of the divergence in the species complex can be explained by geographic isolation associated with the evolution of two oviposition habits.
20142937| Lineage sorting and introgression can lead to incongruence among gene phylogenies, complicating the inference of species trees for large groups of taxa that have recently and rapidly radiated. In addition, it can be difficult to determine which of these processes is responsible for this incongruence. We explore these issues with the radiation of New Zealand alpine cicadas of the genus Maoricicada Dugdale. Gene trees were estimated from four putative independent loci: mitochondrial DNA (2274 nucleotides), elongation factor 1- (1275 nucleotides), period (1709 nucleotides), and calmodulin (678 nucleotides). We reconstructed phylogenies using maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods from 44 individuals representing the 19 species and subspecies of Maoricicada and two outgroups. Species-level relationships were reconstructed using a novel extension of gene tree parsimony, whereby gene trees were weighted by their Bayesian posterior probabilities. The inferred gene trees show marked incongruence in the placement of some taxa, especially the enigmatic forest and scrub dwelling species, M. iolanthe. Using the species tree estimated by gene tree parsimony, we simulated coalescent gene trees in order to test the null hypothesis that the nonrandom placement of M. iolanthe among gene trees has arisen by chance. Under the assumptions of constant population size, known generation time, and panmixia, we were able to reject this null hypothesis. Furthermore, because the two alternative placements of M. iolanthe are in each case with species that share a similar song structure, we conclude that it is more likely that an ancient introgression event rather than lineage sorting has caused this incongruence. 
20142944|The ages of first appearance of fossil taxa in the stratigraphic record are inherently associated to an interval of error or uncertainty, rather than being precise point estimates. Contrasting this temporal information with topologies of phylogenetic relationships is relevant to many aspects of evolutionary studies. Several indices have been proposed to compare the ages of first appearance of fossil taxa and phylogenies. For computing most of these indices, the ages of first appearance of fossil taxa are currently used as point estimates, ignoring their associated errors or uncertainties. The effect of age uncertainty on measures of stratigraphic fit to phylogenies is explored here for two indices based on the extension of ghost lineages (MSM* and GER). A solution based on randomization of the ages of terminal taxa is implemented, resulting in a range of possible values for measures of stratigraphic fit to phylogenies, rather than in a precise but arbitrary stratigraphic fit value. Sample cases show that ignoring the age uncertainty of fossil taxa can produce misleading results when comparing the stratigraphic fit of competing phylogenetic hypotheses. Empirical test cases of alternative phylogenies of two dinosaur groups are analyzed through the randomization procedure proposed here.
20142935|Labyrinth fishes (Perciformes: Anabantoidei) are primary freshwater fishes with a disjunct African-Asian distribution that exhibit a wide variety of morphological and behavioral traits. These intrinsic features make them particularly well suited for studying patterns and processes of evolutionary diversification. We reconstructed the first molecular-based phylogenetic hypothesis of anabantoid intrarelationships using both mitochondrial and nuclear nucleotide sequence data to address anabantoid evolution. The mitochondrial data set included the complete cytochrome b, partial 12S rRNA, complete tRNA Val, and partial 16S rRNA genes (3332 bp) of 57 species representing all 19 anabantoid genera. The nuclear data set included the partial RAG1 gene (1494 bp) of 21 representative species. The phylogenetic analyses of a combined (mitochondrial + nuclear) data set recovered almost fully resolved trees at the intrafamily level with different methods of phylogenetic inference. Phylogenetic relationships at this taxonomic level were compared with previous morphology-based hypotheses. In particular, the enigmatic pike-head (Luciocephalus) was confidently placed within the "spiral egg" clade, thus resolving the long-standing controversy on its relative phylogenetic position. The molecular phylogeny was used to study the evolution of the different forms of parental care within the suborder. Our results suggest that the evolution of breeding behavior in anabantoids is highly correlated with phylogeny, and that brood care evolved three times independently from an ancestral free spawning condition without parental care. Ancestral character state reconstructions under maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood further indicated that both bubble nesting and mouthbrooding have evolved recurrently during anabantoid evolution. The new phylogenetic framework was also used to test alternative biogeographic hypotheses that account for the disjunct African-Asian distribution. Molecular divergence time estimates support either a drift vicariance linked to the breakup of Gondwana or Late Mesozoic Early Tertiary dispersal from Africa to Asia or vice versa.
20142942|The rate of molecular evolution is not constant across the Tree of Life. Characterizing rate discrepancies and evaluating the relative roles of time and rate along branches through the past are both critical to a full understanding of evolutionary history. In this study, we explore the interactions of time and rate in filmy ferns (Hymenophyllaceae), a lineage with extreme branch length differences between the two major clades. We test for the presence of significant rate discrepancies within and between these clades, and we separate time and rate across the filmy fern phylogeny to simultaneously yield an evolutionary time scale of filmy fern diversification and reconstructions of ancestral rates of molecular evolution. Our results indicate that the branch length disparity observed between the major lineages of filmy ferns is indeed due to a significant difference in molecular evolutionary rate. The estimation of divergence times reveals that the timing of crown group diversification was not concurrent for the two lineages, and the reconstruction of ancestral rates of molecular evolution points to a substantial rate deceleration in one of the clades. Further analysis suggests that this may be due to a genome-wide deceleration in the rate of nucleotide substitution.
20142934|Taxonomic indexing refers to a new array of taxonomically intelligent network services that use nomenclatural principles and elements of expert taxonomic knowledge to manage information about organisms. Taxonomic indexing was introduced to help manage the increasing amounts of digital information about biology. It has been designed to form a near basal layer in a layered cyberinfrastructure that deals with biological information. Taxonomic Indexing accommodates the special problems of using names of organisms to index biological material. It links alternative names for the same entity (reconciliation), and distinguishes between uses of the same name for different entities (disambiguation), and names are placed within an indefinite number of hierarchical schemes. In order to access all information on all organisms, Taxonomic indexing must be able to call on a registry of all names in all forms for all organisms. NameBank has been developed to meet that need. Taxonomic indexing is an area of informatics that overlaps with taxonomy, is dependent on the expert input of taxonomists, and reveals the relevance of the discipline to a wide audience.
20142943|For the first time the phylogenetic relationships of early eureptiles, consisting of captorhinids, diapsids, and protorothyridids, are investigated in a modern phylogenetic context using both parsimony and Bayesian approaches. Ninety parsimony-informative characters and 25 taxa were included in the analyses. The Bayesian analysis was run with and without a gamma-shape parameter allowing for variable rates across characters. In addition, we ran two more Bayesian analyses that included 42 autapomorphies and thus parsimony-uninformative characters in order to test the effect of variable branch lengths. The different analyses largely converged to the same topology, suggesting that the "protorothyridid" Coelostegus is the sister taxon of all other eureptiles and that the remaining "protorothyridids" are paraphyletic. Also, there is a close relationship between diapsids and Anthracodromeus, Cephalerpeton, and Protorothyris, a grouping of Thuringothyris with captorhinids, and a variable position of the "protorothyridids" Brouffia, Hylonomus, and Paleothyris. The lack of resolution in some parts of the tree might be due to "hard polytomies" and short divergence times between the respective taxa. The tree topology is consistent with the hypothesis that the temporal fenestrations of diapsid reptiles appear to be the consequence of a more lightly built skeleton, indicating a significant ecological shift in the early stages of diapsid evolution. Bayesian analysis is a very useful additional approach in studies of fossil taxa in which more traditional statistical support like the bootstrap is often weak. However, the exclusive use of the Mk model appears suitable only if autapomorphic characters are included, whereas the Mk+gamma model performed well with or without autapomorphies.
20142941|The evolutionary history of gains and losses of vegetative reproductive propagules (soredia) in Porpidia s.l., a group of lichen-forming ascomycetes, was clarified using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) approaches to monophyly tests and a combined MCMC and maximum likelihood approach to ancestral character state reconstructions. The MCMC framework provided confidence estimates for the reconstructions of relationships and ancestral character states, which formed the basis for tests of evolutionary hypotheses. Monophyly tests rejected all hypotheses that predicted any clustering of reproductive modes in extant taxa. In addition, a nearest-neighbor statistic could not reject the hypothesis that the vegetative reproductive mode is randomly distributed throughout the group. These results show that transitions between presence and absence of the vegetative reproductive mode within Porpidia s.l. occurred several times and independently of each other. Likelihood reconstructions of ancestral character states at selected nodes suggest that--contrary to previous thought--the ancestor to Porpidia s.l. already possessed the vegetative reproductive mode. Furthermore, transition rates are reconstructed asymmetrically with the vegetative reproductive mode being gained at a much lower rate than it is lost. A cautious note has to be added, because a simulation study showed that the ancestral character state reconstructions were highly dependent on taxon sampling. However, our central conclusions, particularly the higher rate of change from vegetative reproductive mode present to absent than vice versa within Porpidia s.l., were found to be broadly independent of taxon sampling.
20142939|Phylogenies based on gene content rely on statements of primary homology to characterize gene presence or absence. These statements (hypotheses) are usually determined by techniques based on threshold similarity or distance measurements between genes. This fundamental but problematic step can be examined by evaluating each homology hypothesis by the extent to which it is corroborated by the rest of the data. Here we test the effects of varying the stringency for making primary homology statements using a range of similarity (e-value) cutoffs in 166 fully sequenced and annotated genomes spanning the tree of life. By evaluating each resulting data set with tree-based measurements of character consistency and information content, we find a set of homology statements that optimizes overall corroborration. The resulting data set produces well-resolved and well-supported trees of life and greatly ameliorates previously noted inconsistencies such as the misclassification of small genomes. The method presented here, which can be used to test any technique for recognizing primary homology, provides an objective framework for evaluating phylogenetic hypotheses and data sets for the tree of life. It also can serve as a technique for identifying well-corroborated sets of homologous genes for functional genomic applications.
20142938|Nonparamtric bootstrapping methods may be useful for assessing confidence in a supertree inference. We examined the performance of two supertree bootstrapping methods on four published data sets that each include sequence data from more than 100 genes. In "input tree bootstrapping," input gene trees are sampled with replacement and then combined in replicate supertree analyses; in "stratified bootstrapping," trees from each gene's separate (conventional) bootstrap tree set are sampled randomly with replacement and then combined. Generally, support values from both supertree bootstrap methods were similar or slightly lower than corresponding bootstrap values from a total evidence, or supermatrix, analysis. Yet, supertree bootstrap support also exceeded supermatrix bootstrap support for a number of clades. There was little overall difference in support scores between the input tree and stratified bootstrapping methods. Results from supertree bootstrapping methods, when compared to results from corresponding supermatrix bootstrapping, may provide insights into patterns of variation among genes in genome-scale data sets.
20142940|Previous hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships among Neotropical parrots were based on limited taxon sampling and lacked support for most internal nodes. In this study we increased the number of taxa (29 species belonging to 25 of the 30 genera) and gene sequences (6388 base pairs of RAG-1, cyt b, NADH2, ATPase 6, ATPase 8, COIII, 12S rDNA, and 16S rDNA) to obtain a stronger molecular phylogenetic hypothesis for this group of birds. Analyses of the combined gene sequences using maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods resulted in a well-supported phylogeny and indicated that amazons and allies are a sister clade to macaws, conures, and relatives, and these two clades are in turn a sister group to parrotlets. Key morphological and behavioral characters used in previous classifications were mapped on the molecular tree and were phylogenetically uninformative. We estimated divergence times of taxa using the molecular tree and Bayesian and penalized likelihood methods that allow for rate variation in DNA substitutions among sites and taxa. Our estimates suggest that the Neotropical parrots shared a common ancestor with Australian parrots 59 Mya (million of years ago; 95% credibility interval (CrI) 66, 51 Mya), well before Australia separated from Antarctica and South America, implying that ancestral parrots were widespread in Gondwanaland. Thus, the divergence of Australian and Neotropical parrots could be attributed to vicariance. The three major clades of Neotropical parrots originated about 50 Mya (95% CrI 57, 41 Mya), coinciding with periods of higher sea level when both Antarctica and South America were fragmented with transcontinental seaways, and likely isolated the ancestors of modern Neotropical parrots in different regions in these continents. The correspondence between major paleoenvironmental changes in South America and the diversification of genera in the clade of amazons and allies between 46 and 16 Mya suggests they diversified exclusively in South America. Conversely, ancestors of parrotlets and of macaws, conures, and allies may have been isolated in Antarctica and/or the southern cone of South America, and only dispersed out of these southern regions when climate cooled and Antarctica became ice-encrusted about 35 Mya. The subsequent radiation of macaws and their allies in South America beginning about 28 Mya (95% CrI 22, 35 Mya) coincides with the uplift of the Andes and the subsequent formation of dry, open grassland habitats that would have facilitated ecological speciation via niche expansion from forested habitats.
41677992|Among models of nucleotide evolution, the Barry and Hartigan (BH) model (also known as the General Markov Model) is very flexible as it allows separate arbitrary substitution matrices along edges. For a given tree, the estimates of the BH model are a set of joint probability matrices, each giving the pairwise frequencies of nucleotides at the ends of the edge. We have previously shown that, due to an identifiability problem, these cannot be expected to consistently estimate the actual pairwise frequencies. A further consequence is that internal node frequency estimates are likely to be incorrect. Here we define a nonstationary GTR model for each edge that we refer to as the NSGTR model. We fit the NSGTR model by minimizing the sums of squares between the estimates of transition probabilities under the NSGTR model and the estimates provided by a fitted BH model. This NSGTR model provides estimates that avoid the identifiability difficulties of the BH model while closely fitting it. With the best-fitting NSGTR estimates, we are able to get interpretable frequency vectors at internal nodes as well as edge length estimates that are otherwise not yielded by the BH model. These edge lengths are interpretable as the expected number of substitutions along an edge for the model. We also show that for a nonstationary continuous-time model these are not the same as the edge length parameters for conventional substitution matrices that are output by nonstationary model phylogenetic estimation programs such as nhPhyML.
41677995|Phylogenies are usually dated by calibrating interior nodes against the fossil record. This relies on indirect methods that, in the worst case, misrepresent the fossil information. Here, we contrast such node dating with an approach that includes fossils along with the extant taxa in a Bayesian total-evidence analysis. As a test case, we focus on the early radiation of the Hymenoptera, mostly documented by poorly preserved impression fossils that are difficult to place phylogenetically. Specifically, we compare node dating using nine calibration points derived from the fossil record with total-evidence dating based on 343 morphological characters scored for 45 fossil (4-20% complete) and 68 extant taxa. In both cases we use molecular data from seven markers (~5 kb) for the extant taxa. Because it is difficult to model speciation, extinction, sampling, and fossil preservation realistically, we develop a simple uniform prior for clock trees with fossils, and we use relaxed clock models to accommodate rate variation across the tree. Despite considerable uncertainty in the placement of most fossils, we find that they contribute significantly to the estimation of divergence times in the total-evidence analysis. In particular, the posterior distributions on divergence times are less sensitive to prior assumptions and tend to be more precise than in node dating. The total-evidence analysis also shows that four of the seven Hymenoptera calibration points used in node dating are likely to be based on erroneous or doubtful assumptions about the fossil placement. With respect to the early radiation of Hymenoptera, our results suggest that the crown group dates back to the Carboniferous, ~309 Ma (95% interval: 291-347 Ma), and diversified into major extant lineages much earlier than previously thought, well before the Triassic.
41677994|The success of model-based methods in phylogenetics has motivated much research aimed at generating new, biologically informative models. This new computer-intensive approach to phylogenetics demands validation studies and sound measures of performance. To date there has been little practical guidance available as to when and why the parameters in a particular model can be identified reliably. Here, we illustrate how Data Cloning (DC), a recently developed methodology to compute the maximum likelihood estimates along with their asymptotic variance, can be used to diagnose structural parameter nonidentifiability (NI) and distinguish it from other parameter estimability problems, including when parameters are structurally identifiable, but are not estimable in a given data set (INE), and when parameters are identifiable, and estimable, but only weakly so (WE). The application of the DC theorem uses well-known and widely used Bayesian computational techniques. With the DC approach, practitioners can use Bayesian phylogenetics software to diagnose nonidentifiability. Theoreticians and practitioners alike now have a powerful, yet simple tool to detect nonidentifiability while investigating complex modeling scenarios, where getting closed-form expressions in a probabilistic study is complicated. Furthermore, here we also show how DC can be used as a tool to examine and eliminate the influence of the priors, in particular if the process of prior elicitation is not straightforward. Finally, when applied to phylogenetic inference, DC can be used to study at least two important statistical questions: assessing identifiability of discrete parameters, like the tree topology, and developing efficient sampling methods for computationally expensive posterior densities.
41677990|Recognition of evolutionary units (species, populations) requires integrating several kinds of data, such as genetic or phenotypic markers or spatial information in order to get a comprehensive view concerning the differentiation of the units. We propose a statistical model with a double original advantage: (i) it incorporates information about the spatial distribution of the samples, with the aim to increase inference power and to relate more explicitly observed patterns to geography and (ii) it allows one to analyze genetic and phenotypic data within a unified model and inference framework, thus opening the way to robust comparisons between markers and possibly combined analyses. We show from simulated data as well as real data that our method estimates parameters accurately and is an improvement over alternative approaches in many situations. The power of this method is exemplified using an intricate case of inter-and intraspecies differentiation based on an original data set of georeferenced genetic and morphometric markers obtained on Myodes voles from Sweden. A computer program is made available as an extension of the R package Geneland.
41677999|Dendroscope 3 is a new program for working with rooted phylogenetic trees and networks. It provides a number of methods for drawing and comparing rooted phylogenetic networks, and for computing them from rooted trees. The program can be used interactively or in command-line mode. The program is written in Java, use of the software is free, and installers for all 3 major operating systems can be downloaded from www.dendroscope.org.
41677996|The perciform group Labroidei includes approximately 2600 species and comprises some of the most diverse and successful lineages of teleost fishes. Composed of four major clades, Cichlidae, Labridae (wrasses, parrotfishes, and weed whitings), Pomacentridae (damselfishes), and Embiotocidae (surfperches); labroids have been an icon for studies of biodiversity, adaptive radiation, and sexual selection. The success and diversification of labroids have been largely attributed to the presence of a major innovation in the pharyngeal jaw apparatus, pharyngognathy, which is hypothesized to increase feeding capacity and versatility. We present results of large-scale phylogenetic analyses and a survey of pharyngeal jaw functional morphology that allow us to examine the evolution of pharyngognathy in a historical context. Phylogenetic analyses were based on a sample of 188 acanthomorph (spiny-rayed fish) species, primarily percomorphs (perch-like fishes), and DNA sequence data collected from 10 nuclear loci that have been previously used to resolve higher level ray-finned fish relationships. Phylogenies inferred from this dataset using maximum likelihood, Bayesian, and species tree analyses indicate polyphyly of the traditional Labroidei and clearly separate Labridae from the remainder of the traditional labroid lineages (Cichlidae, Embiotocidae, and Pomacentridae). These three "chromide" families grouped within a newly discovered clade of 40 families and more than 4800 species (> 27% of percomorphs and > 16% of all ray-finned fishes), which we name Ovalentaria for its characteristic demersal, adhesive eggs with chorionic filaments. This fantastically diverse clade includes some of the most species-rich lineages of marine and freshwater fishes, including all representatives of the Cichlidae, Embiotocidae, Pomacentridae, Ambassidae, Gobiesocidae, Grammatidae, Mugilidae, Opistognathidae, Pholidichthyidae, Plesiopidae (including Notograptus), Polycentridae, Pseudochromidae, Atherinomorpha, and Blennioidei. Beyond the discovery of Ovalentaria, this study provides a surprising, but well-supported, hypothesis for a convictblenny (Pholidichthys) sister group to the charismatic cichlids and new insights into the evolution of pharyngognathy. Bayesian stochastic mapping ancestral state reconstructions indicate that pharyngognathy has evolved at least six times in percomorphs, including four separate origins in members of the former Labroidei, one origin in the Centrogenyidae, and one origin within Beloniformes. Our analyses indicate that all pharyngognathous fishes have a mechanically efficient biting mechanism enabled by the muscular sling and a single lower jaw element. However, a major distinction exists between Labridae, which lacks the widespread, generalized percomorph pharyngeal biting mechanism, and all other pharyngognathous clades, which possess this generalized biting mechanism in addition to pharyngognathy. Our results reveal a remarkable history of pharyngognathy: far from a single origin, it appears to have evolved at least six times, and its status as a major evolutionary innovation is reinforced by it being a synapomorphy for several independent major radiations, including some of the most species rich and ecologically diverse percomorph clades of coral reef and tropical freshwater fishes, Labridae and Cichlidae.
41677993|Missing data are an unavoidable problem in biological data sets and the performance of missing data deletion and estimation techniques in morphometric data sets is poorly understood. Here, a novel method is used to measure the introduced error of multiple techniques on a representative sample. A large sample of extant crocodilian skulls was measured and analyzed with principal component analysis (PCA). Twenty-three different proportions of missing data were introduced into the data set, estimated, analyzed, and compared with the original result using Procrustes superimposition. Previous work investigating the effects of missing data input missing values randomly, a non-biological phenomenon. Here, missing data were introduced into the data set using three methodologies: purely at random, as a function of the Euclidean distance between respective measurements (simulating anatomical regions), and as a function of the portion of the sample occupied by each taxon (simulating unequal missing data in rare taxa). Gower's distance was found to be the best performing non-estimation method, and Bayesian PCA the best performing estimation method. Specimens of the taxa with small sample sizes and those most morphologically disparate had the highest estimation error. Distribution of missing data had a significant effect on the estimation error for almost all methods and proportions. Taxonomically biased missing data tended to show similar trends to random, but with higher error rates. Anatomically biased missing data showed a much greater deviation from random than the taxonomic bias, and with magnitudes dependent on the estimation method.
41677998|Phylogenetic mixture models, in which the sites in sequences undergo different substitution processes along the same or different trees, allow the description of heterogeneous evolutionary processes. As data sets consisting of longer sequences become available, it is important to understand such models, for both theoretical insights and use in statistical analyses. Some recent articles have highlighted disturbing "mimicking" behavior in which a distribution from a mixture model is identical to one arising on a different tree or trees. Other works have indicated such problems are unlikely to occur in practice, as they require very special parameter choices. After surveying some of these works on mixture models, we give several new results. In general, if the number of components in a generating mixture is not too large and we disallow zero or infinite branch lengths, then it cannot mimic the behavior of a nonmixture on a different tree. On the other hand, if the mixture model is locally overparameterized, it is possible for a phylogenetic mixture model to mimic distributions of another tree model. Although theoretical questions remain, these sorts of results can serve as a guide to when the use of mixture models in either maximum likelihood or Bayesian frameworks is likely to lead to statistically consistent inference, and when mimicking due to heterogeneity should be considered a realistic possibility.
41677991|The estimation of phylogenetic relationships is an essential component of understanding evolution. Accurate phylogenetic estimation is difficult, however, when internodes are short and old, when genealogical discordance is common due to large ancestral effective population sizes or ancestral population structure, and when homoplasy is prevalent. Inference of divergence times is also hampered by unknown and uneven rates of evolution, the incomplete fossil record, uncertainty in relationships between fossil and extant lineages, and uncertainty in the age of fossils. Ideally, these challenges can be overcome by developing large "phylogenomic" data sets and by analyzing them with methods that accommodate features of the evolutionary process, such as genealogical discordance, recurrent substitution, recombination, ancestral population structure, gene flow after speciation among sampled and unsampled taxa, and variation in evolutionary rates. In some phylogenetic problems, it is possible to use information that is independent of fossils, such as the geological record, to identify putative triggers for diversification whose associated estimated divergence times can then be compared a posteriori with estimated relationships and ages of fossils. The history of diversification of pipid frog genera Pipa, Hymenochirus, Silurana, and Xenopus, for instance, is characterized by many of these evolutionary and analytical challenges. These frogs diversified dozens of millions of years ago, they have a relatively rich fossil record, their distributions span continental plates with a well characterized geological record of ancient connectivity, and there is considerable disagreement across studies in estimated evolutionary relationships. We used high throughput sequencing and public databases to generate a large phylogenomic data set with which we estimated evolutionary relationships using multilocus coalescence methods. We collected sequence data from Pipa, Hymenochirus, Silurana, and Xenopus and the outgroup taxon Rhinophrynus dorsalis from coding sequence of 113 autosomal regions, averaging ~300 bp in length (range: 102-1695 bp) and also a portion of the mitochondrial genome. Analysis of these data using multiple approaches recovers strong support for the ((Xenopus, Silurana)(Pipa, Hymenochirus)) topology, and geologically calibrated divergence time estimates that are consistent with ages and phylogenetic affinities of many fossils. These results provide new insights into the biogeography and chronology of pipid diversification during the breakup of Gondwanaland and illustrate how phylogenomic data may be necessary to tackle tough problems in molecular systematics.
41677997|It is thought that speciation in phytophagous insects is often due to colonization of novel host plants, because radiations of plant and insect lineages are typically asynchronous. Recent phylogenetic comparisons have supported this model of diversification for both insect herbivores and specialized pollinators. An exceptional case where contemporaneous plant-insect diversification might be expected is the obligate mutualism between fig trees (Ficus species, Moraceae) and their pollinating wasps (Agaonidae, Hymenoptera). The ubiquity and ecological significance of this mutualism in tropical and subtropical ecosystems has long intrigued biologists, but the systematic challenge posed by > 750 interacting species pairs has hindered progress toward understanding its evolutionary history. In particular, taxon sampling and analytical tools have been insufficient for large-scale cophylogenetic analyses. Here, we sampled nearly 200 interacting pairs of fig and wasp species from across the globe. Two supermatrices were assembled: on an average, wasps had sequences from 77% of 6 genes (5.6 kb), figs had sequences from 60% of 5 genes (5.5 kb), and overall 850 new DNA sequences were generated for this study. We also developed a new analytical tool, Jane 2, for event-based phylogenetic reconciliation analysis of very large data sets. Separate Bayesian phylogenetic analyses for figs and fig wasps under relaxed molecular clock assumptions indicate Cretaceous diversification of crown groups and contemporaneous divergence for nearly half of all fig and pollinator lineages. Event-based cophylogenetic analyses further support the codiversification hypothesis. Biogeographic analyses indicate that the present-day distribution of fig and pollinator lineages is consistent with a Eurasian origin and subsequent dispersal, rather than with Gondwanan vicariance. Overall, our findings indicate that the fig-pollinator mutualism represents an extreme case among plant-insect interactions of coordinated dispersal and long-term codiversification.
41515174|The rapidly growing availability of multigene sequence data during the past decade has enabled phylogeny estimation at phylogenomic scales. However, dealing with evolutionary process heterogeneity across the genome becomes increasingly challenging. Here we develop a mixture model approach that uses reversible jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) estimation to permit as many distinct models as the data require. Each additional model considered may be a fully parametrized general time-reversible model or any of its special cases. Furthermore, we expand the usual proposal mechanisms for topology changes to permit hard polytomies (i.e., zero-length internal branches). This new approach is implemented in the Crux software toolkit. We demonstrate the feasibility of using reversible jump MCMC on mixture models by reexamining a well-known 44-taxon mammalian data set comprising 22 concatenated genes. We are able to reproduce the results of the original analysis (with respect to bipartition support) when we make identical assumptions, but when we allow for polytomies and/or use data-driven mixture model estimation, we infer much lower bipartition support values for several key bipartitions.
41515173|Increasingly, large data sets pose a challenge for computationally intensive phylogenetic methods such as Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC). Here, we investigate the performance of common MCMC proposal distributions in terms of median and variance of run time to convergence on 11 data sets. We introduce two new Metropolized Gibbs Samplers for moving through "tree space." MCMC simulation using these new proposals shows faster average run time and dramatically improved predictability in performance, with a 20-fold reduction in the variance of the time to estimate the posterior distribution to a given accuracy. We also introduce conditional clade probabilities and demonstrate that they provide a superior means of approximating tree topology posterior probabilities from samples recorded during MCMC.
41515182|The use of fossil evidence to calibrate divergence time estimation has a long history. More recently, Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo has become the dominant method of divergence time estimation, and fossil evidence has been reinterpreted as the specification of prior distributions on the divergence times of calibration nodes. These so-called "soft calibrations'' have become widely used but the statistical properties of calibrated tree priors in a Bayesian setting have not been carefully investigated. Here, we clarify that calibration densities, such as those defined in BEAST 1.5, do not represent the marginal prior distribution of the calibration node. We illustrate this with a number of analytical results on small trees. We also describe an alternative construction for a calibrated Yule prior on trees that allows direct specification of the marginal prior distribution of the calibrated divergence time, with or without the restriction of monophyly. This method requires the computation of the Yule prior conditional on the height of the divergence being calibrated. Unfortunately, a practical solution for multiple calibrations remains elusive. Our results suggest that direct estimation of the prior induced by specifying multiple calibration densities should be a prerequisite of any divergence time dating analysis.
41515181|Defining biogeographic provinces to understand the history and evolution of communities associated with a given kind of ecosystem is challenging and usually requires a priori assumptions to be made. We applied network theory, a holistic and exploratory method, to the most complete database of faunal distribution available on oceanic hydrothermal vents, environments which support fragmented and unstable ecosystems, to infer the processes driving their worldwide biogeography Besides the identification of robust provinces, the network topology allowed us to identify preferential pathways that had hitherto been overlooked. These pathways are consistent with the previously proposed hypothesis of a role of plate tectonics in the biogeographical history of hydrothermal vent communities. A possible ancestral position of the Western Pacific is also suggested for the first time. Finally, this work provides an innovative example of the potential of network tools to unravel the biogeographic history of faunal assemblages and to supply comprehensive information for the conservation and management of biodiversity.
41515175|Evolutionary and biogeographic studies increasingly rely on calibrated molecular clocks to date key events. Although there has been significant recent progress in development of the techniques used for molecular dating, many issues remain. In particular, controversies abound over the appropriate use and placement of fossils for calibrating molecular clocks. Several methods have been proposed for evaluating candidate fossils; however, few studies have compared the results obtained by different approaches. Moreover, no previous study has incorporated the effects of nucleotide saturation from different data types in the evaluation of candidate fossils. In order to address these issues, we compared three approaches for evaluating fossil calibrations: the single-fossil cross-validation method of Near, Meylan, and Shaffer (2005. Assessing concordance of fossil calibration points in molecular clock studies: an example using turtles. Am. Nat. 165:137-146), the empirical fossil coverage method of Marshall (2008. A simple method for bracketing absolute divergence times on molecular phylogenies using multiple fossil calibration points. Am. Nat. 171:726-742), and the Bayesian multicalibration method of Sanders and Lee (2007. Evaluating molecular clock calibrations using Bayesian analyses with soft and hard bounds. Biol. Lett. 3:275-279) and explicitly incorporate the effects of data type (nuclear vs. mitochondrial DNA) for identifying the most reliable or congruent fossil calibrations. We used advanced (Caenophidian) snakes as a case study; however, our results are applicable to any taxonomic group with multiple candidate fossils, provided appropriate taxon sampling and sufficient molecular sequence data are available. We found that data type strongly influenced which fossil calibrations were identified as outliers, regardless of which method was used. Despite the use of complex partitioned models of sequence evolution and multiple calibrations throughout the tree, saturation severely compressed basal branch lengths obtained from mitochondrial DNA compared with nuclear DNA. The effects of mitochondrial saturation were not ameliorated by analyzing a combined nuclear and mitochondrial data set. Although removing the third codon positions from the mitochondrial coding regions did not ameliorate saturation effects in the single-fossil cross-validations, it did in the Bayesian multicalibration analyses. Saturation significantly influenced the fossils that were selected as most reliable for all three methods evaluated. Our findings highlight the need to critically evaluate the fossils selected by data with different rates of nucleotide substitution and how data with different evolutionary rates affect the results of each method for evaluating fossils. Our empirical evaluation demonstrates that the advantages of using multiple independent fossil calibrations significantly outweigh any disadvantages.
41515183|Although great progress has been made in resolving the relationships of placental mammals, the position of several clades in Laurasiatheria remain controversial. In this study, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of 97 orthologs (46,152 bp) for 15 taxa, representing all laurasiatherian orders. Additionally, phylogenetic trees of laurasiatherian mammals with draft genome sequences were reconstructed based on 1608 exons (2,175,102 bp). Our reconstructions resolve the interordinal relationships within Laurasiatheria and corroborate the clades Scrotifera, Fereuungulata, and Cetartiodactyla. Furthermore, we tested alternative topologies within Laurasiatheria, and among alternatives for the phylogenetic position of Perissodactyla, a sister-group relationship with Cetartiodactyla receives the highest support. Thus, Pegasoferae (Perissodactyla + Carnivora + Pholidota + Chiroptera) does not appear to be a natural group. Divergence time estimates from these genes were compared with published estimates for splits within Laurasiatheria. Our estimates were similar to those of several studies and suggest that the divergences among these orders occurred within just a few million years.
41515176|The causes and consequences of rapid radiations are major unresolved issues in evolutionary biology. This is in part because phylogeny estimation is confounded by processes such as stochastic lineage sorting and hybridization. Because these processes are expected to be heterogeneous across the genome, comparison among marker classes may provide a means of disentangling these elements. Here we use introns from nuclear-encoded reproductive protein genes expected to be resistant to introgression to estimate the phylogeny of the western chipmunks (Tamias: subgenus: Neotamias), a rapid radiation that has experienced introgressive hybridization of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We analyze the nuclear loci using coalescent-based species-tree estimation methods and concatenation to estimate a species tree and we use parametric bootstraps and coalescent simulations to differentiate between phylogenetic error, coalescent stochasticity and introgressive hybridization. Results indicate that the mtDNA gene tree reflects several introgression events that have occurred between taxa of varying levels of divergence and at different time points in the tree. T. panamintinus and T. speciosus appear to be fixed for ancient mitochondrial introgressions from T. minimus. A southern Rocky Mountains clade appears well sorted (i.e., species are largely monophyletic) at multiple nuclear loci, while five of six taxa are nonmonophyletic based on cytochrome b. Our simulations reject phylogenetic error and coalescent stochasticity as causes. The results represent an advance in our understanding of the processes at work during the radiation of Tamias and suggest that sampling reproductive-protein genes may be a viable strategy for phylogeny estimation of rapid radiations in which reproductive isolation is incomplete. However, a genome-scale survey that can statistically compare heterogeneity of genealogical process at many more loci will be necessary to test this conclusion.
41515180|The phylogenies of allopolyploids take the shape of networks and cannot be adequately represented as bifurcating trees. Especially for high polyploids (i.e., organisms with more than six sets of nuclear chromosomes), the signatures of gene homoeolog loss, deep coalescence, and polyploidy may become confounded, with the result that gene trees may be congruent with more than one species network. Herein, we obtained the most parsimonious species network by objective comparison of competing scenarios involving polyploidization and homoeolog loss in a high-polyploid lineage of violets (Viola, Violaceae) mostly or entirely restricted to North America, Central America, or Hawaii. We amplified homoeologs of the low-copy nuclear gene, glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (GPI), by single-molecule polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and the chloroplast trnL-F region by conventional PCR for 51 species and subspecies. Topological incongruence among GPI homoeolog subclades, owing to deep coalescence and two instances of putative loss (or lack of detection) of homoeologs, were reconciled by applying the maximum tree topology for each subclade. The most parsimonious species network and the fossil-based calibration of the homoeolog tree favored monophyly of the high polyploids, which has resulted from allodecaploidization 9-14 Ma, involving sympatric ancestors from the extant Viola sections Chamaemelanium (diploid), Plagiostigma (paleotetraploid), and Viola (paleotetraploid). Although two of the high-polyploid lineages (Boreali-Americanae, Pedatae) remained decaploid, recurrent polyploidization with tetraploids of section Plagiostigma within the last 5 Ma has resulted in two 14-ploid lineages (Mexicanae, Nosphinium) and one 18-ploid lineage (Langsdorffianae). This implies a complex phylogenetic and biogeographic origin of the Hawaiian violets (Nosphinium) than that previously inferred from rDNA data and illustrates the necessity of considering polyploidy in phylogenetic and biogeographic reconstruction.
41515179|Highly accurate estimation of phylogenetic trees for large data sets is difficult, in part because multiple sequence alignments must be accurate for phylogeny estimation methods to be accurate. Coestimation of alignments and trees has been attempted but currently only SAT estimates reasonably accurate trees and alignments for large data sets in practical time frames (Liu K., Raghavan S., Nelesen S., Linder C.R., Warnow T. 2009b. Rapid and accurate large-scale coestimation of sequence alignments and phylogenetic trees. Science. 324: 1561-1564). Here, we present a modification to the original SAT algorithm that improves upon SAT (which we now call SAT-I) in terms of speed and of phylogenetic and alignment accuracy. SAT-II uses a different divide-and-conquer strategy than SAT-I and so produces smaller more closely related subsets than SAT-I; as a result, SAT-II produces more accurate alignments and trees, can analyze larger data sets, and runs more efficiently than SAT-I. Generally, SAT is a metamethod that takes an existing multiple sequence alignment method as an input parameter and boosts the quality of that alignment method. SAT-11-boosted alignment methods are significantly more accurate than their unboosted versions, and trees based upon these improved alignments are more accurate than trees based upon the original alignments. Because SAT-I used maximum likelihood (ML) methods that treat gaps as missing data to estimate trees and because we found a correlation between the quality of tree/alignment pairs and ML scores, we explored the degree to which SAT's performance depends on using ML with gaps treated as missing data to determine the best tree/alignment pair. We present two lines of evidence that using ML with gaps treated as missing data to optimize the alignment and tree produces very poor results. First, we show that the optimization problem where a set of unaligned DNA sequences is given and the output is the tree and alignment of those sequences that maximize likelihood under the Jukes-Cantor model is uninformative in the worst possible sense. For all inputs, all trees optimize the likelihood score. Second, we show that a greedy heuristic that uses GTR+Gamma ML to optimize the alignment and the tree can produce very poor alignments and trees. Therefore, the excellent performance of SAT-II and SAT-I is not because ML is used as an optimization criterion for choosing the best tree/alignment pair but rather due to the particular divide-and-conquer realignment techniques employed.
41515177|The rapid accumulation of multilocus data sets has led to dramatic advances in methodologies for estimating evolutionary relationships among closely related species, but relatively less advancement has been made in methods for discriminating between competing species delimitation hypotheses. Multilocus data sets provide an advantage in testing species delimitation scenarios because they offer a direct test of species monophyly and aid in the biological interpretation of such phenomena as allele-sharing and deep coalescent events. Most species tree estimation methods that are designed to analyze multilocus data sets require the a priori assignment of individuals to species categories and therefore do not provide a strategy to directly test competing species delimitation scenarios. An approach was recently proposed that utilizes a coalescent-based species tree estimation method to inform species delimitation decisions by comparing likelihood scores that measure the fit of gene trees within a given species tree. We use a multilocus nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequence data set to both reexamine a recently proposed species delimitation scenario in the Etheostoma simoterum species complex and test the utility of species tree estimation methods in testing species delimitation hypotheses. Descriptions of species in the E. simoterum species complex of snubnose darters, a group of six teleost freshwater fish species, are based largely on male nuptial coloration. Most of the putative species are nonmonophyletic at every examined locus. Using a novel combination of Bayesian-estimated gene tree topologies, Bayesian phylogenetic species tree inferences, coalescent simulations, and examination of phenotypic variation, we assess the occurrence of shared alleles among species, and we propose that results from our analyses support a three-species rather than a six-species delimitation scenario in the E. simoterum complex. We found that comparing likelihood scores from the species tree estimation approach used across many potential delimitation scenarios resulted in a systematic bias toward over-splitting in the E. simoterum complex and failed to support a species delimitation scenario that was consistent with geography, phenotype, or any previous species delimitation hypothesis. Despite common expectations, we demonstrate that application of molecular approaches to species delimitation can result in the recognition of fewer, instead of a larger number of species. In addition, our analyses highlight the importance of phenotypic character information in providing an independent assessment of alternative species delimitation hypotheses in the E. simoterum species complex.
41515185|Phylogenetic inference is fundamental to our understanding of most aspects of the origin and evolution of life, and in recent years, there has been a concentration of interest in statistical approaches such as Bayesian inference and maximum likelihood estimation. Yet, for large data sets and realistic or interesting models of evolution, these approaches remain computationally demanding. High-throughput sequencing can yield data for thousands of taxa, but scaling to such problems using serial computing often necessitates the use of nonstatistical or approximate approaches. The recent emergence of graphics processing units (GPUs) provides an opportunity to leverage their excellent floating-point computational performance to accelerate statistical phylogenetic inference. A specialized library for phylogenetic calculation would allow existing software packages to make more effective use of available computer hardware, including GPUs. Adoption of a common library would also make it easier for other emerging computing architectures, such as field programmable gate arrays, to be used in the future. We present BEAGLE, an application programming interface (API) and library for high-performance statistical phylogenetic inference. The API provides a uniform interface for performing phylogenetic likelihood calculations on a variety of compute hardware platforms. The library includes a set of efficient implementations and can currently exploit hardware including GPUs using NVIDIA CUDA, central processing units (CPUs) with Streaming SIMD Extensions and related processor supplementary instruction sets, and multicore CPUs via OpenMP. To demonstrate the advantages of a common API, we have incorporated the library into several popular phylogenetic software packages. The BEAGLE library is free open source software licensed under the Lesser GPL and available from http://beagle-lib.googlecode.com. An example client program is available as public domain software.
41515178|Understanding biases that affect how species are partitioned into higher taxa is critical for much of paleobiology, as higher taxa are commonly used to estimate species diversity through time. We test the validity of using higher taxa as a proxy for species diversity for the first time by examining one of the best fossil records we have, that of deep-sea microfossils. Using a new, taxonomically standardized, data set of coccolithophorid species and genera recorded from 143 deep-sea drilling sites in the North Atlantic, Caribbean, and Mediterranean, we show that there is a two-stepped change in the ratio of species to genera over the last 150 myr. This change is highly unexpected and correlates strongly with changes in both the number of deep-sea sites yielding coccolithophorids that have been studied and with the number of taxonomists who have published on those sections. The same pattern is present in both structurally complex heterococcoliths and the simpler nannoliths, suggesting that increasing complexity is not the driving factor. As a stepped species-to-genus ratio exists even after subsampling to standardize either the numbers of sites or numbers of papers, both factors must be contributing substantially to the observed pattern. Although some limited biological signature from major extinction events can be recognized from changes in the species-to-genus ratio, the numbers of sites and the numbers of taxonomists combined explain some 82% of the observed variation over long periods of geological time. Such a strong correlation argues against using raw species-to-genus ratios to infer biological processes without taking sampling into account and suggests that higher taxa cannot be taken as unbiased proxies for species diversity.
41677964|Taxon and character sampling are central to phylogenetic experimental design; yet, we lack general rules. Goldman introduced a method to construct efficient sampling designs in phylogenetics, based on the calculation of expected Fisher information given a probabilistic model of sequence evolution. The considerable potential of this approach remains largely unexplored. In an earlier study, we applied Goldman's method to a problem in the phylogenetics of caecilian amphibians and made an a priori evaluation and testable predictions of which taxon additions would increase information about a particular weakly supported branch of the caecilian phylogeny by the greatest amount. We have now gathered mitogenomic and ragl sequences (some newly determined for this study) from additional caecilian species and studied how information (both expected and observed) and bootstrap support vary as each new taxon is individually added to our previous data set. This provides the first empirical test of specific predictions made using Goldman's method for phylogenetic experimental design. Our results empirically validate the top 3 (more intuitive) taxon addition predictions made in our previous study, but only information results validate unambiguously the 4th (less intuitive) prediction. This highlights a complex relationship between information and support, reflecting that each measures different things: Information is related to the ability to estimate branch length accurately and support to the ability to estimate the tree topology accurately. Thus, an increase in information may be correlated with but does not necessitate an increase in support. Our results also provide the first empirical validation of the widely held intuition that additional taxa that join the tree proximal to poorly supported internal branches are more informative and enhance support more than additional taxa that join the tree more distally. Our work supports the view that adding more data for a single (well chosen) taxon may increase phylogenetic resolution and support in weakly supported parts of the tree without adding more characters/genes. Altogether our results corroborate that, although still underexplored, Goldman's method offers a powerful tool for experimental design in molecular phylogenetic studies. However, there are still several drawbacks to overcome, and further assessment of the method is needed in order to make it better understood, more accessible, and able to assess the addition of multiple taxa.
41677959|Bayesian inference provides an appealing general framework for phylogenetic analysis, able to incorporate a wide variety of modeling assumptions and to provide a coherent treatment of uncertainty. Existing computational approaches to Bayesian inference based on Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) have not, however, kept pace with the scale of the data analysis problems in phylogenetics, and this has hindered the adoption of Bayesian methods. In this paper, we present an alternative to MCMC based on Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC). We develop an extension of classical SMC based on partially ordered sets and show how to apply this frameworkwhich we refer to as PosetSMCto phylogenetic analysis. We provide a theoretical treatment of PosetSMC and also present experimental evaluation of PosetSMC on both synthetic and real data. The empirical results demonstrate that PosetSMC is a very promising alternative to MCMC, providing up to two orders of magnitude faster convergence. We discuss other factors favorable to the adoption of PosetSMC in phylogenetics, including its ability to estimate marginal likelihoods, its ready implementability on parallel and distributed computing platforms, and the possibility of combining with MCMC in hybrid MCMC-SMC schemes. Software for PosetSMC is available at http://www. stat. ubc. ca/bouchard/PosetSMC.
41677963|The first analyses of gene sequence data indicated that the eukaryotic tree of life consisted of a long stem of microbial groups "topped" by a crown-containing plants, animals, and fungi and their microbial relatives. Although more recent multigene concatenated analyses have refined the relationships among the many branches of eukaryotes, the root of the eukaryotic tree of life has remained elusive. Inferring the root of extant eukaryotes is challenging because of the age of the group (~1.7-2.1 billion years old), tremendous heterogeneity in rates of evolution among lineages, and lack of obvious outgroups for many genes. Here, we reconstruct a rooted phylogeny of extant eukaryotes based on minimizing the number of duplications and losses among a collection of gene trees. This approach does not require outgroup sequences or assumptions of orthology among sequences. We also explore the impact of taxon and gene sampling and assess support for alternative hypotheses for the root. Using 20 gene trees from 84 diverse eukaryotic lineages, this approach recovers robust eukaryotic clades and reveals evidence for a eukaryotic root that lies between the Opisthokonta (animals, fungi and their microbial relatives) and all remaining eukaryotes.
41677965|In scientific research, integration and synthesis require a common understanding of where data come from, how much they can be trusted, and what they may be used for. To make such an understanding computer-accessible requires standards for exchanging richly annotated data. The challenges of conveying reusable data are particularly acute in regard to evolutionary comparative analysis, which comprises an ever-expanding list of data types, methods, research aims, and subdisciplines. To facilitate interoperability in evolutionary comparative analysis, we present NeXML, an XML standard (inspired by the current standard, NEXUS) that supports exchange of richly annotated comparative data. NeXML defines syntax for operational taxonomic units, character-state matrices, and phylogenetic trees and networks. Documents can be validated unambiguously. Importantly, any data element can be annotated, to an arbitrary degree of richness, using a system that is both flexible and rigorous. We describe how the use of NeXML by the TreeBASE and Phenoscape projects satisfies user needs that cannot be satisfied with other available file formats. By relying on XML Schema Definition, the design of NeXML facilitates the development and deployment of software for processing, transforming, and querying documents. The adoption of NeXML for practical use is facilitated by the availability of (1) an online manual with code samples and a reference to all defined elements and attributes, (2) programming toolkits in most of the languages used commonly in evolutionary informatics, and (3) input-output support in several widely used software applications. An active, open, community-based development process enables future revision and expansion of NeXML.
41677960|Bursts of diversification are known to have contributed significantly to the extant morphological and species diversity, but evidence for many of the theoretical predictions about adaptive radiations have remained contentious. Despite their tremendous diversity, patterns of evolutionary diversification and the contribution of explosive episodes in fungi are largely unknown. Here, using the genus Coprinellus (Psathyrellaceae, Agaricales) as a model, we report the first explosive fungal radiation and infer that the onset of the radiation correlates with a change from a multilayered to a much simpler defense structure on the fruiting bodies. We hypothesize that this change constitutes a key innovation, probably relaxing constraints on diversification imposed by nutritional investment into the development of protective tissues of fruiting bodies. Fossil calibration suggests that Coprinellus mushrooms radiated during the Miocene coinciding with global radiation of large grazing mammals following expansion of dry open grasslands. In addition to diversification rate-based methods, we test the hard polytomy hypothesis, by analyzing the resolvability of internal nodes of the backbone of the putative radiation using Reversible-Jump MCMC. We discuss potential applications and pitfalls of this approach as well as how biologically meaningful polytomies can be distinguished from alignment shortcomings. Our data provide insights into the nature of adaptive radiations in general by revealing a deceleration of morphological diversification through time. The dynamics of morphological diversification was approximated by obtaining the temporal distribution of state changes in discrete traits along the trees and comparing it with the tempo of lineage accumulation. We found that the number of state changes correlate with the number of lineages, even in parts of the tree with short internal branches, and peaks around the onset of the explosive radiation followed by a slowdown, most likely because of the decrease in available niches.
41677958|Understanding the origin of diversity is a fundamental problem in biology. Evolutionary diversification has been intensely explored during the last years due to the development of molecular tools and the comparative method. However, most studies are conducted using only information from extant species. This approach probably leads to misleading conclusions, especially because of inaccuracy in the estimation of extinction rates. It is critical to integrate the information generated by extant organisms with the information obtained from the fossil record. Unfortunately, this integrative approach has been seldom performed, and thus, our understanding of the factors fueling diversification is still deficient. Ecological interactions are a main factor shaping evolutionary diversification by influencing speciation and extinction rates. Most attention has focused on the effect of antagonistic interactions on evolutionary diversification. In contrast, the role of mutualistic interactions in shaping diversification has been much less explored. In this study, by combining phylogenetic, neontological, and paleontological information, we show that a facultative mutualistic plant-animal interaction emerging from frugivory and seed dispersal has most likely contributed to the diversification of our own lineage, the primates. We compiled diet and seed dispersal ability in 381 extant and 556 extinct primates. Using well-established molecular phylogenies, we demonstrated that mutualistic extant primates had higher speciation rates, lower extinction rates, and thereby higher diversification rates than nonmutualistic ones. Similarly, mutualistic fossil primates had higher geological durations and smaller per capita rates of extinction than nonmutualistic ones. As a mechanism underlying this pattern, we found that mutualistic extinct and extant primates have significantly larger geographic ranges, which promotes diversification by hampering extinction and increasing geographic speciation. All these outcomes together strongly suggest that the establishment of a facultative mutualism with plants has greatly benefited primate evolution and fueled its taxonomic diversification.
41677957|Late Mesozoic palaeobiogeography has been characterized by a distinction between the northern territories of Laurasia and the southern landmasses of Gondwana. The repeated discovery of Gondwanan lineages in Laurasia has led to the proposal of alternative scenarios to explain these anomalous occurrences. A new biogeographical model for late Mesozoic terrestrial ecosystems is here proposed in which Europe and "Gondwanan" territories possessed a common Eurogondwanan fauna during the earliest Cretaceous. Subsequently, following the Hauterivian, the European territories severed from Africa and then connected to Asiamerica resulting in a faunal interchange. This model explains the presence of Gondwanan taxa in Laurasia and the absence of Laurasian forms in the southern territories during the Cretaceous. In order to test this new palaeobiogeographical model, tree reconciliation analyses (TRAs) were performed based on biogeographical signals provided by a supertree of late Mesozoic archosaurs. The TRAs found significant evidence for the presence of an earliest Cretaceous Eurogondwanan fauna followed by a relatively short-term Gondwana-Laurasia dichotomy. The analysis recovered evidence for a biogeographical reconnection of the European territories with Africa and South America-Antarctica during the Campanian to Maastrichtian time-slice. This biogeographical scenario appears to continue through the early Tertiary and sheds light on the trans-Atlantic disjunct distributions of several extant plant and animal groups.
41677961|The insect order Mantophasmatodea was described in 2002. Prior to that time, several generations of entomologists had assumed that all major insect taxa were known; thus, its description was a sensation for zoologists. Since then, a surprising abundance and species diversity of this taxon have been found, particularly in the winter rainfall region of South Africa. To learn more about the evolutionary lineages, speciation, and biogeography of Mantophasmatodea, we applied an unusual peptidomics approach. We collected specimens of almost all known and novel taxa of these insects, developed methods for immediate sample preparation in the field, introduced peptide mass fingerprints for the unambiguous identification of taxa, and subsequently analyzed the most extensive data set on peptide hormones ever compiled for insect taxa. To account for intraspecific variation, we analyzed several individuals per putative species. Increased taxon sampling was preferred over a further increase in the number of characters to optimize the accuracy of phylogenetic analyses. The large data set made it possible to test the validity of using neuropeptide sequences, which coevolve with their respective receptors, to analyze phylogenetic relationships among closely related taxa. Altogether, the data from 71 populations of Mantophasmatodea were sufficient to clearly separate the major clades of Mantophasmatodea, including previously undescribed taxa such as Pachyphasma, Striatophasma, and Austrophasmatidae gen. et sp. nov. "RV." The data confirm monophyly of Austrophasmatidae and show a relatively recent and extensive radiation in the winter rainfall region of South Africa but also suggest that the species-level diversification of Namibian Mantophasma is less marked than previously thought. We discuss the biogeographical and ecological factors that may have resulted in different regional patterns of endemism and species diversity in Mantophasmatodea. The unique development of the neuroendocrine -neurons in the ventral nervous system is described as synapomorphy of Mantophasmatodea + Grylloblattodea and is a further argument for a close relationship between these insect taxa.
41677962|The avian family Timaliidae is a species rich and morphologically diverse component of African and Asian tropical forests. The morphological diversity within the family has attracted interest from ecologists and evolutionary biologists, but systematists have long suspected that this diversity might also mislead taxonomy, and recent molecular phylogenetic work has supported this hypothesis. We produced and analyzed a data set of 6 genes and almost 300 individuals to assess the evolutionary history of the family. Although phylogenetic analysis required extensive adjustment of program settings, we ultimately produced a well-resolved phylogeny for the family. The resulting phylogeny provided strong support for major subclades within the family but extensive paraphyly of genera. Only 3 genera represented by more than 3 species were monophyletic. Biogeographic reconstruction indicated a mainland Asian origin for the family and most major clades. Colonization of Africa, Sundaland, and the Philippines occurred relatively late in the family's history and was mostly unidirectional. Several putative babbler genera, such as Robsonius, Malia, Leonardina, and Micromacronus are only distantly related to the Timaliidae.
41515200|Complex organs such as eyes are commonly lost during evolution, but the timescale on which lost phenotypes could be reactivated is a matter of long-standing debate, with important implications for the molecular mechanisms of trait loss. Two phylogenetic approaches have been used to test whether regain of traits has occurred. One way is by comparison of nested, continuous-time Markov models of trait evolution, approaches that we term tree-based tests. A second way to demonstrate statistical support for trait regain is through use of node-based tests that employ explicit estimation of ancestral node states. Here, we estimate new molecular and morphological phylogenies and use them to examine the possibility of eye regain and dispersal between abyssal and shallow seas during the history of cylindroleberidid ostracods, a family of about 200 species, comprising both eyeless and sighted species. First, we confirmed that eye presence/absence is correlated with habitat depth. Parameter estimates from a phylogenetic model indicate that speciation is more rapid in deep-sea eyeless clades compared with shallow-water sighted clades. In addition, we found that tree-based statistical tests usually indicated reversals, including both transitions from deep to shallow seas and regain of eyes. In contrast, node-based statistical tests usually failed to show significant support for reversals. These results also hold for simulated phylogenies, indicating that they are not unique to the current data set. We recommend that both tree-based and node-based tests should be examined before making conclusions about character reversal and that ideally, alternative character histories should be tested using additional data, besides just the phylogenetic distribution of presence/absence of the characters.
41515192|Diversification is nested, and early models suggested this could lead to a great deal of evolutionary redundancy in the Tree of Life. This result is based on a particular set of branch lengths produced by the common coalescent, where pendant branches leading to tips can be very short compared with branches deeper in the tree. Here, we analyze alternative and more realistic Yule and birth-death models. We show how censoring at the present both makes average branches one half what we might expect and makes pendant and interior branches roughly equal in length. Although dependent on whether we condition on the size of the tree, its age, or both, mese results hold both for the Yule model and for birthdeath models with moderate extinction. Importantly, the rough equivalency in interior and exterior branch lengths means that the loss of evolutionary history with loss of species can be roughly linear. Under these models, the Tree of Life may offer limited redundancy in the face of ongoing species loss.
41515199|Although temporal calibration is widely recognized as critical for obtaining accurate divergence-time estimates using molecular dating methods, few studies have evaluated the variation resulting from different calibration strategies. Depending on the information available, researchers have often used primary calibrations from the fossil record or secondary calibrations from previous molecular dating studies. In analyses of flowering plants, primary calibration data can be obtained from macro- and mesofossils (e.g., leaves, flowers, and fruits) or microfossils (e.g., pollen). Fossil data can vary substantially in accuracy and precision, presenting a difficult choice when selecting appropriate calibrations. Here, we test the impact of eight plausible calibration scenarios for Nothofagus (Nothofagaceae, Fagales), a plant genus with a particularly rich and well-studied fossil record. To do so, we reviewed the phylogenetic placement and geochronology of 38 fossil taxa of Nothofagus and other Fagales, and we identified minimum age constraints for up to 18 nodes of the phylogeny of Fagales. Molecular dating analyses were conducted for each scenario using maximum likelihood (RAxML + r8s) and Bayesian (BEAST) approaches on sequence data from six regions of the chloroplast and nuclear genomes. Using either ingroup or outgroup constraints, or both, led to similar age estimates, except near strongly influential calibration nodes. Using "early but risky" fossil constraints in addition to "safe but late" constraints, or using assumptions of vicariance instead of fossil constraints, led to older age estimates. In contrast, using secondary calibration points yielded drastically younger age estimates. This empirical study highlights the critical influence of calibration on molecular dating analyses. Even in a best-case situation, with many thoroughly vetted fossils available, substantial uncertainties can remain in the estimates of divergence times. For example, our estimates for the crown group age of Nothofagus varied from 13 to 113 Ma across our full range of calibration scenarios. We suggest that increased background research should be made at all stages of the calibration process to reduce errors wherever possible, from verifying the geochronological data on the fossils to critical reassessment of their phylogenetic position.
41515196|An improvement to the Network Analysis Method (NAM) in Biogeography based on weighted inference and dynamic exploration of sympatry networks is proposed. Intricate distributions of species result in a reticulated structure of spatial associations. Species are geographically connected through sympatry links forming an overall natural network in biogeography. Spatial records are the signals that provide evidence to infer these sympatry links in the network. Punctual data are independent of a priori area determination. NAM is oriented to detect groups of species embedded into the global network that are internally sustained by sympatric cohesiveness but weakly connected (or disconnected) to outgroup entities. These groups, called units of co-occurrence (UCs), are segregated through the iterative removal of intermediary species according to their betweenness scores. Instances of analysis of the original NAM are improved through the following changes and extensions: (i) inference of weighted sympatry networks using new measures sensitive to the strength of overlap and topological resemblance between set of points; (ii) construction of a basal network discriminating major from minor sympatry associations; (iii) evaluation of the entire process of iterative removal of intermediary species for the selection of UCs found on different subnetworks; (iv) network partitioning based on the intrinsic cohesiveness of the UCs; (v) production of a graphical tool (cleavogram) depicting the structural changes of the network along the removal process. Improvements are tested using real and hypothetical data sets. Resolution of patterns is notably increased due to a more accurate recognition of allopatric patterns and the possibility of segregating spatially overlapped UCs. As in original NAM, spatial expressions of UCs are building blocks for biogeography supported by strictly endemic and connected species through sympatry paths.
41515193|Phylogenetic trees show a remarkable slowdown in the increase of number of lineages towards the present, a phenomenon which cannot be explained by the standard birthdeath model of diversification with constant speciation and extinction rates. The birthdeath model instead predicts a constant or accelerating increase in the number of lineages, which has been called the pull of the present. The observed slowdown has been attributed to nonconstancy of the speciation and extinction rates due to some form of diversity dependence (i.e., species-level density dependence), but the mechanisms underlying this are still unclear. Here, we propose an alternative explanation based on the simple concept that speciation takes time to complete. We show that this idea of "protracted" speciation can be incorporated in the standard birth-death model of diversification. The rotracted birthdeath model predicts a realistic slowdown in the rate of increase of number of lineages in the phylogeny and provides a compelling fit to four bird phylogenies with realistic parameter values. Thus, the effect of recognizing the generally accepted fact that speciation is not an instantaneous event is significant; even if it cannot account for all the observed patterns, it certainly contributes substantially and should therefore be incorporated into future studies.
41515198|Molecular phylogenetics has entered a new era in which species trees are estimated from a collection of gene trees using methods that accommodate their heterogeneity and discordance with the species tree. Empirical evaluation of species trees is necessary to assess the performance (i.e., accuracy and precision) of these methods with real data, which consists of gene genealogies likely shaped by different historical and demographic processes. We analyzed 20 loci for 16 species of the South American lizards of the Liolaemus darwinii species group and reconstructed a species tree with *BEAST, then compared the performance of this method under different sampling strategies of loci, individuals, and sequence lengths. We found an increase in the accuracy and precision of species trees with the number of loci, but for any number of loci, accuracy substantially decreased only when using only one individual per species or 25% of the full sequence length (~147 bp). In addition, locus "informativeness" was an important factor in the accuracy/precision of species trees when using a few loci, but it became increasingly irrelevant with additional loci. Our empirical results combined with the previous simulation studies suggest that there is an optimal range of sampling effort of loci, individuals, and sequence lengths for a given speciation history and information content of the data. Future studies should be directed toward further assessment of other factors that can impact performance of species trees, including gene flow, locus "informativeness," tree shape, missing data, and errors in species delimitation.
41515191|Species are commonly delimited on the basis of gaps in patterns of morphological variation, but there seems to be little recent work on methods to objectively assess such gaps. Here, we introduce a statistical approach that uses measurements of continuous morphological characters and geographic variation in those characters to (i) measure the strength of the evidence for the existence of a gap in morphological variation between two hypothesized species and (ii) examine if a gap in morphological variation between two hypothesized species can be explained by an alternative hypothesis of geographic variation within a species. This approach is based on recent developments in analyses of multivariate normal mixtures, estimates of multivariate tolerance regions, and principal coordinates of neighboring matrices. We demonstrate the application of the approach by examining previously proposed hypotheses of species limits in the plant genus Escallonia. We discuss the main features of the method, including potential limitations, in relation to other approaches that use gaps in morphological variation as a criterion for species delimitation. The method we propose can help strengthen the link between the theory and practice of species delimitation by increasing the transparency and consistency of taxonomic decisions based on morphology, thus contributing to integrative approaches for species delimitation that consider morphological and geographic data on an equal footing with other kinds of information.
41515195|Phylogenetic trees are important in many areas of biological research, ranging from systematic studies to the methods used for genome annotation. Finding the best scoring tree under any optimality criterion is an NP-hard problem, which necessitates the use of heuristics for tree-search. Although tree-search plays a major role in obtaining a tree estimate, there remains a limited understanding of its characteristics and how the elements of the statistical inferential procedure interact with the algorithms used. This study begins to answer some of these questions through a detailed examination of maximum likelihood tree-search on a wide range of real genome-scale data sets. We examine all 10,395 trees for each of the 106 genes of an eight-taxa yeast phylogenomic data set, then apply different tree-search algorithms to investigate their performance. We extend our findings by examining two larger genome-scale data sets and a large disparate data set that has been previously used to benchmark the performance of tree-search programs. We identify several broad trends occurring during tree-search that provide an insight into the performance of heuristics and may, in the future, aid their development. These trends include a tendency for the true maximum likelihood (best) tree to also be the shortest tree in terms of branch lengths, a weak tendency for tree-search to recover the best tree, and a tendency for tree-search to encounter fewer local optima in genes that have a high information content. When examining current heuristics for treesearch, we find that nearest-neighbor-interchange performs poorly, and frequently finds trees that are significantly different from the best tree. In contrast, subtree-pruning-and-regrafting tends to perform well, nearly always finding trees that are not significantly different to the best tree. Finally, we demonstrate that the precise implementation of a tree-search strategy, including when and where parameters are optimized, can change the character of tree-search, and that good strategies for tree-search may combine existing tree-search programs.
41515197|We explored the efficacy of species tree methods at the family level in birds, using the Australo-Papuan Fairy-wrens (Passeriformes: Maluridae) as a model system. Fairy-wrens of the genus Malurus are known for high intensities of sexual selection, resulting in some cases in rapid speciation. This history suggests that incomplete lineage sorting (ILS) of neutrally evolving loci could be substantial, a situation that could compromise traditional methods of combining loci in phylogenetic analysis. Using 18 molecular markers (5 anonymous loci, 7 exons, 5 introns, and 1 mitochondrial DNA locus), we show that gene tree monophyly across species could be rejected for 16 of 18 loci, suggesting substantial ILS at the family level in these birds. Using the software Concaterpillar, we also detect three statistically distinct clusters of gene trees among the 18 loci. Despite substantial variation in gene trees, species trees constructed using four different species tree estimation methods (BEST, BUCKy, and STAR) were generally well supported and similar to each other and to the concatenation tree, with a few mild discordances at nodes that could be explained by rapid and recent speciation events. By contrast, minimizing deep coalescences produced a species tree that was topologically more divergent from those of the other methods as measured by multidimensional scaling of trees. Additionally, gene and species trees were topologically more similar in the BEST analysis, presumably because of the species tree prior employed in BEST which appropriately assumes that gene trees are correlated with each other and with the species tree. Among the 18 loci, we also discovered 102 independent indel markers, which also proved phylogenetically informative, primarily among genera, and displayed a ~4-fold bias towards deletions. As suggested in earlier work, the grasswrens (Amytornis) are sister to the rest of the family and the emu-wrens (Stipiturus) are sister to fairy-wrens (Malurus, Clytomyias). Our study shows that ILS is common at the family level in birds yet, despite this, species tree methods converge on broadly similar results for this family.
41515194|Many research groups are estimating trees containing anywhere from a few thousands to hundreds of thousands of species, toward the eventual goal of the estimation of a Tree of Life, containing perhaps as many as several million leaves. These phylogenetic estimations present enormous computational challenges, and current computational methods are likely to fail to run even on data sets in the low end of this range. One approach to estimate a large species tree is to use phylogenetic estimation methods (such as maximum likelihood) on a supermatrix produced by concatenating multiple sequence alignments for a collection of markers; however, the most accurate of these phylogenetic estimation methods are extremely computationally intensive for data sets with more than a few thousand sequences. Supertree methods, which assemble phylogenetic trees from a collection of trees on subsets of the taxa, are important tools for phylogeny estimation where phylogenetic analyses based upon maximum likelihood (ML) are infeasible. In this paper, we introduce SuperFine, a metamethod that utilizes a novel two-step procedure in order to improve the accuracy and scalability of supertree methods. Our study, using both simulated and empirical data, shows that SuperFine-boosted supertree methods produce more accurate trees than standard supertree methods, and run quickly on very large data sets with thousands of sequences. Furthermore, SuperFine-boosted matrix representation with parsimony (MRP, the most well-known supertree method) approaches the accuracy of ML methods on supermatrix data sets under realistic conditions.
41515201|Understanding the evolutionary history of species is at the core of molecular evolution and is done using several inference methods. The critical issue is to quantify the uncertainty of the inference. The posterior probabilities in Bayesian phylogenetic inference and the bootstrap values in frequentist approaches measure the variability of the estimates due to the sampling of sites from genes and the sampling of genes from genomes. However, they do not measure the uncertainty due to taxon sampling. Taxa that experienced molecular homoplasy, recent selection, a spur of evolution, and so forth may disrupt the inference and cause incongruences in the estimated phylogeny. We define a taxon influence index to assess the influence of each taxon on the phylogeny. We found that although most taxa have a weak influence on the phylogeny, a small fraction of influential taxa strongly alter it even in clades only loosely related to them. We conclude that highly influential taxa should be given special attention and sampling them more thoroughly can lead to more dependable phylogenies.
41677977|We modified the phylogenetic program MrBayes 3.1.2 to incorporate the compound Dirichlet priors for branch lengths proposed recently by Rannala, Zhu, and Yang (2012. Tail paradox, partial identifiability and influential priors in Bayesian branch length inference. Mol. Biol. Evol. 29: 325-335.) as a solution to the problem of branch-length overestimation in Bayesian phylogenetic inference. The compound Dirichlet prior specifies a fairly diffuse prior on the tree length (the sum of branch lengths) and uses a Dirichlet distribution to partition the tree length into branch lengths. Six problematic data sets originally analyzed by Brown, Hedtke, Lemmon, and Lemmon (2010. When trees grow too long: investigating the causes of highly inaccurate Bayesian branch-length estimates. Syst. Biol. 59: 145-161) are reanalyzed using the modified version of MrBayes to investigate properties of Bayesian branch-length estimation using the new priors. While the default exponential priors for branch lengths produced extremely long trees, the compound Dirichlet priors produced posterior estimates that are much closer to the maximum likelihood estimates. Furthermore, the posterior tree lengths were quite robust to changes in the parameter values in the compound Dirichlet priors, for example, when the prior mean of tree length changed over several orders of magnitude. Our results suggest that the compound Dirichlet priors may be useful for correcting branchlength overestimation in phylogenetic analyses of empirical data sets.
41677975|One of the major challenges for researchers studying phylogeography and shallow-scale phylogenetics is the identification of highly variable and informative nuclear loci for the question of interest. Previous approaches to locus identification have generally required extensive testing of anonymous nuclear loci developed from genomic libraries of the target taxon, testing of loci of unknown utility from other systems, or identification of loci from the nearest model organism with genomic resources. Here, we present a fast and economical approach to generating thousands of variable, single-copy nuclear loci for any system using next-generation sequencing. We performed Illumina paired-end sequencing of three reduced-representation libraries (RRLs) in chorus frogs (Pseudacris) to identify orthologous, single-copy loci across libraries and to estimate sequence divergence at multiple taxonomic levels. We also conducted PCR testing of these loci across the genus Pseudacris and outgroups to determine whether loci developed for phylogeography can be extended to deeper phylogenetic levels. Prior to sequencing, we conducted in silico digestion of the most closely related reference genome (Xenopus tropicalis) to generate expectations for the number of loci and degree of coverage for a particular experimental design. Using the RRL approach, we: (i) identified more than 100,000 single-copy nuclear loci, 6339 of which were obtained for divergent conspecifics and 904 of which were obtained for heterospecifics; (ii) estimated average nuclear sequence divergence at 0.1% between aleles within an individual, 1.1% between conspecific individuals that represent two different clades, and 1.8% between species; and (iii) determined from PCR testing that 53% of the loci successfully amplify withinspecies and also many amplify to the genus-level and deeper in the phylogeny (16%). Our study effectively identified nuclear loci present in the genome that have levels of sequence divergence on par with mitochondrial loci commonly used in phylogeography. Specifically, we estimated that ~ 7% of loci in the chorus frog genome are > 3% divergent within species; this translates to a prediction of approximately 50,000 single-copy loci in the genome with > 3% divergence. Moreover, successful amplification of many loci at deeper phylogenetic levels indicates that the RRL approach represents an efficient method for rapid identification of informative loci for both phylogenetics and phylogeography. We conclude by making recommendations for minimizing the cost and maximizing the efficiency of locus identification for future studies in this field.
41677983|Eight years after DNA barcoding was formally proposed on a large scale, COI sequences are rapidly accumulating from around the world. While studies to date have mostly targeted local or regional species assemblages, the recent launch of the global iBOL project (International Barcode of Life), highlights the need to understand the effects of geographical scale on Barcoding's goals. Sampling has been central in the debate on DNA Barcoding, but the effect of the geographical scale of sampling has not yet been thoroughly and explicitly tested with empirical data. Here, we present a COI data set of aquatic predaceous diving beetles of the tribe Agabini, sampled throughout Europe, and use it to investigate how the geographic scale of sampling affects 1) the estimated intraspecific variation of species, 2) the genetic distance to the most closely related heterospecific, 3) the ratio of intraspecific and interspecific variation, 4) the frequency of taxonomically recognized species found to be monophyletic, and 5) query identification performance based on 6 different species assignment methods. Intraspecific variation was significantly correlated with the geographical scale of sampling (R-square = 0.7), and more than half of the species with 10 or more sampled individuals (N = 29) showed higher intraspecific variation than 1% sequence divergence. In contrast, the distance to the closest heterospecific showed a significant decrease with increasing geographical scale of sampling. The average genetic distance dropped from > 7% for samples within 1 km, to < 3.5% for samples up to > 6000 km apart. Over a third of the species were not monophyletic, and the proportion increased through locally, nationally, regionally, and continentally restricted subsets of the data. The success of identifying queries decreased with increasing spatial scale of sampling; liberal methods declined from 100% to around 90%, whereas strict methods dropped to below 50% at continental scales. The proportion of query identifications considered uncertain (more than one species < 1% distance from query) escalated from zero at local, to 50% at continental scale. Finally, by resampling the most widely sampled species we show that even if samples are collected to maximize the geographical coverage, up to 70 individuals are required to sample 95% of intraspecific variation. The results show that the geographical scale of sampling has a critical impact on the global application of DNA barcoding. Scale-effects result from the relative importance of different processes determining the composition of regional species assemblages (dispersal and ecological assembly) and global clades (demography, speciation, and extinction). The incorporation of geographical information, where available, will be required to obtain identification rates at global scales equivalent to those in regional barcoding studies. Our result hence provides an impetus for both smarter barcoding tools and sprouting national barcoding initiatives smaller geographical scales deliver higher accuracy.
41677980|We illustrate how recently developed large sequence-length approximations to probabilities of correct phylogenetic reconstruction for maximum likelihood estimation can be used to evaluate experimental design strategies. The specific criterion of interest is the probability of correctly resolving an a priori defined split of interest in a phylogenetic tree. Design strategies considered include increased taxon sampling and increasing sequence length. Our analyses of specific examples strongly suggest that it is better to sample taxa that connect as close as possible to the split of interest. Assuming this can be done, these examples suggest it is better to sample additional taxa than to add a comparable number of sites for the existing taxa. If the rates of evolution in the added taxa are slow, it is better to choose taxa connecting to a long edge, but if rates are comparable to a sister lineage, it is not necessarily the best strategy to sample taxa connected to a long edge. We also examined deleting taxa while increasing the number of sites. Although deleting a small number of taxa distant from the split of interest can be beneficial, deleting too many or making poor choices as to what should be deleted can lead to smaller probabilities of correct reconstruction than for the original sequence data.
41677978|Chronograms from molecular dating are increasingly being used to infer rates of diversification and their change over time. A major limitation in such analyses is incomplete species sampling that moreover is usually nonrandom. While the widely used  statistic with the Monte Carlo constant-rates test or the birth-death likelihood analysis with the AAICrc test statistic are appropriate for comparing the fit of different diversification models in phylogenies with random species sampling, no objective automated method has been developed for fitting diversification models to nonrandomly sampled phylogenies. Here, we introduce a novel approach, CorSiM, which involves simulating missing splits under a constant rate birth-death model and allows the user to specify whether species sampling in the phylogeny being analyzed is random or nonrandom. The completed trees can be used in subsequent model-fitting analyses. This is fundamentally different from previous diversification rate estimation methods, which were based on null distributions derived from the incomplete trees. CorSiM is automated in an R package and can easily be applied to large data sets. We illustrate the approach in two Araceae clades, one with a random species sampling of 52% and one with a nonrandom sampling of 55%. In the latter clade, the CorSiM approach detects and quantifies an increase in diversification rate, whereas classic approaches prefer a constant rate model; in the former clade, results do not differ among methods (as indeed expected since the classic approaches are valid only for randomly sampled phylogenies). The CorSiM method greatly reduces the type I error in diversification analysis, but type II error remains a methodological problem.
41677981|Among the World's most challenging environments for plant life is the Atacama Desert, an arid zone extending over 1300 km and from sea level to 2000/3000 m altitude along the southwestern Andean foothills. Plants there and in the adjacent Mediterranean zone exhibit striking adaptations, and we here address the question whether in a speciesrich clade such adaptations arose in parallel, at different times, or simultaneously. Answering this type of question has been a major concern of evolutionary biology over the past few years, with a growing consensus that lineages tend to be conservative in their vegetative traits and niche requirements. Combined nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences for 112 species of Oxalidales (4900 aligned nucleotides) were used for a fossil-calibrated phylogeny that includes 43 of the 54 species of Chilean Oxalis, and species distribution models (SDMs) incorporating precipitation, temperature, and fog, and the phylogeny were used to reconstruct ancestral habitat preferences, relying on likelihood and Bayesian techniques. Since uneven collecting can reduce the power of SDMs, we compared 3 strategies to correct for collecting effort. Unexpectedly, the Oxalis flora of Chile consists of 7 distant lineages that originated at different times prior to the last Andean uplift pulse; some had features preadapting them to seasonally arid or xeric conditions. Models that incorporated fog and a "collecting activity surface" performed best and identified the Mediterranean zone as a hotspot of Oxalis species as well as lineage diversity because it harbors a mix of ancient and young groups, including insufficiently arid-adapted species. There is no evidence of rapid adaptive radiation.
41677982|A principal objective for phylogenetic experimental design is to predict the power of a data set to resolve nodes in a phylogenetic tree. However, proactively assessing the potential for phylogenetic noise compared with signal in a candidate data set has been a formidable challenge. Understanding the impact of collection of additional sequence data to resolve recalcitrant internodes at diverse historical times will facilitate increasingly accurate and cost-effective phylogenetic research. Here, we derive theory based on the fundamental unit of the phylogenetic tree, the quartet, that applies estimates of the state space and the rates of evolution of characters in a data set to predict phylogenetic signal and phylogenetic noise and therefore to predict the power to resolve internodes. We develop and implement a Monte Carlo approach to estimating power to resolve as well as deriving a nearly equivalent faster deterministic calculation. These approaches are applied to describe the distribution of potential signal, polytomy, or noise for two example data sets, one recent (cytochrome c oxidase I and 28S ribosomal rRNA sequences from Diplazontinae parasitoid wasps) and one deep (eight nuclear genes and a phylogenomic sequence for diverse microbial eukaryotes including Stramenopiles, Alveolata, and Rhizaria). The predicted power of resolution for the loci analyzed is consistent with the historic use of the genes in phylogenetics.
41677974|The field of phylogenetics is on the cusp of a major revolution, enabled by new methods of data collection that leverage both genomic resources and recent advances in DNA sequencing. Previous phylogenetic work has required laborintensive marker development coupled with single-locus polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequencing on clade-by-clade and locus-by-locus basis. Here, we present a new, cost-efficient, and rapid approach to obtaining data from hundreds of loci for potentially hundreds of individuals for deep and shallow phylogenetic studies. Specifically, we designed probes for target enrichment of > 500 loci in highly conserved anchor regions of vertebrate genomes (flanked by less conserved regions) from five model species and tested enrichment efficiency in nonmodel species up to 508 million years divergent from the nearest model. We found that hybrid enrichment using conserved probes (anchored enrichment) can recover a large number of unlinked loci that are useful at a diversity of phylogenetic timescales. This new approach has the potential not only to expedite resolution of deep-scale portions of the Tree of Life but also to greatly accelerate resolution of the large number of shallow clades that remain unresolved. The combination of low cost (~ 1% of the cost of traditional Snger sequencing and ~ 3.5% of the cost of high-throughput amplicon sequencing for projects on the scale of 500 loci  100 individuals) and rapid data collection (~ 2 weeks of laboratory time) are expected to make this approach tractable even for researchers working on systems with limited or nonexistent genomic resources.
41677976|We collected ~29 kb of sequence data using Roche 454 pyrosequencing in order to estimate the timing and pattern of diversification in the carnivorous pitcher plant Sarracenia alata. Utilizing modified protocols for reduced representation library construction, we generated sequence data from 86 individuals across 10 populations from throughout the range of the species. We identified 76 high-quality and high-coverage loci (containing over 500 SNPs) using the bioinformatics pipeline PRGmatic. Results from a Bayesian clustering analysis indicate that populations are highly structured, and are similar in pattern to the topology of a population tree estimated using *BEAST. The pattern of diversification within Sarracenia alata implies that riverine barriers are the primary factor promoting population diversification, with divergence across the Mississippi River occurring more than 60,000 generations before present. Further, significant patterns of niche divergence and the identification of several outlier loci suggest that selection may contribute to population divergence. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of using next-generation sequencing to investigate intraspecific genetic variation in nonmodel species.
41677979|In Bayesian divergence time estimation methods, incorporating calibrating information from the fossil record is commonly done by assigning prior densities to ancestral nodes in the tree. Calibration prior densities are typically parametric distributions offset by minimum age estimates provided by the fossil record. Specification of the parameters of calibration densities requires the user to quantify his or her prior knowledge of the age of the ancestral node relative to the age of its calibrating fossil. The values of these parameters can, potentially, result in biased estimates of node ages if they lead to overly informative prior distributions. Accordingly, determining parameter values that lead to adequate prior densities is not straightforward. In this study, I present a hierarchical Bayesian model for calibrating divergence time analyses with multiple fossil age constraints. This approach applies a Dirichlet process prior as a hyperprior on the parameters of calibration prior densities. Specifically, this model assumes that the rate parameters of exponential prior distributions on calibrated nodes are distributed according to a Dirichlet process, whereby the rate parameters are clustered into distinct parameter categories. Both simulated and biological data are analyzed to evaluate the performance of the Dirichlet process hyperprior. Compared with fixed exponential prior densities, the hierarchical Bayesian approach results in more accurate and precise estimates of internal node ages. When this hyperprior is applied using Markov chain Monte Carlo methods, the ages of calibrated nodes are sampled from mixtures of exponential distributions and uncertainty in the values of calibration density parameters is taken into account.
41677973|Although massively parallel sequencing has facilitated large-scale DNA sequencing, comparisons among distantly related species rely upon small portions of the genome that are easily aligned. Methods are needed to efficiently obtain comparable DNA fragments prior to massively parallel sequencing, particularly for biologists working with nonmodel organisms. We introduce a new class of molecular marker, anchored by ultraconserved genomic elements (UCEs), that universally enable target enrichment and sequencing of thousands of orthologous loci across species separated by hundreds of millions of years of evolution. Our analyses here focus on use of UCE markers in Amniota because UCEs and phylogenetic relationships are well-known in some amniotes. We perform an in silico experiment to demonstrate that sequence flanking 2030 UCEs contains information sufficient to enable unambiguous recovery of the established primate phylogeny. We extend this experiment by performing an in vitro enrichment of 2386 UCE-anchored loci from nine, nonmodel avian species. We then use alignments of 854 of these loci to unambiguously recover the established evolutionary relationships within and among three ancient bird lineages. Because many organismal lineages have UCEs, this type of genetic marker and the analytical framework we outline can be applied across the tree of life, potentially reshaping our understanding of phylogeny at many taxonomic levels.
41677984|We found that trends in the rate of description of 580,000 marine and terrestrial species, in the taxonomically authoritative World Register of Marine Species and Catalogue of Life databases, were similar until the 1950s. Since then, the relative number of marine to terrestrial species described per year has increased, reflecting the less explored nature of the oceans. From the mid-19th century, the cumulative number of species described has been linear, with the highest number of species described in the decade of 1900, and fewer species described and fewer authors active during the World Wars. There were more authors describing species since the 1960s, indicating greater taxonomic effort. There were fewer species described per author since the 1920s, suggesting it has become more difficult to discover new species. There was no evidence of any change in individual effort by taxonomists. Using a nonhomogeneous renewal process model we predicted that 24-31% to 21-29% more marine and terrestrial species remain to be discovered, respectively. We discuss why we consider that marine species comprise only 16% of all species on Earth although the oceans contain a greater phylogenetic diversity than occurs on land. We predict that there may be 1.8-2.0 million species on Earth, of which about 0.3 million are marine, significantly less than some previous estimates.
41515215|The Guiana Shield (GS) is one of the most pristine regions of Amazonia and biologically one of the richest areas on Earth. How and when this massive diversity arose remains the subject of considerable debate. The prevailing hypothesis of Quaternary glacial refugia suggests that a part of the eastern GS, among other areas in Amazonia, served as stable forested refugia during periods of aridity. However, the recently proposed disturbancevicariance hypothesis proposes that fluctuations in temperature on orbital timescales, with some associated aridity, have driven Neotropical diversification. The expectations of the temporal and spatial organization of biodiversity differ between these two hypotheses. Here, we compare the genetic structure of 12 leaf-litter inhabiting frog species from the GS lowlands using a combination of mitochondrial and nuclear sequences in an integrative analytical approach that includes phylogenetic reconstructions, molecular dating, and Geographic Information System methods. This comparative and integrated approach overcomes the well-known limitations of phylogeographic inference based on single species and single loci. All of the focal species exhibit distinct phylogeographic patterns highlighting taxon-specific historical distributions, ecological tolerances to climatic disturbance, and dispersal abilities. Nevertheless, all but one species exhibit a history of fragmentation/isolation within the eastern GS during the Quaternary with spatial and temporal concordance among species. The signature of isolation in northern French Guiana (FG) during the early Pleistocene is particularly clear. Approximate Bayesian Computation supports the synchrony of the divergence between northern FG and other GS lineages. Substructure observed throughout the GS suggests further Quaternary fragmentation and a role for rivers. Our findings support fragmentation of moist tropical forest in the eastern GS during this period when the refuge hypothesis would have the region serving as a contiguous wet-forest refuge.
41515212|Regressions of biological variables across species are rarely perfect. Usually, there are residual deviations from the estimated model relationship, and such deviations commonly show a pattern of phylogenetic correlations indicating that they have biological causes. We discuss the origins and effects of phylogenetically correlated biological variation in regression studies. In particular, we discuss the interplay of biological deviations with deviations due to observational or measurement errors, which are also important in comparative studies based on estimated species means. We show how bias in estimated evolutionary regressions can arise from several sources, including phylogenetic inertia and either observational or biological error in the predictor variables. We show how all these biases can be estimated and corrected for in the presence of phylogenetic correlations. We present general formulas for incorporating measurement error in linear models with correlated data. We also show how alternative regression models, such as major axis and reduced major axis regression, which are often recommended when there is error in predictor variables, are strongly biased when there is biological variation in any part of the model. We argue that such methods should never be used to estimate evolutionary or allometric regression slopes.
41515209|We prove that the slope parameter of the ordinary least squares regression of phylogenetically independent contrasts (PICs) conducted through the origin is identical to the slope parameter of the method of generalized least squares (GLSs) regression under a Brownian motion model of evolution. This equivalence has several implications: 1. Understanding the structure of the linear model for GLS regression provides insight into when and why phylogeny is important in comparative studies. 2. The limitations of the PIC regression analysis are the same as the limitations of the GLS model. In particular, phylogenetic covariance applies only to the response variable in the regression and the explanatory variable should be regarded as fixed. Calculation of PICs for explanatory variables should be treated as a mathematical idiosyncrasy of the PIC regression algorithm. 3. Since the GLS estimator is the best linear unbiased estimator (BLUE), the slope parameter estimated using PICs is also BLUE. 4. If the slope is estimated using different branch lengths for the explanatory and response variables in the PIC algorithm, the estimator is no longer the BLUE, so this is not recommended. Finally, we discuss whether or not and how to accommodate phylogenetic covariance in regression analyses, particularly in relation to the problem of phylogenetic uncertainty. This discussion is from both frequentist and Bayesian perspectives.
41515214|Replicate radiations provide powerful comparative systems to address questions about the interplay between opportunity and innovation in driving episodes of diversification and the factors limiting their subsequent progression. However, such systems have been rarely documented at intercontinental scales. Here, we evaluate the hypothesis of multiple radiations in the genus Lupinus (Leguminosae), which exhibits some of the highest known rates of net diversification in plants. Given that incomplete taxon sampling, background extinction, and lineage-specific variation in diversification rates can confound macroevolutionary inferences regarding the timing and mechanisms of cladogenesis, we used Bayesian relaxed clock phylogenetic analyses as well as MEDUSA and BiSSE birthdeath likelihood models of diversification, to evaluate the evolutionary patterns of lineage accumulation in Lupinus. We identified 3 significant shifts to increased rates of net diversification (r) relative to background levels in the genus (r = 0.180.48 lineages/myr). The primary shift occurred approximately 4.6 Ma (r = 0.481.76) in the montane regions of western North America, followed by a secondary shift approximately 2.7 Ma (r = 0.893.33) associated with range expansion and diversification of allopatrically distributed sister clades in the Mexican highlands and Andes. We also recovered evidence for a third independent shift approximately 6.5 Ma at the base of a lower elevation eastern South American grassland and campo rupestre clade (r = 0.361.33). Bayesian ancestral state reconstructions and BiSSE likelihood analyses of correlated diversification indicated that increased rates of speciation are strongly associated with the derived evolution of perennial life history and invasion of montane ecosystems. Although we currently lack hard evidence for "replicate adaptive radiations" in the sense of convergent morphological and ecological trajectories among species in different clades, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that iteroparity functioned as an adaptive key innovation, providing a mechanism for range expansion and rapid divergence in upper elevation regions across much of the New World.
41515213|The study of three island groups of the palm tribe Trachycarpeae (Arecaceae/Palmae) permits both the analysis of each independent radiation and comparisons across the tribe to address general processes that drive island diversification. Phylogenetic relationships of Trachycarpeae were inferred from three plastid and three low-copy nuclear genes. The incongruent topological position of Brahea in CISP5 was hypothesized to be caused by a gene duplication event and was addressed using uninode coding. The resulting phylogenetic trees were well-resolved and the genera were all highly supported except for Johannesteijsmannia and Serenoa. Divergence time analysis estimated the stem of the tribe to be approximately 86 Ma and the crown to be 38 Ma, indicating that significant extinction may have occurred along this branch. Historical biogeographic analysis suggested that Trachycarpeae are of southern North American, Central American, or Caribbean origin and supports previous hypotheses of a Laurasian origin. The biogeography and disjunctions within the tribe were interpreted with respect to divergence times, the fossil record, and geological factors such as the formation of the Greater AntillesAves Ridge, the Bering and the North Atlantic land bridges, tectonic movement in Southeast Asia, climatic shifts between the Eocene and Pliocene, and volcanism in the Pacific basin. In considering the three major island radiations within Trachycarpeae, Miocene dispersal appears to have been the driving force in allopatric speciation and is highlighted here as an emerging pattern across the tree of life.
41515210|All methods proposed to date for mapping landmark configurations on a phylogenetic tree start from an alignment generated by methods that make no use of phylogenetic information, usually by superimposing all configurations against a consensus configuration. In order to properly interpret differences between landmark configurations along the tree as changes in shape, the metric chosen to define the ancestral assignments should also form the basis to superimpose the configurations. Thus, we present here a method that merges both steps, map and align, into a single procedure that (for the given tree) produces a multiple alignment and ancestral assignments such that the sum of the Euclidean distances between the corresponding landmarks along tree nodes is minimized. This approach is an extension of the method proposed by Catalano et al. (2010. Phylogenetic morphometrics (I): the use of landmark data in a phylogenetic framework. Cladistics. 26:539-549) for mapping landmark data with parsimony as optimality criterion. In the context of phylogenetics, this method allows maximizing the degree to which similarity in landmark positions can be accounted for by common ancestry. In the context of morphometrics, this approach guarantees (heuristics aside) that all the transformations inferred on the tree represent changes in shape. The performance of the method was evaluated on different data sets, indicating that the method produces marked improvements in tree score (up to 5% compared with generalized superimpositions, up to 11% compared with ordinary superimpositions). These empirical results stress the importance of incorporating the phylogenetic information into the alignment step.
41515211|The macroevolutionary consequences of recent climate change remain controversial, and there is little paleobotanical or morphological evidence that Pleistocene (1.80.12 Ma) glacial cycles acted as drivers of speciation, especially among lineages with long generation times, such as trees. We combined genetic and ecogeographic data from 2 closely related North American tree species, Populus balsamifera and P. trichocarpa (Salicacaeae), to determine if their divergence coincided with and was possibly caused by Pleistocene climatic events. We analyzed 32 nuclear loci from individuals of P. balsamifera and P. trichocarpa to produce coalescent-based estimates of the divergence time between the 2 species. We coupled the coalescent analyses with paleodistribution models to assess the influence of climate change on species' range. Furthermore, measures of niche overlap were used to investigate patterns of ecological differentiation between species. We estimated the divergence date of P. balsamifera and P. trichocarpa at approximately 75 Ka, which corresponds closely with the onset of Marine Isotope Stage 4 (~76 Ka) and a rapid increase in global ice volume. Significance tests of niche overlap, in conjunction with genetic estimates of migration, suggested that speciation occurred in allopatry, possibly resulting from the environmental effects of Pleistocene glacial cycles. Our results indicate that the divergence of keystone tree species, which have shaped community diversity in northern North American ecosystems, was recent and may have been a consequence of Pleistocene-era glaciation and climate change.
41515217|Most models and algorithms developed to perform statistical inference from DNA data make the assumption that substitution processes affecting distinct nucleotide sites are stochastically independent. This assumption ensures both mathematical and computational tractability but is in disagreement with observed data in many situationsone well-known example being CpG dinucleotide hypermutability in mammalian genomes. In this paper, we consider the class of RN95 + YpR substitution models, which allows neighbor-dependent effectsincluding CpG hypermutabilityto be taken into account, through transitions between pyrimidine-purine dinucleotides. We show that it is possible to adapt inference methods originally developed under the assumption of independence between sites to RN95 + YpR models, using a mathematically rigorous framework provided by specific structural properties of this class of models. We assess how efficient this approach is at inferring the CpG hypermutability rate from aligned DNA sequences. The method is tested on simulated data and compared against several alternatives; the results suggest that it delivers a high degree of accuracy at a low computational cost. We then apply our method to an alignment of 10 DNA sequences from primate species. Model comparisons within the RN95 + YpR class show the importance of taking into account neighbor-dependent effects. An application of the method to the detection of hypomethylated islands is discussed.
41515220|Since its introduction in 2001, MrBayes has grown in popularity as a software package for Bayesian phylogenetic inference using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. With this note, we announce the release of version 3.2, a major upgrade to the latest official release presented in 2003. The new version provides convergence diagnostics and allows multiple analyses to be run in parallel with convergence progress monitored on the fly. The introduction of new proposals and automatic optimization of tuning parameters has improved convergence for many problems. The new version also sports significantly faster likelihood calculations through streaming single-instruction-multiple-data extensions (SSE) and support of the BEAGLE library, allowing likelihood calculations to be delegated to graphics processing units (GPUs) on compatible hardware. Speedup factors range from around 2 with SSE code to more than 50 with BEAGLE for codon problems. Checkpointing across all models allows long runs to be completed even when an analysis is prematurely terminated. New models include relaxed clocks, dating, model averaging across time-reversible substitution models, and support for hard, negative, and partial (backbone) tree constraints. Inference of species trees from gene trees is supported by full incorporation of the Bayesian estimation of species trees (BEST) algorithms. Marginal model likelihoods for Bayes factor tests can be estimated accurately across the entire model space using the stepping stone method. The new version provides more output options than previously, including samples of ancestral states, site rates, site d^/dg rations, branch rates, and node dates. A wide range of statistics on tree parameters can also be output for visualization in FigTree and compatible software.
41515216|Backbone relationships within the large eupolypod II clade, which includes nearly a third of extant fern species, have resisted elucidation by both molecular and morphological data. Earlier studies suggest that much of the phylogenetic intractability of this group is due to three factors: (i) a long root that reduces apparent levels of support in the ingroup; (ii) long ingroup branches subtended by a series of very short backbone internodes (the "ancient rapid radiation" model); and (iii) significantly heterogeneous lineage-specific rates of substitution. To resolve the eupolypod II phylogeny, with a particular emphasis on the backbone internodes, we assembled a data set of five plastid loci (atpA, atpB, matK, rbcL, and trnG-R) from a sample of 81 accessions selected to capture the deepest divergences in the clade. We then evaluated our phylogenetic hypothesis against potential confounding factors, including those induced by rooting, ancient rapid radiation, rate heterogeneity, and the Bayesian star-tree paradox artifact. While the strong support we inferred for the backbone relationships proved robust to these potential problems, their investigation revealed unexpected model-mediated impacts of outgroup composition, divergent effects of methods for countering the star-tree paradox artifact, and gave no support to concerns about the applicability of the unrooted model to data sets with heterogeneous lineage-specific rates of substitution. This study is among few to investigate these factors with empirical data, and the first to compare the performance of the two primary methods for overcoming the Bayesian star-tree paradox artifact. Among the significant phylogenetic results is the near-complete support along the eupolypod II backbone, the demonstrated paraphyly of Woodsiaceae as currently circumscribed, and the well-supported placement of the enigmatic genera Homalosorus, Diplaziopsis, and Woodsia.
41515208|Understanding recent speciation history requires merging phylogenetic and population genetics approaches, taking into account the persistence of ancestral polymorphism and possible introgression. The emergence of a clear phylogeny of hares (genus Lepus) has been hampered by poor genomic sampling and possible occurrence of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) introgression from the arctic/boreal Lepus timidus into several European temperate and possibly American boreal species. However, no formal test of introgression, taking also incomplete lineage sorting into account, has been done. Here, to clarify the yet poorly resolved species phylogeny of hares and test hypotheses of mtDNA introgression, we sequenced 14 nuclear DNA and 2 mtDNA fragments (8205 and 1113 bp, respectively) in 50 specimens from 11 hare species from Eurasia, North America, and Africa. By applying an isolation-with-migration model to the nuclear data on subsets of species, we find evidence for very limited gene flow from L. timidus into most temperate European species, and not into the American boreal ones. Using a multilocus coalescent-based method, we infer the species phylogeny, which we find highly incongruent with mtDNA phylogeny using parametric bootstrap. Simulations of mtDNA evolution under the speciation history inferred from nuclear genes did not support the hypothesis of mtDNA introgression from L. timidus into the American L. townsendii but did suggest introgression from L. timidus into 4 temperate European species. One such event likely resulted in the complete replacement of the aboriginal mtDNA of L. castroviejoi and of its sister species L. corsicanus. It is remarkable that mtDNA introgression in hares is frequent, extensive, and always from the same donor arctic species. We discuss possible explanations for the phenomenon in relation to the dynamics of range expansions and species replacements during the climatic oscillations of the Pleistocene.
4135374|We conducted phylogenetic analyses of Androsace and the closely related genera Douglasia, Pomatosace, and Vitaliana using DNA sequences of the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and the plastid trnL-F region. Analyses using maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference yield congruent relationships among several major lineages found. These lineages largely disagree with previously recognized taxonomic groups. Most notably, (1) Androsace sect. Andraspis, comprising the short-lived taxa, is highly polyphyletic; (2) Pomatosace constitutes a separate phylogenetic lineage within Androsace; and (3) Douglasia and Vitaliana nest within Androsace sect. Aretia. Our results suggest multiple origins of the short-lived lifeform and a possible reversal from annual or biennial to perennial habit at the base of a group that now contains mostly perennial high mountain or arctic taxa. The group containing Androsace sect. Aretia, Douglasia, and Vitaliana includes predominantly high alpine and arctic taxa with an arctic-alpine distribution, but is not found in the European and northeastern American Arctic or in Central and East Asia. This group probably originated in Europe in the Pliocene, from where it reached the amphi-Beringian region in the Pleistocene or late Pliocene.
4135380|Advocates of maximum likelihood (ML) approaches to phylogenetics commonly cite as one of their primary advantages the use of objective statistical criteria for model selection. Currently, a particular implementation of the likelihood ratio test (LRT) is the most commonly used model-selection criterion in phylogenetics. This approach requires the choice of a starting point and a parameter addition (or removal) sequence that can affect all ML inferences (i.e., topology, model, and all evolutionary parameters). Here, several alternative starting points and parameter sequences are tested in empirical data sets to assess their influence on model selection and optimal topology. In the studied data sets, varying model-selection protocols leads to selection of different models that, in some cases, lead to different ML trees. Given the sensitivity of the LRT, some possible solutions to model selection (within the hypothesis testing approach) are outlined, and alternative model-selection criteria are discussed. Some of the suggested alternatives seem to lack these problems, although their behavior and adequacy for phylogenetics needs to be further explored.
4135376|The homobasidiomycetes is a diverse group of macrofungi that includes mushrooms, puffballs, coral fungi, and other forms. This study used maximum likelihood methods to determine if there are general trends (evolutionary tendencies) in the evolution of fruiting body forms in homobasidiomycetes, and to estimate the ancestral forms of the homobasidiomycetes and euagarics clade. Character evolution was modeled using a published 481-species phylogeny under two character-coding regimes: additive binary coding, using DISCRETE, and multistate (five-state) coding, using MULTISTATE. Inferences regarding trends in character evolution made under binary coding were often in conflict with those made under multistate coding, suggesting that the additive binary coding approach cannot serve as a surrogate for multistate methods. MULTISTATE was used to develop a "minimal" model of fruiting body evolution, in which the 20 parameters that specify rates of transformations among character states were grouped into the fewest possible rate categories. The minimal model required only four rate categories, one of which is approaching zero, and suggests the following conclusions regarding trends in evolution of homobasidiomycete fruiting bodies: (1) there is an active trend favoring the evolution of pileate-stipitate forms (those with a cap and stalk); (2) the hypothesis that the evolution of gasteroid forms (those with internal spore production, such as puffballs) is irreversible cannot be rejected; and (3) crustlike resupinate forms are not a particularly labile morphology. The latter finding contradicts the conclusions of a previous study that used binary character coding. Ancestral state reconstructions under binary coding suggest that the ancestor of the homobasidiomycetes was resupinate and the ancestor of the euagarics clade was pileate-stipitate, but ancestral state reconstructions under multistate coding did not resolve the ancestral form of either node. The results of this study illustrate the potential sensitivity of comparative analyses to character state definitions.
4135378|Four low-copy nuclear DNA intron regions from the second largest subunits of the RNA polymerase gene family (RPA2, RPB2, RPD2a, and RPD2b), the internal transcribed spacers (ITSs) from the nuclear ribosomal regions, and the rps16 intron from the chloroplast were sequenced and used in a phylogenetic analysis of 29 species from the tribe Sileneae (Caryophyllaceae). We used a low stringency nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach to overcome the difficulties of constructing specific primers for amplification of the low copy nuclear DNA regions. Maximum parsimony analyses resulted in largely congruent phylogenetic trees for all regions. We tested overall model congruence in a likelihood context using the software PLATO and found that ITSs, RPA2, and RPB2 deviated from the maximum likelihood model for the combined data. The topology parameter was then isolated and topological congruence assessed by nonparametric bootstrapping. No strong topological incongruence was found. The analysis of the combined data sets resolves previously poorly known major relationships within Sileneae. Two paralogues of RPD2 were found, and several independent losses and incomplete concerted evolution were inferred. The among-site rate variation was significantly lower in the RNA polymerase introns than in the rps16 intron and ITSs, a property that is attractive in phylogenetic analyses.
4135377|What does the posterior probability of a phylogenetic tree mean? This simulation study shows that Bayesian posterior probabilities have the meaning that is typically ascribed to them; the posterior probability of a tree is the probability that the tree is correct, assuming that the model is correct. At the same time, the Bayesian method can be sensitive to model misspecification, and the sensitivity of the Bayesian method appears to be greater than the sensitivity of the nonparametric bootstrap method (using maximum likelihood to estimate trees). Although the estimates of phylogeny obtained by use of the method of maximum likelihood or the Bayesian method are likely to be similar, the assessment of the uncertainty of inferred trees via either bootstrapping (for maximum likelihood estimates) or posterior probabilities (for Bayesian estimates) is not likely to be the same. We suggest that the Bayesian method be implemented with the most complex models of those currently available, as this should reduce the chance that the method will concentrate too much probability on too few trees.
4135379|Resource use and phylogeny are often correlated with morphological variation. Moreover, because biological shapes are often complex and evolve depending on several internal constraints, they must be assessed using integrative methods. We analyzed the morphological variation of the turtle skull in the context of an adaptive radiation. Our focus are turtles of the superfamily Testudinoidea, which are remarkably diverse, both in number of species and in ecology. In this study, we depict morphological variation in the turtle skull in three dimensions with respect to diet, phylogeny, and habitat using modern geometric morphometrics. Our study revealed that morphological specialization was related to both diet and habitat. Morphological variation is decomposed in regard of both resource use (habitat and diet) and phylogeny. Feeding mode depending on environment was suggested as a key factor determining morphological evolution and diversification of turtle skulls. Diet (especially durophagy) leads to parallel morphologies in different clades. Phylogeny seemed to constrain only localized features of the skull and remained of minor influence, because overall morphotypes, closely correlated with ecological factors, occurred in both clades. In conclusion, the adaptive radiation of the Testudinoidea is revealed to demonstrate a clear relationship between the skull shape and life style.
4135381|Maximum likelihood (ML) is increasingly used as an optimality criterion for selecting evolutionary trees (Felsenstein, 1981, J. Mol. Evol. 17:368-376), but finding the global optimum is a hard computational task. Because no general analytic solution is known, numeric techniques such as hill climbing or expectation maximization (EM) are used in order to find optimal parameters for a given tree. So far, analytic solutions were derived only for the simplest model-three-taxa, two-state characters, under a molecular clock. Quoting Ziheng Yang (2000, Proc. R. Soc. B 267:109-119), who initiated the analytic approach, "this seems to be the simplest case, but has many of the conceptual and statistical complexities involved in phylogenetic estimation." In this work, we give general analytic solutions for a family of trees with four-taxa, two-state characters, under a molecular clock. The change from three to four taxa incurs a major increase in the complexity of the underlying algebraic system, and requires novel techniques and approaches. We start by presenting the general maximum likelihood problem on phylogenetic trees as a constrained optimization problem, and the resulting system of polynomial equations. In full generality, it is infeasible to solve this system, therefore specialized tools for the molecular clock case are developed. Four-taxa rooted trees have two topologies-the fork (two subtrees with two leaves each) and the comb (one subtree with three leaves, the other with a single leaf). We combine the ultrametric properties of molecular clock fork trees with the Hadamard conjugation (Hendy and Penny, 1993, J. Classif. 10:5-24) to derive a number of topology dependent identities. Employing these identities, we substantially simplify the system of polynomial equations for the fork. We finally employ symbolic algebra software to obtain closed form analytic solutions (expressed parametrically in the input data). In general, four-taxa trees can have multiple ML points (Steel, 1994, Syst. Biol. 43:560-564; Chor et al., 2000, MBE 17:1529-1541). In contrast, we can now prove that each fork topology has a unique (local and global) ML point.
4135373|Conservation biologists rely heavily on taxonomy to set the scope for biological monitoring and recovery planning of rare or threatened species. Yet, taxonomic boundaries are seldom evaluated as falsifiable hypotheses that can be statistically tested. Here, we examine species boundaries in leatherside chub (Teleostei, Cyprinidae), an imperiled desert fish native to the Bonneville Basin and upper Snake River drainages of western North America. Recent molecular data hint that this fish could be composed of two distinct taxa that are geographically separated into northern and southern species. To formally test this hypothesis, we evaluated leatherside chub using several different categories of species concepts, including criteria dependent on phylogenetic, morphological, and ecological data. We found that leatherside chub is composed of two reciprocally monophyletic clades (candidate species) characterized by numerous fixed genetic differences for both mitochondrial and nuclear DNA markers; mtDNA sequence divergence between the two clades approached 8%. The candidate species also showed significant differences in cranial shape, revealed by morphometric analysis. Finally, controlled growth and foraging experiments using representative populations from each clade show that candidate species appear to be locally adapted to the thermal environments where they now occur. Combined, these three lines of evidence support the hypothesis that leatherside chub is composed of two species. Moreover, all lines of evidence place these two species within the genus Lepidomeda, a group consisting of three additional species of endangered spinedace fishes, and one extinct species, all native to the Colorado River system. Hence, we elevate the two clades of leatherside chub to distinct species status (Lepidomeda copei in the north and L. aliciae in the south), and argue that each warrants independent conservation and recovery action.
4135375|Bayesian phylogenetic methods require the selection of prior probability distributions for all parameters of the model of evolution. These distributions allow one to incorporate prior information into a Bayesian analysis, but even in the absence of meaningful prior information, a prior distribution must be chosen. In such situations, researchers typically seek to choose a prior that will have little effect on the posterior estimates produced by an analysis, allowing the data to dominate. Sometimes a prior that is uniform (assigning equal prior probability density to all points within some range) is chosen for this purpose. In reality, the appropriate prior depends on the parameterization chosen for the model of evolution, a choice that is largely arbitrary. There is an extensive Bayesian literature on appropriate prior choice, and it has long been appreciated that there are parameterizations for which uniform priors can have a strong influence on posterior estimates. We here discuss the relationship between model parameterization and prior specification, using the general time-reversible model of nucleotide evolution as an example. We present Bayesian analyses of 10 simulated data sets obtained using a variety of prior distributions and parameterizations of the general time-reversible model. Uniform priors can produce biased parameter estimates under realistic conditions, and a variety of alternative priors avoid this bias.
4135382|The grid-based method to identify areas of endemism proposed by Szumik et al. (Syst. Biol. 51:806-816, 2002) is extended. The improvements include the ability to assign scores of endemicity to sets of disjoint areas, and to have each species contribute more to the score of endemicity of an area, or less, according to how well its distribution matches the area. The modified method also allows for partially overlapping areas; an area partially overlapping with another one of higher score is retained when the set of lower score has a minimum proportion of species endemic to it. Algorithms to evaluate areas of endemism under this criterion are discussed, and implemented in a computer program (NDM; available at www.zmuc.dk/public/phylogeny). The new algorithms allow evaluation of much larger data sets.
4135392|The influence of nonindependence among sites on phylogenetic reconstructions and bootstrap scores was investigated both analytically and empirically. First, the sampling properties of the bootstrap support in the four-species case was derived for the maximum-parsimony method, assuming either independently or nonindependently evolving sites. The influence of various models of departure from the independence assumption was quantified. Second, trees and bootstrap scores estimated from subsets of consecutive (potentially coevolving) versus dispersed (presumably independent) sites of a ribosomal RNA data set were contrasted. The two approaches consistently suggest that a departure from the assumption of independent sites tends to reduce the amount of phylogenetic information contained in the data, but to increase the apparent statistical support for reconstructed trees, as measured by the bootstrap. In particular, nonindependence can lead to strongly supported wrong internal branches.
4135389|Two studies were conducted to explore the use of complex data in character description and hybrid identification. In order to determine if complex data allow the production of better characters, eight groups of plant systematists were given two classes of drawings of plant parts, and asked to divide them into character states (clusters) in two separate experiments. The first class of drawings consisted only of cotyledons. The second class consisted of triplets of drawings: a cotyledon, seedling leaf, and inflorescence bract. The triplets were used to simulate complex data such as might be garnered by looking at a plant. Each experiment resulted in four characters (groups of clusters), one for each group of systematists. Visual and statistical analysis of the data showed that the systematists were able to produce smaller, more precisely defined character states using the more complex drawings. The character states created with the complex drawings also were more consistent across systematists, and agreed more closely with an independent assessment of phylogeny. To investigate the utility of complex data in an applied task, four observers rated 250 hybrids of Dubautia ciliolata X arborea based on the overall form (Gestalt) of the plants, and took measurements of a number of features of the same plants. A composite score of the measurements was created using principal components analysis. The correlation between the scores on the first principal component and the Gestalt ratings was computed. The Gestalt ratings and PC scores were significantly correlated, demonstrating that assessments of overall similarity can be as useful as more conventional approaches in determining the hybrid status of plants.
4135390|We used mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences to test biogeographic hypotheses for Patiriella exigua (Asterinidae), one of the world's most widespread coastal sea stars. This small intertidal species has an entirely benthic life history and yet occurs in southern temperate waters of the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific oceans. Despite its abundance around southern Africa, southeastern Australia, and several oceanic islands, P. exigua is absent from the shores of Western Australia, New Zealand, and South America. Phylogenetic analysis of mtDNA sequences (cytochrome oxidase I, control region) indicates that South Africa houses an assemblage of P. exigua that is not monophyletic (P = 0.04), whereas Australian and Lord Howe Island specimens form an interior monophyletic group. The placement of the root in Africa and small genetic divergences between eastern African and Australian haplotypes strongly suggest Pleistocene dispersal eastward across the Indian Ocean. Dispersal was probably achieved by rafting on wood or macroalgae, which was facilitated by the West Wind Drift. Genetic data also support Pleistocene colonization of oceanic islands (Lord Howe Island, Amsterdam Island, St. Helena). Although many biogeographers have speculated about the role of long-distance rafting, this study is one of the first to provide convincing evidence. The marked phylogeographic structure evident across small geographic scales in Australia and South Africa indicates that gene flow among populations may be generally insufficient to prevent the local evolution of monophyly. We suggest that P. exigua may rely on passive mechanisms of dispersal.
4135403|Historically, comparisons of host and parasite phylogenies have concentrated on cospeciation. However, many of these comparisons have demonstrated that the phylogenies of hosts and parasites are seldom completely congruent, suggesting that phenomena other than cospeciation play an important role in the evolution of host-parasite assemblages. Other coevolutionary phenomena, such as host switching, parasite duplication (speciation on the host), sorting (extinction), and failure to speciate can also influence host-parasite assemblages. Using mitochondrial and nuclear protein-coding DNA sequences, I reconstructed the phylogeny of ectoparasitic toucan chewing lice in the Austrophilopterus cancellosus subspecies complex and compared this phylogeny with the phylogeny of the hosts, the Ramphastos toucans, to reconstruct the history of coevolutionary events in this host-parasite assemblage. Three salient findings emerged. First, reconstructions of host and louse phylogenies indicate that they do not branch in parallel, and their cophylogenetic history shows little or no significant cospeciation. Second, members of monophyletic Austrophilopterus toucan louse lineages are not necessarily restricted to monophyletic host lineages. Often, closely related lice are found on more distantly related but sympatric toucan hosts. Third, the geographic distribution of the hosts apparently plays a role in the speciation of these lice. These results suggest that for some louse lineages biogeography may be more important than host associations in structuring louse populations and species, particularly when host life history (e.g., hole nesting) or parasite life history (e.g., phoresis) might promote frequent host switching events between syntopic host species. These findings highlight the importance of integrating biogeographic information into cophylogenetic studies.
4135400|An increasing number of plant-insect studies using phylogenetic analysis suggest that cospeciation events are rare in plant-insect systems. Instead, nonrandom patterns of phylogenetic congruence are produced by phylogenetically conserved host switching (to related plants) or tracking of particular resources or traits (e.g., chemical). The dominance of host switching in many phytophagous insect groups may make the detection of genuine cospeciation events difficult. One important test of putative cospeciation events is to verify whether reciprocal speciation is temporally plausible. We explored techniques for double-dating of both plant and insect phylogenies. We use dated molecular phylogenies of a psyllid (Hemiptera)-Genisteae (Fabaceae) system, a predominantly monophagous insect-plant association widespread on the Atlantic Macaronesian islands. Phylogenetic reconciliation analysis suggests high levels of parallel cladogenesis between legumes and psyllids. However, dating using molecular clocks calibrated on known geological ages of the Macaronesian islands revealed that the legume and psyllid radiations were not contemporaneous but sequential. Whereas the main plant radiation occurred some 8 million years ago, the insect radiation occurred about 3 million years ago. We estimated that >60% of the psyllid speciation has resulted from host switching between related hosts. The only evidence for true cospeciation is in the much more recent and localized radiation of genistoid legumes in the Canary Islands, where the psyllid and legume radiations have been partially contemporaneous. The identification of specific cospeciation events over this time period, however, is hindered by the phylogenetic uncertainty in both legume and psyllid phylogenies due to the apparent rapidity of the species radiations.
4135402|The African brood parasitic finches (Vidua spp.) are host specialists that mimic the songs and nestling mouth markings of their finch hosts (family Estrildidae). Although recent molecular analyses suggest rapid speciation associated with host switches in some members of this group, the association of different Vidua lineages with particular host genera suggests the possibility of cospeciation at higher levels in the host and parasite phylogenies. We compared a phylogeny of all Vidua species with a phylogeny of their estrildid finch hosts and compared divergence time estimates for the two groups. Basal divergences among extant members of the Vidulidae and among Vidua species are more recent than those among host genera and species, respectively, allowing a model of cospeciation to be rejected at most or all levels of the Vidua phylogeny. Nonetheless, some tests for cospeciation indicated significant congruence between host and parasite tree topologies. This result may be an artifact of clade-limited colonization. Host switches in parasitic finches have most often involved new hosts in the same or a closely related genus, an effect that increases the apparent congruence of host and parasites trees.
4135398|Bacterial endosymbionts are widespread across several insect orders and are involved in interactions ranging from obligate mutualism to reproductive parasitism. Candidatus Blochmannia gen. nov. (Blochmannia) is an obligate bacterial associate of Camponotus and related ant genera (Hymenoptera: Formicidae). The occurrence of Blochmannia in all Camponotus species sampled from field populations and its maternal transmission to host offspring suggest that this bacterium is engaged in a long-term, stable association with its ant hosts. However, evidence for cospeciation in this system is equivocal because previous phylogenetic studies were based on limited gene sampling, lacked statistical analysis of congruence, and have even suggested host switching. We compared phylogenies of host genes (the nuclear
4135404|Phylogenetic congruence is governed by various macroevolutionary events, including cospeciation, host switching, sorting, duplication, and failure to speciate. The relative frequency of these events may be influenced by factors that govern the distribution and abundance of the interacting groups; i.e., ecological factors. If so, it may be possible to predict the degree of phylogenetic congruence between two groups from information about their ecology. Unfortunately, adequate comparative ecological data are not available for many of the systems that have been subjected to cophylogenetic analysis. An exception is provided by chewing lice (Insecta: Phthiraptera), which parasitize birds and mammals. For a few genera of these lice, enough data have now been published to begin exploring the relationship between ecology and congruence. In general, there is a correspondence between important ecological factors and the degree of phylogenetic congruence. Careful comparison of these genera suggests that dispersal is a more fundamental barrier to host switching among related hosts than is establishment. Transfer experiments show that host-specific lice can survive and reproduce on novel hosts that are similar in size to the native host as long as the lice can disperse to these hosts. To date, studies of parasite dispersal have been mainly inferential. A better understanding of the role of dispersal will require more direct data on dispersal frequency and distances.
4135401|This is the first comparative study of correlated evolution between figs (Ficus species, Moraceae) and their pollinators (Hymenoptera: Agaoninae) based on molecular phylogenies of both lineages. Fig relationships based on the internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA and pollinator relationships inferred from mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) sequences enabled the study of correlated evolution based on molecular phylogenies for the largest set of interacting species ever compared. Comparative methods have been applied to tests of adaptation, but the application of these methods in tests of coadaptation, defined as reciprocal evolutionary change in interacting lineages, has received less attention. I have extended tests of correlated evolution between two traits along a phylogeny to the case of interacting lineages, where two traits may or may not share a common phylogenetic history. Independent contrasts and phylogenetic autocorrelation rejected the null hypothesis that trait correlations within lineages are stronger than trait correlations between interacting lineages. Fig style lengths and pollinator ovipositor lengths, for example, were more highly correlated than were pollinator body size and ovipositor length. Mutualistic interactions between figs and their pollinators illustrate the novel ways in which phylogenies and comparative methods can detect patterns of correlated evolution. The most outstanding evidence of correlated evolution between these obligate mutualists is that interacting trait correlations are stronger than within-lineage allometric relationships.
4135391|Recent molecular phylogenetic studies of polyploid plants have successfully clarified complex patterns of reticulate evolution. In this study of Elymus repens, an allohexaploid member of the wheat tribe Triticeae, chloroplast and nuclear DNA data reveal an extreme reticulate pattern, revealing at least five distinct gene lineages coexisting within the species, acquired through a possible combination of allohexaploidy and introgression from both within and beyond the Triticeae. Earlier cytogenetic studies of E. repens suggested that Hordeum (genome H) and Pseudoroegneria (St) were genome donors to E. repens. Chloroplast DNA data presented here (from the rpoA gene and from the region between trnT and trnF) identify three potential maternal genome donors (Pseudoroegneria, Thinopyrum, and Dasypyrum), and information from previous molecular work suggests that, of these, Pseudoroegneria is the most likely maternal donor. Nuclear starch synthase gene data indicate that both Hordeum and Pseudoroegneria have contributed to the nuclear genome of E. repens, in agreement with cytogenetic data. However, these data also show unexpected contributions from Taeniatherum, and from two additional donors of unknown identity. One of the sequences of unknown origin falls within the Triticeae, but is not closely associated with any of the sampled diploid genera. The second falls outside of the clade containing Triticeae and its outgroup Bromus, suggesting the acquisition of genetic material from a surprisingly divergent source. Bias toward the amplification of certain starch synthase variants has complicated attempts to thoroughly sample from within individuals, but the data clearly indicate a complex pattern of reticulate evolution, consistent not only with allohexaploidy, but also with introgression from unexpectedly divergent sources.
4135393|The recent development of Bayesian phylogenetic inference using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques has facilitated the exploration of parameter-rich evolutionary models. At the same time, stochastic models have become more realistic (and complex) and have been extended to new types of data, such as morphology. Based on this foundation, we developed a Bayesian MCMC approach to the analysis of combined data sets and explored its utility in inferring relationships among gall wasps based on data from morphology and four genes (nuclear and mitochondrial, ribosomal and protein coding). Examined models range in complexity from those recognizing only a morphological and a molecular partition to those having complex substitution models with independent parameters for each gene. Bayesian MCMC analysis deals efficiently with complex models: convergence occurs faster and more predictably for complex models, mixing is adequate for all parameters even under very complex models, and the parameter update cycle is virtually unaffected by model partitioning across sites. Morphology contributed only 5% of the characters in the data set but nevertheless influenced the combined-data tree, supporting the utility of morphological data in multigene analyses. We used Bayesian criteria (Bayes factors) to show that process heterogeneity across data partitions is a significant model component, although not as important as among-site rate variation. More complex evolutionary models are associated with more topological uncertainty and less conflict between morphology and molecules. Bayes factors sometimes favor simpler models over considerably more parameter-rich models, but the best model overall is also the most complex and Bayes factors do not support exclusion of apparently weak parameters from this model. Thus, Bayes factors appear to be useful for selecting among complex models, but it is still unclear whether their use strikes a reasonable balance between model complexity and error in parameter estimates.
4135399|We used phylogenetic analyses of cytochrome b sequences of malaria parasites and their avian hosts to assess the coevolutionary relationships between host and parasite lineages. Many lineages of avian malaria parasites have broad host distributions, which tend to obscure cospeciation events. The hosts of a single parasite or of closely related parasites were nonetheless most frequently recovered from members of the same host taxonomic family, more so than expected by chance. However, global assessments of the relationship between parasite and host phylogenetic trees, using Component and ParaFit, failed to detect significant cospeciation. The event-based approach employed by TreeFitter revealed significant cospeciation and duplication with certain cost assignments for these events, but host switching was consistently more prominent in matching the parasite tree to the host tree. The absence of a global cospeciation signal despite conservative host distribution most likely reflects relatively frequent acquisition of new hosts by individual parasite lineages. Understanding these processes will require a more refined species concept for malaria parasites and more extensive sampling of parasite distributions across hosts. If parasites can disperse between allopatric host populations through alternative hosts, cospeciation may not have a strong influence on the architecture of host-parasite relationships. Rather, parasite speciation may happen more often in conjunction with the acquisition of new hosts followed by divergent selection between host lineages in sympatry. Detailed studies of the phylogeographic distributions of hosts and parasites are needed to characterize these events.
4135427|The evolution of body size in tetrapods is assessed using a database that includes 107 early stegocephalian species ranging in time from the Frasnian (Upper Devonian) to the Tatarian (Upper Permian). All analyses use methods that incorporate phylogenetic information (topology and branch lengths). In all tests, the impact of alternative topologies and branch lengths are assessed. Previous reports that raised doubts about the accuracy of squared-change parsimony assessment of ancestral character value appear to have used datasets in which there was no phylogenetic signal. Hence, squared-change parsimony may be more reliable than suggested in recent studies, at least when a phylogenetic signal is present in the datasets of interest. Analysis using random taxon reshuffling on three reference phylogenies shows that cranial and presacral length include a strong phylogenetic signal. Character optimization of body size in stegocephalians using squared-change parsimony on a time-calibrated phylogeny incorporating branch length information is used to test a previously published scenario on the origin of amniotes and of the amniotic egg that implies that the ancestors of amniotes were small (no more than 10 cm in snout-vent length), and that their size increased subsequent to the appearance of the amniotic egg. The optimization suggests that first amniotes were somewhat larger than previously hypothesized; the estimated snout-vent length is about 24 cm, and the lower end of the 95% confidence interval of the phylogeny that yields the smallest inferred size suggests that no ancestor of amniotes measured less than 12 cm in snout-vent length. Character optimization, permutational multiple linear regressions, and independent contrast analyses show that Cope's rule of phyletic size increase applies to early reptiliomorphs but that it does not apply to early stegocephalians globally.
4135425|We describe a general likelihood-based 'mixture model' for inferring phylogenetic trees from gene-sequence or other character-state data. The model accommodates cases in which different sites in the alignment evolve in qualitatively distinct ways, but does not require prior knowledge of these patterns or partitioning of the data. We call this qualitative variability in the pattern of evolution across sites "pattern-heterogeneity" to distinguish it from both a homogenous process of evolution and from one characterized principally by differences in rates of evolution. We present studies to show that the model correctly retrieves the signals of pattern-heterogeneity from simulated gene-sequence data, and we apply the method to protein-coding genes and to a ribosomal 12S data set. The mixture model outperforms conventional partitioning in both these data sets. We implement the mixture model such that it can simultaneously detect rate- and pattern-heterogeneity. The model simplifies to a homogeneous model or a rate-variability model as special cases, and therefore always performs at least as well as these two approaches, and often considerably improves upon them. We make the model available within a Bayesian Markov-chain Monte Carlo framework for phylogenetic inference, as an easy-to-use computer program.
4135423|The muroid rodents are the largest superfamily of mammals, containing nearly one third of all mammal species. We report on a phylogenetic study comprising 53 genera sequenced for four nuclear genes, GHR, BRCA1, RAG1, and c-myc, totaling up to 6400 nucleotides. Most relationships among the subfamilies are resolved. All four genes yield nearly identical phylogenies, differing only in five key regions, four of which may represent particularly rapid radiations. Support is very strong for a fundamental division of the mole rats of the subfamilies Spalacinae and Rhizomyinae from all other muroids. Among the other "core" muroids, a rapid radiation led to at least four distinct lineages: Asian Calomyscus, an African clade of at least four endemic subfamilies, including the diverse Nesomyinae of Madagascar, a hamster clade with maximum diversity in the New World, and an Old World clade including gerbils and the diverse Old World mice and rats (Murinae). The Deomyinae, recently removed from the Murinae, is well supported as the sister group to the gerbils (Gerbillinae). Four key regions appear to represent rapid radiations and, despite a large amount of sequence data, remain poorly resolved: the base of the "core" muroids, among the five cricetid (hamster) subfamilies, within a large clade of Sigmodontinae endemic to South America, and among major geographic lineages of Old World Murinae. Because of the detailed taxon sampling within the Murinae, we are able to refine the fossil calibration of a rate-smoothed molecular clock and apply this clock to date key events in muroid evolution. We calculate rate differences among the gene regions and relate those differences to relative contribution of each gene to the support for various nodes. The among-gene variance in support is greatest for the shortest branches. We present a revised classification for this largest but most unsettled mammalian superfamily.
4135422|The method of character importance ranking (CIR) is proposed here as a means for estimating the relative "importance" of characters in cladistic analyses, especially those based on morphological features. CIR uses the weighting variable to incrementally remove one character at a time from the analysis, and then evaluates the impact of the removal on the shape of the cladogram. The greater the impact, the more important the character. The CIR method for determining which characters drive the shape of a particular cladogram has several applications. It identifies the characters with the strongest (though not necessarily most accurate) signal in a cladistic analysis; it permits the informed prioritization of characters for further investigation via genetic, developmental, and functional approaches; and it highlights characters whose definition, scoring, independence, and variation should be reviewed with particular care. The application of CIR reveals that at least some cladograms depend entirely on a single character.
4135421|Felsenstein (1978, Syst. Zool. 27:401-410) showed that the method of maximum parsimony can be inconsistent, i.e., lead to an incorrect result with an infinite amount of data. The situation in which this inconsistency occurs is often called the "Felsenstein zone," the phenomenon also known as "long-branch attraction." Felsenstein derived a sufficient inconsistency condition from a model for four taxa with only two different parameters for the probability of change on the five branches connecting the four taxa. In the present paper, his approach is used to derive the inconsistency condition of maximum parsimony from the most general model for four taxa, i.e., with five different parameters for the probabilities of change on the five branches and, for the first time, for characters with k states (k = 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,...). This is used to determine the factors that can cause the inconsistency of maximum parsimony. It is shown that the probability of change on all five branches and the number of character states play a role in causing inconsistency.
4135426|Phylogenetic analyses of first and second codon positions (
4135424|The genus Cicindela (Coleoptera: Cicindelidae) is a species-rich cosmopolitan group of tiger beetles useful for comparing clade diversification worldwide. Knowledge about relationships of major groups is important for this analysis but basal nodes in Cicindela have been difficult to resolve with standard mtDNA markers. Here we developed the Mp20 gene, a single-copy nuclear marker coding for a muscle-associated protein in insects, for phylogenetic analysis of basal groups of Cicindela. Nearly full-length sequences were obtained for 51 cicindelids, including major taxonomic groups from all continents. Sequences of Mp20 were between 1.2 and 1.7 kb and spanning three introns. Phylogenetic signal of exon and intron sequences was compared with that from four gene regions of mtDNA (COI, COIII, Cytb, 16S rRNA; 2.4 kb total). Because introns differed in length, sequence alignment was conducted using various procedures of phenetic and parsimony-based character coding of indels to assess their phylogenetic information content, but major nodes were recovered consistently. Mp20 sequences contributed two thirds of the total support of the combined analysis, with most signal from the introns. We found major clades of Cicindela to be geographically largely coincident with continental regions, confined to Australasia, the Holarctic, the Indian subcontinent, Africa, and South and Central America. Clock estimates using various maximum-likelihood (ML) branch length calculations resulted in roughly similar divergence times whether Mp20 exon, introns, or mtDNA were used, and they were not greatly affected by different procedures for coding and optimizing indel characters. Based on existing clock calibrations in Cicindela, basal splits of continental lineages occurred in the mid-Miocene, placing the radiation of basal groups of Cicindela to a period when their open-vegetation habitats expanded globally.
4135428|Alignments of nucleotide or amino acid sequences may contain a variety of different signals, one of which is the historical signal that we often try to recover by phylogenetic analysis. Other signals, such as those arising due to compositional heterogeneities, among-lineage and among-site rate heterogeneities, invariant sites, and covariotides, may interfere adversely with the recovery of the historical signal. The effect of the interaction of these signals on phylogenetic inference is not well understood and may, in many cases, even be underappreciated. In this study, we investigate this matter and present results based on Monte Carlo simulations. We explored the success of four phylogenetic methods in recovering the true tree from data that had evolved under conditions where the equilibrium base frequencies and substitution rates were allowed to vary among lineages. Seven scenarios with increasingly complex conditions were investigated. All of the methods tested, with the exception of neighbor-joining using LogDet distances, were sensitive to compositional convergence in nonsister lineages. Maximum parsimony was also susceptible to attraction between long edges. In many cases, however, phylogenetic inference methods can still recover the true tree when misleading signals are present, in some instances even when the historical signal is no longer dominant. These results highlight the growing need for simple methods to detect violation of the phylogenetic assumptions.
4135407|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA has been widely used by systematists for reconstructing phylogenies of closely related taxa. Although the occurrence of ITS putative pseudogenes is well documented for many groups of animals and plants, the potential utility of these pseudogenes in phylogenetic analyses has often been underestimated or even ignored in part because of deletions that make unambiguous alignment difficult. In addition, long branches often can lead to spurious relationships, particularly in parsimony analyses. We have discovered unusually high levels of ITS polymorphism (up to 30%, 40%, and 14%, respectively) in three tropical tree species of the coffee family (Rubiaceae), Adinauclea fagifolia, Haldina cordifolia, and Mitragyna rubrostipulata. Both secondary structure stability and patterns of nucleotide substitutions in a highly conserved region (5.8S gene) were used for distinguishing presumed functional sequences from putative pseudogenes. The combination of both criteria was the most powerful approach. The sequences from A. fagifolia appear to be a mix of functional genes and highly distinct putative pseudogenes, whereas those from H. cordifolia and M. rubrostipulata were identified as putative pseudogenes. We explored the potential utility of the identified putative pseudogenes in the phylogenetic analyses of Naucleeae sensu lato. Both Bayesian and parsimony trees identified the same monophyletic groups and indicated that the polymorphisms do not transcend species boundaries, implying that they do not predate the divergence of these three species. The resulting trees are similar to those produced by previous analyses of chloroplast genes. In contrast to results of previous studies therefore, divergent putative pseudogenes can be useful for phylogenetic analyses, especially when no sequences of their functional counterparts are available. Our studies clearly show that ITS polymorphism may not necessarily mislead phylogenetic inference. Despite using many different PCR conditions (different primers, higher denaturing temperatures, and absence or presence of DMSO and BSA-TMAC1), we recovered only a few functional ITS copies from A. fagifolia and none from H. cordifolia and M. rubrostipulata, which suggests that PCR selection is occurring and/or the presumed functional alleles are located at minor loci (with few ribosomal DNA copies).
4135411|We studied the importance of proper model assumption in the context of Bayesian phylogenetics by examining >5,000 Bayesian analyses and six nested models of nucleotide substitution. Model misspecification can strongly bias bipartition posterior probability estimates. These biases were most pronounced when rate heterogeneity was ignored. The type of bias seen at a particular bipartition appeared to be strongly influenced by the lengths of the branches surrounding that bipartition. In the Felsenstein zone, posterior probability estimates of bipartitions were biased when the assumed model was underparameterized but were unbiased when the assumed model was overparameterized. For the inverse Felsenstein zone, however, both underparameterization and overparameterization led to biased bipartition posterior probabilities, although the bias caused by overparameterization was less pronounced and disappeared with increased sequence length. Model parameter estimates were also affected by model misspecification. Underparameterization caused a bias in some parameter estimates, such as branch lengths and the gamma shape parameter, whereas overparameterization caused a decrease in the precision of some parameter estimates. We caution researchers to assure that the most appropriate model is assumed by employing both a priori model choice methods and a posteriori model adequacy tests.
4135412| Butterflies in the large Palearctic genus Agrodiaetus (Lepidoptera: Lycaenidae) are extremely uniform and exhibit few distinguishing morphological characters. However, these insects are distinctive in one respect: as a group they possess among the greatest interspecific karyotype diversity in the animal kingdom, with chromosome numbers (n) ranging from 10 to 125. The monophyly of Agrodiaetus and its systematic position relative to other groups within the section Polyommatus have been controversial. Characters from the mitochondrial genes for cytochrome oxidases I and II and from the nuclear gene for elongation factor l were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of Agrodiaetus using maximum parsimony and Bayesian phylogenetic methods. Ninety-one individuals, encompassing most of the taxonomic diversity of Agrodiaetus, and representatives of 14 related genera were included in this analysis. Our data indicate that Agrodiaetus is monophyletic. Representatives of the genus Polyommatus (sensu stricto) are the closest relatives. The sequences of the Agrodiaetus taxa in this analysis are tentatively arranged into 12 clades, only 1 of which corresponds to a species group traditionally recognized in Agrodiaetus. Heterogeneous substitution rates across a recovered topology were homogenized with a nonparametric rate-smoothing algorithm before the application of a molecular clock. Two published estimates of substitution rates dated the origin of Agrodiaetus between 2.51 and 3.85 million years ago. During this time, there was heterogeneity in the rate and direction of karyotype evolution among lineages within the genus. Karyotype instability has evolved independently three times in the section Polyommatus, within the lineages Agrodiaetus, Lysandra, and Plebicula. Rapid karyotype diversification may have played a significant role in the radiation of the genus Agrodiaetus. 
4135409| The Southern Hemisphere has traditionally been considered as having a fundamentally vicariant history. The common trans-Pacific disjunctions are usually explained by the sequential breakup of the supercontinent Gondwana during the last 165 million years, causing successive division of an ancestral biota. However, recent biogeographic studies, based on molecular estimates and more accurate paleogeographic reconstructions, indicate that dispersal may have been more important than traditionally assumed. We examined the relative roles played by vicariance and dispersal in shaping Southern Hemisphere biotas by analyzing a large data set of 54 animal and 19 plant phylogenies, including marsupials, ratites, and southern beeches (1,393 terminals). Parsimony-based tree fitting in conjunction with permutation tests was used to examine to what extent Southern Hemisphere biogeographic patterns fit the breakup sequence of Gondwana and to identify concordant dispersal patterns. Consistent with other studies, the animal data are congruent with the geological sequence of Gondwana breakup: (Africa(New Zealand(southern South America, Australia))). Trans-Antarctic dispersal (Australia  southern South America) is also significantly more frequent than any other dispersal event in animals, which may be explained by the long period of geological contact between Australia and South America via Antarctica. In contrast, the dominant pattern in plants, (southern South America(Australia, New Zealand)), is better explained by dispersal, particularly the prevalence of trans-Tasman dispersal between New Zealand and Australia. Our results also confirm the hybrid origin of the South American biota: there has been surprisingly little biotic exchange between the northern tropical and the southern temperate regions of South America, especially for animals. 
4135413|Supertree methods are used to assemble separate phylogenetic trees with shared taxa into larger trees (supertrees) in an effort to construct more comprehensive phylogenetic hypotheses. In spite of much recent interest in supertrees, there are still few methods for supertree construction. The flip supertree problem is an error correction approach that seeks to find a minimum number of changes (flips) to the matrix representation of the set of input trees to resolve their incompatibilities. A previous flip supertree algorithm was limited to finding exact solutions and was only feasible for small input trees. We developed a heuristic algorithm for the flip supertree problem suitable for much larger input trees. We used a series of 48- and 96-taxon simulations to compare supertrees constructed with the flip supertree heuristic algorithm with supertrees constructed using other approaches, including MinCut (MC), modified MC (MMC), and matrix representation with parsimony (MRP). Flip supertrees are generally far more accurate than supertrees constructed using MC or MMC algorithms and are at least as accurate as supertrees built with MRP. The flip supertree method is therefore a viable alternative to other supertree methods when the number of taxa is large.
4135408| Swallowtail butterflies are recognized as model organisms in ecology, evolutionary biology, genetics, and conservation biology but present numerous unresolved phylogenetic problems. We inferred phylogenetic relationships for 51 of about 205 species of the genus Papilio (sensu lato) from 3.3-Kilobase (kb) sequences of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA (2.3 kb of cytochrome oxidases I and II and 1.0 kb of elongation factor 1). Congruent phylogenetic trees were recovered within Papilio from analyses of combined data using maximum likelihood, Bayesian analysis, and maximum parsimony bootstrap consensus. Several disagreements with the traditional classification of Papilio were found. Five major previously hypothesized subdivisions within Papilio were well supported: Heraclides, Pterourus, Chilasa, Papilio (sensu stricto), and Eleppone. Further studies are required to clarify relationships within traditional "Princeps" which was paraphyletic. Several biologically interesting characteristics of Papilio appear to have polyphyletic origins, including mimetic adults, larval host associations, and larval morphology. Early diversification within Papilio is estimated at 55-65 million years ago based on a combination of biogeographic time constraints rather than fossils. This divergence time suggests that Papilio has slower apparent substitution rates than do Drosophila and fig-pollinating wasps and/or divergences corrected using best-fit substitution models are still being consistently underestimated. The amount of sequence divergence between Papilio subdivisions is equivalent to divergences between genera in other tribes of the Papilionidae, and between genera of moths of the noctuid subfamily Heliothinae. 
4135415|Given a collection of discrete characters (e.g., aligned DNA sites, gene adjacencies), a common measure of distance between taxa is the proportion of characters for which taxa have different character states. Tree reconstruction based on these (uncorrected) distances can be statistically inconsistent and can lead to trees different from those obtained using character-based methods such as maximum likelihood or maximum parsimony. However, in these cases the distance data often reveal their unreliability by some deviation from additivity, as indicated by conflicting support for more than one tree. We describe two results that show how uncorrected (and miscorrected) distance data can be simultaneously perfectly additive and misleading. First, multistate character data can be perfectly compatible and define one tree, and yet the uncorrected distances derived from these characters are perfectly treelike (and obey a molecular clock), only for a completely different tree. Second, under a Markov model of character evolution a similar phenomenon can occur; not only is there statistical inconsistency using uncorrected distances, but there is no evidence of this inconsistency because the distances look perfectly treelike (this does not occur in the classic two-parameter Felsenstein zone). We characterize precisely when uncorrected distances are additive on the true (and on a false) tree for four taxa. We also extend this result to a more general setting that applies to distances corrected according to an incorrect model.
4135414| We analyzed the higher level phylogeny of the bee family Halictidae based on the coding regions of three single-copy nuclear genes (long-wavelength [LW] opsin, wingless, and elongation factor 1- [EF-1]). Our combined data set consisted of 2,234 aligned nucleotide sites (702 base pairs [bp] for LW opsin, 405 bp for wingless, and 1,127 bp for EF-1) and 779 parsimony-informative sites. We included 58 species of halictid bees from 33 genera, representing all subfamilies and tribes, and rooted the trees using seven outgroups from other bee families: Colletidae, Andrenidae, Melittidae, and Apidae. We analyzed the separate and combined data sets by a variety of methods, including equal weights parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods. Analysis of the combined data set produced a strong phylogenetic signal with high bootstrap and Bremer support and high posterior probability well into the base of the tree. The phylogeny recovered the monophyly of the Halictidae and of all four subfamilies and both tribes, recovered relationships among the subfamilies and tribes congruent with morphology, and provided robust support for the relationships among the numerous genera in the tribe Halictini, sensu Michener (2000). Using our combined nucleotide data set, several recently described halictid fossils from the Oligocene and Eocene, and recently developed Bayesian methods, we estimated the antiquity of major clades within the family. Our results indicate that each of the four subfamilies arose well before the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary and suggest that the early radiation of halictid bees involved substantial African-South American interchange roughly coincident with the separation of these two continents in the late Cretaceous. This combination of single-copy nuclear genes is capable of recovering Cretaceous-age divergences in bees with high levels of support. We propose that LW opsin, wingless, and EF-1 (F2 copy) may be useful in resolving relationships among bee families and other Cretaceous-age insect lineages. 
4135410| The Thoracica includes the ordinary barnacles found along the sea shore and is the most diverse and well-studied superorder of Cirripedia. However, although the literature abounds with scenarios explaining the evolution of these barnacles, very few studies have attempted to test these hypotheses in a phylogenetic context. The few attempts at phylogenetic analyses have suffered from a lack of phylogenetic signal and small numbers of taxa. We collected DNA sequences from the nuclear 18S, 28S, and histone H3 genes and the mitochondrial 12S and 16S genes (4,871 bp total) and data for 37 adult and 53 larval morphological characters from 43 taxa representing all the extant thoracican suborders (except the monospecific Brachylepadomorpha). Four Rhizocephala (highly modified parasitic barnacles) taxa and a Rhizocephala + Acrothoracica (burrowing barnacles) hypothetical ancestor were used as the outgroup for the molecular and morphological analyses, respectively. We analyzed these data separately and combined using maximum likelihood (ML) under "hill-climbing" and genetic algorithm heuristic searches, maximum parsimony procedures, and Bayesian inference coupled with Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques under mixed and homogeneous models of nucleotide substitution. The resulting phylogenetic trees answered key questions in barnacle evolution. The four-plated Iblomorpha were shown as the most primitive thoracican, and the plateless Heteralepadomorpha were placed as the sister group of the Lepadomorpha. These relationships suggest for the first time in an invertebrate that exoskeleton biomineralization may have evolved from phosphatic to calcitic. Sessilia (nonpedunculate) barnacles were depicted as monophyletic and appear to have evolved from a stalked (pedunculate) multiplated (5+) scalpelloidlike ancestor rather than a five-plated lepadomorphan ancestor. The Balanomorpha (symmetric sessile barnacles) appear to have the following relationship: (Chthamaloidea(Coronuloidea(Tetraclitoidea, Balanoidea))). Thoracican divergence times were estimated under ML-based local clock, Bayesian, and penalized likelihood approaches using an 18S data set and three calibration points: Heteralepadomorpha = 530 million years ago (MYA), Scalpellomorpha = 340 MYA, and Verrucomorpha = 120 MYA. Estimated dates varied considerably within and between approaches depending on the calibration point. Highly parameterized local clock models that assume independent rates (r  15) for confamilial or congeneric species generated the most congruent estimates among calibrations and agreed more closely with the barnacle fossil record. Reasonable estimates were also obtained under the Bayesian procedure of Kishino et al. (2001, Mol. Biol. Evol. 18:352-361) but using multiple calibrations. Most of the dates estimated under the Bayesian procedure of Aris-Brosou and Yang (2002, Syst. Biol. 51:703-714) and the penalized likelihood method using single and/or multiple calibrations were inconsistent among calibrations and did not fit the fossil record. 
4135360|Species-level phylogenies derived from many independent character sources and wide geographical sampling provide a powerful tool in assessing the importance of various factors associated with cladogenesis. In this study, we explore the relative importance of insular isolation and host plant switching in the diversification of a group of bark beetles (Curculionidae: Scolytinae) feeding and breeding in woody Euphorbia spurges. All species in the genus Aphanarthrum are each associated with only one species group of Euphorbia (succulents or one of three different arborescent groups), and the majority of species are endemic to one or several of the Macaronesian Islands. Hence, putative mechanisms of speciation could be assessed by identifying pairs of sister species in a phylogenetic analysis. We used DNA sequences from two nuclear and two mitochondrial genes, and morphological characters, to reconstruct the genealogical relationships among 92 individuals of 25 species and subspecies of Aphanarthrum and related genera. A stable tree topology was highly dependent on multiple character sources, but much less so on wide population sampling. However, multiple samples per species demonstrated one case of species paraphyly, as well as deep coalescence among three putative subspecies pairs. The phylogenetic analyses consistently placed the arborescent breeding and West African-Lanzarote-distributed species A. armatum in the most basal position in Aphanarthrum, rendering this genus paraphyletic with respect to Coleobothrus. Two major radiations followed, one predominantly African lineage of succulent feeding species, and one island radiation associated with arborescent host plants. Sister comparisons showed that most recent divergences occurred in allopatry on closely related hosts, with subsequent expansions obscuring more ancient events. Only 6 out of 24 cladogenetic events were associated with host switching, rendering geographical factors more important in recent diversification.
4135364|Mesic forests in the North American Pacific Northwest occur in two disjunct areas: along the coastal and Cascade ranges of Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia as well as the Northern Rocky Mountains of Idaho, Montana, and British Columbia. Over 150 species or species complexes have disjunct populations in each area, and a priori hypotheses based on phytogeography and geology potentially explain the disjunction via either dispersal or vicariance. Here, we test these hypotheses in the disjunct salamander complex Plethodon vandykei and P. idahoensis by collecting genetic data (669 bp of Cyt b) from 262 individuals. Maximum likelihood analysis indicated reciprocal monophyly of these species, supporting the ancient vicariance hypothesis, whereas parametric bootstrap and Bayesian hypothesis testing allow rejection of the dispersal hypothesis. The coalescent estimate of the time since population divergence (estimated using MDIV) is
4135357|Biologists frequently attempt to infer the character states at ancestral nodes of a phylogeny from the distribution of traits observed in contemporary organisms. Because phylogenies are normally inferences from data, it is desirable to account for the uncertainty in estimates of the tree and its branch lengths when making inferences about ancestral states or other comparative parameters. Here we present a general Bayesian approach for testing comparative hypotheses across statistically justified samples of phylogenies, focusing on the specific issue of reconstructing ancestral states. The method uses Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques for sampling phylogenetic trees and for investigating the parameters of a statistical model of trait evolution. We describe how to combine information about the uncertainty of the phylogeny with uncertainty in the estimate of the ancestral state. Our approach does not constrain the sample of trees only to those that contain the ancestral node or nodes of interest, and we show how to reconstruct ancestral states of uncertain nodes using a most-recent-common-ancestor approach. We illustrate the methods with data on ribonuclease evolution in the Artiodactyla. Software implementing the methods (BayesMultiState) is available from the authors.
4135363| Recently new heuristic genetic algorithms such as Treefinder and MetaGA have been developed to search for optimal trees in a maximum likelihood (ML) framework. In this study we combined these methods with other standard heuristic approaches such as ML and maximum parsimony hill-climbing searches and Bayesian inference coupled with Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques under homogeneous and mixed models of evolution to conduct an extensive phylogenetic analysis of the most abundant and widely distributed southern South American freshwater "crab," the Aegla (Anomura: Aeglidae). A total of 167 samples representing 64 Aegla species and subspecies were sequenced for one nuclear (28S rDNA) and four mitochondrial (12S and 16S rDNA, COI, and COII) genes (5352 bp total). Additionally, six other anomuran species from the genera Munida, Pachycheles, and Uroptychus (Galatheoidea), Lithodes (Paguroidea), and Lomis (Lomisoidea) and the nuclear 18S rDNA gene (1964 bp) were included in preliminary analyses for rooting the Aegla tree. Nonsignificantly different phylogenetic hypotheses resulted from all the different heuristic methods used here, although the best scored topologies found under the ML hill-climbing, Bayesian, and MetaGA approaches showed considerably better likelihood scores ( > 54) than those found under the MP and Treefinder approaches. Our trees provided strong support for most of the recognized Aegla species except for A. cholchol, A. jarai, A. parana, A. marginata, A. platensis, and A. franciscana, which may actually represent multiple species. Geographically, the Aegla group was divided into a basal western clade (21 species and subspecies) composed of two subclades with overlapping distributions, and a more recent central-eastern clade (43 species) composed of three subclades with fairly well-recognized distributions. This result supports the Pacific-Origin Hypothesis postulated for the group; alternative hypotheses of Atlantic or multiple origins were significantly rejected by our analyses. Finally, we combined our phylogenetic results with previous hypotheses of South American paleodrainages since the Jurassic to propose a biogeographical framework of the Aegla radiation. 
4135359|We present a phylogenetic hypothesis and novel, rank-free classification for all extant species of softshell turtles (Testudines: Trionychidae). Our data set included DNA sequence data from two mitochondrial protein-coding genes and a ~l-kb nuclear intron for 23 of 26 recognized species, and 59 previously published morphological characters for a complimentary set of 24 species. The combined data set provided complete taxonomic coverage for this globally distributed clade of turtles, with incomplete data for a few taxa. Although our taxonomic sampling is complete, most of the modern taxa are representatives of old and very divergent lineages. Thus, due to biological realities, our sampling consists of one or a few representatives of several ancient lineages across a relatively deep phylogenetic tree. Our analyses of the combined data set converge on a set of well-supported relationships, which is in accord with many aspects of traditional softshell systematics including the monophyly of the Cyclanorbinae and Trionychinae. However, our results conflict with other aspects of current taxonomy and indicate that most of the currently recognized tribes are not monophyletic. We use this strong estimate of the phylogeny of softshell turtles for two purposes: (1) as the basis for a novel rank-free lassification, and (2) to retrospectively examine strategies for analyzing highly homoplasious mtDNA data in deep phylogenetic problems where increased taxon sampling is not an option. Weeded and weighted parsimony, and model-based techniques, generally improved the phylogenetic performance of highly homoplasious mtDNA sequences, but no single strategy completely mitigated the problems of associated with these highly homoplasious data. Many deep nodes in the softshell turtle phylogeny were confidently recovered only after the addition of largely nonhomoplasious data from the nuclear intron.
4135358|Likelihood applications have become a central approach for molecular evolutionary analyses since the first computationally tractable treatment two decades ago. Although Felsenstein's original pruning algorithm makes likelihood calculations feasible, it is usually possible to take advantage of repetitive structure present in the data to arrive at even greater computational reductions. In particular, alignment columns with certain similarities have components of the likelihood calculation that are identical and need not be recomputed if columns are evaluated in an optimal order. We develop an algorithm for exploiting this speed improvement via an application of graph theory. The reductions provided by the method depend on both the tree and the data, but typical savings range between 15% and 50%. Real-data examples with time reductions of 80% have been identified. The overhead costs associated with implementing the algorithm are minimal, and they are recovered in all but the smallest data sets. The modifications will provide faster likelihood algorithms, which will allow likelihood methods to be applied to larger sets of taxa and to include more thorough searches of the tree topology space.
4135362|The reliability of molecular clocks has been questioned for several key evolutionary radiations on the basis that the clock might run fast in explosive radiations. Molecular date estimates for the radiations of metazoan phyla (the Cambrian explosion) and modern orders of mammals and birds are in many cases twice as old as the palaeontological evidence would suggest. Could some aspect of explosive radiations speed the molecular clock, making molecular date estimates too old? Here we use 19 independent instances of recent explosive radiations of island endemic taxa as a model system for testing the proposed influence of rapid adaptive radiation on the rate of molecular evolution. These radiations are often characterized by many of the potential mechanisms for fast rates in explosive radiations-such as small population size, elevated speciation rate, rapid rate of morphological change, release from previous ecological constraints, and adaptation to new niches-and represent a wide variety of species, islands, and genes. However, we find no evidence of a consistent increase in rates in island taxa compared to their mainland relatives, and therefore find no support for the hypothesis that the molecular clock runs fast in explosive radiations.
4135361|Squamate reptiles (snakes, lizards, and amphisbaenians) serve as model systems for evolutionary studies of a variety of morphological and behavioral traits, and phylogeny is crucial to many generalizations derived from such studies. Specifically, the traditional dichotomy between Iguania (anoles, iguanas, chameleons, etc.) and Scleroglossa (skinks, geckos, snakes, etc.) has been correlated with major evolutionary shifts within Squamata. We present a molecular phylogenetic study of 69 squamate species using approximately 4600 (2876 parsimony-informative) base pairs (bp) of DNA sequence data from the nuclear genes RAG-1 (~2750 bp) and c-mos (~360 bp) and the mitochondrial ND2 region (~1500 bp), sampling all major clades and most major subclades. Under our hypothesis, species previously placed in Iguania, Anguimorpha, and almost all recognized squamate families form strongly supported monophyletic groups. However, species previously placed in Scleroglossa, Varanoidea, and several other higher taxa do not form monophyletic groups. Iguania, the traditional sister group of Scleroglossa, is actually highly nested within Scleroglossa. This unconventional rooting does not seem to be due to long-branch attraction, base composition biases among taxa, or convergence caused by similar selective forces acting on nonsister taxa. Studies of functional tongue morphology and feeding mode have contrasted the similar states found in Sphenodon (the nearest outgroup to squamates) and Iguania with those of Scleroglossa, but our findings suggest that similar states in Sphenodon and Iguania result from homoplasy. Snakes, amphisbaenians, and dibamid lizards, limbless forms whose phylogenetic positions historically have been impossible to place with confidence, are not grouped together and appear to have evolved this condition independently. Amphisbaenians are the sister group of lacertids, and dibamid lizards diverged early in squamate evolutionary history Snakes are grouped with iguanians, lacertiforms, and anguimorphs, but are not nested within anguimorphs.
4135365|Model selection is a topic of special relevance in molecular phylogenetics that affects many, if not all, stages of phylogenetic inference. Here we discuss some fundamental concepts and techniques of model selection in the context of phylogenetics. We start by reviewing different aspects of the selection of substitution models in phylogenetics from a theoretical, philosophical and practical point of view, and summarize this comparison in table format. We argue that the most commonly implemented model selection approach, the hierarchical likelihood ratio test, is not the optimal strategy for model selection in phylogenetics, and that approaches like the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) and Bayesian methods offer important advantages. In particular, the latter two methods are able to simultaneously compare multiple nested or nonnested models, assess model selection uncertainty, and allow for the estimation of phylogenies and model parameters using all available models (model-averaged inference or multimodel inference). We also describe how the relative importance of the different parameters included in substitution models can be depicted. To illustrate some of these points, we have applied AIC-based model averaging to 37 mitochondrial DNA sequences from the subgenus Ohomopterus (genus Carabus) ground beetles described by Sota and Vogler (2001).
4135346|Pistia stratiotes (water lettuce) and Lemna (duckweeds) are the only free-floating aquatic Araceae. The geographic origin and phylogenetic placement of these unrelated aroids present long-standing problems because of their highly modified reproductive structures and wide geographical distributions. We sampled chloroplast (trnL-trnF and rpl20-rps12 spacers, trnL intron) and mitochondrial sequences (nad1 b/c intron) for all genera implicated as close relatives of Pistia by morphological, restriction site, and sequencing data, and present a hypothesis about its geographic origin based on the consensus of trees obtained from the combined data, using Bayesian, maximum likelihood, parsimony, and distance analyses. Of the 14 genera closest to Pistia, only Alocasia, Arisaema, and Typhonium are species-rich, and the latter two were studied previously, facilitating the choice of representatives that span the roots of these genera. Results indicate that Pistia and the Seychelles endemic Protarum sechellarum are the basalmost branches in a grade comprising the tribes Colocasieae (Ariopsis, Steudnera, Remusatia, Alocasia, Colocasia), Arisaemateae (Arisaema, Pinellia), and Areae (Arum, Biarum, Dracunculus, Eminium, Helicodiceros, Theriophonum, Typhonium). Unexpectedly, all Areae genera are embedded in Typhonium, which throws new light on the geographic history of Areae. A Bayesian analysis of divergence times that explores the effects of multiple fossil and geological calibration points indicates that the Pistia lineage is 90 to 76 million years (my) old. The oldest fossils of the Pistia clade, though not Pistia itself, are 45-my-old leaves from Germany; the closest outgroup, Peltandreae (comprising a few species in Florida, the Mediterranean, and Madagascar), is known from 60-my-old leaves from Europe, Kazakhstan, North Dakota, and Tennessee. Based on the geographic ranges of close relatives, Pistia likely originated in the Tethys region, with Protarum then surviving on the Seychelles, which became isolated from Madagascar and India in the Late Cretaceous (85 my ago). Pistia and Protarum provide striking examples of ancient lineages that appear to have survived in unique or isolated habitats.
4135351|We present a phylogenetic dating of asterids, based on a 111-taxon tree representing all major groups and orders and 83 of the 102 families of asterids, with an underlying data set comprising six chloroplast DNA markers totaling 9914 positions. Phylogenetic dating was done with semiparametric rate smoothing by penalized likelihood. Confidence intervals were calculated by bootstrapping. Six reference fossils were used for calibration. To explore the effects of various sources of error, we repeated the analyses with alternative dating methods (nonparametric rate smoothing and the Langley-Fitch clock-based method), alternative tree topologies, reduced taxon sampling (22 of the 111 taxa deleted), partitioning the data into three genes and three noncoding regions, and calibrating with single reference fossils. The analyses with alternative topologies, reduced taxon sampling, and coding versus noncoding sequences all yielded small or in some cases no deviations. The choice of method influenced the age estimates of a few nodes considerably. Calibration with reference fossils is a critical issue, and use of single reference fossils yielded different results depending on the fossil. The bootstrap confidence intervals were generally small. Our results show that asterids and their major subgroups euasterids, campanulids, and lamiids diversified during the Early Cretaceous. Cornales, Ericales, and Aquifoliales also have crown node ages from the Early Cretaceous. Dipsacales and Solanales are from the Mid-Cretaceous, the other orders of core campanulids and core lamiids from the Late Cretaceous. The considerable diversity exhibited by asterids almost from their first appearance in the fossil record also supports an origin and first phase of diversification in the Early Cretaceous.
4135350|Compositional heterogeneity among lineages can compromise phylogenetic analyses, because models in common use assume compositionally homogeneous data. Models that can accommodate compositional heterogeneity with few extra parameters are described here, and used in two examples where the true tree is known with confidence. It is shown using likelihood ratio tests that adequate modeling of compositional heterogeneity can be achieved with few composition parameters, that the data may not need to be modelled with separate composition parameters for each branch in the tree. Tree searching and placement of composition vectors on the tree are done in a Bayesian framework using Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods. Assessment of fit of the model to the data is made in both maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian frameworks. In an ML framework, overall model fit is assessed using the Goldman-Cox test, and the fit of the composition implied by a (possibly heterogeneous) model to the composition of the data is assessed using a novel tree- and model-based composition fit test. In a Bayesian framework, overall model fit and composition fit are assessed using posterior predictive simulation. It is shown that when composition is not accommodated, then the model does not fit, and incorrect trees are found; but when composition is accommodated, the model then fits, and the known correct phylogenies are obtained.
4135345| The treehopper subfamily Membracinae (Insecta: Hemiptera: Membracidae) comprises the majority of genera and species diversity in the New World tropics. These treehoppers exhibit a wide range of social behaviors, making them an excellent group for studying patterns of social evolution in insects. However, to date the tribal and generic relationships have remained unclear. We reconstructed the phylogeny of the Membracinae using a combined mitochondrial (COI, COII, tRNA-Leu, and 12S) and nuclear (Wg) gene data set. A total of 2608 aligned nucleotide sites were obtained for 112 species, representing 25 of 38 currently recognized genera and all four tribes. A strict consensus of five equally parsimonious trees recovered the subfamily and three of its four tribes. The majority rule consensus tree derived from the Bayesian analyses based on the GTR+I+G and mixed-models recovered many clades shared with the parsimony trees and is identical to the single best tree inferred from maximum likelihood analysis, aside from the rearrangement of one node. A comparison of mitochondrial and nuclear genes indicated that Wg provided higher consistency index (CI), data decisiveness (DD), partitioned Bremer support (PBS) than any of the mitochondrial genes analyzed. The combined mitochondrial and nuclear DNA provide strong support for the monophyly of the subfamily and three of its four tribes (Aconophorini, Hoplophorionini, and Hypsoprorini). Membracini is paraphyletic with respect to Hoplophorionini and contains two lineages, the Membracini sensu strictu and the newly resurrected tribe Bolbonotini. Our analyses show that there is a strong phylogenetic component to the evolution of maternal care. Given the widespread occurrence of maternal care within the subfamily, this trait is estimated to have 3 origins, two reversals, and one loss. Our results suggest that the evolution of maternal care in insects may not be as evolutionarily labile as previously thought. 
4135352|The nuclear small subunit rRNA (18S) has played a dominant role in the estimation of relationships among insect orders from molecular data. In previous studies, 18S sequences have been aligned by unadjusted automated approaches (computer alignments that are not manually readjusted), most recently with direct optimization (simultaneous alignment and tree building using a program called "POY"). Parsimony has been the principal optimality criterion. Given the problems associated with the alignment of rRNA, and the recent availability of the doublet model for the analysis of covarying sites using Bayesian MCMC analysis, a different approach is called for in the analysis of these data. In this paper, nucleotide sequence data from the 18S small subunit rRNA gene of insects are aligned manually with reference to secondary structure, and analyzed under Bayesian phylogenetic methods with both GTR+I+G and doublet models in MrBayes. A credible phylogeny of Insecta is recovered that is independent of the morphological data and (unlike many other analyses of 18S in insects) not contradictory to traditional ideas of insect ordinal relationships based on morphology. Hexapoda, including Collembola, are monophyletic. Paraneoptera are the sister taxon to a monophyletic Holometabola but weakly supported. Ephemeroptera are supported as the sister taxon of Neoptera, and this result is interpreted with respect to the evolution of direct sperm transfer and the evolution of flight. Many other relationships are well-supported but several taxa remain problematic, e.g., there is virtually no support for relationships among orthopteroid orders. A website is made available that provides aligned 18S data in formats that include structural symbols and Nexus formats.
4135347|The hares and rabbits belonging to the family Leporidae have a nearly worldwide distribution and approximately 72% of the genera have geographically restricted distributions. Despite several attempts using morphological, cytogenetic, and mitochondrial DNA evidence, a robust phylogeny for the Leporidae remains elusive. To provide phylogenetic resolution within this group, a molecular supermatrix was constructed for 27 taxa representing all 11 leporid genera. Five nuclear (SPTBN1, PRKCI, THY, TG, and MGF) and two mitochondrial (cytochrome b and 12S rRNA) gene fragments were analyzed singly and in combination using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference. The analysis of each gene fragment separately as well as the combined mtDNA data almost invariably failed to provide strong statistical support for intergeneric relationships. In contrast, the combined nuclear DNA topology based on 3601 characters greatly increased phylogenetic resolution among leporid genera, as was evidenced by the number of topologies in the 95% confidence interval and the number of significantly supported nodes. The final molecular supermatrix contained 5483 genetic characters and analysis thereof consistently recovered the same topology across a range of six arbitrarily chosen model specifications. Twelve unique insertion-deletions were scored and all could be mapped to the tree to provide additional support without introducing any homoplasy Dispersal-vicariance analyses suggest that the most parsimonious solution explaining the current geographic distribution of the group involves an Asian or North American origin for the Leporids followed by at least nine dispersals and five vicariance events. Of these dispersals, at least three intercontinental exchanges occurred between North America and Asia via the Bering Strait and an additional three independent dispersals into Africa could be identified. A relaxed Bayesian molecular clock applied to the seven loci used in this study indicated that most of the intercontinental exchanges occurred between 14 and 9 million years ago and this period is broadly coincidental with the onset of major Antarctic expansions causing land bridges to be exposed.
4135349|Chromosomal data have been underutilized in phylogenetic investigations despite the obvious potential that cytogenetic studies have to reveal both structural and functional homologies among taxa. In large part this is associated with difficulties in scoring conventional and molecular cytogenetic information for phylogenetic analysis. The manner in which chromosomal data have been used by most authors in the past was often conceptionally flawed in terms of the methods and principles underpinning modern cladistics. We present herein a review of the different methods employed, examine their relative strengths, and then outline a simple approach that considers the chromosomal change as the character, and its presence or absence the character state. We test this using one simulated and several empirical data sets. Features that are unique to cytogenetic investigations, including B-chromosomes, heterochromatic additions/deletions, and the location and number of nucleolar organizer regions (NORs), as well as the weighting of chromosomal characters, are critically discussed with regard to their suitability for phylogenetic reconstruction. We conclude that each of these classes of data have inherent problems that limit their usefulness in phylogenetic analyses and in most of these instances, inclusion should be subject to rigorous appraisal that addresses the criterion of unequivocal homology
4135348|Phylogenetic studies incorporating multiple loci, and multiple genomes, are becoming increasingly common. Coincident with this trend in genetic sampling, model-based likelihood techniques including Bayesian phylogenetic methods continue to gain popularity. Few studies, however, have examined model fit and sensitivity to such potentially heterogeneous data partitions within combined data analyses using empirical data. Here we investigate the relative model fit and sensitivity of Bayesian phylogenetic methods when alternative site-specific partitions of among-site rate variation (with and without autocorrelated rates) are considered. Our primary goal in choosing a best-fit model was to employ the simplest model that was a good fit to the data while optimizing topology and/or Bayesian posterior probabilities. Thus, we were not interested in complex models that did not practically affect our interpretation of the topology under study. We applied these alternative models to a four-gene data set including one protein-coding nuclear gene (c-mos), one protein-coding mitochondrial gene (ND4), and two mitochondrial rRNA genes (12S and 16S) for the diverse yet poorly known lizard family Gymnophthalmidae. Our results suggest that the best-fit model partitioned among-site rate variation separately among the c-mos, ND4, and 12S + 16S gene regions. We found this model yielded identical topologies to those from analyses based on the GTR+I+G model, but significantly changed posterior probability estimates of clade support. This partitioned model also produced more precise (less variable) estimates of posterior probabilities across generations of long Bayesian runs, compared to runs employing a GTR+I+G model estimated for the combined data. We use this three-way gamma partitioning in Bayesian analyses to reconstruct a robust phylogenetic hypothesis for the relationships of genera within the lizard family Gymnophthalmidae. We then reevaluate the higher-level taxonomic arrangement of the Gymnophthalmidae. Based on our findings, we discuss the utility of nontraditional parameters for modeling among-site rate variation and the implications and future directions for complex model building and testing.
4135344|Previous findings on structural rearrangements in the chloroplast genome of Cuscuta (dodder), the only parasitic genus in the morning-glory family, Convolvulaceae, were attributed to its parasitic life style, but without proper comparison to related nonparasitic members of the family. Before molecular evolutionary questions regarding genome evolution can be answered, the phylogenetic problems within the family need to be resolved. However, the phylogenetic position of parasitic angiosperms and their precise relationship to nonparasitic relatives are difficult to infer. Problems are encountered with both morphological and molecular evidence. Molecular data have been used in numerous studies to elucidate relationships of parasitic taxa, despite accelerated rates of sequence evolution. To address the question of the position of the genus Cuscuta within Convolvulaceae, we generated a new molecular data set consisting of mitochondrial (atpA) and nuclear (RPB2) genes, and analyzed these data together with an existing chloroplast data matrix (rbcL, atpB, trnL-F, and psb E-J), to which an additional chloroplast gene (rpl2) was added. This data set was analyzed with an array of phylogenetic methods, including Bayesian analysis, maximum likelihood, and maximum parsimony. Further exploration of data was done by using methods of phylogeny hypothesis testing. At least two nonparasitic lineages are shown to diverge within the Convolvulaceae before Cuscuta. However, the exact sister group of Cuscuta could not be ascertained, even though many alternatives were rejected with confidence. Caution is therefore warranted when interpreting the causes of molecular evolution in Cuscuta. Detailed comparisons with nonparasitic Convolvulaceae are necessary before firm conclusions can be reached regarding the effects of the parasitic mode of life on patterns of molecular evolution in Cuscuta.
4135343|A generic-level phylogeny for the butterfly family Nymphalidae was produced by cladistic analysis of 234 characters from all life stages. The 95 species in the matrix (selected from the 213 studied) represent all important recognized lineages within this family. The analysis showed the taxa grouping into six main lineages. The basal branch is the Libytheinae, with the Danainae and Ithomiinae on the next branch. The remaining lineages are grouped into two main branches: the Heliconiinae-Nymphalinae, primarily flower-visitors (but including the fruit-attracted Coeini); and the Limenitidinae (sensu strictu), Biblidinae, and the satyroid lineage (Apaturinae, Charaxinae, Biinae, Calinaginae, Morphinae, Brassolinae, and Satyrinae), primarily fruit-attracted. Data partitions showed that the two data sets (immatures and adults) are very different, and a partitioned Bremer support analysis showed that the adult characters are the main source of conflict in the nodes of the combined analysis tree. This phylogeny includes the widest taxon coverage of any morphological study on Nymphalid butterflies to date, and supports the monophyly and relationships of most presently recognized subgroups, providing strong evidence for the presently accepted phylogenetic scheme.
20061298|In phylogenetic analyses with combined multigene or multiprotein data sets, accounting for differing evolutionary dynamics at different loci is essential for accurate tree prediction. Existing maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian approaches are computationally intensive. We present an alternative approach that is orders of magnitude faster. The method, Distance Rates (DistR), estimates rates based upon distances derived from gene/protein sequence data. Simulation studies indicate that this technique is accurate compared with other methods and robust to missing sequence data. The DistR method was applied to a fungal mitochondrial data set, and the rate estimates compared well to those obtained using existing ML and Bayesian approaches. Inclusion of the protein rates estimated from the DistR method into the ML calculation of trees as a branch length multiplier resulted in a significantly improved fit as measured by the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC). Furthermore, bootstrap support for the ML topology was significantly greater when protein rates were used, and some evident errors in the concatenated ML tree topology (i.e., without protein rates) were corrected.
20061297|The imbalance of a node in a phylogenetic tree can be defined in terms of the relative numbers of species (or higher taxa) on the branches that originate at the node. Empirically, imbalance also turns out to depend on the absolute total number of species on the branches: in a sample of large trees, nodes with more descendent species tend to be more unbalanced. Subsidiary analyses suggest that this pattern is not a result of errors in tree estimation. Instead, the increase in imbalance with species is consistent with a cumulative effect of differences in diversification rates between branches.
20061296|Adaptive convergence in morphological characters has not been thoroughly investigated, and the processes by which phylogenetic relationships may be misled by morphological convergence remains unclear. We undertook a case study on the morphological evolution of viverrid-like feliformians (Nandinia, Cryptoprocta, Fossa, Eupleres, Prionodon) and built the largest morphological matrix concerning the suborder Feliformia to date. A total of 349 characters grouped into four anatomical partitions were used for all species of Viverridae and viverrid-like taxa plus representatives of the Felidae, Hyaenidae, Herpestidae, and one Malagasy mongoose. Recent molecular phylogenetic analyses suggest that viverrid-like morphotypes appeared independently at least three times during feliformian evolution. We thus used a synthetic molecular tree to assess morphological evolutionary patterns characterizing the viverrid-like taxa. We examined phylogenetic signal, convergence and noise in morphological characters using (a) tree-length distribution (g1), (b) partitioned Bremer support, (c) RI values and their distribution, (d) respective contributions of diagnostic synapomorphies at the nodes for each partition, (e) patterns of shared convergences among viverrid-like taxa and other feliformian lineages, (f) tree-length differences among alternative hypotheses, and (g) the successive removal of convergent character states from the original matrix. In addition, the lability of complex morphological structures was assessed by mapping them onto the synthetic molecular tree. The unconstrained morphological analysis yielded phylogenetic groupings that closely reflected traditional classification. The use of a synthetic molecular tree (constraint) combined with our thorough morphological investigations revealed the mosaics of convergences likely to have contributed to part of the historical uncertainty over viverrid classification. It also showed that complex morphological structures could be subjected to reversible evolutionary trends. The morphological matrix proved useful in characterizing several feliformian clades with diagnostic synapomorphies. These results support the removal from the traditionally held Viverridae of several viverrid-like taxa into three distinct families: Nandiniidae (Nandinia), Prionodontidae (Prionodon), and the newly defined Eupleridae (including Cryptoprocta, Fossa, Eupleres plus all "mongoose-like" Malagasy taxa). No clearly "phylogenetically misleading" data subsets could be identified, and the great majority of morphological convergences appeared to be nonadaptive. The multiple approaches used in this study revealed that the most disruptive element with regards to morphological phylogenetic reconstruction was noise, which blured the expression of phylogenetic signal. This study demonstrates the crucial need to consider independent (molecular) phylogenies in order to produce reliable evolutionary hypotheses and should promote a new approach to the definition of morphological characters in mammals.
20061300|Deserts are not usually considered biodiversity hotspots, but desert microbiotic crust communities exhibit a rich diversity of both eukaryotic and prokaryotic life forms. Like many communities dominated by microscopic organisms, they defy characterization by traditional species-counting approaches to assessing biodiversity. Here we use exclusive molecular phylodiversity (E) to quantify the amount of evolutionary divergence unique to desert-dwelling green algae (Chlorophyta) in microbiotic crust communities. Given a phylogenetic tree with branch lengths expressed in units of expected substitutions per site, E is the total length of all tree segments representing exclusively desert lineages. Using MCMC to integrate over tree topologies and branch lengths provides 95% Bayesian credible intervals for phylodiversity measures. We found substantial exclusive molecular phylodiversity based on 18S rDNA data, showing that desert lineages are distantly related to their nearest aquatic relatives. Our results challenge conventional wisdom, which holds that there was a single origin of terrestrial green plants and that green algae are merely incidental visitors rather than indigenous components of desert communities. We identify examples of lineage diversification within deserts and at least 12 separate transitions from aquatic to terrestrial life apart from the most celebrated transition leading to the embryophyte land plants.
20061299|Siphonophores are a group of pelagic colonial hydrozoans (Cnidaria) that have long been of general interest because of the division of labor between the polyps and medusae that make up these "superorganisms." These polyps and medusae are each homologous to free living animals but are generated by an incomplete asexual budding process that leaves them physiologically integrated. They are functionally specialized for different tasks and are precisely organized within each colony. The number of functional types of polyps and medusae varies across taxa, and different authors have used this character to construct phylogenies polarized in opposite directions, depending on whether they thought siphonophore evolution proceeded by a reduction or an increase in functional specialization. We have collected taxa across all major groups of siphonophores, many of which are found exclusively in the deep sea, using remotely operated underwater vehicles (ROVs) and by SCUBA diving from ships in the open ocean. We have used 52 siphonophores and four outgroup taxa to estimate the siphonophore phylogeny with molecular data from the nuclear small subunit ribosomal RNA gene (18S) and the mitochondrial large subunit ribosomal RNA gene (16S). Parsimony reconstructions indicate that functionally specialized polyps and medusae have been gained and lost across the phylogeny. Maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses of morphological data suggest that the transition rate for decreased functional specialization is greater than the transition rate for increased functional specialization for three out of the four investigated categories of polyps and medusae. The present analysis also bears on several long-standing questions about siphonophore systematics. It indicates that the cystonects are sister to all other siphonophores, a group that we call the Codonophora. We also find that the Calycophorae are nested within the Physonectae, and that the Brachystelia, a historically recognized grouping of short-stemmed taxa, are polyphyletic.
20061216|Phylogenetic tree reconstruction is difficult in the presence of lateral gene transfer and other processes generating conflicting signals. We develop a new approach to this problem using ideas borrowed from algorithmic information theory. It selects the hypothesis that simultaneously minimizes the descriptive complexity of the tree(s) plus the data when encoded using those tree(s). In practice this is the hypothesis that can compress the data the most. We show not only that phylogenetic compression is an efficient method for encoding most phylogenetic data sets and is more efficient than compression schemes designed for single sequences, but also that it provides a clear information theoretic rule for determining when a collection of conflicting trees is a better explanation of the data than a single tree. By casting the parsimony problem in this more general framework, we also conclude that the so-called total-evidence tree--the tree constructed from all the data simultaneously--is not always the most economical explanation of the data.
20061207|Species-level phylogenetic studies require fast-evolving nucleotide positions to resolve relationships among close relatives, but these sites may be highly homoplastic and perhaps uninformative or even misleading deeper in the tree. Here we describe a species-level analysis of tiger beetles in the genus Cicindela (Coleoptera: Cicindelidae) for 132 terminal taxa and 1897 nucleotide positions from three regions of mtDNA, comprising 75% coverage of species occurring in North America. Evenly weighted parsimony analysis recovered four major clades representing radiations confined to North and Central America. Relationships near the tips were well supported but signal was contradictory at deeper nodes. Two major categories (3rd positions and all others) can be distinguished in likelihood analysis of character variation, of which only the fast-changing 3rd position characters were affected by saturation. However, their downweighting under a variety of criteria did not improve the tree topology at basal nodes. There was weak conflict between 3rd and non-3rd position characters deep in the tree, but support levels declined towards the root for all categories, even on trees that were reconstructed from 3rd and non-3rd positions separately. Statistical analysis of parsimony-based character transitions along branches showed a largely homogeneous distribution of change along the root-to-tip axis. The comparison of character transitions among the four major portions of the tree revealed deviations from stochastic distribution for the non-3rd positions, but not for 3rd positions. Hence, variability of functionally constrained non-3rd positions differs between clades and may be dependent on the character states at other sites, consistent with the covarion model of molecular evolution. The results suggest that some properties of 3rd positions are less problematic for phylogenetic reconstruction than other categories despite their high total homoplasy. In densely sampled data sets of closely related species, the disadvantages of weighting schemes according to homoplasy levels outweigh the benefits, showing the difficulty of devising meaningful weighting schemes that are applicable universally throughout the tree.
20061212|The phylogenetic relationships among baleen whales (Order: Cetacea) remain uncertain despite extensive research in cetacean molecular phylogenetics and a potential morphological sample size of over 2 million animals harvested. Questions remain regarding the number of species and the monophyly of genera, as well as higher order relationships. Here, we approach mysticete phylogeny with complete mitochondrial genome sequence analysis. We determined complete mtDNA sequences of 10 extant Mysticeti species, inferred their phylogenetic relationships, and estimated node divergence times. The mtDNA sequence analysis concurs with previous molecular studies in the ordering of the principal branches, with Balaenidae (right whales) as sister to all other mysticetes base, followed by Neobalaenidae (pygmy right whale), Eschrichtiidae (gray whale), and finally Balaenopteridae (rorquals + humpback whale). The mtDNA analysis further suggests that four lineages exist within the clade of Eschrichtiidae + Balaenopteridae, including a sister relationship between the humpback and fin whales, and a monophyletic group formed by the blue, sei, and Bryde's whales, each of which represents a newly recognized phylogenetic relationship in Mysticeti. We also estimated the divergence times of all extant mysticete species, accounting for evolutionary rate heterogeneity among lineages. When the mtDNA divergence estimates are compared with the mysticete fossil record, several lineages have molecular divergence estimates strikingly older than indicated by paleontological data. We suggest this discrepancy reflects both a large amount of ancestral polymorphism and long generation times of ancestral baleen whale populations.
20061209|We evaluated the potential effects of homoplasy, ancestral polymorphism, and hybridization as obstacles to resolving phylogenetic relationships within Nomonyx-Oxyura stiff-tailed ducks (Oxyurinae; subtribe Oxyurina). Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region sequences from 94 individuals supported monophyly of mtDNA haplotypes for each of the six species and provided no evidence of extant incomplete lineage sorting or inter-specific hybridization. The ruddy ducks (O. j. jamaicensis, O. j. andina, O. j. ferruginea) are each others' closest relatives, but the lack of shared haplotypes between O. j. jamaicensis and O. j. ferruginea suggests long-standing historical isolation. In contrast, O. j. andina shares haplotypes with O. j. jamaicensis and O. j. ferruginea, which supports Todd's (1979) and Fjelds's (1986) hypothesis that O. j. andina is an intergrade or hybrid subspecies of O. j. jamaicensis and O. j. ferruginea. Control region data and a much larger data set composed of 8800 base pairs of mitochondrial and nuclear sequence for each species indicate that the two New World species, O. vittata and O. jamaicensis, branch basally within Oxyura. A clade of three Old World species (O. australis, O. maccoa, O. leucocephala) is well supported, but different loci and also different characters within the mtDNA data support three different resolutions of the Old World clade, yielding an essentially unresolved trichotomy. Fundamentally different factors limited the resolution of the mtDNA and nuclear gene trees. Gene trees for most nuclear loci were unresolved due to slow rates of mutation and a lack of informative variation, whereas uncertain resolution of the mtDNA gene tree was due to homoplasy. Within the mtDNA, approximately equal numbers of characters supported each of three possible resolutions. Parametric and nonparametric bootstrap analyses suggest that resolution of the mtDNA tree based on 4300 bp per taxon is uncertain but that complete mtDNA sequences would yield a fully resolved gene tree. A short internode separating O. leucocephala from (O. australis, O. maccoa) in the best mtDNA tree combined with long terminal branches and substantial rate variation among nucleotide sites allowed the small number of changes occurring on the internode to be obscured by homoplasy in a significant portion of simulated data sets. Although most nuclear loci were uninformative, two loci supported a resolution of the Old World clade (O. maccoa, O. leucocephala) that is incongruent with the best mtDNA tree. Thus, incongruence between nuclear and mtDNA trees may be due to random sorting of ancestral lineages during the short internode, homoplasy in the mtDNA data, or both. The Oxyura trichotomy represents a difficult though likely common problem in molecular systematics. Given a short internode, the mtDNA tree has a greater chance of being congruent with the history of speciation because its effective population size (
20061211|Many phylogenetic methods produce large collections of trees as opposed to a single tree, which allows the exploration of support for various evolutionary hypotheses. However, to be useful, the information contained in large collections of trees should be summarized; frequently this is achieved by constructing a consensus tree. Consensus trees display only those signals that are present in a large proportion of the trees. However, by their very nature consensus trees require that any conflicts between the trees are necessarily disregarded. We present a method that extends the notion of consensus trees to allow the visualization of conflicting hypotheses in a consensus network. We demonstrate the utility of this method in highlighting differences amongst maximum likelihood bootstrap values and Bayesian posterior probabilities in the placental mammal phylogeny, and also in comparing the phylogenetic signal contained in amino acid versus nucleotide characters for hexapod monophyly.
20061214|Current models for the early diversification of living frogs inferred from morphological, ontogenetic, or DNA sequence data invoke very different scenarios of character evolution and biogeography. To explore central controversies on the phylogeny of Anura, we analyzed nearly 4000 base pairs of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA for the major frog lineages. Likelihood-based analyses of this data set are congruent with morphological evidence in supporting a paraphyletic arrangement of archaeobatrachian frogs, with an (Ascaphus + Leiopelma) clade as the sister-group of all other living anurans. The stability of this outcome is reinforced by screening for phylogenetic bias resulting from site-specific rate variation, homoplasy, or the obligatory use of distantly related outgroups. Twenty-one alternative branching and rooting hypotheses were evaluated using a nonparametric multicomparison test and parametric bootstrapping. Relaxed molecular clock estimates situate the emergence of crown-group anurans in the Triassic, approximately 55 million years prior to their first appearance in the fossil record. The existence of at least four extant frog lineages on the supercontinent Pangaea before its breakup gains support from the estimation that three early splits between Laurasia- and Gondwana-associated families coincide with the initial rifting of these landmasses. This observation outlines the potential significance of this breakup event in the formation of separate Mesozoic faunal assemblages in both hemispheres.
20061210|Although most often used to represent phylogenetic uncertainty, network methods are also potentially useful for describing the phylogenetic complexity expected to characterize recent species radiations. One network method with particular advantages in this context is split decomposition. However, in its standard implementation this approach is limited by a conservative criterion for branch length estimation. Here we extend the utility of split decomposition by introducing a least squares optimization technique for correcting branch lengths that may be underestimated by the standard implementation. This optimization of branch lengths is generally expected to improve divergence time estimates calculated from splits graphs. We illustrate the effect of least squares optimization on such estimates using the Australasian Myosotis and the Hawaiian silversword alliance as examples. We also discuss the biogeographic interpretation and limitations of splits graphs.
20061215|Paralogy defines similarity caused by duplication rather than common descent and is well known in the case of paralogous gene copies within a single genome. The term is here extended to paralogous lineages of associates within a single host. The phylogenies of four genera within the Herpesviridae were reconciled with host phylogenies using cophylogenetic mapping. The observed correspondence for each pair of phylogenies was evaluated through randomization of the viral phylogeny and demonstrated to be greater than expected by chance. A simulation study was then carried out to assess the influence of paralogous lineages on the efficacy of reconciliation analysis. Combining viral taxa from different genera that infected common hosts introduced incongruence into the cophylogenies and reduced both the minimum and maximum observed number of codivergence events relative to the initial analysis of orthologous clades. However, at an average sample size this did not alter the fundamental significance of observed correspondence. With smaller sample sizes, the number of orthologous taxa selected at random from the pool of taxa was reduced. False-negative results then increased in proportion from 0.02 to 0.33. These results demonstrated that reconciliation analysis is robust under conditions of paralogy at "normal" sample sizes but is adversely affected by a combination of paralogy and low sample size. Consideration of phylogenies for Papillomavirus, Atadenovirus, and Mastadenovirus suggest that paralogous lineages may be a widespread phenomenon among DNA viruses and that duplication irrespective of host speciation is an important cause of viral diversification.
20061213|Evolutionary developmental biology ("evo-devo") has revolutionized evolutionary biology but has had relatively little impact on systematics. We show that similar large-scale developmental changes in distantly related lineages can dramatically mislead phylogenetic analyses based on morphological data. Salamanders are important model systems in many fields of biology and are of special interest in that many species are paedomorphic and thus never complete metamorphosis. A recent study of higher-level salamander phylogeny placed most paedomorphic families in a single clade based on morphological data. Here, we use new molecular and morphological data to show that this result most likely was caused by the misleading effects of paedomorphosis. We also provide a well-supported estimate of higher-level salamander relationships based on combined molecular and morphological data. Many authors have suggested that paedomorphosis may be problematic in studies of salamander phylogeny, but this hypothesis has never been tested with a rigorous phylogenetic analysis. We find that the misleading effects of paedomorphosis on phylogenetic analysis go beyond the sharing of homoplastic larval traits by paedomorphic adults, and the problem therefore is not solved by simply excluding suspected paedomorphic characters. Instead, two additional factors are critically important in causing paedomorphic species to be phylogenetically "misplaced": (1) the absence of clade-specific synapomorphies that develop during metamorphosis in nonpaedomorphic taxa and allow their "correct" placement and (2) parallel adaptive changes associated with the aquatic habitat of the larval stage. Our results suggest that the effects of paedomorphosis on phylogenetic analyses may be complex, difficult to detect, and can lead to results that are both wrong and statistically well supported by parsimony and Bayesian analyses.
20061208|Disjunctive distributions across paleotropical regions in the Indian Ocean Basin (IOB) often invoke dispersal/vicariance debates. Exacum (Gentianaceae, tribe Exaceae) species are spread around the IOB, in Africa, Madagascar, Socotra, the Arabian peninsula, Sri Lanka, India, the Himalayas, mainland Southeast Asia including southern China and Malaysia, and northern Australia. The distribution of this genus was suggested to be a typical example of vicariance resulting from the breakup of the Gondwanan supercontinent. The molecular phylogeny of Exacum is in principle congruent with morphological conclusions and shows a pattern that resembles a vicariance scenario with rapid divergence among lineages, but our molecular dating analysis demonstrates that the radiation is too recent to be associated with the Gondwanan continental breakup. We used our dating analysis to test the results of DIVA and found that the program predicted impossible vicariance events. Ancestral area reconstruction suggests that Exacum originated in Madagascar, and divergence dating suggests its origin was not before the Eocene. The Madagascan progenitor, the most recent common ancestor of Exacum, colonized Sri Lanka and southern India via long-distance dispersals. This colonizer underwent an extensive range expansion and spread to Socotra-Arabia, northern India, and mainland Southeast Asia in the northern IOB when it was warm and humid in these regions. This widespread common ancestor retreated subsequently from most parts of these regions and survived in isolation in Socotra-Arabia, southern India-Sri Lanka, and perhaps mainland Southeast Asia, possibly as a consequence of drastic climatic changes, particularly the spreading drought during the Neogene. Secondary diversification from these surviving centers and Madagascar resulted in the extant main lineages of the genus. The vicariance-like pattern shown by the phylogeny appears to have resulted from long-distance dispersals followed by extensive range expansion and subsequent fragmentation. The extant African species E. oldenlandioides is confirmed to be recently dispersed from Madagascar.
20061258|Given a phylogenetic tree with leaves labeled by a collection of species, and with weighted edges, the "phylogenetic diversity" of any subset of the species is the sum of the edge weights of the minimal subtree connecting the species. This measure is relevant in biodiversity conservation where one may wish to compare different subsets of species according to how much evolutionary variation they encompass. In this note we show that phylogenetic diversity has an attractive mathematical property that ensures that we can solve the following problem easily by the greedy algorithm: find a subset of the species of any given size k of maximal phylogenetic diversity. We also describe an extension of this result that also allows weights to be assigned to species.
20061259|Several mutually exclusive hypotheses have been advanced to explain the phylogenetic position of turtles among amniotes. Traditional morphology-based analyses place turtles among extinct anapsids (reptiles with a solid skull roof), whereas more recent studies of both morphological and molecular data support an origin of turtles from within Diapsida (reptiles with a doubly fenestrated skull roof). Evaluation of these conflicting hypotheses has been hampered by nonoverlapping taxonomic samples and the exclusion of significant taxa from published analyses. Furthermore, although data from soft tissues and anatomical systems such as the integument may be particularly relevant to this problem, they are often excluded from large-scale analyses of morphological systematics. Here, conflicting hypotheses of turtle relationships are tested by (1) combining published data into a supermatrix of morphological characters to address issues of character conflict and missing data; (2) increasing taxonomic sampling by more than doubling the number of operational taxonomic units to test internal relationships within suprageneric ingroup taxa; and (3) increasing character sampling by approximately 25% by adding new data on the osteology and histology of the integument, an anatomical system that has been historically under-represented in morphological systematics. The morphological data set assembled here represents the largest yet compiled for Amniota. Reevaluation of character data from prior studies of amniote phylogeny favors the hypothesis that turtles indeed have diapsid affinities. Addition of new ingroup taxa alone leads to a decrease in overall phylogenetic resolution, indicating that existing characters used for amniote phylogeny are insufficient to explain the evolution of more highly nested taxa. Incorporation of new data from the soft and osseous components of the integument, however, helps resolve relationships among both basal and highly nested amniote taxa. Analysis of a data set compiled from published sources and data original to this study supports monophyly of Amniota, Synapsida, Reptilia, Parareptilia, Eureptilia, Eosuchia, Diapsida, Neodiapsida, Sauria, Lepidosauria, and Archosauriformes, as well as several more highly nested divisions within the latter two clades. Turtles are here resolved as the sister taxon to a monophyletic Lepidosauria (squamates + Sphenodon), a novel phylogenetic position that nevertheless is consistent with recent molecular and morphological studies that have hypothesized diapsid affinities for this clade.
20061266|Phylogenetic relationships among the metazoan phyla are the subject of an ongoing controversy. Analysis of mitochondrial gene arrangements is a powerful tool to investigate these relationships; however, its previous application outside of individual animal phyla has been hampered by the lack of informative out-group data. To address this shortcoming, we determined complete mitochondrial DNA sequences for the demosponges Geodia neptuni and Tethya actinia, two representatives of the most basal animal phylum, the Porifera. With sponges as an outgroup, we investigated phylogenetic relationships of nine bilaterian phyla using both breakpoint analysis of global mitochondrial gene arrangements and maximum parsimony analysis of mitochondrial gene adjacencies. Our results provide strong support for a group that includes protostome (but not deuterostome) coelomate, pseudocoelomate, and acoelomate animals, thus clearly rejecting the Coelomata hypothesis. Two other groups of bilaterian animals, Lophotrochozoa and Ambulacraria, are also supported by our analyses. However, due to the remarkable stability of mitochondrial gene arrangements in Deuterostomia and the Ecdysozoa, conclusions on their evolutionary history cannot be drawn.
20061262|Tertiary macrofossils of the flowering plant family Leguminosae (legumes) were used as time constraints to estimate ages of the earliest branching clades identified in separate plastid matK and rbcL gene phylogenies. Penalized likelihood rate smoothing was performed on sets of Bayesian likelihood trees generated with the AIC-selected GTR++I substitution model. Unequivocal legume fossils dating from the Recent continuously back to about 56 million years ago were used to fix the family stem clade at 60 million years (Ma), and at 1-Ma intervals back to 70 Ma. Specific fossils that showed distinctive combinations of apomorphic traits were used to constrain the minimum age of 12 specific internal nodes. These constraints were placed on stem rather than respective crown clades in order to bias for younger age estimates. Regardless, the mean age of the legume crown clade differs by only 1.0 to 2.5 Ma from the fixed age of the legume stem clade. Additionally, the oldest caesalpinioid, mimosoid, and papilionoid crown clades show approximately the same age range of 39 to 59 Ma. These findings all point to a rapid family-wide diversification, and predict few if any legume fossils prior to the Cenozoic. The range of the matK substitution rate,
20061265|Isolated oceanic archipelagos are excellent model systems to study speciation, biogeography, and evolutionary factors underlying the generation of biological diversity. Despite the wealth of studies documenting insular speciation, few of them focused on marine organisms. Here, we reconstruct phylogenetic relationships among species of the marine venomous gastropod genus Conus from the Cape Verde archipelago. This small island chain located in the Central Atlantic hosts 10% of the worldwide species diversity of Conus. Analyses were based on mtDNA sequences, and a novel nuclear marker, a megalin-like protein, member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene family. The inferred phylogeny recovered two well-defined clades within Conus. One includes Cape Verde endemic species with larger shells, known as the "venulatus" complex together with C. pulcher from the Canary Islands. The other is composed of Cape Verde endemic and West Africa and Canary Island "small" shelled species. In both clades, nonendemic Conus were resolved as sister groups of the Cape Verde endemics, respectively. Our results indicate that the ancestors of "small" and "large" shelled lineages independently colonized Cape Verde. The resulting biogeographical pattern shows the grouping of most Cape Verde endemics in monophyletic island assemblages. Statistical tests supported a recent radiation event within the "small shell" clade. Using a molecular clock, we estimated that the colonization of the islands by the "small" shelled species occurred relatively close to the origin of the islands whereas the arrival of "large" shelled Conus is more recent. Our results suggest that the main factor responsible for species diversity in the archipelago may be allopatric speciation promoted by the reduced dispersal capacity of nonplanktonic lecithotrophic larvae.
20061257|In "The Descent of Man" (1871), Darwin observed "curious parallels" between the processes of biological and linguistic evolution. These parallels mean that evolutionary biologists and historical linguists seek answers to similar questions and face similar problems. As a result, the theory and methodology of the two disciplines have evolved in remarkably similar ways. In addition to Darwin's curious parallels of process, there are a number of equally curious parallels and connections between the development of methods in biology and historical linguistics. Here we briefly review the parallels between biological and linguistic evolution and contrast the historical development of phylogenetic methods in the two disciplines. We then look at a number of recent studies that have applied phylogenetic methods to language data and outline some current problems shared by the two fields.
20061261|In spite of the fact that the potential usefulness of bone histology in systematics has been discussed for over one and a half centuries, the presence of a phylogenetic signal in the variation of histological characters has rarely been assessed. A quantitative assessment of phylogenetic signal in bone histological characters could provide a justification for performing optimizations of these traits onto independently generated phylogenetic trees (as has been done in recent years). Here we present an investigation on the quantification of the phylogenetic signal in the following bone histological, microanatomical, and morphological traits in a sample of femora of 35 species of sauropsids: vascular density, vascular orientation, index of Haversian remodeling, cortical thickness, and cross-sectional area (bone size). For this purpose, we use two methods, regressions on distance matrices tested for significance using permutations (a Mantel test) and random tree length distribution. Within sauropsids, these bone microstructural traits have an optimal systematic value in archosaurs. In this taxon, a Mantel test shows that the phylogeny explains 81.8% of the variation of bone size and 86.2% of the variation of cortical thickness. In contrast, a Mantel test suggests that the phylogenetic signal in histological traits is weak: although the phylogeny explains 18.7% of the variation of vascular density in archosaurs, the phylogenetic signal is not significant either for vascular orientation or for the index of Haversian remodeling. However, Mantel tests seem to underestimate the proportion of variance of the dependent character explained by the phylogeny, as suggested by a PVR (phylogenetic eigenvector) analysis. We also deal with some complementary questions. First, we evaluate the functional dependence of bone vascular density on bone size by using phylogenetically independent contrasts. Second, we perform a variation partitioning analysis and show that the phylogenetic signal in bone vascular density is not a by-product of phylogentic signal in bone size. Finally, we analyze the evolution of cortical thickness in diapsids by using an optimization by squared change parsimony and discuss the functional significance of this character in terms of decreased buoyancy in crocodiles and mass saving in birds. These results are placed in the framework of the constructional morphology model, according to which the variation of a character in a clade has a historical (phylogenetic) component, a functional (adaptive) component, and a structural (architectural) component.
20061263|Phylogenetic taxonomy, like modern Linnean taxonomy, was modeled on a phylogenetic tree rather than a cladogram and, like its predecessor, perpetuates the use of morphology as a means of recognizing clades. Both practices have generated confusion in graphical representation, operational terminology, and definitional rationale in phylogenetic taxonomy, the history of which is traced. The following points are made: (1) cladograms, rather than trees or hybrid cladogram-trees, provide the framework for the simplest graphical depiction of phylogenetic definitions; (2) a complete notational scheme for phylogenetic definitions is presented that distinguishes symbolic notation from shorthand and longhand versions; (3) phylogenetic definitions are composed of three components (paradigm, specifier, qualifier) arranged in two fundamental patterns--node and stem; (4) apomorphies do not constitute a fundamental definitional pattern but rather serve to qualify a stem-based definition (as do time and geographic range); (5) formulation of phylogenetic definitions involves three heuristic criteria (stability, simplicity, prior use); (6) reasoned definitional revision is encouraged and better defined (textual substitution, first- and second-order revision); and (7) a database, TaxonSearch, allows rapid recall of taxonomic and definitional information.
20061264|Long-branch attraction is a well-known source of systematic error that can mislead phylogenetic methods; it is frequently invoked post hoc, upon recovering a different tree from the one expected based on prior evidence. We demonstrate that methods that do not force the data onto a single tree, such as spectral analysis, Neighbor-Net, and consensus networks, can be used to detect conflicting signals within the data, including those caused by long-branch attraction. We illustrate this approach using a set of taxa from three unambiguously monophyletic families within the Pelecaniformes: the darters, the cormorants and shags, and the gannets and boobies. These three families are universally acknowledged as forming a monophyletic group, but the relationship between the families remains contentious. Using sequence data from three mitochondrial genes (12S, ATPase 6, and ATPase 8) we demonstrate that the relationship between these three families is difficult to resolve because they are separated by a short internal branch and there are conflicting signals due to long-branch attraction, which are confounded with nonhomogeneous sequence evolution across the different genes. Spectral analysis, Neighbor-Net, and consensus networks reveal conflicting signals regarding the placement of one of the darters, with support found for darter monophyly, but also support for a conflicting grouping with the outgroup, pelicans. Furthermore, parsimony and maximum-likelihood analyses produced different trees, with one of the two most parsimonious trees not supporting the monophyly of the darters. Monte Carlo simulations, however, were not sensitive enough to reveal long-branch attraction unless the branches are longer than those actually observed. These results indicate that spectral analysis, Neighbor-Net, and consensus networks offer a powerful approach to detecting and understanding the source of conflicint signals within phylogenetic data.
20061260|Although the reconstruction of phylogenetic trees and the computation of multiple sequence alignments are highly interdependent, these two areas of research lead quite separate lives, the former often making use of stochastic modeling, whereas the latter normally does not. Despite the fact that reasonable insertion and deletion models for sequence pairs were already introduced more than 10 years ago, they have only recently been applied to multiple alignment and only in their simplest version. In this paper we present and discuss a strategy based on simulated annealing, which makes use of these models to infer a phylogenetic tree for a set of DNA or protein sequences together with the sequences' indel history, i.e., their multiple alignment augmented with information about the positioning of insertion and deletion events in the tree. Our method is also the first application of the TKF2 model in the context of multiple sequence alignment. We validate the method via simulations and illustrate it using a data set of primate mtDNA.
20061232|Thamnochortus (ca. 32 species) is an ecologically diverse genus of Restionaceae. Restionaceae comprise a major component of the southern African Cape flora, wherein eco-diversification might have been important in the generation of high levels of species richness. In an attempt to reconstruct the macroecological history of Thamnochortus, it was found that standard procedures for character state optimization make two inappropriate assumptions. The first is that ancestors are monomorphic (i.e., ecologically uniform) and the second is that eco-diversification follows, or is slower than, lineage diversification. We demonstrate a variety of coding schemes with which the assumption of monomorphy can be avoided. For unordered discrete ecological characters, presence coding and generalized frequency coding (GFC) are suboptimal because they occasionally yield illogical assignments of no state to ancestors. Polymorphism coding or use of the program DIVA are preferable in this respect but are applicable only with parsimony. For continuous eco-characters (e.g., a rainfall gradient, where individual species occur in ranges), GFC and MaxMin coding provide equally valid solutions to optimizing ranges with parsimony. However, MaxMin can be extended to likelihood approaches and is therefore preferable. With respect to rates and timing, all algorithms currently employed for ancestral ecology reconstruction bias toward slow rates of eco-diversification relative to lineage diversification. An alternative to this bias is provided by DIVA, which biases toward accelerated rates of eco-diversification and thus inferences of ecology-driven speciation. We see no way of choosing between these biases; however, phylogeneticists should be aware of them. Applying these methods to Thamnochortus, we find there to be important differences in details, yet general congruence, regarding the historical ecology of this clade. We infer the most recent common ancestor of Thamnochortus to have been a post-fire resprouting species distributed on rocky, well-drained, sandstone-derived soils at lower-middle elevations, in regions of moderate levels of yearly (primarily winter) rainfall. This species would have been distributed in habitats much like those of the southwestern Cape mountains today. Major ecological trends include shifts to lower rainfall regimes and shifts from sandstone to limestone-derived alkaline soils at lower altitudes.
20061225|AFLP markers provide a potential source of phylogenetic information for molecular systematic studies. However, there are properties of restriction fragment data that limit phylogenetic interpretation of AFLPs. These are (a) possible nonindependence of fragments, (b) problems of homology assignment of fragments, (c) asymmetry in the probability of losing and gaining fragments, and (d) problems in distinguishing heterozygote from homozygote bands. In the present study, AFLP data sets of Lactuca s.l. were examined for the presence of phylogenetic signal. An indication of this signal was provided by carrying out tree length distribution skewness (g) tests, permutation tail probability (PTP) tests, and relative apparent synapomorphy analysis (RASA). A measure of the support for internal branches in the optimal parsimony tree (MPT) was made using bootstrap, jackknife, and decay analysis. Finally, the extent of congruence in MPTs for AFLP and internal transcribed spacer (ITS)-1 data sets for the same taxa was made using the partition homogeneity test (PHT) and the Templeton test. These analytical studies suggested the presence of phylogenetic signal in the AFLP data sets, although some incongruence was found between AFLP and ITS MPTs. An extensive literature survey undertaken indicated that authors report a general congruence of AFLP and ITS tree topologies across a wide range of taxonomic groups, suggesting that the present results and conclusions have a general bearing. In these earlier studies and those for Lactuca s.l., AFLP markers have been found to be informative at somewhat lower taxonomic levels than ITS sequences. Tentative estimates are suggested for the levels of ITS sequence divergence over which AFLP profiles are likely to be phylogenetically informative.
20061230|A number of recent papers have suggested that gene family content can be used to resolve phylogenies, particularly in the case of prokaryotes, in which extensive horizontal gene transfer means that individual gene phylogenies may not mirror the organismal phylogeny. However, no study has yet examined how sensitive such analyses are to the criterion of homology assessment used to assemble multigene families. Using data from 99 completely sequenced prokaryotic genomes, we examined the effect of homology criteria in phylogenetic analyses wherein presence or absence of each family in the genome was used as a cladistic character. Different criteria resulted in evidence for contradictory tree topologies, sometimes with high bootstrap support. A moderately strict criterion seemed best for assembling multigene families in a biologically meaningful way, but it was not necessarily preferable for phylogenetic analysis. Instead, a very strict criterion, which broke up gene families into smaller subfamilies, seemed to have advantages for phylogenetic purposes. The poor performance of gene family content-based phylogenetic analysis in the case of prokaryotes appears to reflect high levels of homoplasy resulting not only from horizontal gene transfer but also, more importantly, from extensive parallel loss of gene families in certain bacteria genomes.
20061233|This study analyzed 76 species of Carnivora using a concatenated sequence of 6243 bp from six genes (nuclear TR-i-I, TBG, and IRBP; mitochondrial ND2, CYTB, and 12S rRNA), representing the most comprehensive sampling yet undertaken for reconstructing the phylogeny of this clade. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian methods were remarkably congruent in topologies observed and in nodal support measures. We recovered all of the higher level carnivoran clades that had been robustly supported in previous analyses (by analyses of morphological and molecular data), including the monophyly of Caniformia, Feliformia, Arctoidea, Pinnipedia, Musteloidea, Procyonidae + Mustelidae sensu stricto, and a clade of (Hyaenidae + (Herpestidae + Malagasy carnivorans)). All of the traditional "families," with the exception of Viverridae and Mustelidae, were robustly supported as monophyletic groups. We further have determined the relative positions of the major lineages within the Caniformia, which previous studies could not resolve, including the first robust support for the phylogenetic position of marine carnivorans (Pinnipedia) within the Arctoidea (as the sister-group to musteloids [sensu lato], with ursids as their sister group). Within the pinnipeds, Odobenidae (walrus) was more closely allied with otariids (sea lions/fur seals) than with phocids ("true" seals). In addition, we recovered a monophyletic clade of skunks and stink badgers (Mephitidae) and resolved the topology of musteloid interrelationships as: Ailurus (Mephitidae (Procyonidae, Mustelidae [sensu stricto])). This pattern of interrelationships of living caniforms suggests a novel inference that large body size may have been the primitive condition for Arctoidea, with secondary size reduction evolving later in some musteloids. Within Mustelidae, Bayesian analyses are unambiguous in supporting otter monophyly (Lutrinae), and in both MP and Bayesian analyses Martes is paraphyletic with respect to Gulo and Eira, as has been observed in some previous molecular studies. Within Feliformia, we have confirmed that Nandinia is the outgroup to all other extant feliforms, and that the Malagasy Carnivora are a monophyletic clade closely allied with the mongooses (Herpestidae [sensu stricto]). Although the monophyly of each of the three major feliform clades (Viverridae sensu stricto, Felidae, and the clade of Hyaenidae + (Herpestidae + Malagasy carnivorans)) is robust in all of our analyses, the relative phylogenetic positions of these three lineages is not resolvable at present. Our analyses document the monophyly of the "social mongooses," strengthening evidence for a single origin of eusociality within the Herpestidae. For a single caniform node, the position of pinnipeds relative to Ursidae and Musteloidea, parsimony analyses of data for the entire Carnivora did not replicate the robust support observed for both parsimony and Bayesian analyses of the caniform ingroup alone. More detailed analyses and these results demonstrate that outgroup choice can have a considerable effect on the strength of support for a particular topology. Therefore, the use of exemplar taxa as proxies for entire clades with diverse evolutionary histories should be approached with caution. The Bayesian analysis likelihood functions generally were better able to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships (increased resolution and more robust support for various nodes) than parsimony analyses when incompletely sampled taxa were included. Bayesian analyses were not immune, however, to the effects of missing data; lower resolution and support in those analyses likely arise from non-overlap of gene sequence data among less well-sampled taxa. These issues are a concern for similar studies, in which different gene sequences are concatenated in an effort to increase resolving power.
20061231|Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences are commonly used for inferring phylogenetic relationships. However, the strand-specific bias in the nucleotide composition of the mtDNA, which is thought to reflect asymmetric mutational constraints, combined with the important compositional heterogeneity among taxa, are known to be highly problematic for phylogenetic analyses. Here, nucleotide composition was compared across 49 species of Metazoa (34 arthropods, 2 annelids, 2 molluscs, and 11 deuterosomes), and analyzed for a mtDNA fragment including six protein-coding genes, i.e., atp6, atp8, cox1, cox2, cox3, and nad2. The analyses show that most metazoan species present a clear strand asymmetry, where one strand is biased in favor of A and C, whereas the other strand has a reverse bias, i.e., in favor of T and G. The origin of this strand bias can be related to asymmetric mutational constraints involving deaminations of A and C nucleotides during the replication and/or transcription processes. The analyses reveal that six unrelated genera are characterized by a reversal of the usual strand bias, i.e., Argiope (Araneae), Euscorpius (Scorpiones), Tigriopus (Maxillopoda), Branchiostoma (Cephalochordata), Florometra (Echinodermata), and Katharina (Mollusca). It is proposed that asymmetric mutational constraints have been independently reversed in these six genera, through an inversion of the control region, i.e., the region that contains most regulatory elements for replication and transcription of the mtDNA. We show that reversals of asymmetric mutational constraints have dramatic consequences on the phylogenetic analyses, as taxa characterized by reverse strand bias tend to group together due to long-branch attraction artifacts. We propose a new method for limiting this specific problem in tree reconstruction under the Bayesian approach. We apply our method to deal with the question of phylogenetic relationships of the major lineages of Arthropoda. This new approach provides a better congruence with nuclear analyses based on 18S rRNA gene sequences. By contrast with some previous studies based on mtDNA sequences our data suggest that Chelicerata, Crustacea, Myriapoda, Pancrustacea, and Paradoxopoda are monophyletic.
20061228|Bayesian phylogenetic analyses are now very popular in systematics and molecular evolution because they allow the use of much more realistic models than currently possible with maximum likelihood methods. There are, however, a growing number of examples in which large Bayesian posterior clade probabilities are associated with very short edge lengths and low values for non-Bayesian measures of support such as nonparametric bootstrapping. For the four-taxon case when the true tree is the star phylogeny, Bayesian analyses become increasingly unpredictable in their preference for one of the three possible resolved tree topologies as data set size increases. This leads to the prediction that hard (or near-hard) polytomies in nature will cause unpredictable behavior in Bayesian analyses, with arbitrary resolutions of the polytomy receiving very high posterior probabilities in some cases. We present a simple solution to this problem involving a reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm that allows exploration of all of tree space, including unresolved tree topologies with one or more polytomies. The reversible-jump MCMC approach allows prior distributions to place some weight on less-resolved tree topologies, which eliminates misleadingly high posteriors associated with arbitrary resolutions of hard polytomies. Fortunately, assigning some prior probability to polytomous tree topologies does not appear to come with a significant cost in terms of the ability to assess the level of support for edges that do exist in the true tree. Methods are discussed for applying arbitrary prior distributions to tree topologies of varying resolution, and an empirical example showing evidence of polytomies is analyzed and discussed.
20061227|Sequence heterochrony (changes in the order in which events occur) is a potentially important, but relatively poorly explored, mechanism for the evolution of development. In part, this is because of the inherent difficulties in inferring sequence heterochrony across species. The event-pairing method, developed independently by several workers in the mid-1990s, encodes sequences in a way that allows them to be examined in a phylogenetic framework, but the results can be difficult to interpret in terms of actual heterochronic changes. Here, we describe a new, parsimony-based method to interpret such results. For each branch of the tree, it identifies the least number of event movements (heterochronies) that will explain all the observed event-pair changes. It has the potential to find all alternative, equally parsimonious explanations, and generate a consensus, containing the movements that form part of every equally most parsimonious explanation. This new technique, which we call Parsimov, greatly increases the utility of the event-pair method for inferring instances of sequence heterochrony.
20061226|A variety of analytical methods is available for branch testing in distance-based phylogenies. However, these methods are rarely used, possibly because the estimation of some of their statistics, especially the covariances, is not always feasible. We show that these difficulties can be overcome if some simplifying assumptions are made, namely distance independence. The weighted least-squares likelihood ratio test (WLS-LRT) we propose is easy to perform, using only the distances and some of their associated variances. If no variances are known, the use of the Felsenstein F-test, also based on weighted least squares, is discussed. Using simulated data and a data set of 43 mammalian mitochondrial sequences we demonstrate that the WLS-LRT performs as well as the generalized least-squares test, and indeed better for a large number of taxa data set. We thus show that the assumption of independence does not negatively affect the reliability or the accuracy of the least-squares approach. The results of the WLS-LRT are no worse than the results of the bootstrap methods, such as the Felsenstein bootstrap selection probability test and the Dopazo test. We also show that WLS-LRT can be applied in instances where other analytical methods are inappropriate. This point is illustrated by analyzing the relationships between human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) sequences isolated from various organs of different individuals.
20061224|Comprehensive phylogenetic trees are essential tools to better understand evolutionary processes. For many groups of organisms or projects aiming to build the Tree of Life, comprehensive phylogenetic analysis implies sampling hundreds to thousands of taxa. For the tree of all life this task rises to a highly conservative 13 million. Here, we assessed the performances of methods to reconstruct large trees using Monte Carlo simulations with parameters inferred from four large angiosperm DNA matrices, containing between 141 and 567 taxa. For each data set, parameters of the HKY85+ model were estimated and used to simulate 20 new matrices for sequence lengths from 100 to 10,000 base pairs. Maximum parsimony and neighbor joining were used to analyze each simulated matrix. In our simulations, accuracy was measured by counting the number of nodes in the model tree that were correctly inferred. The accuracy of the two methods increased very quickly with the addition of characters before reaching a plateau around 1000 nucleotides for any sizes of trees simulated. An increase in the number of taxa from 141 to 567 did not significantly decrease the accuracy of the methods used, despite the increase in the complexity of tree space. Moreover, the distribution of branch lengths rather than the rate of evolution was found to be the most important factor for accurately inferring these large trees. Finally, a tree containing 13,000 taxa was created to represent a hypothetical tree of all angiosperm genera and the efficiency of phylogenetic reconstructions was tested with simulated matrices containing an increasing number of nucleotides up to a maximum of 30,000. Even with such a large tree, our simulations suggested that simple heuristic searches were able to infer up to 80% of the nodes correctly.
20061229|Integrated phylogenetic and developmental analyses should enhance our understanding of morphological evolution and thereby improve systematists' ability to utilize morphological characters, but case studies are few. The eggshell (chorion) of Lepidoptera (Insecta) has proven especially tractable experimentally for such analyses because its morphogenesis proceeds by extracellular assembly of proteins. This study focuses on a morphological novelty, the aeropyle crown, that arises at the end of choriogenesis in the wild silkmoth genus Antheraea. Aeropyle crowns are cylindrical projections, ending in prominent prongs, that surround the openings of breathing tubes (aeropyle channels) traversing the chorion. They occur over the entire egg surface in some species, are localized to a circumferential band in many others, and in some are missing entirely, thus exhibiting variation typical of discrete characters analyzed in morphological phylogenetics. Seeking an integrated developmental-phylogenetic view, we first survey aeropyle crown variation broadly across Antheraea and related genera. We then map these observations onto a robust phylogeny, based on three nuclear genes, to test the adequacy of character codings for aeropyle crown variation and to estimate the frequency and direction of change in those characters. Thirdly, we draw on previous studies of choriogenesis, supplemented by new data on gene expression, to hypothesize developmental-genetic bases for the inferred chorion character transformations. Aeropyle crowns are inferred to arise just once, in the ancestor of Antheraea, but to undergo four or more subsequent reductions without regain, a pattern consistent with Dollo's Law. Spatial distribution shows an analogous trend, though less clear-cut, toward reduction of coverage by aeropyle crowns. These trends suggest either that there is little or no natural selection on the details of the aeropyle crown structure or that evolution toward functional optima is ongoing, although no direct evidence exists for either. Genetic, biochemical, and microscopy studies point to at least two developmental changes underlying the origin of the aeropyle crown, namely, reinitiation of deposition of chorionic lamellae after the end of normal choriogenesis (i.e., heterochrony), and sharply increased production of underlying "filler" proteins that push the nascent final lamellae upward to form the crown (i.e., heteroposy). Identification of a unique putative cis-regulatory element shared by unrelated genes involved in aeropyle crown formation suggests a possible simple mechanism for repeated evolutionary reduction and spatial restriction of aeropyle crowns.
20061279|Taxon sampling may be critically important for phylogenetic accuracy because adding taxa can help to subdivide misleading long branches. Although the idea that added taxa can break up long branches was exemplified by a study of "incomplete" fossil taxa, the issue of taxon completeness (i.e., proportion of missing data) has been largely ignored in most subsequent discussions of taxon sampling and long-branch attraction. In this article, I use simulations to test the ability of incomplete taxa to subdivide long branches and improve phylogenetic accuracy in situations of potential long-branch attraction. The results show that for most methods and conditions examined, adding taxa that are only 50% complete may provide similar benefits to adding the same number of complete taxa (suggesting that the advantages of increased taxon sampling may be obtained with less data than previously considered). For parsimony, taxa that are less complete (5% to 25% complete) may often have limited ability to rescue analyses from long-branch attraction. In contrast, highly incomplete taxa can be surprisingly beneficial when using model-based methods. The results also suggest the importance of model-based methods in phylogenetic analyses that combine molecular and fossil data.
20061281|Phylogenetic relationships among salamander families illustrate analytical challenges inherent to inferring phylogenies in which terminal branches are temporally very long relative to internal branches. We present new mitochondrial DNA sequences, approximately 2100 base pairs from the genes encoding ND1, ND2, COI, and the intervening tRNA genes for 34 species representing all 10 salamander families, to examine these relationships. Parsimony analysis of these mtDNA sequences supports monophyly of all families except Proteidae, but yields a tree largely unresolved with respect to interfamilial relationships and the phylogenetic positions of the proteid genera Necturus and Proteus. In contrast, Bayesian and maximum-likelihood analyses of the mtDNA data produce a topology concordant with phylogenetic results from nuclear-encoded rRNA sequences, and they statistically reject monophyly of the internally fertilizing salamanders, suborder Salamandroidea. Phylogenetic simulations based on our mitochondrial DNA sequences reveal that Bayesian analyses outperform parsimony in reconstructing short branches located deep in the phylogenetic history of a taxon. However, phylogenetic conflicts between our results and a recent analysis of nuclear RAG-1 gene sequences suggest that statistical rejection of a monophyletic Salamandroidea by Bayesian analyses of our mitochondrial genomic data is probably erroneous. Bayesian and likelihood-based analyses may overestimate phylogenetic precision when estimating short branches located deep in a phylogeny from data showing substitutional saturation; an analysis of nucleotide substitutions indicates that these methods may be overly sensitive to a relatively small number of sites that show substitutions judged uncommon by the favored evolutionary model.
20061278|Madagascar harbors four large adaptive radiations of endemic terrestrial mammals: lemurs, tenrecs, carnivorans, and rodents. These rank among the most spectacular examples of evolutionary diversification, but their monophyly and origins are debated. The lack of Tertiary fossils from Madagascar leaves molecular studies as most promising to solve these controversies. We provide a simultaneous reconstruction of phylogeny and age of the four radiations based on a 3.5-kb data set from three nuclear genes (ADRA2B, vWF, and AR). The analysis supports each as a monophyletic clade, sister to African taxa, and thereby identifies four events of colonization out of Africa. To infer the time windows for colonization, we take into account both the divergence from the closest noninsular sister group and the initial intrainsular radiation, which is a novel but conservative approach in studies of the colonization history of Madagascar. We estimate that lemurs colonized Madagascar between 60 million years ago (Mya) (split from lorises) and 50 Mya (lemur radiation) (70-41 Mya taking 95% credibility intervals into account), tenrecs between 42 and 25 Mya (50-20 Mya), carnivorans between 26 and 19 Mya (33-14 Mya), and rodents between 24 and 20 Mya (30-15 Mya). These datings suggest at least two asynchronous colonization events: by lemurs in the Late Cretaceous--Middle Eocene, and by carnivorans and rodents in the Early Oligocene--Early Miocene. The colonization by tenrecs may have taken place simultaneously with either of these two events, or in a third event in the Late Eocene-Oligocene. Colonization by at least lemurs, rodents, and carnivorans appears to have occurred by overseas rafting rather than via a land bridge hypothesized to have existed between 45 and 26 Mya, but the second scenario cannot be ruled out if credibility intervals are taken into account.
20061277|The combination of exceptionally high species diversity, high host specificity, and a complex reproduction system raises many questions about the underlying mechanisms triggering speciation in the flatworm genus Gyrodactylus. The coevolutionary history with their goby hosts was investigated using both topology- and distance-based approaches; phylogenies were constructed of the V4 region of the 18S rRNA and the complete ITS rDNA region for the parasites, and 12S and 16S mtDNA fragments for the hosts. The overall fit between both trees was significant according to the topology-based programs (TreeMap 1.0, 2.0 and TreeFitter), but not according to the timed analysis in TreeMap 2.0 and the distance-based method (ParaFit). An absolute timing of speciation events in host and parasite ruled out the possibility of synchronous speciation for the gill parasites, favouring the distance-based result. Based on this information together with the biological background of host and parasite, the following TreeMap solution was selected. The group of gill parasites evolved from a host switch from G. arcuatus, parasitizing the three-spined stickleback onto the gobies, followed by several host-switching events among the respective goby hosts. The timing of these events is estimated to date back to the Late Pleistocene, suggesting a role for refugia-mediated mixing of parasite species. In contrast, it is suggested that cospeciation in the fin-parasites resulted in several host-associated species complexes. This illustrates that phylogenetically conserved host-switching mimics the phylogenetic signature of cospeciation, confounding topology-based programs.
20061282|How should characters and taxa be sampled to resolve efficiently the phylogeny of ancient and highly speciose groups? We addressed this question empirically in the treefrog family Hylidae, which contains &gt800 species and may be nonmonophyletic with respect to other anuran families. We sampled 81 species (54 hylids and 27 outgroups) for two mitochondrial genes (12S, ND1), two nuclear genes (POMC, c-myc), and morphology (144 characters) in an attempt to resolve higher-level relationships. We then added 117 taxa to the combined data set, many of which were sampled for only one gene (12S). Despite the relative incompleteness of the majority of taxa, the resulting trees placed all taxa in the expected higher-level clades with strong support, despite some taxa being &gt90% incomplete. Furthermore, we found no relationship between the completeness of a taxon and the support (parsimony bootstrap or Bayesian posterior probabilities) for its localized placement on the tree. Separate analysis of the data set with the most taxa (12S) gives a somewhat problematic estimate of higher-level relationships, suggesting that data sets scored only for some taxa (ND1, nuclear genes, morphology) are important in determining the outcome of the combined analysis. The results show that hemiphractine hylids are not closely related to other hylids and should be recognized as a distinct family. They also show that the speciose genus Hyla is polyphyletic, but that its species can be arranged into three monophyletic genera. A new classification of hylid frogs is proposed. Several potentially misleading signals in the morphological data are discussed.
20061283|Models of codon substitution have been commonly used to compare protein-coding DNA sequences and are particularly effective in detecting signals of natural selection acting on the protein. Their utility in reconstructing molecular phylogenies and in dating species divergences has not been explored. Codon models naturally accommodate synonymous and nonsynonymous substitutions, which occur at very different rates and may be informative for recent and ancient divergences, respectively. Thus codon models may be expected to make an efficient use of phylogenetic information in protein-coding DNA sequences. Here we applied codon models to 106 protein-coding genes from eight yeast species to reconstruct phylogenies using the maximum likelihood method, in comparison with nucleotide- and amino acid-based analyses. The results appeared to confirm that expectation. Nucleotide-based analysis, under simplistic substitution models, were efficient in recovering recent divergences whereas amino acid-based analysis performed better at recovering deep divergences. Codon models appeared to combine the advantages of amino acid and nucleotide data and had good performance at recovering both recent and deep divergences. Estimation of relative species divergence times using amino acid and codon models suggested that translation of gene sequences into proteins led to information loss of from 30% for deep nodes to 66% for recent nodes. Although computational burden makes codon models unfeasible for tree search in large data sets, we suggest that they may be useful for comparing candidate trees. Nucleotide models that accommodate the differences in evolutionary dynamics at the three codon positions also performed well, at much less computational cost. We discuss the relationship between a model's fit to data and its utility in phylogeny reconstruction and caution against use of overly complex substitution models.
20061280|In the context of exponential growing molecular databases, it becomes increasingly easy to assemble large multigene data sets for phylogenomic studies. The expected increase of resolution due to the reduction of the sampling (stochastic) error is becoming a reality. However, the impact of systematic biases will also become more apparent or even dominant. We have chosen to study the case of the long-branch attraction artefact (LBA) using real instead of simulated sequences. Two fast-evolving eukaryotic lineages, whose evolutionary positions are well established, microsporidia and the nucleomorph of cryptophytes, were chosen as model species. A large data set was assembled (44 species, 133 genes, and 24,294 amino acid positions) and the resulting rooted eukaryotic phylogeny (using a distant archaeal outgroup) is positively misled by an LBA artefact despite the use of a maximum likelihood--based tree reconstruction method with a complex model of sequence evolution. When the fastest evolving proteins from the fast lineages are progressively removed (up to 90%), the bootstrap support for the apparently artefactual basal placement decreases to virtually 0%, and conversely only the expected placement, among all the possible locations of the fast-evolving species, receives increasing support that eventually converges to 100%. The percentage of removal of the fastest evolving proteins constitutes a reliable estimate of the sensitivity of phylogenetic inference to LBA. This protocol confirms that both a rich species sampling (especially the presence of a species that is closely related to the fast-evolving lineage) and a probabilistic method with a complex model are important to overcome the LBA artefact. Finally, we observed that phylogenetic inference methods perform strikingly better with simulated as opposed to real data, and suggest that testing the reliability of phylogenetic inference methods with simulated data leads to overconfidence in their performance. Although phylogenomic studies can be affected by systematic biases, the possibility of discarding a large amount of data containing most of the nonphylogenetic signal allows recovering a phylogeny that is less affected by systematic biases, while maintaining a high statistical support.
20061276|Reconstructing phylogeny is a crucial target of contemporary biology, now commonly approached through computerized analysis of genetic sequence data. In angiosperms, despite recent progress at the ordinal level, many relationships between families remain unclear. Here we take a case study from Lamiales, an angiosperm order in which interfamilial relationships have so far proved particularly problematic. We examine the effect of changing one factor--the quantity of sequence data analyzed--on phylogeny reconstruction in this group. We use simulation to estimate a priori the sequence data that would be needed to resolve an accurate, supported phylogeny of Lamiales. We investigate the effect of increasing the length of sequence data analyzed, the rate of substitution in the sequences used, and of combining gene partitions. This method could be a valuable technique for planning systematic investigations in other problematic groups. Our results suggest that increasing sequence length is a better way to improve support, resolution, and accuracy than employing sequences with a faster substitution rate. Indeed, the latter may in some cases have detrimental effects on phylogeny reconstruction. Further molecular sequencing--of at least 10,000 bp--should result in a fully resolved and supported phylogeny of Lamiales, but at present the problematic aspects of this tree model remain.
20061242|Establishing the relationships among modern amphibians (lissamphibians) and their ancient relatives is necessary for our understanding of early tetrapod evolution. However, the phylogeny is still intractable because of the highly specialized anatomy and poor fossil record of lissamphibians. Paleobiologists are still not sure whether lissamphibians are monophyletic or polyphyletic, and which ancient group (temnospondyls or lepospondyls) is most closely related to them. In an attempt to address these problems, eight mitochondrial genomes of living amphibians were determined and compared with previously published amphibian sequences. A comprehensive molecular phylogenetic analysis of nucleotide sequences yields a highly resolved tree congruent with the traditional hypotheses (Batrachia). By using a molecular clock--independent approach for inferring dating information from molecular phylogenies, we present here the first molecular timescale for lissamphibian evolution, which suggests that lissamphibians first emerged about 330 million years ago. By observing the fit between molecular and fossil times, we suggest that the temnospondyl-origin hypothesis for lissamphibians is more credible than other hypotheses. Moreover, under this timescale, the potential geographic origins of the main living amphibian groups are discussed: (i) advanced frogs (neobatrachians) may possess an Africa-India origin; (ii) salamanders may have originated in east Asia; (iii) the tropic forest of the Triassic Pangaea may be the place of origin for the ancient caecilians. An accurate phylogeny with divergence times can be also helpful to direct the search for "missing" fossils, and can benefit comparative studies of amphibian evolution.
20061247|The Bayesian method for estimating species phylogenies from molecular sequence data provides an attractive alternative to maximum likelihood with nonparametric bootstrap due to the easy interpretation of posterior probabilities for trees and to availability of efficient computational algorithms. However, for many data sets it produces extremely high posterior probabilities, sometimes for apparently incorrect clades. Here we use both computer simulation and empirical data analysis to examine the effect of the prior model for internal branch lengths. We found that posterior probabilities for trees and clades are sensitive to the prior for internal branch lengths, and priors assuming long internal branches cause high posterior probabilities for trees. In particular, uniform priors with high upper bounds bias Bayesian clade probabilities in favor of extreme values. We discuss possible remedies to the problem, including empirical and full Bayesian methods and subjective procedures suggested in Bayesian hypothesis testing. Our results also suggest that the bootstrap proportion and Bayesian posterior probability are different measures of accuracy, and that the bootstrap proportion, if interpreted as the probability that the clade is true, can be either too liberal or too conservative.
20061245|The effect of taxonomic sampling on phylogenetic accuracy under parsimony is examined by simulating nucleotide sequence evolution. Random error is minimized by using very large numbers of simulated characters. This allows estimation of the consistency behavior of parsimony, even for trees with up to 100 taxa. Data were simulated on 8 distinct 100-taxon model trees and analyzed as stratified subsets containing either 25 or 50 taxa, in addition to the full 100-taxon data set. Overall accuracy decreased in a majority of cases when taxa were added. However, the magnitude of change in the cases in which accuracy increased was larger than the magnitude of change in the cases in which accuracy decreased, so, on average, overall accuracy increased as more taxa were included. A stratified sampling scheme was used to assess accuracy for an initial subsample of 25 taxa. The 25-taxon analyses were compared to 50- and 100-taxon analyses that were pruned to include only the original 25 taxa. On average, accuracy for the 25 taxa was improved by taxon addition, but there was considerable variation in the degree of improvement among the model trees and across different rates of substitution.
20061249|Combined analysis of multiple phylogenetic data sets can reveal emergent character support that is not evident in separate analyses of individual data sets. Previous parsimony analyses have shown that this hidden support often accounts for a large percentage of the overall phylogenetic signal in cladistic studies. Here, reanalysis of a large comparative genomic data set for yeast (genus Saccharomyces) demonstrates that hidden support can be an important factor in maximum likelihood analyses of multiple data sets as well. Emergent signal in a concatenation of 106 genes was responsible for up to 64% of the likelihood support at a particular node (the difference in log likelihood scores between optimal topologies that included and excluded a supported clade). A grouping of four yeast species (S. cerevisiae, S. paradoxus, S. mikatae, and S. kudriavzevii) was robustly supported by combined analysis of all 106 genes, but separate analyses of individual genes suggested numerous conflicts. Forty-eight genes strictly contradicted S. cerevisiae + S. paradoxus + S. mikatae + S. kudriavzevii in separate analyses, but combined likelihood analyses that included up to 45 of the "wrong" data sets supported this group. Extensive hidden support also emerged in a combined likelihood analysis of 41 genes that each recovered the exact same topology in separate analyses of the individual genes. These results show that isolated analyses of individual data sets can mask congruence and distort interpretations of clade stability, even in strictly model-based phylogenetic methods. Consensus and supertree procedures that ignore hidden phylogenetic signals are, at best, incomplete.
20061248|We explored the use of multidimensional scaling (MDS) of tree-to-tree pairwise distances to visualize the relationships among sets of phylogenetic trees. We found the technique to be useful for exploring "tree islands" (sets of topologically related trees among larger sets of near-optimal trees), for comparing sets of trees obtained from bootstrapping and Bayesian sampling, for comparing trees obtained from the analysis of several different genes, and for comparing multiple Bayesian analyses. The technique was also useful as a teaching aid for illustrating the progress of a Bayesian analysis and as an exploratory tool for examining large sets of phylogenetic trees. We also identified some limitations to the method, including distortions of the multidimensional tree space into two dimensions through the MDS technique, and the definition of the MDS-defined space based on a limited sample of trees. Nonetheless, the technique is a useful approach for the analysis of large sets of phylogenetic trees.
20061246|Young polyploid events are easily diagnosed by various methods, but older polyploid events become increasingly difficult to identify as chromosomal rearrangements, tandem gene or partial chromosome duplications, changes in substitution rates among duplicated genes, pseudogenization or locus loss, and interlocus interactions complicate the means of inferring past genetic events. Genomic data have provided valuable information about the polyploid history of numerous species, but on their own fail to show whether related species, each with a polyploid past, share a particular polyploid event. A phylogenetic approach provides a powerful method to determine this but many processes may mislead investigators. These processes can affect individual gene trees, but most likely will not affect all genes, and almost certainly will not affect all genes in the same way. Thus, a multigene approach, which combines the large-scale aspect of genomics with the resolution of phylogenetics, has the power to overcome these difficulties and allow us to infer genomic events further into the past than would otherwise be possible. Previous work using synonymous distances among gene pairs within species has shown evidence for large-scale duplications in the legumes Glycine max and Medicago truncatula. We present a case study using 39 gene families, each with three or four members in G. max and the putative orthologues in M. truncatula, rooted using Arabidopsis thaliana. We tested whether the gene duplications in these legumes occurred separately in each lineage after their divergence (Hypothesis 1), or whether they share a round of gene duplications (Hypothesis 2). Many more gene family topologies supported Hypothesis 2 over Hypothesis 1 (11 and 2, respectively), even after synonymous distance analysis revealed that some topologies were providing misleading results. Only ca. 33% of genes examined support either hypothesis, which strongly suggests that single gene family approaches may be insufficient when studying ancient events with nuclear DNA. Our results suggest that G. max and M. truncatula, along with approximately 7000 other legume species from the same clade, share an ancient round of gene duplications, either due to polyploidy or to some other process.
20061244|Using a simple example and simulations, we explore the impact of input tree shape upon a broad range of supertree methods. We find that input tree shape can affect how conflict is resolved by several supertree methods and that input tree shape effects may be substantial. Standard and irreversible matrix representation with parsimony (MRP), MinFlip, duplication-only Gene Tree Parsimony (GTP), and an implementation of the average consensus method have a tendency to resolve conflict in favor of relationships in unbalanced trees. Purvis MRP and the average dendrogram method appear to have an opposite tendency. Biases with respect to tree shape are correlated with objective functions that are based upon unusual asymmetric tree-to-tree distance or fit measures. Split, quartet, and triplet fit, most similar supertree, and MinCut methods (provided the latter are interpreted as Adams consensus-like supertrees) are not revealed to have any bias with respect to tree shape by our example, but whether this holds more generally is an open problem. Future development and evaluation of supertree methods should consider explicitly the undesirable biases and other properties that we highlight. In the meantime, use of a single, arbitrarily chosen supertree method is discouraged. Use of multiple methods and/or weighting schemes may allow practical assessment of the extent to which inferences from real data depend upon methodological biases with respect to input tree shape or size.
20061240|In intraspecific studies, reticulated graphs are valuable tools for visualization, within a single figure, of alternative genealogical pathways among haplotypes. As available software packages implementing the global maximum parsimony (MP) approach only give the possibility to merge resulting topologies into less-resolved consensus trees, MP has often been neglected as an alternative approach to purely algorithmic (i.e., methods defined solely on the basis of an algorithm) "network" construction methods. Here, we propose to search tree space using the MP criterion and present a new algorithm for uniting all equally most parsimonious trees into a single (possibly reticulated) graph. Using simulated sequence data, we compare our method with three purely algorithmic and widely used graph construction approaches (minimum-spanning network, statistical parsimony, and median-joining network). We demonstrate that the combination of MP trees into a single graph provides a good estimate of the true genealogy. Moreover, our analyses indicate that, when internal node haplotypes are not sampled, the median-joining and MP methods provide the best estimate of the true genealogy whereas the minimum-spanning algorithm shows very poor performances.
20061241|Partitioned Bayesian analyses of 2.2 kb of nucleotide sequence data (mtDNA) were used to elucidate phylogenetic relationships among 30 scincid lizard genera. Few partitioned Bayesian analyses exist in the literature, resulting in a lack of methods to determine the appropriate number of and identity of partitions. Thus, a criterion, based on the Bayes factor, for selecting among competing partitioning strategies is proposed and tested. Improvements in both mean -lnL and estimated posterior probabilities were observed when specific models and parameter estimates were assumed for partitions of the total data set. This result is expected given that the 95% credible intervals of model parameter estimates for numerous partitions do not overlap and it reveals that different data partitions may evolve quite differently. We further demonstrate that how one partitions the data (by gene, codon position, etc.) is shown to be a greater concern than simply the overall number of partitions. Using the criterion of the 2ln Bayes factor &gt10, the phylogenetic analysis employing the largest number of partitions was decisively better than all other strategies. Strategies that partitioned the ND1 gene by codon position performed better than other partition strategies, regardless of the overall number of partitions. Scincidae, Acontinae, Lygosominae, east Asian and North American "Eumeces" + Neoseps; North African Eumeces, Scincus, and Scincopus, and a large group primarily from sub-Saharan Africa, Madagascar, and neighboring islands are monophyletic. Feylinia, a limbless group of previously uncertain relationships, is nested within a "scincine" clade from sub-Saharan Africa. We reject the hypothesis that the nearly limbless dibamids are derived from within the Scincidae, but cannot reject the hypothesis that they represent the sister taxon to skinks. Amphiglossus, Chalcides, the acontines Acontias and Typhlosaurus, and Scincinae are paraphyletic. The globally widespread "Eumeces" is polyphyletic and we make necessary taxonomic changes.
20061239|The calopterygoid superfamily (Calopterygidae + Hetaerinidae) is composed of more than twenty genera in two families: the Calopterygidae (at least 17) and the Hetaerinidae (at least 4). Here, 62 calopterygoid (ingroup) taxa representing 18 genera and 15 outgroup taxa are subjected to phylogenetic analysis using the ribosomal 18S and 5.8S genes and internal transcribed spacers (ITS1, ITS2). The five other families of calopterid affinity (Polythoridae, Dicteriadidae, Amphipterygidae, Euphaeidae, and Chlorocyphidae) are included in the outgroup. For phylogenetic inference, we applied maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and the Bayesian inference methods. A molecular phylogeny combined with a geographic analysis produced a well-supported phylogenetic hypothesis that partly confirms the traditional taxonomy and describes distributional patterns. A monophyletic origin of the calopterygoids emerges, revealing the Hetaerinid clade as sister group to the Calopterygidae sensu strictu. Within Calopterygidae, seven clades of subfamily rank are recognized. Phylogenetic dating was performed with semiparametric rate smoothing by penalized likelihood, using seven reference fossils for calibration. Divergence time based on the ribosomal genes and spacers and fossil constraints indicate that Calopteryginae (10 genera, approximately 50% of all Calopterygid taxa studied here), Vestalinae (1 genus), and Hetaerinidae (1 genus out of 4 studied here) started radiating around 65 Mya (K/T boundary). The South American Iridictyon (without distinctive morphology except for wing venation) and Southeast Asian Noguchiphaea (with distinctive morphology) are older (about 86 My) and may be survivors of old clades with a Gondwanian range that went extinct at the K/T boundary. The same reasoning (and an even older age, ca. 150 My) applies to the amphipterygids Rimanella and Pentaphlebia (South America-Africa). The extant Calopterygidae show particular species and genus richness between west China and Japan, with genera originating between the early Oligocene and Pleistocene. Much of that richness probably extended much wider in preglacial times. The Holarctic Calopteryx, of Miocene age, was deeply affected by the climatic cooling of the Pliocene and by the Pleistocene glaciations. Its North American and Japanese representatives are of Miocene and Pliocene age, respectively, but its impoverished Euro-Siberian taxa are late Pliocene-Pleistocene, showing reinvasion, speciation, and introgression events. The five other calopterid families combine with the Calopterygidae and Hetaerinidae to form the monophyletic cohort Caloptera, with Polythoridae, Dicteriadidae, and Amphipterygidae sister group to Calopterygoidea. The crown node age of the latter three families has an age of about 157 My, but the Dicteriadidae and Polythoridae themselves are of Eocene age, and the same is true for the Euphaeidae and Chlorocyphidae. The cohort Caloptera itself, with about 197 My of age, goes back to the early Jurassic.
20061243|We describe a novel model and algorithm for simultaneously estimating multiple molecular sequence alignments and the phylogenetic trees that relate the sequences. Unlike current techniques that base phylogeny estimates on a single estimate of the alignment, we take alignment uncertainty into account by considering all possible alignments. Furthermore, because the alignment and phylogeny are constructed simultaneously, a guide tree is not needed. This sidesteps the problem in which alignments created by progressive alignment are biased toward the guide tree used to generate them. Joint estimation also allows us to model rate variation between sites when estimating the alignment and to use the evidence in shared insertion/deletions (indels) to group sister taxa in the phylogeny. Our indel model makes use of affine gap penalties and considers indels of multiple letters. We make the simplifying assumption that the indel process is identical on all branches. As a result, the probability of a gap is independent of branch length. We use a Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method to sample from the posterior of the joint model, estimating the most probable alignment and tree and their support simultaneously. We describe a new MCMC transition kernel that improves our algorithm's mixing efficiency, allowing the MCMC chains to converge even when started from arbitrary alignments. Our software implementation can estimate alignment uncertainty and we describe a method for summarizing this uncertainty in a single plot.
10.2307/2413636|Although long-branch attraction, the incorrect grouping of long lineages in a phylogeny because of systematic error, has been identified as a potential source of error in phylogenetic analysis for almost two decades, no empirical examples of the phenomenon exist. Here, I outline several criteria for identifying long-branch attraction and apply these criteria to 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequence data for 13 insects. Parsimony and minimum evolution with p distances group the two longest branches together (those leading to Strepsiptera and Diptera). Simulation studies show that the long branches are long enough to attract. When a tree is assumed in which Strepsiptera and Diptera are separated and many data sets are simulated for that tree (using the parameter estimates for that tree for the original data), parsimony analysis of the simulated data consistently groups Strepsiptera and Diptera. Analyses of the 18S rDNA sequences using methods that are less sensitive to the problem of long-branch attraction estimate trees in which the long branches are separate.
10.2307/2413639|An experimental study on the delimitation of character states in continuous variation indicates that (1) the way data are presented influences the assignment of character states and (2) states in the same data set are delimited in various ways by different individuals. Forty-nine individuals were given a set of graphs denoting variation of 10 characters in the genus Kalmia (Ericaceae) and outgroups, all identification having been removed from the graphs. The variation was represented in one of three ways: as 95% confidence intervals on a linear scale, as 95% confidence intervals on a log<sub>10</sub> scale, or with bars showing SD x 2 on a linear scale. No two individuals scored a set of graphs in the same way, and only one character in one representation was scored identically by all individuals; the scoring for this character was completely different when the ordinate was changed from linear to logarithmic. Together, the 49 individuals delimited states within each character between 9 and 16 different ways. In general, variation represented by 2 x SD bars elicited the largest numbers of different scorings, yet with a relatively low number of states; the complexity of the patterns in the graphs in this representation was greatest. Expert knowledge appears to be of dubious value in delimiting states in such variation, and if such characters are to be used in phylogenetic analyses, states could be delimited by people who know nothing of the details of the study being scored; in any case, presentation of data and an explicit protocol to follow when delimiting states are essential. In converting data of this type into character states, psychological factors are particularly likely to come into play. Other implications of our experiments include the severe underdetermination of some phylogenetic hypotheses by observation and the heterogeneous nature of morphological data.
10.2307/2413637|Phylogenetic relationships among fishes from ostariophysan orders, characiform families, and serrasalmin genera (e.g., "piranhas") were examined using partial mitochondrial ribosomal DNA sequences of the 12S and 16S genes. Phylogenetic information content of these sequences was assessed at three levels of taxonomic inclusiveness by analyzing the patterns of nucleotide substitution using secondary structure models. Conserved and variable regions were identified, mapped onto the structural models, and compared at increasing levels of taxonomic divergence. In general, loop regions (unpaired) exhibited a higher level of variation than did stem regions (paired). A high proportion of compensatory substitutions was observed in stem regions in three data sets, suggesting strong selection to maintain the secondary structure. Saturation due to multiple substitutions was indicated by decreasing transition/transversion ratios and strong structural constraints on variation in comparisons among orders of Ostariophysi but was not obvious among familes of Characiformes and was not detected among serrasalmin genera. Reliable phylogenetic signal successfully reconstructed relationships among serrasalmin genera. However, aside from a few well-supported clades, relationships could not be reconstructed with confidence among characiform families and ostariophysan orders. The reciprocal monophyly of African and Neotropical characiform lineages was rejected (based on maximum likelihood ratio tests), and some support for previous hypotheses based on morphology was provided by the molecular data. The radiation of characiform fishes is discussed in a historical biogeographic context.
10.2307/2413635|Phylogenetic relationships among the holometabolous insect orders were inferred from cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequences of 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) (85 exemplars) and 28S rDNA (52 exemplars) and morphological characters. Exemplar outgroup taxa were Collembola (1 sequence), Archaeognatha (1), Ephemerida (1), Odonata (2), Plecoptera (2), Blattodea (1), Mantodea (1), Dermaptera (1), Orthoptera (1), Phasmatodea (1), Embioptera (1), Psocoptera (1), Phthiraptera (1), Hemiptera (4), and Thysanoptera (1). Exemplar ingroup taxa were Coleoptera: Archostemata (1), Adephaga (2), and Polyphaga (7); Megaloptera (1); Raphidioptera (1); Neuroptera (sensu stricto = Planipennia): Mantispoidea (2), Hemerobioidea (2), and Myrmeleontoidea (2); Hymenoptera: Symphyta (4) and Apocrita (19); Trichoptera: Hydropsychoidea (1) and Limnephiloidea (2); Lepidoptera: Ditrysia (3); Siphonaptera: Pulicoidea (1) and Ceratophylloidea (2); Mecoptera: Meropeidae (1), Boreidae (1), Panorpidae (1), and Bittacidae (2); Diptera: Nematocera (1), Brachycera (2), and Cyclorrhapha (1); and Strepsiptera: Corioxenidae (1), Myrmecolacidae (1), Elenchidae (1), and Stylopidae (3). We analyzed 1 kilobase of 18S rDNA, starting 398 nucleotides downstream of the 5' end, and 400 bp of 28S rDNA in expansion segment D3. Multiple alignment of the 18S and 28S sequences resulted in 1,116 nucleotide positions with 24 insert regions and 398 positions with 14 insert regions, respectively. All Strepsiptera and Neuroptera have large insert regions in 18S and 28S. The secondary structure of 18S insert 23 is composed of long stems that are GC rich in the basal Strepsiptera and AT rich in the more derived Strepsiptera. A matrix of 176 morphological characters was analyzed for holometabolous orders. Incongruence length difference tests indicate that the 28S + morphological data sets are incongruent but that 28S + 18S, 18S + morphology, and 28S + 18S + morphology fail to reject the hypothesis of congruence. Phylogenetic trees were generated by parsimony analysis, and clade robustness was evaluated by branch length, Bremer support, percentage of extra steps required to force paraphyly, and sensitivity analysis using the following parameters: gap weights, morphological character weights, methods of data set combination, removal of key taxa, and alignment region. The following are monophyletic under most or all combinations of parameter values: Holometabola, Polyphaga, Megaloptera + Raphidioptera, Neuroptera, Hymenoptera, Trichoptera, Lepidoptera, Amphiesmenoptera (Trichoptera + Lepidoptera), Siphonaptera, Siphonaptera + Mecoptera, Strepsiptera, Diptera, and Strepsiptera + Diptera (Halteria). Antliophora (Mecoptera + Diptera + Siphonaptera + Strepsiptera), Mecopterida (Antliophora + Amphiesmenoptera), and Hymenoptera + Mecopterida are supported in the majority of total evidence analyses. Mecoptera may be paraphyletic because Boreus is often placed as sister group to the fleas; hence, Siphonaptera may be subordinate within Mecoptera. The 18S sequences for Priacma (Coleoptera: Archostemata), Colpocaccus (Coleoptera: Adephaga), Agulla (Raphidioptera), and Corydalus (Megaloptera) are nearly identical, and Neuropterida are monophyletic only when those two beetle sequences are removed from the analysis. Coleoptera are therefore paraphyletic under almost all combinations of parameter values. Halteria and Amphiesmenoptera have high Bremer support values and long branch lengths. The data do not support placement of Strepsiptera outside of Holometabola nor as sister group to Coleoptera. We reject the notion that the monophyly of Halteria is due to long branch attraction because Strepsiptera and Diptera do not have the longest branches and there is phylogenetic congruence between molecules, across the entire parameter space, and between morphological and molecular data.
10.2307/2413642|Nominally polyphagous species of herbivorous insects sometimes are comprised of multiple morphologically similar biological species with more specialized appetites. When meristic morphological traits cannot be found to distinguish such suspected sibling species, molecular data are increasingly sought as a source of evidence. A role for morphology in distinguishing such taxa might be reclaimed, however, by recent advances in geometric morphometric methods, such as the statistical analysis of partial-warp scores from the thin-plate spline. We employed this method to detect and characterize subtle shape differences among populations and between sexes of the nominal leaf beetle species Neochlamisus bebbianae. Using the thin-plate spline, the shapes of specimens from seven beetle populations collected from five host plants in five eastern North American localities were calculated. These shapes were analyzed by MANOVA, revealing significant variation in both uniform and nonuniform components of shape among test populations. Significant sexual dimorphism in size, shape, and allometric relationships were also documented across these populations. More interestingly, our study provided evidence of sibling species where traditional taxonomic approaches have failed. Individual MANOVAs revealed significant shape variation between sympatric populations from different host plants in each of three localities. Because these sympatric shape differences were significant when adjusted for size, they cannot be attributed to allometric consequences of size variation among test populations. Because certain beetle populations differed significantly in size and shape when reared in a common environment, these morphometric traits may have a genetic basis. Together, these results are consistent with an earlier suggestion that N. bebbianae represents a complex of host-specific races or sibling species, a hypothesis that has received additional support from recent studies on host use traits, sex ratios, and mitochondrial DNA. In sum, these analyses demonstrate the power and utility of the thin-plate spline as a morphological means of discriminating among closely related and anatomically homogeneous taxa.
10.2307/2413641|The evolutionary pathway that has led to male tails of diverse morphology among species of the nematode family Rhabditidae was reconstructed. This family includes the well-studied model species Caenorhabditis elegans. By relating the steps of male tail morphological evolution to the phenotypic changes brought about by developmental mutations induced experimentally in C. elegans, the goal is to identify genes responsible for morphological evolution. The varying morphological characters of the male tails of several rhabditid species have been described previously (Fitch and Emmons, 1995, Dev. Biol. 170:564-582). The developmental events preceding differentiation of the adult structures have also been analyzed; in many cases the origins of varying adult morphological characters were traced to differences during ontogeny. In the present work, the evolutionary changes producing these differences were reconstructed in the context of the four possible phylogenies supported independently by sequences of 18S ribosomal RNA genes (rDNA). Two or more alternative states were defined for 36 developmental and adult morphological characters. These characters alone do not provide sufficient data to resolve most species relationships; however, when combined with the rDNA characters, they provide stronger support for one of the four rDNA phylogenies. Assuming a model of ordered transformations for multistate developmental characters generally results in greater resolution. Transformations between character states can be assigned unequivocally by parsimony to unambiguous branches for most of the characters. Correlations are thereby revealed for some of the developmental characters, indicating a probability of a shared developmental or genetic regulatory pathway. Four of the unequivocal character state changes on unambiguously supported branches closely resemble the phenotypic changes brought about by known mutations in C. elegans. These mutations define genes that are known to act in genetic regulatory hierarchies controlling pattern formation, differentiation, and morphogenesis. Although these studies are still at an early stage, these results strongly suggest that parallel studies of developmental mutants in C. elegans and of morphological and developmental evolution among related nematodes will help define genetic changes underlying the evolution of form.
10.2307/2413643|Quantification in historical biogeography has usually been based on the search for a single branching relationship among areas of endemism. Unlike organisms, however, areas rarely have a unique hierarchical history. Dispersal barriers appear and disappear and may have different effects on different species. As a result, the biota of an area may consist of several components with separate histories, each of which may be reticulate rather than branching. In an attempt to address these problems, I present a new biogeographic method, dispersal-vicariance analysis, which reconstructs the ancestral distributions in a given phylogeny without any prior assumptions about the form of area relationships. A three-dimensional step matrix based on a simple biogeographic model is used in the reconstruction. Speciation is assumed to subdivide the ranges of widespread species into vicariant components; the optimal ancestral distributions are those that minimize the number of implied dispersal and extinction events. Exact algorithms that find the optimal reconstruction(s) are described. In addition to their use in taxon biogeography, the inferred distribution histories of individual groups serve as a basis for the study of general patterns in historical biogeography, particularly if the relative age of the nodes in the source cladograms is known.
10.2307/2413640|Sequence divergence for segments of three mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genes encoding the 12S and 16S ribosomal RNA and cytochrome b was examined in newts belonging to the genus Euproctus (E. asper, E. montanus, E. platycephalus) and in three other species belonging to the same family (Salamandridae), Triturus carnifex, T. vulgaris, and Pleurodeles waltl. The three Euproctus species occur (one species each) in Corsica, Sardinia, and the Pyrenees. This vicariant distribution is believed to have been determined by the disjunction and rotation of the Sardinia-Corsica microplate from the Pyreneean region. Because time estimates are available for the tectonic events that led to the separation of the three landmasses, we used sequence data to estimate rates of evolution for the three gene fragments and investigated whether they conform to the rate-constancy hypothesis. By the Tajima (1993, Genetics 135:599-607) test, we could not detect rate heterogeneities for the ribosomal genes and for transversions in the cytochrome b gene. Assuming that these sites are evolving linearly over time and that cessation of gene flow occurred simultaneously with vicariant events, we compared the time of divergence estimated by molecular distances with the divergence times based on the geological estimates. Because we have two estimates of divergence time from the geological record, the split of Corsica/Sardinia from the Pyrenees and the split of Corsica from Sardinia, we could compare ratios of molecular divergence with the ratio of geological time divergence. The ratios are very similar, indicating that the molecular clock hypothesis cannot be rejected. These geological events also allowed us to calculate absolute rates of evolution for ribosomal and cytochrome b genes and compare them to rates for the same regions in other salamandrids and other vertebrates. Ribosomal mtDNA rates are comparable to those reported for other vertebrates, but cytochrome b rates are 3-7 times lower in salamanders than in other ectotherms. From a phylogenetic perspective, our data suggest that the cladogenic events leading to species formation in Euproctus and Triturus occurred very closely in time, indicating that the two genera may not be monophyletic. A duplication of the cytochrome b gene in T. carnifex was found, and the implications of this finding for mtDNA phylogenetic studies are discussed.
10.2307/2413638|A computational method is presented for minimizing the weighted sum of squares of the differences between observed and expected pairwise distances between species, where the expectations are generated by an additive tree model. The criteria of Fitch and Margoliash (1967, Science 155:279-284) and Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards (1967, Evolution 21:550-570) are both weighted least squares, with different weights. The method presented iterates lengths of adjacent branches in the tree three at a time. The weighted sum of squares never increases during the process of iteration, and the iterates approach a stationary point on the surface of the sum of squares. This iterative approach makes it particularly easy to maintain the constraint that branch lengths never become negative, although negative branch lengths can also be allowed. The method is implemented in a computer program, FITCH, which has been distributed since 1982 as part of the PHYLIP package of programs for inferring phylogenies, and is also implemented in PAUP* The present method is compared, using some simulated data sets, with an implementation of the method of De Soete (1983, Psychometrika 48:621-626); it is slower than De Soete's method but more effective at finding the least squares tree. The relationship of this method to the neighbor-joining method is also discussed.
10.2307/2413498|Despite numerous systematic studies, the relationships among many species within the dog family, Canidae, remain unresolved. Two problems of broad evolutionary significance are the origins of the taxonomically rich canid fauna of South America and the development in three species of the trenchant heel, a unique meat-cutting blade on the lower first molar. The first problem is of interest because the fossil record provides little evidence for the origins of divergent South American species such as the maned wolf and the bush dog. The second issue is problematic because the trenchant heel, although complex in form, may have evolved independently to assist in the processing of meat. We attempted to resolve these two issues and five other specific taxonomic controversies by phylogenetic analysis of 2,001 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence data from 23 canid species. The mtDNA tree topology, coupled with data from the fossil record, and estimates of rates of DNA sequence divergence suggest at least three and possibly four North American invasions of South America. This result implies that an important chapter in the evolution of modern canids remains to be discovered in the fossil record and that the South American canid endemism is as much the result of extinction outside of South America as it is due to speciation within South America. The origin of the trenchant heel is not well resolved by our data, although the maximum parsimony tree is weakly consistent with a single origin followed by multiple losses of the character in several extant species. A combined analysis of the mtDNA data and published morphological data provides unexpected support for a monophyletic South American canid clade. However, the homogeneity partition tests indicate significant heterogeneity between the two data sets.
10.2307/2413501|The empirical performance of the ontogenetic criterion for determining character polarities was tested based on three published and one new data set originating from a study of larval Sepsidae (Diptera). The ontogenetic criterion polarizes about as many characters as does outgroup comparison. However, for the four data sets conflicting polarities were inferred for 4-45% of all characters for which both polarization methods were applicable. Four different versions of the ontogenetic criterion were identified from the literature and were empirically tested. The version used by de Queiroz (1985, Syst. Zool. 34:280-299) and Wheeler (1990, Cladistics 6:225-268) fared best, as determined by low levels of homoplasy and a small number of inferred equally parsimonious tree roots. For three of four empirical data sets, hypothetical ancestors based on outgroup comparison and the ontogenetic criterion resulted in identical tree roots. Hypothetical ancestors based on outgroup comparison implied less homoplasy than did those based on the ontogenetic criterion, so the ougroup method appears to be superior for character polarization. To test whether polarity decisions from both polarization methods should be combined into one hypothetical ancestor, two different "composite" ancestors were reconstructed. One comprised only the plesiomorphic states of the characters for which both criteria predicted the same polarity (consensus). It inferred multiple parsimonious roots without distinctly lowering the level of homoplasy. The second ancestor comprised the plesiomorphic states as predicted by one or both methods (composite). It tended to infer single roots, even for data sets for which very different rooting positions were identified by the two polarization criteria, thereby obscuring conflict between the two methods. High levels of homoplasy in hypothetical ancestors based on the ontogenetic criterion are not due to the inclusion of presence/absence characters in the data set, for which the application of the ontogenetic criterion would require hypotheses of homology for "absent" character states across ontogenetic stages of different species. Instead, the ratio of terminal deletions to terminal additions is a better predictor for the success of the ontogenetic criterion for any particular data set.
10.2307/2413496|An effective method yielding taxon-specific markers from the genome of a single individual would be valuable for many types of scientific investigations, including systematic, forensic, conservation, and evolutionary studies. We explored the use of cosmid libraries, with insert sizes averaging 35 kb, to streamline the process of locating sequences of DNA that can serve as taxonomic markers from the specific to the ordinal levels. By screening approximately 2.6% of the leaf-nosed bat (Macrotus waterhousii) genome, we identified several potential DNA fragments that appear to be synapomorphic for a variety of taxonomic levels. A more thorough analysis of the markers documented that 17 Macrotus-specific clones represent three distinct DNA generic markers, whereas 30 microchiropteran clones represent multiple copies of a single family of repetitive DNA. The Microchiroptera taxon markers hybridize with representatives of most of the Microchiroptera families; however, no hybridization was detected for members of the superfamily Rhinolophoidea. These results demonstrate that cosmid libraries can be a valuable source for isolating taxon-specific markers from mammals even when the insert size is as large as 35 kb.
10.2307/2413502|A phylogenetic analysis of the genus Gonioctena (Coleoptera, Chrysomelidae) based on allozyme data (17 loci) and mitochondrial DNA sequence data (three gene fragments, 1,391 sites) was performed to study the evolutionary history of host-plant shifts among these leaf beetles. This chrysomelid genus is characteristically associated with a high number of different plant families. The diverse molecular data gathered in this study are to a large extent congruent, and the analyses provide a well-supported phylogenetic hypothesis to address questions about the evolution of host-plant shifts in the genus Gonioctena. The most-parsimonious reconstruction of the ancestral host-plant associations, based on the estimated phylogeny, suggests that the Fabaceae was the ancestral host-plant family of the genus. Although most of the host-plant shifts (between different host species) in Gonioctena have occurred within the same plant family or within the same plant genus, at least eight shifts have occurred between hosts belonging to distantly related and chemically dissimilar plant families. In these cases, host shifts may have been simply directed toward plant species available in the environment. Yet, given that two Gonioctena lineages have independently colonized the same three new plant families (Salicaceae, Betulaceae, Rosaceae), including four of the same new genera (Salix, Alnus, Prunus, Sorbus), some constraints are likely to have limited the different possibilities of interfamilial host-plant shifts.
10.2307/2413497|NEXUS is a file format designed to contain systematic data for use by computer programs. The goals of the format are to allow future expansion, to include diverse kinds of information, to be independent of particular computer operating systems, and to be easily processed by a program. To this end, the format is modular, with a file consisting of separate blocks, each containing one particular kind of information, and consisting of standardized commands. Public blocks (those containing information utilized by several programs) house information about taxa, morphological and molecular characters, distances, genetic codes, assumptions, sets, trees, etc., private blocks contain information of relevance to single programs. A detailed description of commands in public blocks is given. Guidelines are provided for reading and writing NEXUS files and for extending the format.
10.2307/2413500|Portions of the large ribosomal subunit RNA gene (28S rDNA) encompassing the D1 and the D7 region were obtained from 16 dipteran species and families to reconstruct early phylogenetic events in the order Diptera. For outgroup comparison, the corresponding sequences were used from representative taxa of the Siphonaptera, Mecoptera, and Lepidoptera. A subset of 488 unambiguously alignable sites was analyzed with respect to important sequence evolution parameters. We found (1) sequence variability is significantly higher in double-stranded sites than in single-stranded sites, (2) transitions are close to saturation in most pairwise sequence comparisons, (3) significant substitution rate heterogeneity exists across sites, and (4) significant substitution rate heterogeneity exists among lineages. Tree reconstruction was carried out with the neighbor joining, maximum parsimony, and maximum likelihood methods. Four major subgroups are consistently and robustly supported: the Brachycera, the Culicomorpha, the Tipulomorpha sensu stricto, and the hitherto controversial Bibionomorpha sensu lato, which includes the families Sciaridae, Mycetophilidae, Cecidomyiidae, Bibionidae, Scatopsidae, and Anisopodidae. The phylogenetic relationships within or among these subclades and the positions of the families Psychodidae and Trichoceridae were not robustly resolved. These results support the view that the mouthparts of extant dipteran larvae evolved from a derived ground state characterized by subdivided and obliquely moving mandibles. Furthermore, sequence divergence and the paleontological record consistently indicate that a period of rapid cladogenesis gave rise to the major dipteran subgroups.
10.2307/2413499|Relationships among representatives of the five major Hawaiian Drosophila species groups were examined using data from eight different gene regions. A simultaneous analysis of these data resulted in a single most-parsimonious tree that (1) places the adiastola picture-winged subgroup as sister taxon to the other picture-winged subgroups, (2) unites the modified-tarsus species group with flies from the Antopocerus species group, and (3) places the white-tip scutellum species group as the most basal taxon. Because of the different gene sources used in this study, numerous process partitions can be erected within this data set. We examined the incongruence among these various partitions and the ramifications of these data for the taxonomic consensus, prior agreement, and simultaneous analysis approaches to phylogenetic reconstruction. Separate analyses and taxonomic consensus appear to be inadequate methods for dealing with the partitions in this study. Although detection of incongruence is possible and helps elucidate particular areas of disagreement among data sets, separation of partitions on the basis of incongruence is problematic for many reasons. First, analyzing all genes separately and then either presenting them all as possible hypotheses or taking their consensus provides virtually no information concerning the relationships among these flies. Second, despite some evidence of incongruence, there are no clear delineations among the various gene partitions that separate only heterogeneous data. Third, to the extent that problematic genes can be identified, these genes have nearly the same information content, within a combined analysis framework, as the remaining nonproblematic genes. Our data suggest that significant incongruence among data partitions may be isolated to specific relationships and the "false" signal creating this incongruence is most likely to be overcome by a simultaneous analysis. We present a new method, partitioned Bremer support, for examining the contribution of a particular data partition to the topological support of the simultaneous analysis tree.
10.2307/2413622|We present phylogenetic analyses of both molecular and morphological data for the 23 major lineages of living turtles and seven key fossil taxa. Nearly 1 kilobase of cytochrome b sequence, 325 base pairs of 12S ribosomal DNA, and 115 morphological characters contained similar phylogenetic information, although each provided unique information on different nodes of chelonian history. A character-based combinability test (implemented in PAUP*) and a nonparametric test of taxonomic congruence indicated no strong evidence for heterogeneity among data sets, and we used a combined approach to estimate a final phylogeny of the major lineages of living turtles. This approach resulted in a very well-resolved tree, with only a few of the deep branches within the Cryptodira left as an unresolved polytomy. The addition of six relatively complete fossils chosen to help resolve this basal polytomy provided little added resolution to the tree and resulted in a sharp decline in bootstrap proportions for nodes near the fossils. Branchlength analysis and independent dates from the fossil record suggest that these unresolved nodes may represent a rapid radiation of the major cryptodiran lineages 90-120 million years ago.
10.2307/2413625|The average consensus procedure, originally proposed to combine dendrograms (i.e., ultrametric trees), is extended here to apply to any type of tree with branch lengths (ultrametric or not) containing identical, inclusive, or overlapping sets of taxa. The method proceeds in two steps. First, the average of the path-length matrices corresponding to the trees to be combined is computed. Then, a least-squares algorithm is applied to this average matrix to obtain a consensus solution. The average consensus tree is a solution that minimizes the sum of squared distances between the consensus and the trees in the input profile. An application of the method to combine phylogenetic hypotheses for kangaroos is presented.
10.2307/2413624|We surveyed mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence variation in short-horned lizards (Phrynosoma douglasi) from throughout western North America and used these data to estimate an intraspecific phylogeny and to assess biogeographic scenarios underlying the geographic structure of lineages in this species. We sequenced 783 base pairs from 38 populations of P. douglasi and three putative outgroups (P. ditmarsi, P. orbiculare, P. platyrhinos). We detected high levels of nucleotide variation among populations and a spatial distribution of mtDNA lineages compatible with major geographic regions. The phylogenetic hypotheses best supported by the data suggest that P. douglasi, as currently described, is paraphyletic with respect to P. ditmarsi. Populations of P. douglasi from the Pacific Northwest (ID, CA, OR, WA) form a monophyletic group that is sister to the subsequent radiation of P. ditmarsi and other P. douglasi clades. These results suggest that divergences within this widespread species are fairly old. We focused on the genetic structure of populations of P. douglasi from a geographic perspective and interpreted the intraspecific phylogeny in light of geologic and climatic changes in western North America during the last 20 million years. The generally high levels of genetic variation found in these population comparisons are in accord with high levels of morphological variation in this species group; however, only in the Pacific Northwest region is there spatial congruence between these phylogenetic results and subspecific ranges based on previous morphological studies. We compared the evolutionary units delineated in this study with previously described subspecies of P. douglasi and evaluated the support (from morphology and mtDNA) for each population lineage in the phylogeny and the implications for the taxonomy of this group.
10.2307/2413627|Intraspecific variation is ubiquitous in systematic characters, yet systematists often do not deal with polymorphism explicity. For example, morphological systematists typically exclude characters in which any or "too much" polymorphism is observed, and molecular systematists often avoid intraspecific variation by sampling a single individual per species. Recent empirical studies have suggested that polymorphic characters contain significant phylogenetic information but are more homoplastic than fixed characters. Given these two observations, should including polymorphic characters increase or decrease accuracy? We addressed this question using simulated data sets that also show a strong relationship between homoplasy and intraspecific variability. Data sets were generated with eight species, two alleles per locus, and a variety of branch lengths, number of loci, and sample sizes (individuals sampled per species). The data sets were analyzed using eight parsimony coding methods (with and without a priori and successive weighting) and different variability thresholds for excluding polymorphic characters. Excluding polymorphic characters decreased accuracy under almost all conditions examined, even when only the more variable characters were excluded. Sampling a single individual per species also consistently decreased accuracy. Thus, two common approaches for dealing with intraspecific variation in morphological and molecular systematics can give relatively poor estimates of phylogeny. In contrast, the unweighted frequency method, including polymorphic characters and sampling a reasonable number of individuals per species (n  5), can give accurate results under a variety of conditions.
10.2307/2413623|The lack of a readily accessible roster of nuclear genes informative at various taxonomic levels is a bottleneck for molecular systematics. In this report, we describe the first phylogenetic application of the sequence that encodes the enzyme dopa decarboxylase (DDC). For 14 test species within the noctuid moth subfamily Heliothinae that represent the previously best-supported groupings, a 690-bp fragment of DDC resolved relationships that are largely concordant with prior evidence from elongation factor-1 (EF-1), morphology, and allozymes. Although both synonymous and nonsynonymous changes occur in DDC substantially more rapidly than they do in EF-1, DDC divergences within Heliothinae are below saturation at all codon positions. Analysis of DDC and EF-1 in combination resulted in increased bootstrap support for several groupings. As a first estimate of previously unresolved relationships, DDC sequences were analyzed from 16 additional heliothines, for a total of 30 heliothine species plus outgroups. Previous relationships based on DDC were generally stable with increased taxon sampling, although a two- to eightfold downweighting of codon position 3 was required for complete concordance with the 14-species result. The weighted strict consensus trees were largely resolved and were congruent with most although not all previous hypotheses based on either morphology or EF-1. The proposed phylogeny suggests that the major agricultural pest heliothines belong to a single clade, characterized by polyphagy and associated life history traits, within this largely host-specific moth subfamily. DDC holds much promise for phylogenetic analysis of Tertiary-age animal groups.
10.2307/2413628|A maximum likelihood method for independently estimating the relative rate of substitution at different nucleotide sites is presented. With this method, the evolution of DNA sequences can be analyzed without assuming a specific distribution of rates among sites. To investigate the pattern of correlation of rates among sites, the method was applied to a data set consisting of the protein-coding regions of the mitochondrial genome from 10 vertebrate species. Rates appear to be strongly correlated at distances up to 40 codons apart. Furthermore, there appears to be some higher order correlation of sites approximately 75 codons apart. The method of site-by-site estimation of the rate of substitution may also be applied to examine other aspects of rate variation along a DNA sequence and to assess the difference in the support of a tree along the sequence.
10.2307/2413626|The family Lamiaceae was used as a case study to compare our current system of nomenclature with a phylogenetic alternative proposed by de Queiroz and Gauthier (1992, Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 23:449-480), with emphasis on nomenclatural stability and efficiency. Comparison of published cladistic analyses revealed 19 suprageneric clades within Lamiaceae that are supported well enough to merit naming, but many genera could not be placed with confidence in any infrafamilial taxon. Two phylogenetic classifications were prepared, one following current nomenclatural rules and conventions and the other following the phylogenetic system of nomenclature. A comparison of the classifications revealed examples of unstable and ambiguous names that resulted from employing current rules and conventions to name clades. Old names based on nomenclatural types of uncertain phylogenetic relationship and infrafamilial taxon names based on the type of the family are particularly prone to instability. The phylogenetic system appears to have fewer problems but may also lead to nomenclatural confusion if taxon names are defined carelessly. The current system produces less efficient classifications because the principle of exhaustive subsidiary taxa leads to inclusion of redundant names (monotypic taxa) when the classification is based on an asymmetrical cladogram. In contrast, the phylogenetic system contains no redundant names. We endorse the recommendation that the principle of exhaustive subsidiary taxa be abandoned. Phylogenetic definitions should be provided for taxon names whenever phylogenies are translated into classifications. The definitions should be accompanied by a list of synapomorphies and a statement of clade membership to facilitate subsequent provisional referral of newly studied species to supraspecific taxa.
10.2307/2413694|Exploration of the relationship between gene trees and their containing species trees leads to consideration of how to reconstruct species trees from gene trees and of the concept of phylogeny as a cloud of gene histories. When gene copies are sampled from various species, the gene tree relating these copies might disagree with the species phylogeny. This discord can arise from horizontal transfer (including hybridization), lineage sorting, and gene duplication and extinction. Lineage sorting could also be called deep coalescence, the failure of ancestral copies to coalesce (looking backwards in time) into a common ancestral copy until deeper than previous speciation events. These events depend on various factors; for instance, deep coalescence is more likely if the branches of the species tree are short (in generations) and wide (in population size). A similar dependence on process is found in historical biogeography and host-parasite relationships. Each of the processes of discord could yield a different parsimony criterion for reconstructing the species tree from a set of gene trees: with horizontal transfer, choose the species tree that minimizes the number of transfer events; with deep coalescence, choose the tree minimizing the number of extra gene lineages that had to coexist along species lineages; with gene duplication, choose the tree minimizing duplication and/or extinction events. Maximum likelihood methods for reconstructing the species tree are also possible because coalescence theory provides the probability that a particular gene tree would occur given a species tree (with branch lengths and widths specified). In considering these issues, one is provoked to reconsider precisely what is phylogeny. Perhaps it is misleading to view some gene trees as agreeing and other gene trees as disagreeing with the species tree; rather, all of the gene trees are part of the species tree, which can be visualized like a fuzzy statistical distribution, a cloud of gene histories. Alternatively, phylogeny might be (and has been) viewed not as a history of what happened, genetically, but as a history of what could have happened, i.e., a history of changes in the probabilities of inter-breeding.
10.2307/2413695|The construction and interpretation of gene trees is fundamental in molecular systematics. If the gene is defined in a historical (coalescent) sense, there can be multiple gene trees within the single contiguous set of nucleotides, and attempts to construct a single tree for such a sequence must deal with homoplasy created by conflict among divergent histories. On a larger scale, incongruence is expected among gene tree topologies at different loci of individuals within sexually reproducing species, and it has been suggested that this discordance can be used to delimit species. A practical concern for such topological methods is that polymorphisms may be maintained through numerous cladogenic events; this polymorphism problem is less of a concern for nontopological approaches to species delimitation using molecular data. Although a central theoretical concern in molecular systematics is discordance between a given gene tree and the true "species tree," the primary empirical problem faced in reconstructing taxic phylogeny is incongruence among the trees inferred from different sequences. Linkage relationships limit character independence and thus have important implications for handling multiple data sets in phylogenetic analysis, particularly at the species level, where incongruence among different historically associated loci is expected. Gene trees can also be reconstructed for loci that influence phenotypic characters, but there is at best a tenuous relationship between phenotypic homoplasy and homoplasy in such gene trees. Nevertheless, expression patterns and orthology relationships of genes involved in the expression of phenotypes can in theory provide criteria for homology assessment of morphological characters.
10.2307/2413690|Mice of the Peromyscus aztecus species group occur at mid to high elevations in several mountain ranges in the highlands of Middle America (Mexico and Central America), a region of high endemicity. We examined the biogeography of this group by conducting phylogenetic analyses of 668 bp of the mitochondrial cytochrome b (cyt b) gene. Phylogenetic analyses under both parsimony and likelihood frameworks produced the same topologies, but estimates of nodal support were artificially high in weighted parsimony analyses. This difference is attributed to the inability of parsimony to optimize branch lengths when evaluating topologies. These data indicate that the P. aztecus-like populations from south and east of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec currently assigned to P. a. oaxacensis represent a distinct species, with genetic distances as high as 0.091. In addition, P. hylocetes is strongly divergent from Mexican populations of P. aztecus (genetic distances of 0.044-0.069), supporting the recognition of this taxon as a distinct species. The history of divergence in this group can be explained by a series of apparently early to middle Pleistocene vicariance events associated with glacial cycles. The Sierra Madre Occidental and Cordillera Transvolcanica each appear to be faunistically isolated, the Isthmus of Tehuantepec appears to have been a strong Pleistocene barrier, and the Sierra Madre Oriental has affinities with the Sierra Madre del Sur and the highlands of central Oaxaca.
10.2307/2413688|As an initial step toward developing a model system to study requirements for and consequences of transitions to mutualism, the phylogeny of a group of closely related lichenized and nonlichenized basidiomycetes (Omphalina) was reconstructed. The phylogenetic analyses are based on four data sets representing different regions of the nuclear ribosomal repeat unit (ITS1, 5.8S, ITS2, and 25S) obtained from 30 species of Omphalina and related genera. The resulting phylogenetic trees from each of these four data sets, when analyzed separately, were not identical. Testing for the combinability of these four data sets suggested that they could not be combined in their entirety. The removal of ambiguous alignments and saturated sites was sufficient, after reapplying the combinability test on the pruned data sets, to explain the topological discrepancies. In this process, the first of two complementary tests developed by Rodrigo et al. (1993, N.Z. J. Bot. 31:257-268) to assess whether two data sets are the result of the same phylogenetic history was found to be biased, rejecting the combinability of two data sets even when they are samples of the same phylogenetic history. Combining the four pruned data sets yielded phylogenies that suggest the five lichen-forming species of Omphalina form a monophyletic group. The sister group to this symbiotic clade consists mostly of dark brown Omphalina species intermixed with species from the genera Arrhenia and Phaeothellus. The genera Omphalina and Gerronema are shown to be polyphyletic. The lichen-forming species O. ericetorum and the nonmutualistic species O. velutipes, O. epichysium, and O. sphagnicola are the best candidates for experimental work designed to gain a better understanding of mechanisms involved in symbiotic interactions and the role symbiosis has played in the evolution of fungi.
10.2307/2413693|Although morphological data have historically favored a basal position for the Indian gharial (Gavialis gangeticus) within Crocodylia and a Mesozoic divergence between Gavialis and all other crocodylians, several recent molecular data sets have argued for a sister-group relationship between Gavialis and the Indonesian false gharial (Tomistoma schlegelii) and a divergence between them no earlier than the Late Tertiary. Fossils were added to a matrix of 164 discrete morphological characters and subjected to parsimony analysis. When morphology was analyzed alone, Gavtalis was the sister taxon of all other extant crocodylians whether or not fossil ingroup taxa were included, and a sister-group relationship between Gavialis and Tomistoma was significantly less parsimonious. In combination with published sequence and restriction site fragment data, Gavialis was the sister taxon of all other living crocodylians, but the position of Tomistoma depended on the inclusion of fossil ingroup taxa; with or without fossils, preferred morphological and molecular topologies were not significantly different. Fossils closer to Gavialis than to Tomistoma can be recognized in the Late Cretaceous, and fossil relatives of Tomistoma are known from the basal Eocene, strongly indicating a divergence long before the Late Tertiary. Comparison of minimum divergence time from the fossil record with different measures of molecular distance indicates evolutionary rate heterogeneity within Crocodylia. Fossils strongly contradict a post-Oligocene divergence between Gavialis and any other living crocodylian, but the phylogenetic placement of Gavialis is best viewed as unresolved.
10.2307/2413692|The relationship between phylogenetic accuracy and congruence between data partitions collected from the same taxa was explored for mitochondrial DNA sequences from two well-supported vertebrate phylogenies. An iterative procedure was adopted whereby accuracy, phylogenetic signal, and congruence were measured before and after modifying a simple reconstruction model, equally weighted parsimony. These modifications included transversion parsimony, successive weighting, and six-parameter parsimony. For the data partitions examined, there is a generally positive relationship between congruence and phylogenetic accuracy. If congruence increased without decreasing resolution or phylogenetic signal, this increased congruence was a good predictor of accuracy. If congruence increased as a result of poor resolution, the degree of congruence was not a good predictor of accuracy. For all sets of data partitions, six-parameter parsimony methods show a consistently positive relationship between congruence and accuracy. Unlike successive weighting, six-parameter parsimony methods were not strongly influenced by the starting tree.
10.2307/2413691|We critically reviewed the homologies of the jaw muscles in tetraodontiform fishes (Triacanthoidea, Balistoidea, Tetraodontoidea), as first described in Winterbottom's phylogenetic monograph (1974, Smithson. Contrib. Zool. 155:1-201), as a case study in structural duplication. Within this order of teleost fishes, the two main adductor mandibulae muscles, A1 and A2, are duplicated one or more times in some subclades. The number of descendant A1 and A2 muscles ranges from as few as the original two muscles in triplespines to as many as eight muscles in some filefishes. As first pointed out by Winterbottom, the homologies of some muscles are unclear, particularly in comparisons between the superfamilies Balistoidea (boxfishes, triggerfishes, filefishes) and Tetraodontoidea (pursefishes, molas, puffers, porcupinefishes). We reassessed the homologies (orthologs and paralogs) of these A1 and A2 muscles based on their origins, insertions, and relative masses in representative taxa and their congruence with a phylogeny for these taxa. New names that reflect the homologies of these muscles are presented. Ten muscle duplications by subdivision and three phylogenetic losses of muscles have occurred in this system. No relationship was found between the number of separate muscles and the relative masses of the A1 or A2 muscles, suggesting that muscle duplication events essentially repackage existing muscle tissue. However, both A1 and A2 muscle masses are correlated with each other and with the feeding ecology of these fishes. Durophagous taxa have relatively larger A1 and A2 muscles, whereas planktivores and benthic grazers have relatively smaller A2 muscles.
10.2307/2413689|Two parsimony analyses based on morphological data of the subtribe Blennospermatinae (Asteraceae, Senecioneae) were performed to generate a hypothesis for the phylogenetic relationships within the subtribe, which comprises four genera and 27 species of both radiate and disciform genera distributed around the Pacific Rim. Heterogeneity of the group is concomitant with coding problems such as absence of organs leading to inapplicable states, also termed missing entries. Morphological data were therefore coded by two differing methods: (1) using the separate state "absent" or (2) using the state "inapplicable." Substantial support for Blennospermatinae monophyly was obtained. A well-supported sister-group relationship, based on floral characters, was established between the two genera Blennosperma and Ischnea. Their ancestor evolved a specialized type of tubeless ray florets and male disc florets. These two genera are confined to the New World and to New Guinea, respectively. Their sister taxon is the monotypic North American genus Crocidium, and its status as a separate genus was supported. Abrotanella is a genus of 19 species confined to alpine habitats in the Southern Hemisphere. Monophyly and the isolated position of Abrotanella was strengthened. One clade of the genus has evolved functionally male central florets with a progressing trend toward cypsela reduction. Different floral colors have evolved in Abrotanella, and the deep yellow color found in the other genera is lost. Among the flowering plants confined to New Zealand, there is a remarkably high ratio of white-flowered species. Results of this study indicate that the white-flowered capitulum is a derived character within Abrotanella originating in New Zealand. A purple-flowered capitulum, also restricted to Abrotanella, is a repeatedly evolved apomorphic character found in species confined to southern South America and the sub-Antarctic Campbell and Auckland islands.
20143100|Genetic data are frequently used to delimit species, where species status is determined on the basis of an exclusivity criterium, such as reciprocal monophyly. Not only are there numerous empirical examples of incongruence between the boundaries inferred from such data compared to other sources like morphology--especially with recently derived species, but population genetic theory also clearly shows that an inevitable bias in species status results because genetic thresholds do not explicitly take into account how the timing of speciation influences patterns of genetic differentiation. This study represents a fundamental shift in how genetic data might be used to delimit species. Rather than equating gene trees with a species tree or basing species status on some genetic threshold, the relationship between the gene trees and the species history is modeled probabilistically. Here we show that the same theory that is used to calculate the probability of reciprocal monophyly can also be used to delimit species despite widespread incomplete lineage sorting. The results from a preliminary simulation study suggest that very recently derived species can be accurately identified long before the requisite time for reciprocal monophyly to be achieved following speciation. The study also indicates the importance of sampling, both with regards to loci and individuals. Withstanding a thorough investigation into the conditions under which the coalescent-based approach will be effective, namely how the timing of divergence relative to the effective population size of species affects accurate species delimitation, the results are nevertheless consistent with other recent studies (aimed at inferring species relationships), showing that despite the lack of monophyletic gene trees, a signal of species divergence persists and can be extracted. Using an explicit model-based approach also avoids two primary problems with species delimitation that result when genetic thresholds are applied with genetic data--the inherent biases in species detection arising from when and how speciation occurred, and failure to take into account the high stochastic variance of genetic processes. Both the utility and sensitivities of the coalescent-based approach outlined here are discussed; most notably, a model-based approach is essential for determining whether incompletely sorted gene lineages are (or are not) consistent with separate species lineages, and such inferences require accurate model parameterization (i.e., a range of realistic effective population sizes relative to potential times of divergence for the purported species). It is the goal (and motivation of this study) that genetic data might be used effectively as a source of complementation to other sources of data for diagnosing species, as opposed to the exclusion of other evidence for species delimitation, which will require an explicit consideration of the effects of the temporal dynamic of lineage splitting on genetic data.
20143103|Being able to efficiently and accurately delimit species is one of the most basic and important aspects of systematics because species are the fundamental unit of analysis in biogeography, ecology, and conservation. We present a rationale and approach for combining ecological niche modeling, spatially explicit analyses of environmental data, and phylogenetics in species delimitation, and we use our methodology in an empirical example focusing on Aneides flavipunctatus, the black salamander (Caudata: Plethodontidae), in California. We assess the relationships between genetic, environmental, and geographic distance among populations. We use 11 climatic variables and point locality data from public databases to create ecological niche models. The suitability of potential contact zones between parapatric lineages is also assessed using the data from ecological niche modeling. Phylogenetic analyses of portions of the mitochondrial genome reveal morphologically cryptic mitochondrial lineages in this species. In addition, we find that patterns of genetic divergence are strongly associated with divergence in the ecological niche. Our work demonstrates the ease and utility of using spatial analyses of environmental data and phylogenetics in species delimitation, especially for groups displaying fine-scaled endemism and cryptic species.
20143101|Despite considerable effort from the systematics community delimiting species boundaries in recent radiations remains a daunting challenge. We argue that genealogical approaches, although sometimes useful, may not solve this important problem, because recently derived species often have not had sufficient time to achieve monophyly. Instead, we suggest that population genetic approaches that rely on large sets of informative markers like single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) provide an alternative framework for delimiting very recently derived species. We address two major challenges in applying such markers to species delimitation: discovering markers in nonmodel systems and using them to delimit recently derived species. Using turtles as a test case, we explore the utility of a single, relatively low-coverage genomic resource as an aid in gene and marker discovery. We exploit an end-sequenced bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library from an individual painted turtle (Chrysemys picta) and outline a novel protocol that efficiently identifies primer pairs that amplify homologous sequences across the tree of living turtles. Preliminary data using this library to discover SNPs in Emydura macquarii, a species that diverged from C. picta 210 million years ago, indicate that sequences identified from the Chrysemys BAC library provide useful SNPs even in this very distantly related taxon. Several recent methods in wide use in the population genetics literature allow one to discover potential species, or test existing species hypotheses, with SNP data and may be particularly informative for very recently derived species. As BAC and other genomic resources become increasingly available for scattered taxa across the tree of life, we are optimistic that these resources will provide abundant, inexpensive markers that will help delimit boundaries in problematic, recent species radiations.
20143105|Although the proposition that higher taxa should correspond to clades is widely accepted, current nomenclature does not distinguish clearly between different clades in nested series. In particular, the same name is often applied to a total clade, its crown clade, and clades originating with various nodes, branches, and apomorphies in between. An integrated system of clade names is described based on categories of clades defined with respect to lineages that have survived to the present time. In this system, the most widely known names are applied to crown clades, the names of total clades are formed by adding a standard prefix to the names of the corresponding crowns, and the names of apomorphy clades describe the specific apomorphies with which they originated. Relative to traditional approaches, this integrated approach to naming clades is both more precise concerning the associations of names with particular clades and more efficient with regard to the cognitive effort required to recognize the names of corresponding crown and total clades. It also seems preferable to five alternatives that could be used to make the same distinctions. The integrated system of clade names has several advantages, including the facilitation of communication among biologists who study distantly related clades, promoting a broader conceptualization of the origins of distinctive clades of extant organisms and emphasizing the continuous nature of evolution.
20143099|The issue of species delimitation has long been confused with that of species conceptualization, leading to a half century of controversy concerning both the definition of the species category and methods for inferring the boundaries and numbers of species. Alternative species concepts agree in treating existence as a separately evolving metapopulation lineage as the primary defining property of the species category, but they disagree in adopting different properties acquired by lineages during the course of divergence (e.g., intrinsic reproductive isolation, diagnosability, monophyly) as secondary defining properties (secondary species criteria). A unified species concept can be achieved by treating existence as a separately evolving metapopulation lineage as the only necessary property of species and the former secondary species criteria as different lines of evidence (operational criteria) relevant to assessing lineage separation. This unified concept of species has several consequences for species delimitation, including the following: First, the issues of species conceptualization and species delimitation are clearly separated; the former secondary species criteria are no longer considered relevant to species conceptualization but only to species delimitation. Second, all of the properties formerly treated as secondary species criteria are relevant to species delimitation to the extent that they provide evidence of lineage separation. Third, the presence of any one of the properties (if appropriately interpreted) is evidence for the existence of a species, though more properties and thus more lines of evidence are associated with a higher degree of corroboration. Fourth, and perhaps most significantly, a unified species concept shifts emphasis away from the traditional species criteria, encouraging biologists to develop new methods of species delimitation that are not tied to those properties.
20143102|Although the systematic utility of ecological niche modeling is generally well known (e.g., concerning the recognition and discovery of areas of endemism for biogeographic analyses), there has been little discussion of applications concerning species delimitation, and to date, no empirical evaluation has been conducted. However, ecological niche modeling can provide compelling evidence for allopatry between populations, and can also detect divergent ecological niches between candidate species. Here we present results for two taxonomically problematic groups of Phelsuma day geckos from Madagascar, where we integrate ecological niche modeling with mitochondrial DNA and morphological data to evaluate species limits. Despite relatively modest levels of genetic and morphological divergence, for both species groups we find divergent ecological niches between closely related species and parapatric ecological niche models. Niche models based on the new species limits provide a better fit to the known distribution than models based upon the combined (lumped) species limits. Based on these results, we elevate three subspecies of Phelsuma madagascariensis to species rank and describe a new species of Phelsuma from the P. dubia species group. Our phylogeny continues to support a major endemic radiation of Phelsuma in Madagascar, with dispersals to Pemba Island and the Mascarene Islands. We conclude that ecological niche modeling offers great potential for species delimitation, especially for taxonomic groups exhibiting low vagility and localized endemism and for groups with more poorly known distributions. In particular, niche modeling should be especially sensitive for detecting recent parapatric speciation driven by ecological divergence, when the environmental gradients driving speciation are represented within the ecological niche models.
20143104|An easily accessible taxonomic knowledge base is critically important for all biodiversity-related sciences. At present, taxonomic information is organized and regulated by a system of rules and conventions that date back to the introduction of binomial nomenclature by Linnaeus. The taxonomy of any particular group of organisms comprises the sum information in the taxonomic literature, supported by designated type specimens in major collections. In this article, the way modern means of disseminating information will change the practice of taxonomy, in particular the Internet, is explored. Basic taxonomic information, such as specimen-level data, location of types, and name catalogues are already available, at least for some groups, on the Web. Specialist taxonomic databases, key-construction programs, and other software useful for systematists are also increasingly available. There has also been a move towards Web-publishing of taxonomic hypotheses, though as yet this is not fully permitted by the Codes of Nomenclature. A further and more radical move would be to transfer taxonomy completely to the Web. A possible model of this is discussed, as well as a pilot project, the "CATE" initiative, which seeks to explore the advantages and disadvantages of such a move. It is argued that taxonomy needs to forge better links with its user-communities to maintain its funding base, and that an important part of this is making the products of its research more accessible through the Internet.
20143106|Substitution rates are one of the most fundamental parameters in a phylogenetic analysis and are represented in phylogenetic models as the branch lengths on a tree. Variation in substitution rates across an alignment of molecular sequences is well established and likely caused by variation in functional constraint across the genes encoded in the sequences. Rate variation across alignment sites is important to accommodate in a phylogenetic analysis; failure to account for across-site rate variation can cause biased estimates of phylogeny or other model parameters. Traditionally, rate variation across sites has been modeled by treating the rate for a site as a random variable drawn from some probability distribution (such as the gamma probability distribution) or by partitioning sites to different rate classes and estimating the rate for each class independently. We consider a different approach, related to site-specific models in which sites are partitioned to rate classes. However, instead of treating the partitioning scheme in which sites are assigned to rate classes as a fixed assumption of the analysis, we treat the rate partitioning as a random variable under a Dirichlet process prior. We find that the Dirichlet process prior model for across-site rate variation fits alignments of DNA sequence data better than commonly used models of across-site rate variation. The method appears to identify the underlying codon structure of protein-coding genes; rate partitions that were sampled by the Markov chain Monte Carlo procedure were closer to a partition in which sites are assigned to rate classes by codon position than to randomly permuted partitions but still allow for additional variability across sites.
20143107|Even when the maximum likelihood (ML) tree is a better estimate of the true phylogenetic tree than those produced by other methods, the result of a poor ML search may be no better than that of a more thorough search under some faster criterion. The ability to find the globally optimal ML tree is therefore important. Here, I compare a range of heuristic search strategies (and their associated computer programs) in terms of their success at locating the ML tree for 20 empirical data sets with 14 to 158 sequences and 411 to 120,762 aligned nucleotides. Three distinct topics are discussed: the success of the search strategies in relation to certain features of the data, the generation of starting trees for the search, and the exploration of multiple islands of trees. As a starting tree, there was little difference among the neighbor-joining tree based on absolute differences (including the BioNJ tree), the stepwise-addition parsimony tree (with or without nearest-neighbor-interchange (NNI) branch swapping), and the stepwise-addition ML tree. The latter produced the best ML score on average but was orders of magnitude slower than the alternatives. The BioNJ tree was second best on average. As search strategies, star decomposition and quartet puzzling were the slowest and produced the worst ML scores. The DPRml, IQPNNI, MultiPhyl, PhyML, PhyNav, and TreeFinder programs with default options produced qualitatively similar results, each locating a single tree that tended to be in an NNI suboptimum (rather than the global optimum) when the data set had low phylogenetic information. For such data sets, there were multiple tree islands with very similar ML scores. The likelihood surface only became relatively simple for data sets that contained approximately 500 aligned nucleotides for 50 sequences and 3,000 nucleotides for 100 sequences. The RAxML and GARLI programs allowed multiple islands to be explored easily, but both programs also tended to find NNI suboptima. A newly developed version of the likelihood ratchet using PAUP* successfully found the peaks of multiple islands, but its speed needs to be improved.
20143007|Genome phylogenies can be inferred from data on the presence and absence of genes across taxa. Logdet distances may be a good method, because they allow expected genome size to vary across the tree. Recently, Lake and Rivera proposed conditioned genome reconstruction (calculation of logdet distances using only those genes present in a conditioning genome) to deal with unobservable genes that are absent from every taxon of interest. We prove that their method can consistently estimate the topology for almost any choice of conditioning genome. Nevertheless, the choice of conditioning genome is important for small samples. For real bacterial genome data, different choices of conditioning genome can result in strong bootstrap support for different tree topologies. To overcome this problem, we developed supertree methods that combine information from all choices of conditioning genome. One of these methods, based on the BIONJ algorithm, performs well on simulated data and may have applications to other supertree problems. However, an analysis of 40 bacterial genomes using this method supports an incorrect clade of parasites. This is a common feature of model-based gene content methods and is due to parallel gene loss.
20143013|Different genes often have different phylogenetic histories. Even within regions having the same phylogenetic history, the mutation rates often vary. We investigate the prospects of phylogenetic reconstruction when all the characters are generated from the same tree topology, but the branch lengths vary (with possibly different tree shapes). Furthering work of Kolaczkowski and Thornton (2004, Nature 431: 980-984) and Chang (1996, Math. Biosci. 134: 189-216), we show examples where maximum likelihood (under a homogeneous model) is an inconsistent estimator of the tree. We then explore the prospects of phylogenetic inference under a heterogeneous model. In some models, there are examples where phylogenetic inference under any method is impossible--despite the fact that there is a common tree topology. In particular, there are nonidentifiable mixture distributions, i.e., multiple topologies generate identical mixture distributions. We address which evolutionary models have nonidentifiable mixture distributions and prove that the following duality theorem holds for most DNA substitution models. The model has either: (i) nonidentifiability--two different tree topologies can produce identical mixture distributions, and hence distinguishing between the two topologies is impossible; or (ii) linear tests--there exist linear tests which identify the common tree topology for character data generated by a mixture distribution. The theorem holds for models whose transition matrices can be parameterized by open sets, which includes most of the popular models, such as Tamura-Nei and Kimura's 2-parameter model. The duality theorem relies on our notion of linear tests, which are related to Lake's linear invariants.
20143006|Although multiple gene sequences are becoming increasingly available for molecular phylogenetic inference, the analysis of such data has largely relied on inference methods designed for single genes. One of the common approaches to analyzing data from multiple genes is concatenation of the individual gene data to form a single supergene to which traditional phylogenetic inference procedures--e.g., maximum parsimony (MP) or maximum likelihood (ML)--are applied. Recent empirical studies have demonstrated that concatenation of sequences from multiple genes prior to phylogenetic analysis often results in inference of a single, well-supported phylogeny. Theoretical work, however, has shown that the coalescent can produce substantial variation in single-gene histories. Using simulation, we combine these ideas to examine the performance of the concatenation approach under conditions in which the coalescent produces a high level of discord among individual gene trees and show that it leads to statistically inconsistent estimation in this setting. Furthermore, use of the bootstrap to measure support for the inferred phylogeny can result in moderate to strong support for an incorrect tree under these conditions. These results highlight the importance of incorporating variation in gene histories into multilocus phylogenetics.
20143008|A major part of the barcoding of life problem is assigning newly sequenced or sampled individuals to existing groups that are preidentified externally (by a taxonomist, for example). This problem involves evaluating the statistical evidence towards associating a sequence from a new individual with one group or another. The main concern of our current research is to perform this task in a fast and accurate manner. To accomplish this we have developed a model-based, decision-theoretic framework based on the coalescent theory. Under this framework, we utilized both distance and the posterior probability of a group, given the sequences from members of this group and the sequence from a newly sampled individual to assign this new individual. We believe that this approach makes efficient use of the available information in the data. Our preliminary results indicated that this approach is more accurate than using a simple measure of distance for assignment.
20143010|Despite the advances in understanding molecular evolution, current phylogenetic methods barely take account of a fraction of the complexity of evolution. We are chiefly constrained by our incomplete knowledge of molecular evolutionary processes and the limits of computational power. These limitations lead to the establishment of either biologically simplistic models that rarely account for a fraction of the complexity involved or overfitting models that add little resolution to the problem. Such oversimplified models may lead us to assign high confidence to an incorrect tree (inconsistency). Rate-across-site (RAS) models are commonly used evolutionary models in phylogenetic studies. These account for heterogeneity in the evolutionary rates among sites but do not account for changing within-site rates across lineages (heterotachy). If heterotachy is common, using RAS models may lead to systematic errors in tree inference. In this work we show possible misleading effects in tree inference when the assumption of constant within-site rates across lineages is violated using maximum likelihood. Using a simulation study, we explore the ways in which gamma stationary models can lead to wrong topology or to deceptive bootstrap support values when the within-site rates change across lineages. More precisely, we show that different degrees of heterotachy mislead phylogenetic inference when the model assumed is stationary. Finally, we propose a geometry-based approach to visualize and to test for the possible existence of bias due to heterotachy.
20143012|The dominance of angiosperms has played a direct role in the diversification of insects, especially Coleoptera. The shift to angiosperm feeding from other diets is likely to have increased the rate of speciation in Phytophaga. However, Phytophaga is only one of many hyperdiverse lineages of beetles and studies of host-shift proliferation have been somewhat limited to groups that primitively feed on plants. We have studied the diet-diverse beetle family Erotylidae (Cucujoidea) to determine if diet is correlated with high diversification rates and morphological evolution by first reconstructing ancestral diets and then testing for associations between diet and species number and diet and ovipositor type. A Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of morphological data that was previously published in Leschen (2003, Pages 1-108 in Fauna of New Zealand, 47; 53 terminal taxa and 1 outgroup, 120 adult characters and 1 diet character) yielded results that are similar to the parsimony analyses of Leschen (2003). Ancestral state reconstructions based on Bayesian and parsimony inference were largely congruent and both reconstructed microfungal feeding (the diet of the outgroup Biphyllidae) at the root of the Erotylidae tree. Shifts among microfungal, saprophagous, and phytophagous diets were most frequent. The largest numbers of species are contained in lineages that are macrofungal feeders (subfamily Erotylinae) and phytophagous (derived Languriinae), although the Bayesian posterior predictive tests of character state correlation were unable to detect any significant associations. Ovipositor morphology correlated with diet (i.e., acute forms were associated with phytophagy and unspecialized forms were associated with a mixture of diets). Although there is a general trend to increased species number associated with the shift from microfungal feeding to phytophagy (based on character mapping and mainly restricted to shifts in Languriinae), there is a large radiation of taxa feeding on macrofungi. Cycad feeding is scattered in more deeply diverged taxa and may have preceded the evolution of angiosperm feeding in some groups. Preliminary analysis of diet mapped onto higher beetle phylogenies suggests that about half of the major Coleoptera lineages may have had fungus-feeding ancestors. We discuss the roles of stochastic models and prior distributions of the reconstruction of ancestral character states in the context of the current data.
20143009|Inferring species phylogenies is an important part of understanding molecular evolution. Even so, it is well known that an accurate phylogenetic tree reconstruction for a single gene does not always necessarily correspond to the species phylogeny. One commonly accepted strategy to cope with this problem is to sequence many genes; the way in which to analyze the resulting collection of genes is somewhat more contentious. Supermatrix and supertree methods can be used, although these can suppress conflicts arising from true differences in the gene trees caused by processes such as lineage sorting, horizontal gene transfer, or gene duplication and loss. In 2004, Huson et al. (IEEE/ACM Trans. Comput. Biol. Bioinformatics 1:151-158) presented the Z-closure method that can circumvent this problem by generating a supernetwork as opposed to a supertree. Here we present an alternative way for generating supernetworks called Q-imputation. In particular, we describe a method that uses quartet information to add missing taxa into gene trees. The resulting trees are subsequently used to generate consensus networks, networks that generalize strict and majority-rule consensus trees. Through simulations and application to real data sets, we compare Q-imputation to the matrix representation with parsimony (MRP) supertree method and Z-closure, and demonstrate that it provides a useful complementary tool.
20143011|Although theoretical studies have suggested that base-compositional heterogeneity can adversely affect phylogenetic reconstruction, only a few empirical examples of this phenomenon, mostly among ancient lineages (with divergence dates &gt100 Mya), have been reported. In the course of our phylogenetic research on the New World marsupial family Didelphidae, we sequenced 2790 bp of the RAG1 exon from exemplar species of most extant genera. Phylogenetic analysis of these sequences recovered an anomalous node consisting of two clades previously shown to be distantly related based on analyses of other molecular data. These two clades show significantly increased GC content at RAG1 third codon positions, and the resulting convergence in base composition is strong enough to overwhelm phylogenetic signal from other genes (and morphology) in most analyses of concatenated datasets. This base-compositional convergence occurred relatively recently (over tens rather than hundreds of millions of years), and the affected gene region is still in a state of evolutionary disequilibrium. Both mutation rate and substitution rate are higher in GC-rich didelphid taxa, observations consistent with RAG1 sequences having experienced a higher rate of recombination in the convergent lineages.
20143005|The increasing availability of complete genome sequences and the development of new, faster methods for phylogenetic reconstruction allow the exploration of the set of evolutionary trees for each gene in the genome of any species. This has led to the development of new phylogenomic methods. Here, we have compared different phylogenetic and phylogenomic methods in the analysis of the monophyletic origin of insect endosymbionts from the -Proteobacteria, a hotly debated issue with several recent, conflicting reports. We have obtained the phylogenetic tree for each of the 579 identified protein-coding genes in the genome of the primary endosymbiont of carpenter ants, Blochmannia floridanus, after determining their presumed orthologs in 20 additional Proteobacteria genomes. A reference phylogeny reflecting the monophyletic origin of insect endosymbionts was further confirmed with different approaches, which led us to consider it as the presumed species tree. Remarkably, only 43 individual genes produced exactly the same topology as this presumed species tree. Most discrepancies between this tree and those obtained from individual genes or by concatenation of different genes were due to the grouping of Xanthomonadales with -Proteobacteria and not to uncertainties over the monophyly of insect endosymbionts. As previously noted, operational genes were more prone to reject the presumed species tree than those included in information-processing categories, but caution should be exerted when selecting genes for phylogenetic inference on the basis of their functional category assignment. We have obtained strong evidence in support of the monophyletic origin of -Proteobacteria insect endosymbionts by a combination of phylogenetic and phylogenomic methods. In our analysis, the use of concatenated genes has shown to be a valuable tool for analyzing primary phylogenetic signals coded in the genomes. Nevertheless, other phylogenomic methods such as supertree approaches were useful in revealing alternative phylogenetic signals and should be included in comprehensive phylogenomic studies.
20143070|How much horizontal gene transfer (HGT) between species influences bacterial phylogenomics is a controversial issue. This debate, however, lacks any quantitative assessment of the impact of HGT on phylogenies and of the ability of tree-building methods to cope with such events. I introduce a Markov model of genome evolution with HGT, accounting for the constraints on time--an HGT event can only occur between concomitantly living species. This model is used to simulate multigene sequence data sets with or without HGT. The consequences of HGT on phylogenomic inference are analyzed and compared to other well-known phylogenetic artefacts. It is found that supertree methods are quite robust to HGT, keeping high levels of performance even when gene trees are largely incongruent with each other. Gene tree incongruence per se is not indicative of HGT. HGT, however, removes the (otherwise observed) positive relationship between sequence length and gene tree congruence to the estimated species tree. Surprisingly, when applied to a bacterial and a eukaryotic multigene data set, this criterion rejects the HGT hypothesis for the former, but not the latter data set.
20143065|Alignment quality may have as much impact on phylogenetic reconstruction as the phylogenetic methods used. Not only the alignment algorithm, but also the method used to deal with the most problematic alignment regions, may have a critical effect on the final tree. Although some authors remove such problematic regions, either manually or using automatic methods, in order to improve phylogenetic performance, others prefer to keep such regions to avoid losing any information. Our aim in the present work was to examine whether phylogenetic reconstruction improves after alignment cleaning or not. Using simulated protein alignments with gaps, we tested the relative performance in diverse phylogenetic analyses of the whole alignments versus the alignments with problematic regions removed with our previously developed Gblocks program. We also tested the performance of more or less stringent conditions in the selection of blocks. Alignments constructed with different alignment methods (ClustalW, Mafft, and Probcons) were used to estimate phylogenetic trees by maximum likelihood, neighbor joining, and parsimony. We show that, in most alignment conditions, and for alignments that are not too short, removal of blocks leads to better trees. That is, despite losing some information, there is an increase in the actual phylogenetic signal. Overall, the best trees are obtained by maximum-likelihood reconstruction of alignments cleaned by Gblocks. In general, a relaxed selection of blocks is better for short alignment, whereas a stringent selection is more adequate for longer ones. Finally, we show that cleaned alignments produce better topologies although, paradoxically, with lower bootstrap. This indicates that divergent and problematic alignment regions may lead, when present, to apparently better supported although, in fact, more biased topologies.
20143069|We describe two new methods to partition phylogenetic data sets of discrete characters based on pairwise compatibility. The partitioning methods make no assumptions regarding the phylogeny, model of evolution, or characteristics of the data. The methods first build a compatibility graph, in which each node represents a character in the data set. Edges in the compatibility graph may represent strict compatibility of characters or they may be weighted based on a fractional compatibility scoring procedure that measures how close the characters are to being compatible. Given the desired number of partitions, the partitioning methods then seek to cluster the characters with the highest average pairwise compatibility, so that characters in each cluster are more compatible with each other than they are with characters in the other cluster(s). Partitioning according to these criteria is computationally intractable (NP-hard); however, spectral methods can quickly provide high-quality solutions. We demonstrate that the spectral partitioning effectively identifies characters with different evolutionary histories in simulated data sets, and it is better at highlighting phylogenetic conflict within empirical data sets than previously used partitioning methods.
20143072|Phylogenetic relationships among genera of pigeons and doves (Aves, Columbiformes) have not been fully resolved because of limited sampling of taxa and characters in previous studies. We therefore sequenced multiple nuclear and mitochondrial DNA genes totaling over 9000 bp from 33 of 41 genera plus 8 outgroup taxa, and, together with sequences from 5 other pigeon genera retrieved from GenBank, recovered a strong phylogenetic hypothesis for the Columbiformes. Three major clades were recovered with the combined data set, comprising the basally branching New World pigeons and allies (clade A) that are sister to Neotropical ground doves (clade B), and the Afro-Eurasian and Australasian taxa (clade C). None of these clades supports the monophyly of current families and subfamilies. The extinct, flightless dodo and solitaires (Raphidae) were embedded within pigeons and doves (Columbidae) in clade C, and monophyly of the subfamily Columbinae was refuted because the remaining subfamilies were nested within it. Divergence times estimated using a Bayesian framework suggest that Columbiformes diverged from outgroups such as Apodiformes and Caprimulgiformes in the Cretaceous before the mass extinction that marks the end of this period. Bayesian and maximum likelihood inferences of ancestral areas, accounting for phylogenetic uncertainty and divergence times, respectively, favor an ancient origin of Columbiformes in the Neotropical portion of what was then Gondwana. The radiation of modern genera of Columbiformes started in the Early Eocene to the Middle Miocene, as previously estimated for other avian groups such as ratites, tinamous, galliform birds, penguins, shorebirds, parrots, passerine birds, and toucans. Multiple dispersals of more derived Columbiformes between Australasian and Afro-Eurasian regions are required to explain current distributions.
20143066|Bayesian inference of phylogeny is unique among phylogenetic reconstruction methods in that it produces a posterior distribution of trees rather than a point estimate of the best tree. The most common way to summarize this distribution is to report the majority-rule consensus tree annotated with the marginal posterior probabilities of each partition. Reporting a single tree discards information contained in the full underlying distribution and reduces the Bayesian analysis to simply another method for finding a point estimate of the tree. Even when a point estimate of the phylogeny is desired, the majority-rule consensus tree is only one possible method, and there may be others that are more appropriate for the given data set and application. We present a method for summarizing the distribution of trees that is based on identifying agreement subtrees that are frequently present in the posterior distribution. This method provides fully resolved binary trees for subsets of taxa with high marginal posterior probability on the entire tree and includes additional information about the spread of the distribution.
20143067|Although recent methodological advances have allowed the incorporation of rate variation in molecular dating analyses, the calibration procedure, performed mainly through fossils, remains resistant to improvements. One source of uncertainty pertains to the assignment of fossils to specific nodes in a phylogeny, especially when alternative possibilities exist that can be equally justified on morphological grounds. Here we expand on a recently developed fossil cross-validation method to evaluate whether alternative nodal assignments of multiple fossils produce calibration sets that differ in their internal consistency. We use an enlarged Crypteroniaceae-centered phylogeny of Myrtales, six fossils, and 72 combinations of calibration points, termed calibration sets, to identify (i) the fossil assignments that produce the most internally consistent calibration sets and (ii) the mean ages, derived from these calibration sets, for the split of the Southeast Asian Crypteroniaceae from their West Gondwanan sister clade (node X). We found that a correlation exists between s values, devised to measure the consistency among the calibration points of a calibration set (Near and Sanderson, 2004), and nodal distances among calibration points. By ranking all sets according to the percent deviation of s from the regression line with nodal distance, we identified the sets with the highest level of corrected calibration-set consistency. These sets generated lower standard deviations associated with the ages of node X than sets characterized by lower corrected consistency. The three calibration sets with the highest corrected consistencies produced mean age estimates for node X of 79.70, 79.14, and 78.15 My. These timeframes are most compatible with the hypothesis that the Crypteroniaceae stem lineage dispersed from Africa to the Deccan plate as it drifted northward during the Late Cretaceous.
20143064|A phylogeny of tetrapods is inferred from nearly complete sequences of the nuclear RAG-1 gene sampled across 88 taxa encompassing all major clades, analyzed via parsimony and Bayesian methods. The phylogeny provides support for Lissamphibia, Theria, Lepidosauria, a turtle-archosaur clade, as well as most traditionally accepted groupings. This tree allows simultaneous molecular clock dating for all tetrapod groups using a set of well-corroborated calibrations. Relaxed clock (PLRS) methods, using the amniote = 315 Mya (million years ago) calibration or a set of consistent calibrations, recovers reasonable divergence dates for most groups. However, the analysis systematically underestimates divergence dates within archosaurs. The bird-crocodile split, robustly documented in the fossil record as being around 245 Mya, is estimated at only 190 Mya, and dates for other divergences within archosaurs are similarly underestimated. Archosaurs, and particulary turtles have slow apparent rates possibly confounding rate modeling, and inclusion of calibrations within archosaurs (despite their high deviances) not only improves divergence estimates within archosaurs, but also across other groups. Notably, the monotreme-therian split (210 Mya) matches the fossil record; the squamate radiation (190 Mya) is younger than suggested by some recent molecular studies and inconsistent with identification of 220 and 165 Myo (million-year-old) fossils as acrodont iguanians and 95 Myo fossils colubroid snakes; the bird-lizard (reptile) split is considerably older than fossil estimates (285 Mya); and Sphenodon is a remarkable phylogenetic relic, being the sole survivor of a lineage more than a quarter of a billion years old. Comparison with other molecular clock studies of tetrapod divergences suggests that the common practice of enforcing most calibrations as minima, with a single liberal maximal constraint, will systematically overestimate divergence dates. Similarly, saturation of mitochondrial DNA sequences, and the resultant greater compression of basal branches means that using only external deep calibrations will also lead to inflated age estimates within the focal ingroup.
20143071|As larger, more complex data sets are being used to infer phylogenies, accuracy of these phylogenies increasingly requires models of evolution that accommodate heterogeneity in the processes of molecular evolution. We investigated the effect of improper data partitioning on phylogenetic accuracy, as well as the type I error rate and sensitivity of Bayes factors, a commonly used method for choosing among different partitioning strategies in Bayesian analyses. We also used Bayes factors to test empirical data for the need to divide data in a manner that has no expected biological meaning. Posterior probability estimates are misleading when an incorrect partitioning strategy is assumed. The error was greatest when the assumed model was underpartitioned. These results suggest that model partitioning is important for large data sets. Bayes factors performed well, giving a 5% type I error rate, which is remarkably consistent with standard frequentist hypothesis tests. The sensitivity of Bayes factors was found to be quite high when the across-class model heterogeneity reflected that of empirical data. These results suggest that Bayes factors represent a robust method of choosing among partitioning strategies. Lastly, results of tests for the inclusion of unexpected divisions in empirical data mirrored the simulation results, although the outcome of such tests is highly dependent on accounting for rate variation among classes. We conclude by discussing other approaches for partitioning data, as well as other applications of Bayes factors.
20143068|Accurate phylogenetic inference is a topic of intensive research and debate and has been studied in response to many different factors: for example, differences in the method of reconstruction, the shape of the underlying tree, the substitution model, and varying quantities and types of data. Investigating whether the conditions used might lead to inaccurate inference has been attempted through elaborate data exploration but less attention has been given to creating a unified methodology to enable experimental designs in phylogenetic analysis to be improved and so avoid suboptimal conditions. Experimental design has been part of the field of statistics since the seminal work of Fisher in the early 20th century and a large body of literature exists on how to design optimum experiments. Here we investigate the use of the Fisher information matrix to decide between candidate positions for adding a taxon to a fixed topology, and introduce a parameter transformation that permits comparison of these different designs. This extension to Goldman (1998. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B. 265: 1779-1786) thus allows investigation of "where to add taxa" in a phylogeny. We compare three different measures of the total information for selecting the position to add a taxon to a tree. Our methods are illustrated by investigating the behavior of the three criteria when adding a branch to model trees, and by applying the different criteria to two biological examples: a simplified taxon-sampling problem in the balsaminoid Ericales and the phylogeny of seed plants.
20143025|Traditionally, phylogenetic analyses over many genes combine data into a contiguous block. Under this concatenated model, all genes are assumed to evolve at the same rate. However, it is clear that genes evolve at very different rates and that accounting for this rate heterogeneity is important if we are to accurately infer phylogenies from heterogeneous multigene data sets. There remain open questions regarding how best to incorporate gene rate parameters into phylogenetic models and which properties of real data correlate with improved fit over the concatenated model. In this study, two methods of accounting for gene rate heterogeneity are compared: the n-parameter method, which allows for each of the n gene partitions to have a gene rate parameter, and the -parameter method, which fits a distribution to the gene rates. Results demonstrate that the n-parameter method is both computationally faster and in general provides a better fit over the concatenated model than the -parameter method. Furthermore, improved model fit over the concatenated model is highly correlated with the presence of a gene with a slow relative rate of evolution.
20143026|The process of inferring phylogenetic trees from molecular sequences almost always starts with a multiple alignment of these sequences but can also be based on methods that do not involve multiple sequence alignment. Very little is known about the accuracy with which such alignment-free methods recover the correct phylogeny or about the potential for increasing their accuracy. We conducted a large-scale comparison of ten alignment-free methods, among them one new approach that does not calculate distances and a faster variant of our pattern-based approach; all distance-based alignment-free methods are freely available from http://www.bioinformatics.org.au (as Python package decaf+py). We show that most methods exhibit a higher overall reconstruction accuracy in the presence of high among-site rate variation. Under all conditions that we considered, variants of the pattern-based approach were significantly better than the other alignment-free methods. The new pattern-based variant achieved a speed-up of an order of magnitude in the distance calculation step, accompanied by a small loss of tree reconstruction accuracy. A method of Bayesian inference from k-mers did not improve on classical alignment-free (and distance-based) methods but may still offer other advantages due to its Bayesian nature. We found the optimal word length k of word-based methods to be stable across various data sets, and we provide parameter ranges for two different alphabets. The influence of these alphabets was analyzed to reveal a trade-off in reconstruction accuracy between long and short branches. We have mapped the phylogenetic accuracy for many alignment-free methods, among them several recently introduced ones, and increased our understanding of their behavior in response to biologically important parameters. In all experiments, the pattern-based approach emerged as superior, at the expense of higher resource consumption. Nonetheless, no alignment-free method that we examined recovers the correct phylogeny as accurately as does an approach based on maximum-likelihood distance estimates of multiply aligned sequences.
20143022|The models of nucleotide substition used by most maximum likelihood--based methods assume that the evolutionary process is stationary, reversible, and homogeneous. We present an extension of the Barry and Hartigan model, which can be used to estimate parameters by maximum likelihood (ML) when the data contain invariants sites and there are violations of the assumptions of stationarity, reversibility, and homogeneity. Unlike most ML methods for estimating invariant sites, we estimate the nucleotide composition of invariant sites separately from that of variable sites. We analyze a bacterial data set where problems due to lack of stationarity and homogeneity have been previously well noted and use the parametric bootstrap to show that the data are consistent with our general Markov model. We also show that estimates of invariant sites obtained using our method are fairly accurate when applied to data simulated under the general Markov model.
20143029|Most phylogenetically based statistical methods for the analysis of quantitative or continuously varying phenotypic traits assume that variation within species is absent or at least negligible, which is unrealistic for many traits. Within-species variation has several components. Differences among populations of the same species may represent either phylogenetic divergence or direct effects of environmental factors that differ among populations (phenotypic plasticity). Within-population variation also contributes to within-species variation and includes sampling variation, instrument-related error, low repeatability caused by fluctuations in behavioral or physiological state, variation related to age, sex, season, or time of day, and individual variation within such categories. Here we develop techniques for analyzing phylogenetically correlated data to include within-species variation, or "measurement error" as it is often termed in the statistical literature. We derive methods for (i) univariate analyses, including measurement of "phylogenetic signal," (ii) correlation and principal components analysis for multiple traits, (iii) multiple regression, and (iv) inference of "functional relations," such as reduced major axis (RMA) regression. The methods are capable of incorporating measurement error that differs for each data point (mean value for a species or population), but they can be modified for special cases in which less is known about measurement error (e.g., when one is willing to assume something about the ratio of measurement error in two traits). We show that failure to incorporate measurement error can lead to both biased and imprecise (unduly uncertain) parameter estimates. Even previous methods that are thought to account for measurement error, such as conventional RMA regression, can be improved by explicitly incorporating measurement error and phylogenetic correlation. We illustrate these methods with examples and simulations and provide Matlab programs.
20143023|Phylogenetic relationships among Pinus species from subgenus Strobus remain unresolved despite combined efforts based on nrITS and cpDNA. To provide greater resolution among these taxa, a 900-bp intron from a late embryogenesis abundant (LEA)-like gene (IFG8612) was sequenced from 39 pine species, with two or more alleles representing 33 species. Nineteen of 33 species exhibited allelic nonmonphyly in the strict consensus tree, and 10 deviated significantly from allelic monophyly based on topology incongruence tests. Intraspecific nucleotide diversity ranged from 0.0 to 0.0211, and analysis of variance shows that nucleotide diversity was strongly associated (P &lt 0.0001) with the degree of species monophyly. Although species nonmonophyly complicates phylogenetic interpretations, this nuclear locus offers greater topological support than previously observed for cpDNA or nrITS. Lacking evidence for hybridization, recombination, or imperfect taxonomy, we feel that incomplete lineage sorting remains the best explanation for the polymorphisms shared among species. Depending on the species, coalescent expectations indicate that reciprocal monophyly will be more likely than paraphyly in 1.71 to 24.0  10 years, and that complete genome-wide coalescence in these species may require up to 76.3  10 years. The absence of allelic coalescence is a severe constraint in the application of phylogenetic methods in Pinus, and taxa sharing similar life history traits with Pinus are likely to show species nonmonophyly using nuclear markers.
20143032|In a series of articles, Rieppel (2005, Biol. Philos. 20:465-487; 2006a, Cladistics 22:186-197; 2006b, Systematist 26:5-9), Keller et al. (2003, Bot. Rev. 69:93-110), and Nixon and Carpenter (2000, Cladistics 16:298-318) criticize the philosophical foundations of the PhyloCode. They argue that species and higher taxa are not individuals, and they reject the view that taxon names are rigid designators. Furthermore, they charge supporters of the individuality thesis and rigid designator theory with assuming essentialism, committing logical inconsistencies, and offering proposals that render taxonomy untestable. These charges are unsound. Such charges turn on confusions over rigid designator theory and the distinction between kinds and individuals. In addition, Rieppel's, Keller et al.'s, and Nixon and Carpenter's proposed alternatives are no better and have their own problems. The individuality thesis and rigid designator theory should not be quickly abandoned.
20143030|We highlight a novel molecular clock calibration system based on geologically dated river reversal and river capture events. Changes in drainage pattern may effect vicariant isolation of freshwater taxa, and thus provide a predictive framework for associated phylogeographic study. As a case in point, New Zealand's Pelorus and Kaituna rivers became geologically isolated from the larger Wairau River system 70 to 130 kyr BP. We conducted mitochondrial DNA phylogeographic analyses of two unrelated freshwater-limited fish taxa native to these river systems (Gobiomorphus breviceps, n = 63; Galaxias divergens, n = 95). Phylogenetic analysis of combined control region and cytochrome b sequences yielded reciprocally monophyletic clades of Pelorus-Kaituna and Wairau haplotypes for each species. Calibrated rates of molecular change based on this freshwater vicariant event are substantially faster than traditionally accepted rates for fishes but consistent with other recent inferences based on geologically young calibration points. A survey of freshwater phylogeographic literature reveals numerous examples in which the ages of recent evolutionary events may have been substantially over-estimated through the use of "accepted" calibrations. We recommend that--wherever possible--biologists should start to reassess the conclusions of such studies by using more appropriate molecular calibrations derived from recent geological events.
20143028|Lice in the genus Pectinopygus parasitize a single order of birds (Pelecaniformes). To examine the degree of congruence between the phylogenies of 17 Pectinopygus species and their pelecaniform hosts, sequences from mitochondrial 12S rRNA, 16S rRNA, COI, and nuclear wingless and EF1- genes (2290 nucleotides) and from mitochondrial 12S rRNA, COI, and ATPases 8 and 6 genes (1755 nucleotides) were obtained for the lice and the birds, respectively. Louse data partitions were analyzed for evidence of incongruence and evidence of long-branch attraction prior to cophylogenetic analyses. Host-parasite coevolution was studied by different methods: TreeFitter, TreeMap, ParaFit, likelihood-ratio test, data-based parsimony method, and correlation of coalescence times. All methods agree that there has been extensive cospeciation in this host-parasite system, but the results are sensitive to the selection of different phylogenetic hypotheses and analytical methods for evaluating cospeciation. Perfect congruence between phylogenies is not found in this association, probably as a result of occasional host switching by the lice. Errors due to phylogenetic reconstruction methods, incorrect or incomplete taxon sampling, or to different loci undergoing different evolutionary histories cannot be rejected, thus emphasizing the need for improved cophylogenetic methodologies.
20143033|Hybridization is a well-documented, natural phenomenon that is common at low taxonomic levels in the higher plants and other groups. In spite of the obvious potential for gene flow via hybridization to cause reticulation in an evolutionary tree, analytical methods based on a strictly bifurcating model of evolution have frequently been applied to data sets containing taxa known to hybridize in nature. Using simulated data, we evaluated the relative performance of phenetic, tree-based, and network approaches for distinguishing between taxa with known reticulate history and taxa that were true terminal monophyletic groups. In all methods examined, type I error (the erroneous rejection of the null hypothesis that a taxon of interest is not monophyletic) was likely during the early stages of introgressive hybridization. We used the gradual erosion of type I error with continued gene flow as a metric for assessing relative performance. Bifurcating tree-based methods performed poorly, with highly supported, incorrect topologies appearing during some phases of the simulation. Based on our model, we estimate that many thousands of gene flow events may be required in natural systems before reticulate taxa will be reliably detected using tree-based methods of phylogeny reconstruction. We conclude that the use of standard bifurcating tree-based methods to identify terminal monophyletic groups for the purposes of defining or delimiting phylogenetic species, or for prioritizing populations for conservation purposes, is difficult to justify when gene flow between sampled taxa is possible. As an alternative, we explored the use of two network methods. Minimum spanning networks performed worse than most tree-based methods and did not yield topologies that were easily interpretable as phylogenies. The performance of NeighborNet was comparable to parsimony bootstrap analysis. NeighborNet and reverse successive weighting were capable of identifying an ephemeral signature of reticulate evolution during the early stages of introgression by revealing conflicting phylogenetic signal. However, when gene flow was topologically complex, the conflicting phylogenetic signal revealed by these methods resulted in a high probability of type II error (inferring that a monophyletic taxon has a reticulate history). Lastly, we present a novel application of an existing nonparametric clustering procedure that, when used against a density landscape derived from principal coordinate data, showed superior performance to the tree-based and network procedures tested.
20143031|Images are paramount in documentation of morphological data. Production and reproduction costs have traditionally limited how many illustrations taxonomy could afford to publish, and much comparative knowledge continues to be lost as generations turn over. Now digital images are cheaply produced and easily disseminated electronically but pose problems in maintenance, curation, sharing, and use, particularly in long-term data sets involving multiple collaborators and institutions. We propose an efficient linkage of images to phylogenetic data sets via an ontology of morphological terms; an underlying, fine-grained database of specimens, images, and associated metadata; fixation of the meaning of morphological terms (homolog names) by ostensive references to particular taxa; and formalization of images as standard views. The ontology provides the intellectual structure and fundamental design of the relationships and enables intelligent queries to populate phylogenetic data sets with images. The database itself documents primary morphological observations, their vouchers, and associated metadata, rather than the conventional data set cell, and thereby facilitates data maintenance despite character redefinition or specimen reidentification. It minimizes reexamination of specimens, loss of information or data quality, and echoes the data models of web-based repositories for images, specimens, and taxonomic names. Confusion and ambiguity in the meanings of technical morphological terms are reduced by ostensive definitions pointing to features in particular taxa, which may serve as reference for globally unique identifiers of characters. Finally, the concept of standard views (an image illustrating one or more homologs in a specific sex and life stage, in a specific orientation, using a specific device and preparation technique) enables efficient, dynamic linkage of images to the data set and automatic population of matrix cells with images independently of scoring decisions.
20143024|Direct optimization frameworks for simultaneously estimating alignments and phylogenies have recently been developed. One such method, implemented in the program POY, is becoming more common for analyses of variable length sequences (e.g., analyses using ribosomal genes) and for combined evidence analyses (morphology + multiple genes). Simulation of sequences containing insertion and deletion events was performed in order to directly compare a widely used method of multiple sequence alignment (ClustalW) and subsequent parsimony analysis in PAUP* with direct optimization via POY. Data sets were simulated for pectinate, balanced, and random tree shapes under different conditions (clocklike, non-clocklike, and ultrametric). Alignment accuracy scores for the implied alignments from POY and the multiple sequence alignments from ClustalW were calculated and compared. In almost all cases (99.95%), ClustalW produced more accurate alignments than POY-implied alignments, judged by the proportion of correctly identified homologous sites. Topological accuracy (distance to the true tree) for POY topologies and topologies generated under parsimony in PAUP* from the ClustalW alignments were also compared. In 44.94% of the cases, Clustal alignment tree reconstructions via PAUP* were more accurate than POY, whereas in 16.71% of the cases POY reconstructions were more topologically accurate (38.38% of the time they were equally accurate). Comparisons between POY hypothesized alignments and the true alignments indicated that, on average, as alignment error increased, topological accuracy decreased.
20143027|The resolution of four controversial topics in phylogenetic experimental design hinges upon the informativeness of characters about the historical relationships among taxa. These controversies regard the power of different classes of phylogenetic character, the relative utility of increased taxonomic versus character sampling, the differentiation between lack of phylogenetic signal and a historical rapid radiation, and the design of taxonomically broad phylogenetic studies optimized by taxonomically sparse genome-scale data. Quantification of the informativeness of characters for resolution of phylogenetic hypotheses during specified historical epochs is key to the resolution of these controversies. Here, such a measure of phylogenetic informativeness is formulated. The optimal rate of evolution of a character to resolve a dated four-taxon polytomy is derived. By scaling the asymptotic informativeness of a character evolving at a nonoptimal rate by the derived asymptotic optimum, and by normalizing so that net phylogenetic informativeness is equivalent for all rates when integrated across all of history, an informativeness profile across history is derived. Calculation of the informativeness per base pair allows estimation of the cost-effectiveness of character sampling. Calculation of the informativeness per million years allows comparison across historical radiations of the utility of a gene for the inference of rapid adaptive radiation. The theory is applied to profile the phylogenetic informativeness of the genes BRCA1, RAG1, GHR, and c-myc from a muroid rodent sequence data set. Bounded integrations of the phylogenetic profile of these genes over four epochs comprising the diversifications of the muroid rodents, the mammals, the lobe-limbed vertebrates, and the early metazonas demonstrate the differential power of these genes to resolve the branching order among ancestral lineages. This measure of phylogenetic informativeness yields a new kind of information for evaluation of phylogenetic experiments. It conveys the utility of the addition of characters a phylogenetic study and it provides a basis for deciding whether appropriate phylogenetic power has been applied to a polytomy that is proposed to be a rapid radiation. Moreover, it provides a quantitative measure of the capacity of a gene to resolve soft polytomies.
20143081|Determining whether speciation and extinction rates depend on the state of a particular character has been of long-standing interest to evolutionary biologists. To assess the effect of a character on diversification rates using likelihood methods requires that we be able to calculate the probability that a group of extant species would have evolved as observed, given a particular model of the character's effect. Here we describe how to calculate this probability for a phylogenetic tree and a two-state (binary) character under a simple model of evolution (the "BiSSE" model, binary-state speciation and extinction). The model involves six parameters, specifying two speciation rates (rate when the lineage is in state 0; rate when in state 1), two extinction rates (when in state 0; when in state 1), and two rates of character state change (from 0 to 1, and from 1 to 0). Using these probability calculations, we can do maximum likelihood inference to estimate the model's parameters and perform hypothesis tests (e.g., is the rate of speciation elevated for one character state over the other?). We demonstrate the application of the method using simulated data with known parameter values.
20143083|Phylogenetic tree estimation plays a critical role in a wide variety of molecular studies, including molecular systematics, phylogenetics, and comparative genomics. Finding the optimal tree relating a set of sequences using score-based (optimality criterion) methods, such as maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony, may require all possible trees to be considered, which is not feasible even for modest numbers of sequences. In practice, trees are estimated using heuristics that represent a trade-off between topological accuracy and speed. I present a series of novel algorithms suitable for score-based phylogenetic tree reconstruction that demonstrably improve the accuracy of tree estimates while maintaining high computational speeds. The heuristics function by allowing the efficient exploration of large numbers of trees through novel hill-climbing and resampling strategies. These heuristics, and other computational approximations, are implemented for maximum likelihood estimation of trees in the program Leaphy, and its performance is compared to other popular phylogenetic programs. Trees are estimated from 4059 different protein alignments using a selection of phylogenetic programs and the likelihoods of the tree estimates are compared. Trees estimated using Leaphy are found to have equal to or better likelihoods than trees estimated using other phylogenetic programs in 4004 (98.6%) families and provide a unique best tree that no other program found in 1102 (27.1%) families. The improvement is particularly marked for larger families (80 to 100 sequences), where Leaphy finds a unique best tree in 81.7% of families.
20143088|This paper focuses on veto supertree methods; i.e., methods that aim at producing a conservative synthesis of the relationships agreed upon by all source trees. We propose desirable properties that a supertree should satisfy in this framework, namely the non-contradiction property (PC) and the induction property (PI). The former requires that the supertree does not contain relationships that contradict one or a combination of the source topologies, whereas the latter requires that all topological information contained in the supertree is present in a source tree or collectively induced by several source trees. We provide simple examples to illustrate their relevance and that allow a comparison with previously advocated properties. We show that these properties can be checked in polynomial time for any given rooted supertree. Moreover, we introduce the PhySIC method (PHYlogenetic Signal with Induction and non-Contradiction). For k input trees spanning a set of n taxa, this method produces a supertree that satisfies the above-mentioned properties in O(kn + n) computing time. The polytomies of the produced supertree are also tagged by labels indicating areas of conflict as well as those with insufficient overlap. As a whole, PhySIC enables the user to quickly summarize consensual information of a set of trees and localize groups of taxa for which the data require consolidation. Lastly, we illustrate the behaviour of PhySIC on primate data sets of various sizes, and propose a supertree covering 95% of all primate extant genera. The PhySIC algorithm is available at http://atgc.lirmm.fr/cgi-bin/PhySIC.
20143086|Phylogenetic mixtures model the inhomogeneous molecular evolution commonly observed in data. The performance of phylogenetic reconstruction methods where the underlying data are generated by a mixture model has stimulated considerable recent debate. Much of the controversy stems from simulations of mixture model data on a given tree topology for which reconstruction algorithms output a tree of a different topology; these findings were held up to show the short-comings of particular tree reconstruction methods. In so doing, the underlying assumption was that mixture model data on one topology can be distinguished from data evolved on an unmixed tree of another topology given enough data and the "correct" method. Here we show that this assumption can be false. For biologists, our results imply that, for example, the combined data from two genes whose phylogenetic trees differ only in terms of branch lengths can perfectly fit a tree of a different topology.
20143089|The modular variation of organismal form during evolution or development can be viewed as the result of dissociated local developmental processes. Whereas studies of modularity often are experimental, morphological integration is a more descriptive concept applying to groups of correlated phenotypic characters. Using simple path models, this paper shows that the classic underlying assumption of modularity (high correlations within modules, lower correlations between modules) is met only when local developmental factors have high effects on the traits relative to all factors' variations of effect (i.e., allometry). Accordingly, many classic approaches to morphological integration are meaningful only when local as well as common growth factors are nearly isometric. We show that morphometric modules might instead be defined more generally as sets of variables with non-zero within-module covariances, even when the covariances due to common factors have been removed, so that the residual between-module covariances are all near zero. Although it is still inherently unreliable to identify modules from phenotypic covariances in nonexperimental data, patterns of integration can sometimes be estimated based on prior identification of the modules themselves. We outline a simple approach for this case using Wright-style factor analysis and demonstrate the relation of its algebra to the more familiar approach via partial least squares.
20143090|Hummingbirds are an important model system in avian biology, but to date the group has been the subject of remarkably few phylogenetic investigations. Here we present partitioned Bayesian and maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses for 151 of approximately 330 species of hummingbirds and 12 outgroup taxa based on two protein-coding mitochondrial genes (ND2 and ND4), flanking tRNAs, and two nuclear introns (AK1 and BFib). We analyzed these data under several partitioning strategies ranging between unpartitioned and a maximum of nine partitions. In order to select a statistically justified partitioning strategy following partitioned Bayesian analysis, we considered four alternative criteria including Bayes factors, modified versions of the Akaike information criterion for small sample sizes ($\text{AIC}_{\text{c}}$), Bayesian information criterion (BIC), and a decision-theoretic methodology (DT). Following partitioned maximum likelihood analyses, we selected a best-fitting strategy using hierarchical likelihood ratio tests (hLRTS), the conventional AICc, BIC, and DT, concluding that the most stringent criterion, the performance-based DT, was the most appropriate methodology for selecting amongst partitioning strategies. In the context of our well-resolved and well-supported phylogenetic estimate, we consider the historical biogeography of hummingbirds using ancestral state reconstructions of (1) primary geographic region of occurrence (i.e., South America, Central America, North America, Greater Antilles, Lesser Antilles), (2) Andean or non-Andean geographic distribution, and (3) minimum elevational occurrence. These analyses indicate that the basal hummingbird assemblages originated in the lowlands of South America, that most of the principle clades of hummingbirds (all but Mountain Gems and possibly Bees) originated on this continent, and that there have been many (at least 30) independent invasions of other primary landmasses, especially Central America.
20143082|In recent years, the advent of Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques, coupled with modern computational capabilities, has enabled the study of evolutionary models without a closed from solution of the likelihood function. However, current Bayesian MCMC applications can incur significant computational costs, as they are based on a full sampling from the posterior probability distribution of the parameters of interest. Here, we draw attention as to how MCMC techniques can be embedded within normal approximation strategies for more economical statistical computation. The overall procedure is based on an estimate of the first and second moments of the likelihood function, as well as a maximum likelihood estimate. Through examples, we review several MCMC-based methods used in the statistical literature for such estimation, applying the approaches to constructing posterior distributions under nonanalytical evolutionary models relaxing the assumptions of rate homogeneity and of independence between sites. Finally, we use the procedures for conducting Bayesian model selection, based on Laplace approximations of Bayes factors, which we find to be accurate and computationally advantageous. Altogether, the methods we expound here, as well as other related approaches from the statistical literature, should prove useful when investigating increasingly complex descriptions of molecular evolution, alleviating some of the difficulties associated with nonanalytical models.
20143087|We use a multigene data set (the mitochondrial locus and nine nuclear gene regions) to test phylogenetic relationships in the South American "lava lizards" (genus Microlophus) and describe a strategy for aligning noncoding sequences that accounts for differences in tempo and class of mutational events. We focus on seven nuclear introns that vary in size and frequency of multibase length mutations (i.e., indels) and present a manual alignment strategy that incorporates insertions and deletions (indels) for each intron. Our method is based on mechanistic explanations of intron evolution that does not require a guide tree. We also use a progressive alignment algorithm (Probabilistic Alignment Kit; PRANK) and distinguishes insertions from deletions and avoids the "gapcost" conundrum. We describe an approach to selecting a guide tree purged of ambiguously aligned regions and use this to refine PRANK performance. We show that although manual alignment is successful in finding repeat motifs and the most obvious indels, some regions can only be subjectively aligned, and there are limits to the size and complexity of a data matrix for which this approach can be taken. PRANK alignments identified more parsimony-informative indels while simultaneously increasing nucleotide identity in conserved sequence blocks flanking the indel regions. When comparing manual and PRANK with two widely used methods (CLUSTAL, MUSCLE) for the alignment of the most length-variable intron, only PRANK recovered a tree congruent at deeper nodes with the combined data tree inferred from all nuclear gene regions. We take this concordance as an objective function of alignment quality and present a strongly supported phylogenetic hypothesis for Microlophus relationships. From this hypothesis we show that (1) a coded indel data partition derived from the PRANK alignment contributed significantly to nodal support and (2) the indel data set permitted detection of significant conflict between mitochondrial and nuclear data partitions, which we hypothesize arose from secondary contact of distantly related taxa, followed by hybridization and mtDNA introgression.
20143085|Systematists disagree whether data from fossils should be included in parsimony analyses. In a handful of well-documented cases, the addition of fossil data radically overturns a hypothesis of relationships based on extant taxa alone. Fossils can break up long branches and preserve character combinations closer in time to deep splitting events. However, fossils usually require more interpretation than extant taxa, introducing greater potential for spurious codings. Moreover, because fossils often have more "missing" codings, they are frequently accused of increasing numbers of MPTs, frustrating resolution and reducing support. Despite the controversy, remarkably little is known about the effects of fossils more generally. Here we provide the first systematic study, investigating empirically the behavior of fossil and extant taxa in 45 published morphological data sets. First-order jackknifing is used to determine the effects that each terminal has on inferred relationships, on the number of MPTs, and on CI' and RI as measures of homoplasy. Bootstrap leaf stabilities provide a proxy for the contribution of individual taxa to the branch support in the rest of the tree. There is no significant difference in the impact of fossil versus extant taxa on relationships, numbers of MPTs, and CI' or RI. However, adding individual fossil taxa is more likely to reduce the total branch support of the tree than adding extant taxa. This must be weighed against the superior taxon sampling afforded by including judiciously coded fossils, providing data from otherwise unsampled regions of the tree. We therefore recommend that investigators should include fossils, in the absence of compelling and case specific reasons for their exclusion.
20143084|A new method, PATHd8, for estimating ultrametric trees from trees with edge (branch) lengths proportional to the number of substitutions is proposed. The method allows for an arbitrary number of reference nodes for time calibration, each defined either as absolute age, minimum age, or maximum age, and the tree need not be fully resolved. The method is based on estimating node ages by mean path lengths from the node to the leaves but correcting for deviations from a molecular clock suggested by reference nodes. As opposed to most existing methods allowing substitution rate variation, the new method smoothes substitution rates locally, rather than simultaneously over the whole tree, thus allowing for analysis of very large trees. The performance of PATHd8 is compared with other frequently used methods for estimating divergence times. In analyses of three separate data sets, PATHd8 gives similar divergence times to other methods, the largest difference being between crown group ages, where unconstrained nodes get younger ages when analyzed with PATHd8. Overall, chronograms obtained from other methods appear smoother, whereas PATHd8 preserves more of the heterogeneity seen in the original edge lengths. Divergence times are most evenly spread over the chronograms obtained from the Bayesian implementation and the clock-based Langley-Fitch method, and these two methods produce very similar ages for most nodes. Evaluations of PATHd8 using simulated data suggest that PATHd8 is slightly less precise compared with penalized likelihood, but it gives more sensible answers for extreme data sets. A clear advantage with PATHd8 is that it is more or less instantaneous even with trees having several thousand leaves, whereas other programs often run into problems when analyzing trees with hundreds of leaves. PATHd8 is implemented in freely available software.
20143052|The amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) technique is being increasingly used in phylogenetic studies, especially in groups of rapidly radiating taxa. One of the key issues in the phylogenetic suitability of this technique is whether the DNA fragments generated via the AFLP method are homologous within and among the taxa being studied. We used a bioinformatics approach to assess homology based on both chromosomal location and sequence similarity of AFLP fragments. The AFLP technique was electronically simulated on genomes from eight organisms that represented a range of genome sizes. The results demonstrated that within a genome, the number of fragments is positively associated with genome size, and the degree of homology decreases with increasing numbers of fragments generated. The average homology of fragments was 89% for small genomes (&lt400 Mb) but decreased to 59% for large genomes (&gt2 Gb). Fragment homology for large genomes can be increased by excluding smaller fragments, although there is no clear upper limit for the size of fragments to exclude. A second approach is to increase the number of selective nucleotides in the final selective amplification step. For strains of the same organism, homology based on chromosome location and sequence similarity of fragments was 100%. Fragment homology for more distantly related taxa, however, decreased with greater time since divergence. We conclude that AFLP data are best suited for examining phylogeographic patterns within species and among very recently diverged species.
20143053|Roshan et al. recently described a "divide-and-conquer" technique for parsimony analysis of large data sets, Rec-I-DCM3, and stated that it compares very favorably to results using the program TNT. Their technique is based on selecting subsets of taxa to create reduced data sets or subproblems, finding most-parsimonious trees for each reduced data set, recombining all parts together, and then performing global TBR swapping on the combined tree. Here, we contrast this approach to sectorial searches, a divide-and-conquer algorithm implemented in TNT. This algorithm also uses a guide tree to create subproblems, with the first-pass state sets of the nodes that join the selected sectors with the rest of the topology; this allows exact length calculations for the entire topology (that is, any solution N steps shorter than the original, for the reduced subproblem, must also be N steps shorter for the entire topology). We show here that, for sectors of similar size analyzed with the same search algorithms, subdividing data sets with sectorial searches produces better results than subdividing with Rec-I-DCM3. Roshan et al.'s claim that Rec-I-DCM3 outperforms the techniques in TNT was caused by a poor experimental design and algorithmic settings used for the runs in TNT. In particular, for finding trees at or very close to the minimum known length of the analyzed data sets, TNT clearly outperforms Rec-I-DCM3. Finally, we show that the performance of Rec-I-DCM3 is bound by the efficiency of TBR implementation for the complete data set, as this method behaves (after some number of iterations) as a technique for cyclic perturbations and improvements more than as a divide-and-conquer strategy.
20143047|It is widely acknowledged that integrating fossils into data sets of extant taxa is imperative for proper placement of fossils, resolution of relationships, and a better understanding of character evolution. The importance of this process has been further magnified because of the crucial role of fossils in dating divergence times. Outstanding issues remain, including appropriate methods to place fossils in phylogenetic trees, the importance of molecules versus morphology in these analyses, as well as the impact of potentially large amounts of missing data for fossil taxa. In this study we used the angiosperm clade Juglandaceae as a model for investigating methods of integrating fossils into a phylogenetic framework of extant taxa. The clade has a rich fossil record relative to low extant diversity, as well as a robust molecular phylogeny and morphological database for extant taxa. After combining fossil organ genera into composite and terminal taxa, our objectives were to (1) compare multiple methods for the integration of the fossils and extant taxa (including total evidence, molecular scaffolds, and molecular matrix representation with parsimony [MRP]); (2) explore the impact of missing data (incomplete taxa and characters) and the evidence for placing fossils on the topology; (3) simulate the phylogenetic effect of missing data by creating "artifical fossils"; and (4) place fossils and compare the impact of single and multiple fossil constraints in estimating the age of clades. Despite large and variable amounts of missing data, each of the methods provided reasonable placement of both fossils and simulated "artificial fossils" in the phylogeny previously inferred only from extant taxa. Our results clearly show that the amount of missing data in any given taxon is not by itself an operational guideline for excluding fossils from analysis. Three fossil taxa (Cruciptera simsonii, Paleoplatycarya wingii, and Platycarya americana) were placed within crown clades containing living taxa for which relationships previously had been suggested based on morphology, whereas Polyptera manningii, a mosaic taxon with equivocal affinities, was placed firmly as sister to two modern crown clades. The position of Paleooreomunnea stoneana was ambiguous with total evidence but conclusive with DNA scaffolds and MRP. There was less disturbance of relationships among extant taxa using a total evidence approach, and the DNA scaffold approach did not provide improved resolution or internal support for clades compared to total evidence, whereas weighted MRP retained comparable levels of support but lost crown clade resolution. Multiple internal minimum age constraints generally provided reasonable age estimates, but the use of single constraints provided by extinct genera tended to underestimate clade ages.
20143055|The desire to infer the evolutionary history of a group of species should be more viable now that a considerable amount of multilocus molecular data is available. However, the current molecular phylogenetic paradigm still reconstructs gene trees to represent the species tree. Further, commonly used methods of combining data, such as the concatenation method, are known to be inconsistent in some circumstances. In this paper, we propose a Bayesian hierarchical model to estimate the phylogeny of a group of species using multiple estimated gene tree distributions, such as those that arise in a Bayesian analysis of DNA sequence data. Our model employs substitution models used in traditional phylogenetics but also uses coalescent theory to explain genealogical signals from species trees to gene trees and from gene trees to sequence data, thereby forming a complete stochastic model to estimate gene trees, species trees, ancestral population sizes, and species divergence times simultaneously. Our model is founded on the assumption that gene trees, even of unlinked loci, are correlated due to being derived from a single species tree and therefore should be estimated jointly. We apply the method to two multilocus data sets of DNA sequences. The estimates of the species tree topology and divergence times appear to be robust to the prior of the population size, whereas the estimates of effective population sizes are sensitive to the prior used in the analysis. These analyses also suggest that the model is superior to the concatenation method in fitting these data sets and thus provides a more realistic assessment of the variability in the distribution of the species tree that may have produced the molecular information at hand. Future improvements of our model and algorithm should include consideration of other factors that can cause discordance of gene trees and species trees, such as horizontal transfer or gene duplication.
20143050|We extend our recently developed Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm for Bayesian estimation of species divergence times to allow variable evolutionary rates among lineages. The method can use heterogeneous data from multiple gene loci and accommodate multiple fossil calibrations. Uncertainties in fossil calibrations are described using flexible statistical distributions. The prior for divergence times for nodes lacking fossil calibrations is specified by use of a birth-death process with species sampling. The prior for lineage-specific substitution rates is specified using either a model with autocorrelated rates among adjacent lineages (based on a geometric Brownian motion model of rate drift) or a model with independent rates among lineages specified by a log-normal probability distribution. We develop an infinite-sites theory, which predicts that when the amount of sequence data approaches infinity, the width of the posterior credibility interval and the posterior mean of divergence times form a perfect linear relationship, with the slope indicating uncertainties in time estimates that cannot be reduced by sequence data alone. Simulations are used to study the influence of among-lineage rate variation and the number of loci sampled on the uncertainty of divergence time estimates. The analysis suggests that posterior time estimates typically involve considerable uncertainties even with an infinite amount of sequence data, and that the reliability and precision of fossil calibrations are critically important to divergence time estimation. We apply our new algorithms to two empirical data sets and compare the results with those obtained in previous Bayesian and likelihood analyses. The results demonstrate the utility of our new algorithms.
20143051|Polyploidy, the duplication of entire genomes, plays a major role in plant evolution. In allopolyploids, genome duplication is associated with hybridization between two or more divergent genomes. Successive hybridization and polyploidization events can build up species complexes of allopolyploids with complicated network-like histories, and the evolutionary history of many plant groups cannot be adequately represented by phylogenetic trees because of such reticulate events. The history of complex genome mergings within a high-polyploid species complex in the genus Cerastium (Caryophyllaceae) is here untangled by the use of a network algorithm and noncoding sequences of a low-copy number gene. The resulting network illustrates how hybridization and polyploidization have acted as key evolutionary processes in creating a plant group where high-level allopolyploids clearly outnumber extant parental genomes.
20143046|Estimating phylogenetic relationships among closely related species can be extremely difficult when there is incongruence among gene trees and between the gene trees and the species tree. Here we show that incorporating a model of the stochastic loss of gene lineages by genetic drift into the phylogenetic estimation procedure can provide a robust estimate of species relationships, despite widespread incomplete sorting of ancestral polymorphism. This approach is applied to a group of montane Melanoplus grasshoppers for which genealogical discordance among loci and incomplete lineage sorting obscures any obvious phylogenetic relationships among species. Unlike traditional treatments where gene trees estimated using standard phylogenetic methods are implicitly equated with the species tree, with the coalescent-based approach the species tree is modeled probabilistically from the estimated gene trees. The estimated species phylogeny (the ESP) is calculated for the grasshoppers from multiple gene trees reconstructed for nuclear loci and a mitochondrial gene. This empirical application is coupled with a simulation study to explore the performance of the coalescent-based approach. Specifically, we test the accuracy of the ESP given the data based on analyses of simulated data matching the multilocus data collected in Melanoplus (i.e., data were simulated for each locus with the same number of base pairs and locus-specific mutational models). The results of the study show that ESPs can be computed using the coalescent-based approach long before reciprocal monophyly has been achieved, and that these statistical estimates are accurate. This contrasts with analyses of the empirical data collected in Melanoplus and simulated data based on concatenation of multiple loci, for which the incomplete lineage sorting of recently diverged species posed significant problems. The strengths and potential challenges associated with incorporating an explicit model of gene-lineage coalescence into the phylogenetic procedure to obtain an ESP, as illustrated by application to Melanoplus, versus concatenation and consensus approaches are discussed. This study represents a fundamental shift in how species relationships are estimated--the relationship between the gene trees and the species phylogeny is modeled probabilistically rather than equating gene trees with a species tree.
20143048|Phylogenetic diversity (PD) is a useful metric for selecting taxa in a range of biological applications, for example, bioconservation and genomics, where the selection is usually constrained by the limited availability of resources. We formalize taxon selection as a conceptually simple optimization problem, aiming to maximize PD subject to resource constraints. This allows us to take into account the different amounts of resources required by the different taxa. Although this is a computationally difficult problem, we present a dynamic programming algorithm that solves it in pseudo-polynomial time. Our algorithm can also solve many instances of the Noah's Ark Problem, a more realistic formulation of taxon selection for biodiversity conservation that allows for taxon-specific extinction risks. These instances extend the set of problems for which solutions are available beyond previously known greedy-tractable cases. Finally, we discuss the relevance of our results to real-life scenarios.
20143044|A review of the paleontological literature shows that the early dates of appearance of Lissamphibia recently inferred from molecular data do not favor an origin of extant amphibians from temnospondyls, contrary to recent claims. A supertree is assembled using new Mesquite modules that allow extinct taxa to be incorporated into a time-calibrated phylogeny with a user-defined geological time scale. The supertree incorporates 223 extinct species of lissamphibians and has a highly significant stratigraphic fit. Some divergences can even be dated with sufficient precision to serve as calibration points in molecular divergence date analyses. Fourteen combinations of minimal branch length settings and 10 random resolutions for each polytomy give much more recent minimal origination times of lissamphibian taxa than recent studies based on a phylogenetic analyses of molecular sequences. Attempts to replicate recent molecular date estimates show that these estimates depend strongly on the choice of calibration points, on the dating method, and on the chosen model of evolution; for instance, the estimate for the date of the origin of Lissamphibia can lie between 351 and 266 Mya. This range of values is generally compatible with our time-calibrated supertree and indicates that there is no unbridgeable gap between dates obtained using the fossil record and those using molecular evidence, contrary to previous suggestions.
20143045|Genome-scale data sets result in an enhanced resolution of the phylogenetic inference by reducing stochastic errors. However, there is also an increase of systematic errors due to model violations, which can lead to erroneous phylogenies. Here, we explore the impact of systematic errors on the resolution of the eukaryotic phylogeny using a data set of 143 nuclear-encoded proteins from 37 species. The initial observation was that, despite the impressive amount of data, some branches had no significant statistical support. To demonstrate that this lack of resolution is due to a mutual annihilation of phylogenetic and nonphylogenetic signals, we created a series of data sets with slightly different taxon sampling. As expected, these data sets yielded strongly supported but mutually exclusive trees, thus confirming the presence of conflicting phylogenetic and nonphylogenetic signals in the original data set. To decide on the correct tree, we applied several methods expected to reduce the impact of some kinds of systematic error. Briefly, we show that (i) removing fast-evolving positions, (ii) recoding amino acids into functional categories, and (iii) using a site-heterogeneous mixture model (CAT) are three effective means of increasing the ratio of phylogenetic to nonphylogenetic signal. Finally, our results allow us to formulate guidelines for detecting and overcoming phylogenetic artefacts in genome-scale phylogenetic analyses.
20143054|The incongruence length difference (ILD) test is prone to suggesting significant conflict between character partitions when these differ only in the amount of undirected homoplasy (noise). This has been shown to be due to nonlinearity in the relationship between tree length and noise. Here we show that by standardizing either tree length or 1-retention index on a 0-to-1 scale, and then taking the arcsine of the value, the resulting value is linearly related to noise except at extremely high noise levels. We then investigate the effect of substituting these values instead of raw tree metrics in a modified ILD test (here called arcsine-ILD) for two types of noise. We show that, using the modified metric instead of the raw length, the results of ILD tests agreed better with desirable properties.
20143049|Most supertree methods proposed to date are essentially ad hoc, rather than designed with particular properties in mind. Although the supertree problem remains difficult, one promising avenue is to develop from better understood consensus methods to the more general supertree setting. Here, we generalize the widely used majority-rule consensus method to the supertree setting. The majority-rule consensus tree is the strict consensus of the median trees under the symmetric-difference metric, so we can generalize the consensus method by generalizing this metric to trees with differing leaf sets. There are two different natural generalizations, based on pruning or grafting leaves to produce comparable trees, and these two generalizations produce two different, but related, majority-rule supertree methods.
10.2307/2413581|The concept of a reconciled tree arose independently in molecular systematics, parasitology, and biogeography as a means of describing historical associations. Examples of historical associations include genes and organisms, host and parasitic organisms, and organisms and areas. A reconciled tree combines the tree for a host and its associate into a single summary of the historical association between the two entities under the assumption that no horizontal transmission of associates has occurred. In this paper, I define reconciled trees, describe an algorithm for their computation, and develop measures to quantify the degree of fit between host and associate trees. Examples are given of applying the method to gene trees and species trees, host-parasite cospeciation, and biogeography. The problem of incorporating horizontal transmission of associates (e.g., dispersal or host switching) is also addressed by introducing the concept of maximizing the amount of codivergence (shared history) between the associates.
10.2307/2413583|Two kinds of characters of reduncine antelopes were analyzed cladistically: (1) quantitative osteological characters treated allometrically to remove the effects of body weight and (2) discretely coded characters. Character congruence was tested by combined cladistic analysis of all the data. We analyzed reduncine ontogeny and addressed the general question of how cladistics can be used together with ontogenetic information to study heterochrony. We tested whether characters of waterbuck evolved by paedomorphosis within the genus Kobus or whether these characters are plesiomorphic retentions. The plesiomorphic hypothesis was falsified and the paedomorphosis hypothesis was supported.
10.2307/2413578|Species definitions are commonly based on documentation either of genetic or ecologic cohesion (biological species models) or of phylogenetic relationship (phylogenetic species concept). However, these philosophical positions are often incompatible with data on genealogical relationship of and genetic/reproductive interactions among member populations. The difficulty in defining species in nature based on either viewpoint is exacerbated when times between divergence events are short, when differentiation among populations prior to speciation is extensive, and when reticulation events persist subsequent to speciation. We illustrate this set of problems with data on mitochondrial DNA sequences and both nuclear sequences and allozyme electromorphs for sets of populations of two currently recognized species of pocket gophers, Thomomys bottae and T. townsendii in the western United States. These molecular perspectives give somewhat conflicting views of polyphyly, paraphyly, and monophyly at the population and species level due, in part, to probable differences in times to monophyly, differential lineage sorting, retention of ancestral polymorphisms, and/or episodes of asymmetrical introgressive hybridization. As a consequence, strict adherence to any species concept in the objective recognition of evolutionary units within this complex is difficult at best.
10.2307/2413579|Three classes of metataxa are recognized-metaspecies, mixotaxa, and ambitaxa. Until such time that a metaspecies is shown to be monophyletic, paraphyletic, polyphyletic, or a mixotaxon or ambitaxon, it is considered to include organisms that are potential direct (but not necessarily the closest) ancestors to taxa subsequent to it on the cladogram. Metaspecies are recognized only at the species level, where potential ancestry must be from some group of organisms within this taxonomic level. The constituent members of a metaspecies are always organisms; if not, any larger clusters such as populations would dissolve to organisms because such clusters in a metaspecies (and a potential ancestor) do not possess autapomorphies. Mixotaxa and ambitaxa can occur at any level in the taxonomic hierarchy At the species level, however, they are rejected as potential direct ancestors because constituent members either have autapomorphies that preclude them from potential ancestry (mixospecies) or incongruously share character states with other members (ambispecies). Because they represent incomplete or incongruous information pertaining to phylogeny, mixotaxa and ambitaxa are restricted to previously named taxa and are denoted by two (**) or three (***) asterisks, respectively. Examples of all three kinds of metataxa are given: (1) metaspecies, e.g., various member species within the extinct archaic ungulates "Anisonchus" and Oxyacodon**, and (sub)species within the extant long-nosed snake Rhinocheilus; (2) mixotaxon, e.g., the extinct archaic ungulate Oxyacodon**, and (3) ambitaxon, e.g., the extant Iguanidae*** as formerly recognized. Because at least some metaspecies (recognized by a single asterisk) do have historical reality as ancestors, they can be named. Metaspecies should be recognized because they include historically real taxa (some metaspecies that are ancestors) and because they provide clarity of taxonomic usage that is not available with present conventions.
10.2307/2413580|The larger the sample size per operational taxonomic unit (OTU), the higher the probability of identifying the correct character state for that OTU. Large numbers of characters are essential to assure the accuracy and stability of a phylogenetic reconstruction. Both large sample sizes and large numbers of characters are desirable, but given limited time and resources, cladistic analysis often involves a trade-off between the number of specimens one can study per OTU versus the number of characters one has time to discover. For a given data set, what balance of sample size and character number will yield an acceptably small error (the probability that a recognized clade is false) and yet achieve sufficient power (the probability of recognition of a valid clade)? Myological data compiled for a study of arvicoline rodents were manipulated to determine the effect of character number reduction, the effect of deliberate inclusion of incorrect character states (mistakes), and the interaction of these two effects in an attempt to provide one answer to this question. The results indicate that with sample sizes of four specimens per OTU (some of which were at supraspecific levels), the frequency of mistakes is sufficient to cause unacceptable increases in error and losses of power in resulting cladograms. However, the error and power of the resulting cladogram are more sensitive to reductions in character number than to the inclusion of an occasional incorrect character state. Beyond a minimal increase in sample size (to five specimens per OTU in this example), it is more advantageous to search for new characters than it is to increase the number of specimens surveyed. Because adequate sample size is a function of the taxonomic level of the study and the data structure of the characters, these specific results should not be broadly applied, but the methods used to determine the appropriate sample size for the arvicoline data are applicable to other studies. We must devote more effort to increasing the reliability of our data sets to assure highly reliable cladograms.
10.2307/2413577|Recent literature suggests that a phylogenetic orientation may lead to unique perspectives on homology. An analysis of absence of avian hind limb flexors is used to explore this perspective. This approach suggests that synapomorphy is not equivalent to homology but rather that synapomorphies are hypotheses of homology (otherwise phylogenetic analysis is tautological). Homologies should be viewed as relationships among historical individuals, and we can only discover interorganismic homologies by phylogenetic analysis. Intraorganismic homologies, however, must be studied by other methods, primarily ontogenetic ones. Viewing homologies as (1) genetically and developmentally individualized entities or (2) sets of historical individuals may not always be particularly helpful from an operational perspective, but this is irrelevant because homologies are real entities that must be discovered, yet the process by which they are sought, as in all science, is one that does not yield truths, only hypotheses.
10.2307/2413582|Random sampling probabilities of evolutionary trees have been used to compare taxonomic classifications generated from different data sets, to test biogeographic hypotheses, and to study patterns of speciation. In this paper, I analyze a model in which speciation occurs by random bifurcation of existing lineages. A method of calculating the probability of an evolutionary tree by counting the possible arrangements of its nodes, branches, and terminal taxa is presented. Probabilities that sets of species are distinct clades are also given. The results are applicable to any number of taxa. Probabilities of trees are not altered by the absence of extinct or unstudied taxa. Applications of the results to systematics and further problems in the probability of evolutionary trees are discussed.
10.2307/2413546|Data from sequences of two chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) genes, ndhF and rbcL, and from restriction site mapping studies of the entire chloroplast genome were analyzed for the same set of 17 species of Solanaceae (potato/tomato family) and the outgroup Ipomoea (Convolvulaceae, morning glory family). ndhF is a more rapidly evolving gene and yields more phylogenetic information than does rbcL. The results of analyses of each data source independently are congruent with respect to certain major features of Solanaceae phylogeny but are in conflict with respect to the branching order within the monophyletic subfamily Solanoideae. This conflict resides in a portion of the phylogeny where relatively few characters are available in any of the three data sets. Combining the data into a single analysis yielded a more fully resolved tree, in which some clades are supported that are unique to each individual data set. However, in each such case, these resolved clades also were obtained when the two alternative data sets were analyzed together. The analysis of the combined data set provides substantial support for increased resolution within the Solanoideae and for the rest of the tree. The "X = 12" clade, so called because of a base chromosome number synapomorphy, comprises the subfamily Solanoideae, tribe Anthocercideae, and part of tribe Nicotianeae (Nicotiana) and is the most well-supported clade within the family.
10.2307/2413550|Discriminate compatibility measures are introduced. The character discriminate compatibility and the average character discriminate compatibility measures are used in weighted parsimony analysis in an iterative procedure, the reduction routine, to build trees. The data set discriminate compatibility measure is used to order and polarize characters. The average data set discriminate compatibility measure is used to measure the fit of different data sets and different user trees. Three inadequacies in the Le Quesne compatibility tests (Le Quesne, 1969, Syst. Zool. 18:201-205; 1979, Syst. Zool. 28:92-94) as applied by Penny and Hendy (1985, Cladistics 1:266-272; 1986, Mol. Biol. Evol. 3:403-417) and Sharkey (1989, Cladistics 5:63-86) are discussed.
10.2307/2413548|Current controversies about the definitions of taxon names reflect different underlying philosophical perspectives concerning the nature of definitions. The antithetical perspectives, called methodological essentialism and methodological nominalism (Popper, 1966, The open society and its enemies, Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton, NJ), are exemplified by alternative views in a controversy surrounding the definition of the name "Mammalia." Traditional perspectives on the definition of "Mammalia" are essentialistic in that the definition takes the form of a description stated in terms of the traits of individual organisms, thus implying that taxa are abstract categories, i.e., that taxa have essences. In addition, the extension of the defined term (the set of species or organisms to which the name applies) is logically prior to its intension or defining formula (the property or properties that a species or organism must have to be designated by the name). Consequently, the name is treated as if it had a designation proper to it, which conforms with the essentialistic view that the name is an abbreviated description of the essence. An alternative perspective is manifested in the redefinition of "Mammalia" as the name of the monotreme and therian crown clade. This perspective contrasts with the traditional one in that the definition is stated in terms of common ancestry relationships rather than organismal traits, thus implying that taxa are concrete composite wholes rather than abstract categories. In addition, the defining formula is logically prior to the extension of the defined term, and thus the name is treated only as a convenient label or shorthand symbol for the defining formula that has no proper designation. The replacement of an essentialistic perspective on the definitions of "Mammalia" and other taxon names by a more nominalistic one is associated with the development of a phylogenetic perspective on biological nomenclature and represents an important step in the development of a more broadly scientific approach to that subject.
10.2307/2413551|Analyses of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction sites and sequences were used to estimate phylogenetic relationships in the emydid turtle genus Graptemys. We compared resolution and concordance among four mtDNA data sets: (1) restriction sites, (2) cytochrome b sequences (380 base positions \[bp\]), (3) control region sequences (344 bp), and (4) combined (cytochrome b and control region) sequences. Five of the 12 currently recognized species could not be distinguished on the basis of restriction sites. Cytochrome b sequences provided even less phylogenetic information, whereas control region sequences identified all taxa. Bootstrap consensus trees for the restriction site and control region sequence data resolved three monophyletic clades: a pulchra group, a pseudogeographica group, and the basal G. geographica. Of the four data sets, the control region offered the greatest resolution with respect to species identification and phylogenetic information. However, a character congruence approach, combining both sequence and restriction site characters, significantly bolstered bootstrap support for the major clades and enhanced phylogenetic resolution within them. Sequence divergence estimates (restriction sites: 0.0-3.2%; cytochrome b: 0.0-1.5%) for Graptemys are among the lowest values reported for a generic-level comparison involving vertebrates. These findings are discussed in light of recent drainage isolation events along the Gulf of Mexico and a proposed slow rate of mtDNA evolution in turtles.
10.2307/2413547|Compositional bias, the occurrence of the four bases in unequal proportions, is a common feature of nucleotide sequences. We analyzed patterns of character-state reconstruction using maximum parsimony in two empirical data sets exhibiting compositional bias. For each case in which the inferred reciprocal numbers of changes for a pair of bases differed substantially, the two bases also differed markedly in relative abundance and the asymmetry of reconstructed transformations favored changes from the common state to the rare state. In addition, the compositional biases of the inferred ancestral sequences were more extreme than that seen in the terminal taxa, having an excess of common states relative to the terminals. Both of these features suggested that patterns of character-state reconstruction might be systematically distorted when compositional bias results in unequal representation of character states within a character, a condition we term character-state bias. Character-state bias is essentially compositional bias within a character. Simulation studies showed that highly asymmetric patterns of character-state reconstruction can be produced in the face of an underlying symmetry of character-state transformations in the presence of compositional bias. Rates of change are also important. The asymmetry of transformations produced in the simulations matched the pattern found in empirical data sets, with transformations from the common state to the rare state being more abundant. Rare states tend to be autapomorphic, typically requiring a change to the rare state on a tree. Conversely, changes from rare states to common states are systematically lost. These results are significant for methods that rely on character-state reconstruction using maximum parsimony, for example, to develop weighting schemes for phylogenetic analysis or to study patterns of correlated character evolution. Techniques that rely on character-state reconstruction may often be compromised by the distorting influence of character-state bias.
10.2307/2413549|The phylogenetic information content of five nuclear genes encoding amino acid sequences was assessed on the basis of their character support of well-established "test" phylogenies and their ability to recover these phylogenies using parsimony methods. The five genes encode dopa decarboxylase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, RNA polymerase II (largest subunit), elongation factor-2, and elongation factor-1. The analyses employ the unambiguously alignable portions of all available animal sequences for these genes, representing a range of divergence times from about 10 to >550 million years ago. Separate analyses, including character mappings on the test phylogenies and, when different, on the most-parsimonious trees, were performed with nucleotides separated by codon position and with amino acids. Pairwise sequence divergences were calculated for all comparisons and are related to character information content. Amino acid and most nucleotide character sets recovered the test phylogenies, although with varying degrees of support, homoplasy, and resolution, confirming that these genes contain substantial phylogenetic information. An estimate is provided of the time span over which each character set in each gene will prove phylogenetically most informative. These genes should prove widely useful for systematics.
10.2307/2413464|In the absence of certainty, well-corroborated hypotheses of species relationships serve as the best estimates of the true phylogenies of groups. This approach was extended to linked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences that share the same gene phylogenies because of nonrecombination. This expectation of congruence forms the basis to test the reliability of unequal weighting for different base positions and changes of DNA sequences. The principal data for this test were the mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA (rRNA), 16S rRNA, and cytochrome c oxidase subunit II sequences of five pecoran species (Artiodactyla, Eutheria), as obtained from the same plasmid clones and/or mtDNA isolations of brain, liver, or heart. Heavy weighting for stems and first/second codon positions and for transversions were first evaluated against the molecular evolutionary properties of the three genes and then evaluated by congruence, as measured in terms of both agreement and resolution. With unequal weighting, congruence was increased among the trees that result from separate analyses of the three genes. These results support the reliability of these weighting schemes and illustrate how phylogenetic accuracy can be tested with gene phylogenies for linked sequences (e.g., of mtDNA).
10.2307/2413460|Genes widely used in systematic studies have proven valuable for the resolution of relatively shallow (<50 million years ago [MYA]) and very deep (>300 MYA) divergences, but genes useful for moderately deep divergences have been lacking. Computerized data bases of gene sequences are growing at a rapid pace and provide a rich resource of genes likely to contain phylogenetic information about many levels of divergence. Despite the fact that the chosen gene must be appropriately matched to the phylogenetic divergence(s) of interest, little attention has been given to the estimation and/or evaluation of the likely phylogenetic utility of genes. Knowledge of the phylogenetic relationships and divergence times among organisms for which gene sequences are commonly available provides a powerful tool for estimating this utility. I conducted a survey with the goal of identifying the most promising genes for investigating divergences ranging from approximately 50 to 200 MYA in an amphibian clade. Nine nuclear protein genes were identified. These genes may be useful to systematists working on taxa with similar divergence times, and the general approach may serve as an example of how other such surveys could be conducted.
10.2307/2413463|Because phylogenies play a central role in many evolutionary and population genetic questions, it is vital to have confidence in phylogeny reconstructions for particular data sets. An algorithm recently introduced by Templeton et al. (1992, Genetics 132:619-633) simultaneously estimates cladograms from a given set of restriction site or nucleotide sequence data and calculates a confidence set of alternatives while allowing for the possibility of recombination within the data set. This method was developed for use at the intraspecific level, where mutational differences between operational taxonomic units are few Because of the strengths of this method, it would be desirable to use it at higher levels of phylogenetic analysis. I tested the accuracy of the method of Templeton et al. using a known phylogeny from bacteriophage T7, which simulates higher levels of diversification. This method has greater statistical power and more accurately reconstructs phylogenetic relationships than does maximum parsimony when few molecular characters are available for analysis, even at higher levels of diversification.
10.2307/2413462|In this paper, we describe the development of Hennig's most important phylogenetic concepts, which culminated in the publication of the now famous Phylogenetic Systematics in 1966. Hennig proposed strict definitions of monophyly and phylogenetic relationships as early as 1950 in Grundzuge einer Theorie der phylogenetischen Systematik. However, in this edition of the book, the terms "apomorphic" and "plesiomorphic" were introduced for taxa and not for characters. It was not until 1952 that these terms were consistently applied to characters, hereby for the first time allowing the reconstruction of phylogenetic relationships. But this is not Hennig's sole contribution to systematics, as revealed by a comparison of his Phylogenetic Systematics with publications of the "new systematics" school (e.g., Huxley, 1940, The new systematics, Oxford Univ. Press, Oxford, England; Mayr et al., 1953, Methods and principles of systematic zoology, McGraw-Hill, New York). Hennig was the person who redirected the interest of systematics to the study of supraspecific taxa after years of focusing on species and infraspecific taxa.
10.2307/2413459|Seven contrasting hypotheses of relationships of sarcopterygian groups are compared. The sister-group relationship of tetrapods to different fossil and Recent sarcopterygians is presented in the various hypotheses. Three possible sister-group relationships of tetrapods (to the Recent sarcopterygians, the Dipnoi, and Actinistia) are found among the seven hypotheses. The analyses presented here support all three possibilities to different degrees. Analysis of the complete data set drawn from studies that supported all seven hypotheses indicates that fossil taxa are more closely related to tetrapods than are Recent taxa. The Panderichthyida is the sister group of tetrapods, and both groups, together with Osteolepiformes, form the Choanata (the only osteichthyans with a true choana and one external nasal opening). The differences among the seven hypotheses are based on differences in selection of characters, as well as differences in hypotheses of homology. A test for congruence (synapomorphy) supports the initial homologizations. A careful analysis of each character for similarity and congruence is required before we may gain a higher level of reconciliation among the proposed hypotheses.
10.2307/2413461|Phylogenies based on single genes can be discordant with organismal phylogenies. One solution to this problem is to sequence independent genes and combine the data in phylogeny estimates. The mitochondrial gene ND1 was sequenced for representative noctuoid moths to complement a nuclear ribosomal RNA (rRNA) data set. Before combining the two data. sets, the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) data were analyzed under different assumptions of character treatment (unweighted sites, transversion parsimony, third codon site omitted). Although theoretical justifications exist for differentially weighting transversions and codon sites, these approaches did not improve our phylogeny estimates of noctuoid relationships based on only the mtDNA sequences. However, the contribution of the relatively small (25% of total data) but independent nuclear rRNA data set had a substantial impact on our analysis. The trees produced from the combined data do not support the monophyly of the largest family, the cutworms (Noctuidae). We suggest that cutworms are a grade rather than a clade in the superfamily. We mapped the replacement pathways of the ND1 amino acids using transformation series analysis and the most robust noctuoid tree. The resulting cladogram characters show that different amino acid replacement pathways exist for the same set of amino acid residues at different positions in the molecule. These replacement pathways do not conform to models proposed for protein evolution.
10.2307/2413675|A 2,479-base pair mitochondrial DNA fragment was sequenced for eight chromosome races of Sceloporus grammicus from central Mexico to estimate their phylogenetic relationships. The species S. poinsetti and S. olivaceus were used separately as alternative outgroups. A total of 795 positions varied in three complete protein-coding genes examined (ND3, ND4L, ND4), and 52 of 292 positions varied across five transfer RNAs examined (glycine, argenine, histidine, serine, leucine). Sequence divergence values ranged from 0.0 to 0.23 among the ingroup taxa, and a maximum of 0.26 was observed between ingroup and outgroup taxa. Alternative analyses based upon equally weighted characters and several alternative character-weighting options were used to obtain phylogenetic hypotheses for the complex, and a single most-parsimonious tree was selected from among these on the basis of a new character-weighting method that takes into account the observed frequencies of all 12 possible substitutions for protein genes. The most-parsimonious cladogram showed that chromosomal evolution in this complex has been more complicated than previously hypothesized. Several rearrangements (Robertsonian fissions) have evolved independently on two or more occasions, which corroborates evidence from other studies showing that single rearrangements are not underdominant upon their origin, and their fixation probabilities are enhanced by repeated origins. These observations refute expectations of some general models of chromosome evolution. The same phylogenetic hypothesis was used to test the minimum-interaction model of chromosome evolution and a specific model for the evolution of macrochromosome 2. A clear distinction was also possible among alternative hypotheses of relationship for three chromosome races involved in hybridization, and the consequences for the role of chromosomal rearrangements in reducing gene flow are discussed in this context.
10.2307/2413673|Consensus trees provide a means of representing cladistic information that is common to a set of fundamental trees. An analysis of the logical relations that pertain between different classes of cladistic information was undertaken. A general class of information, n-taxon statements, is recognized as a form of cladistic information in terms of which triplets (three-taxon statements), components, and subset nestings can be described. Disqualifiers (the negations of n-taxon statements) comprise an additional class of cladistic information. As is widely recognized, strict and Adams consensus methods have problems of insensitivity and ambiguity, respectively. New consensus methods were developed that solve these problems. The reduced Adams consensus method was developed to facilitate the unambiguous interpretation of Adams consensus trees. The reduced cladistic consensus method provides a solution to the problem of graphically representing all n-taxon statements that are common to a set of fundamental trees. A means of representing common disqualifiers using disqualifier-faithful subtrees is also suggested. The utility of consensus methods is discussed in the light of the development of the new methods, including the use of consensus trees in the measure of support and in support-based randomization tests.
10.2307/2413671|Molecular developmental genetics and systematics appear to have much to offer one another, but the phylogenetic perspective of systematics has yet to be applied consistently to molecular developmental problems. Yet phylogenetic analysis of the genes involved in the regulation of development is an important approach to elucidating orthologous relationships among the members of multigene families. Recognizing orthologues, in turn, is a prerequisite for the identification of general development mechanisms underlying the diversity of observed morphologies. Gene phylogenies also provide objectively based hypotheses for studying the evolution of gene structure and expression. This approach is explored with the MADS-box family of plant genes, many of whose members are involved in the regulation of floral development. Topologies of reconstructed phylogenies are used to address questions concerning intron evolution and expression patterns in the family. Detailed understanding of the molecular basis of developmental pathways should offer systematists new criteria for assessing the homologies of morphological characters used in phylogenetic analysis. This approach suggests a future direction for "molecular" systematics, complementing its current role in inferring organismal phylogenies directly from gene trees. Such a research program is likely to be time consuming but justifiable for certain classes of morphological characters, particularly those marking ancient origins of major groups.
10.2307/2413674|This paper presents an analysis of data from two published phylogenies of North American dabbling ducks (Anas), one based on mitochondrial DNA restriction fragments (Kessler and Avise, 1984, Syst. Zool. 33:370-380) and one based on morphology (Livezey, 1991, Auk 108:471-508). Although the published phylogenies differ greatly in topology, most of the apparent disagreement stems from the phenetic rooting method used in the molecular study. Rooting by outgroup and using the same taxa from both data sets revealed that the most-parsimonious trees for the two data sets differ only in the placement of one clade. Furthermore, several lines of evidence show that there is greater character congruence between the molecular and morphological data sets for these ducks than for most other taxa for which data are published: (1) an incongruence index (I<sub>MF</sub>; Mickevich and Farris, 1981, Syst. Zool. 30:351-370) demonstrates that only 1.35% of the character incongruence in the combined data is due to incongruence between the data sets; (2) for each data set, trees only a few steps longer than the shortest tree match the most-parsimonious tree from the other data set; and (3) a way of applying correlation coefficients to branch lengths reveals a high correlation in branch lengths (r<sub>BL</sub> = 0.78) and total evolutionary changes (r<sub>TE</sub> = 0.68) between matching phylograms from the two data sets. These correlations also show that the two character types evolved at similar relative rates in any given lineage, even though there were real rate differences between lineages. The high degree of character congruence means that the discrepancy between the most-parsimonious trees are due to insufficient data, not real disagreement. This situation warrants combining the data sets, and the resulting shortest cladogram is more strongly supported than is either of the shortest trees from the individual data sets. The correspondence between the data sets validates the soundness of the inferred trees, showing that they are a reliable basis for classification and studies of character evolution.
10.2307/2413672|A proof is presented that the maximum likelihood (ML) method of phylogenetic estimation from DNA sequences (Felsenstein, 1981, J. Mol. Evol. 17:368-376) is statistically consistent despite the irregularity of the parameter space of the estimation problem. The distance matrix method using the least squares (LS) criterion is also consistent, but disconnection of two steps in the method, i.e., estimation of sequence divergence and construction of the tree topology, appears to lead to both theoretical contradictions and practical problems. Comparison of the ML and LS methods shows that the ML method is much more, indeed extremely, tolerant to violation of its assumptions and also has smaller sampling errors caused by limited data. This conclusion should be general, independent of particular models, tree topologies, and number of species in the data set. The problem of evaluating the reliability of the estimated tree topology was examined. The test of positivity of the interior branch length in the estimated tree is not a test of the significance of the ML tree but may be taken as a test of the significance of the LS tree.
3070871|Evolutionary biologists have adopted simple likelihood models for purposes of estimating ancestral states and evaluating character independence on specified phylogenies; however, for purposes of estimating phylogenies by using discrete morphological data, maximum parsimony remains the only option. This paper explores the possibility of using standard, well-behaved Markov models for estimating morphological phylogenies (including branch lengths) under the likelihood criterion. An important modification of standard Markov models involves making the likelihood conditional on characters being variable, because constant characters are absent in morphological data sets. Without this modification, branch lengths are often overestimated, resulting in potentially serious biases in tree topology selection. Several new avenues of research are opened by an explicitly model-based approach to phylogenetic analysis of discrete morphological data, including combined-data likelihood analyses (morphology + sequence data), likelihood ratio tests, and Bayesian analyses.
3070867|Although the phylogenetic position of brachiopods has always been subject to debate, many authors place them as a sister group to deuterostomes on the basis of morphological and developmental characters. However, molecular phylogeny consistently places them among protostomes. More precisely; brachiopods are predicted to branch inside the lophotrochozoan assemblage, together with annelids, molluscs, nemerteans, flatworms, and others. That result has been criticized on the basis of (1) prior knowledge of brachiopod morphology and (2) the known limitations of molecular phylogenies. Here I review recent data of molecular origin, particularly those displaying qualitative properties close to those of morphological characters. The complement of Hox genes present in all metazoa tested to date has proved to be a powerful tool for broad phylogenetic reconstruction. The mitochondrial genome also provides qualitative characters, showing discrete events of gene rearrangements. After discussing the data and the way they should be interpreted in the perspective of several hypotheses for metazoan phylogeny, I conclude that they argue strongly in favor of the protostome (and lophotrochozoan) affinity of the brachiopods. There is therefore a need for a reinterpretation of brachiopod morphological and developmental characters. I also identify some research axes on brachiopod morphology.
3070864| The possibility of gene tree incongruence in a species-level phylogenetic analysis of the genus Ips (Coleoptera: Scolytidae) was investigated based on mitochondrial 16S rRNA (16S) and nuclear elongation factor-1 (EF-1) sequences, and existing cytochrome oxidase I (COI) and non-molecular data sets. Separate cladistic analyses of the data partitions resulted in partially discordant most-parsimonious trees but revealed only low conflict of the phylogenetic signal. Interactions among data partitions, which differed in the extent of sequence divergence (COI > 16S > EF-1), base composition, and homoplasy, revealed that much of the branch support emerges only in the simultaneous analysis, particularly for deeper nodes in the tree, which are almost entirely supported through" hidden support" (sensu Gatesy et al., Cladistics 15:271-313, 1999). Apparent incongruence between data partitions is in part due to suboptimal alignments and bias of character transformations, but little evidence supports invoking incongruent phylogenetic histories of genetic loci. There is also no justification for eliminating or downweighting gene partitions on the basis of their apparent homoplasy or incongruence with other partitions, because the signal emerges only in the interaction of all data. In comparison with traditional taxonomy, the pini, plastographus, and perturbatus groups are polyphyletic, whereas the grandicollis group is monophyletic except for inclusion of the (monophyletic) calligraphus group. The latidens group and some European species are distantly related and closer to other genera within Ipini. Our robust cladogram was used to revise the classification of Ips. We provide new diagnoses for Ips and four subgeneric taxa. 
3070869|For more than 10 years, systematists have been debating the superiority of character or taxonomic congruence in phylogenetic analysis. In this paper, we demonstrate that the competing approaches can converge to the same solution when a consensus method that accounts for branch lengths is selected. Thus, we propose to use both methods in combination, as a way to corroborate the results of combined and separate analyses. This so-called "global congruence" approach is tested with a wide variety of examples sampled from the literature, and the results are compared with those obtained by standard consensus methods. Our analyses show that when the total evidence and consensus trees differ topologically, collapsing weakly supported nodes with low bootstrap support usually improves "global congruence."
3070870|Areas of endemism are central to cladistic biogeography. The concept has been much debated in the past, and from this has emerged the generally accepted definition as an area to which at least two species are endemic. Protocols for locating areas of endemism have been neglected, and to date no attempt has been made to develop optimality criteria against which to evaluate competing hypotheses of areas of endemism. Here various protocols for finding areas of endemism are evaluated-protocols based on both phenetic and parsimony analyses, on both unweighted data and data weighted by various criteria. The optimality criteria used to compare the performance of the methods include the number of species included in the areas of endemism, the number of areas delimited, and the degree of distributional congruency of the species restricted to each area of endemism. These methods are applied to the African Restionaceae in the Cape Floristic Region. Parsimony methods using weighted data are shown to perform best on the combination of all three optimality criteria. By varying the weighting parameters, the size of the areas of endemism can be varied. This provides a very useful tool for locating areas of endemism that satisfy prespecified scale criteria.
3070872|The Zingiberales are a tropical group of monocotyledons that includes bananas, gingers, and their relatives. The phylogenetic relationships among the eight families currently recognized are investigated here by using parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of four character sets: morphological features (1), and sequence data of the (2) chloroplast rbcL gene, (3) chloroplast atpB gene, and (4) nuclear 18S rDNA gene. Outgroups for the analyses include the closely related Commelinaceae + Philydraceae + Haemodoraceae + Pontederiaceae + Hanguanaceae as well as seven more distantly related monocots and paleoherbs. Only slightly different estimates of evolutionary relationships result from the analysis of each character set. The morphological data yield a single fully resolved most-parsimonious tree. None of the molecular datasets alone completely resolves interfamilial relationships. The analyses of the combined molecular dataset provide more resolution than do those of individual genes, and the addition of the morphological data provides a well-supported estimate of phylogenetic relationships: (Musaceae ((Strelitziaceae, Lowiaceae) (Heliconiaceae ((Zingiberaceae, Costaceae) (Cannaceae, Marantaceae))))). Evidence from branch lengths in the parsimony analyses and from the fossil record suggests that the Zingiberales originated in the Early Cretaceous and underwent a rapid radiation in the mid-Cretaceous, by which time most extant family lineages had diverged.
3070868|Fruit type in the genus Lithocarpus (Fagaceae) includes both classic oak acorns and novel modifications. Bornean taxa with modified fruits can be separated into two sections (Synaedrys and Lithocarpus) based on subtle shape differences. By following strict criteria for homology and representation, this variation in shape can be captured and the sections distinguished by using elliptic Fourier or eigenshape analysis. Phenograms of fruit shape, constructed by using restricted maximum likelihood techniques and these morphometric descriptors, were incorporated into combined and comparative analyses with molecular sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the nuclear rDNA, using branch-weighted matrix representation. The combined analysis strongly suggested independent derivation of the novel fruit type in the two sections from different acorn-like ancestors, while the comparative analysis indicated frequent decoupling between the molecular and morphological changes as inferred at well-supported nodes. The acorn fruit type has undergone little modification between ingroup and outgroup, despite large molecular distance. Greater morphological than molecular change was inferred at critical transitions between acorn and novel fruit types, particularly for section Lithocarpus. The combination of these two different types of data improved our understanding of the macroevolution of fruit type in this difficult group, and the comparative analysis highlighted the significant incongruities in evolutionary pattern between the two datasets.
3070866|Rapid, ancient radiations pose one of the most difficult challenges for phylogenetic estimation. We used DNA sequence data of 9,006 aligned base pairs from five genes (chloroplast atpB, matK, rbcL, and 18S and 26S nrDNA) to elucidate relationships among major lineages of Saxifragales (angiosperms, eudicots). These relationships were poorly supported in previous studies, apparently because the lineages originated in rapid succession. Using an array of methods that explicitly incorporate assumptions about evolutionary process (weighted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, LogDet/paralinear transformed distances), we show that the initial diversification of Saxifragales was indeed rapid. We suggest that the poor resolution of our best phylogenetic estimate is not due to violations of assumptions or to combining data partitions having conflicting histories or processes. We show that estimated branch lengths during the initial diversification are exceedingly short, and we estimate that acquiring sufficient sequence data to resolve these relationships would require an extraordinary effort (10<sup>7</sup>bp), assuming a linear increase in branch support with branch length. However, our simulation of much larger data sets containing a distribution of phylogenetic signal similar to that of the five sampled gene sequences suggests a limit to achievable branch support. Using statistical tests of differences in the likelihoods of topologies, we evaluated whether the initial radiation of Saxifragales involved the simultaneous origin of major lineages. Our results are consistent with predictions that resolving the branching order of rapid, ancient radiations requires sampling characters that evolved rapidly at the time of the radiation but have since experienced a slower evolutionary rate.
3070865| Trichoptera are holometabolous insects with aquatic larvae that, together with the Lepidoptera, make up the Amphiesmenoptera. Despite extensive previous morphological work, little phylogenetic agreement has been reached about the relationship among the three suborders-Annulipalpia, Spicipalpia, and Integripalpia-or about the monophyly of Spicipalpia. In an effort to resolve this conflict, we sequenced fragments of the large and small subunit nuclear ribosomal RNAs (1078 nt; D1, D3, V4-5), the nuclear elongation factor 1 gene (EF-1; 1098 nt), and a fragment of mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI; 411 nt). Seventy adult and larval morphological characters were reanalyzed and added to molecular data in a combined analysis. We evaluated signal and homoplasy in each of the molecular datasets and attempted to rank the particular datasets according to how appropriate they were for inferring relationships among suborders. This evaluation included testing for conflict among datasets, comparing tree lengths among alternative hypotheses, measuring the left-skew of tree-length distributions from maximally divergent sets of taxa, evaluating the recovery of expected clades, visualizing whether or not substitutions were accumulating with time, and estimating nucleotide compositional bias. Although all these measures cast doubt on the reliability of the deep-level signal coming from the nucleotides of the COI and EF-1 genes, these data could still be included in combined analyses without overturning the results from the most conservative marker, the rRNA. The different datasets were found to be evolving under extremely different rates. A site-specific likelihood method for dealing with combined data with nonoverlapping parameters was proposed, and a similar weighting scheme under parsimony was evaluated. Among our phylogenetic conclusions, we found Annulipalpia to be the most basal of the three suborders, with Spicipalpia and Integripalpia forming a clade. Monophyly of Annulipalpia and Integripalpia was confirmed, but the relationships among spicipalpians remain equivocal. 
3070873|Current hypotheses regarding family relationships in the suborder Adephaga (Coleoptera) are conflicting. Here we report full-length 18S ribosomal RNA sequences of 39 adephagans and 13 outgroup taxa. Data analysis focused on the impact of sequence alignment on tree topology, using two principally different approaches. Tree alignments, which seek to minimize indels and substitutions on the tree in a single step, as implemented in an approximate procedure by the computer program POY, were contrasted with a more traditional procedure based on alignments followed by phylogenetic inference based on parsimony, likelihood, and distance analyses. Despite substantial differences between the procedures, phylogenetic conclusions regarding basal relationships within Adephaga and relationships between the four suborders of Coleoptera were broadly similar. The analysis weakly supports monophyly of Adephaga, with Polyphaga usually as its sister, and the two small suborders Myxophaga and Archostemata basal to them. In some analyses, however, Polyphaga was reconstructed as having arisen from within Hydradephaga. Adephaga generally split into two monophyletic groups, corresponding to the terrestrial Geadephaga and the aquatic Hydradephaga, as initially proposed by Crowson in 1955, consistent with a single colonization of the aquatic environment by adephagan ancestors and contradicting the recent proposition of three independent invasions. A monophyletic Hydradephaga is consistently, though not strongly, supported under most analyses, and a parametric bootstrapping test significantly rejects an hypothesis of nonmonophyly. The enigmatic Trachypachidae, which exhibit many similarities to aquatic forms but whose species are entirely terrestrial, were usually recovered as a basal lineage within Geadephaga. Strong evidence opposes the view that terrestrial trachypachids are related to the dytiscoid water beetles.
3070956|In this paper we describe a new heuristic strategy designed to find optimal (parsimonious) trees for data sets with large numbers of taxa and characters. This new strategy uses an iterative searching process of branch swapping with equally weighted characters, followed by swapping with reweighted characters. This process increases the efficiency of the search because, after each round of swapping with reweighted characters, the subsequent swapping with equal weights will start from a different group (island) of trees that are only slightly, if at all, less optimal. In contrast, conventional heuristic searching with constant equal weighting can become trapped on islands of suboptimal trees. We test the new strategy against a conventional strategy and a modified conventional strategy and show that, within a given time, the new strategy finds trees that are markedly more parsimonious. We also compare our new strategy with a recent, independently developed strategy known as the Parsimony Ratchet.
3070958|A phylogenetic hypothesis of relationships among 33 species of stalk-eyed flies was generated from a molecular data set comprising three mitochondrial and three nuclear gene regions. A combined analysis of all the data equally weighted produced a single most-parsimonious cladogram with relatively strong support at the majority of nodes. The phylogenetic utility of different classes of molecular data was also examined. In particular, using a number of different measures of utility in both a combined and separate analysis framework, we focused on the distinction between mitochondrial and nuclear genes and between faster-evolving characters and slower-evolving characters. For the first comparison, by nearly any measure of utility, the nuclear genes are substantially more informative for resolving diopsid relationships than are the mitochondrial genes. The nuclear genes exhibit less homoplasy, are less incongruent with one another and with the combined data, and contribute more support to the combined analysis topology than do the mitochondrial genes. Results from the second comparison, however, provide little evidence of a clear difference in utility. Despite indications of rapid divergence and saturation, faster-evolving characters in both the nuclear and mitochondrial data sets still provide substantial phylogenetic signal. In general, inclusion of the more rapidly evolving data consistently improves the congruence among partitions.
3070955|We studied the molecular phylogeny of the carabid subgenus Ohomopterus (genus Carabus), using two mitochondrial (mt) DNA regions (16SrRNA and NADH dehydrogenase subunit 5) and three nuclear DNA regions (wingless, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, and an anonymous locus). We revisited the previously reported incongruence between the distribution of mtDNA markers and morphologically defined species (Su et al., 1996; J. Mol. Evol. 43:662-671), which those authors attributed to "type switching", a concerted change in many morphological characters that results in the repeated evolution of a particular morphological type. Our mtDNA gene tree obtained from 44 individuals representing all 15 currently recognized species of Ohomopterus revealed that haplotypes isolated from individuals of a single "species" were frequently separated into distant clades, confirming the previous report. The three nuclear markers generally conformed better-with the morphologically defined species than did the mitochondrial markers. The phylogenetic signal in mtDNA and nuclear DNA data differed strongly, and these two partitions were significantly incongruent with each other according to the incongruence length difference test of Farris et al. (1994; Cladistics 10:315-320), although the three nuclear partitions were not homogeneous either. Our results did not support the type-switching hypothesis that had been proposed to fit the morphological data to the mitochondrial gene tree: The incongruence of the mtDNA tree with other nuclear markers indicates that the mtDNA-based tree does not reflect species history any better than the morphological data do. Incongruence of gene trees in Ohomopterus may have been promoted by the complex processes of geographic isolation and hybridization in the Japanese Archipelago that have led to occasional gene flow and recombination between separated entities. The occurrence of reticulate patterns in this group is intriguing, because species of Ohomopterus exhibit extremely divergent genitalic structures that represent a highly efficient reproductive isolation mechanism.
3070957|We have investigated the effects of different among-site rate variation models on the estimation of substitution model parameters, branch lengths, topology, and bootstrap proportions under minimum evolution (ME) and maximum likelihood (ML). Specifically, we examined equal rates, invariable sites, gamma-distributed rates, and site-specific rates (SSR) models, using mitochondrial DNA sequence data from three protein-coding genes and one tRNA gene from species of the New Zealand cicada genus Maoricicada. Estimates of topology were relatively insensitive to the substitution model used; however, estimates of bootstrap support, branch lengths, and R-matrices (underlying relative substitution rate matrix) were strongly influenced by the assumptions of the substitution model. We identified one situation where ME and ML tree building became inaccurate when implemented with an inappropriate among-site rate variation model. Despite the fact the SSR models often have a better fit to the data than do invariable sites and gamma rates models, SSR models have some serious weaknesses. First, SSR rate parameters are not comparable across data sets, unlike the proportion of invariable sites or the alpha shape parameter of the gamma distribution. Second, the extreme among-site rate variation within codon positions is problematic for SSR models, which explicitly assume rate homogeneity within each rate class. Third, the SSR models appear to give severe underestimates of R-matrices and branch lengths relative to invariable sites and gamma rates models in this example. We recommend performing phylogenetic analyses under a range of substitution models to test the effects of model assumptions not only on estimates of topology but also on estimates of branch length and nodal support.
3070959| Although it is widely agreed that data from multiple sources are necessary to confidently resolve phylogenetic relationships, procedures for accommodating and incorporating heterogeneity in such data remain underdeveloped. We explored the use of partitioned, model-based analyses of heterogeneous molecular data in the context of a phylogenetic study of swallowtail butterflies (Lepidoptera: Papilionidae). Despite substantial basic and applied study, phylogenetic relationships among the major lineages of this prominent group remain contentious. We sequenced 3.3 kb of mitochondrial and nuclear DNA (2.3 kb of cytochrome oxidase I and II and 1.0 kb of elongation factor-1, respectively) from 22 swallowtails, including representatives of Baroniinae, Parnassiinae, and Papilioninae, and from several moth and butterfly outgroups. Using parsimony, we encountered considerable difficulty in resolving the deepest splits among these taxa. We therefore chose two outgroups with undisputed relationships to each other and to Papilionidae and undertook detailed likelihood analyses of alternative topologies. Following from previous studies that have demonstrated substantial heterogeneity in the evolutionary dynamics among process partitions of these genes, we estimated evolutionary parameters separately for gene-based and codon-based partitions. These values were then used as the basis for examining the likelihoods of possible resolutions and rootings under several partitioned and unpartitioned likelihood models. Partitioned models gave markedly better fits to the data than did unpartitioned models and supported different topologies. However, the most likely topology varied from model to model. The most likely ingroup topology under the best-fitting, six-partition GTR +  model favors a paraphyletic Parnassiinae. However, when examining the likelihoods of alternative rootings of this tree relative to rootings of the classical hypothesis, two rootings of the latter emerge as most likely. Of these two, the most likely rooting is within the Papilioninae, although a rooting between Baronia and the remaining Papilionidae is only nonsignificantly less likely. 
3070953|The maximum likelihood (ML) method of phylogenetic tree construction is not as widely used as other tree construction methods (e.g., parsimony, neighbor-joining) because of the prohibitive amount of time required to find the ML tree when the number of sequences under consideration is large. To overcome this difficulty, we propose a stochastic search strategy for estimation of the ML tree that is based on a simulated annealing algorithm. The algorithm works by moving through tree space by way of a "local rearrangement" strategy so that topologies that improve the likelihood are always accepted, whereas those that decrease the likelihood are accepted with a probability that is related to the proportionate decrease in likelihood. Besides greatly reducing the time required to estimate the ML tree, the stochastic search strategy is less likely to become trapped in local optima than are existing algorithms for ML tree estimation. We demonstrate the success of the modified simulated annealing algorithm by comparing it with two existing algorithms (Swofford's PAUP<sup>*</sup> and Felsenstein's DNAMLK) for several theoretical and real data examples.
3070954|Ecological adaptation within islands may have figured prominently in the insular radiation of black flies (subgenus Inseliellum) in the Society Islands, French Polynesia. To aid in understanding the sequence of ecological shifts in this group, we have constructed a phylogeny by using morphology, the cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene, and the small ribosomal subunit (12S) gene. The strong influence of COI on the combined analysis tree was evident from its contribution to the partitioned Bremer support (62%). The net effect of including 12S was to reduce overall tree support. Different character sets resolved different portions of the combined analysis tree, with COI resolving recent lineages, 12S resolving basal relationships, and morphology supporting the monophyly of taxa having smaller larval feeding fans (oviceps group). The Partition Homogeneity and Kashino-Hasegawa tests indicated significant incongruence between morphological and mitochondrial data. The Templeton test revealed that morphology and the combined (COI + 12S) mitochondrial data were incongruent. This conflict stems primarily from disagreement over the monophyly of taxa having much smaller larval feeding fans. Either convergence in a subset of morphological characters, low phylogenetic signal among mitochondrial sequences, or lineage-sorting causing the mitochondrial data to track an incorrect evolutionary history may be responsible for these results.
3070848|The microbial way of life spans at least 3.8 billion years of evolution. Microbial organisms are pervasive, ubiquitous, and essential components of all ecosystems. The geochemical composition of Earth's biosphere has been molded largely by microbial activities. Yet, despite the predominance of microbes during the course of life's history, general principles and theory of microbial evolution and ecology are not well developed. Until recently, investigators had no idea how accurately cultivated microorganisms represented overall microbial diversity. The development of molecular phylogenetics has recently enabled characterization of naturally occurring microbial biota without cultivation. Free from the biases of culture-based studies, molecular phylogenetic surveys have revealed a vast array of new microbial groups. Many of these new microbes are widespread and abundant among contemporary microbiota and fall within novel divisions that branch deep within the tree of life. The breadth and extent of extant microbial diversity has become much clearer. A remaining challenge for microbial biologists is to better characterize the biological properties of these newly described microbial taxa. This more comprehensive picture will provide much better perspective on the natural history, ecology, and evolution of extant microbial life.
3070849|Unlike crown eukaryotic species, microbial species are created by continual processes of gene loss and acquisition promoted by horizontal genetic transfer. The amounts of foreign DNA in bacterial genomes, and the rate at which this is acquired, are consistent with gene transfer as the primary catalyst for microbial differentiation. However, the rate of successful gene transfer varies among bacterial lineages. The heterogeneity in foreign DNA content is directly correlated with amount of genetic headroom intrinsic to a bacterial species. Genetic headroom reflects the amount of potentially dispensable information-reflected in codon usage bias and codon context bias-that can be transiently sacrificed to allow experimentation with functions introduced by gene transfer. In this way, genetic headroom offers a potential metric for assessing the propensity of a lineage to speciate.
3070854|A set of experiments based on simulation and analysis found that using the parsimony algorithm for ancestral state estimation can benefit from increased sampling of terminal taxa. Estimation at the base of small clades showed strong sensitivity to tree topology and number of descendent tips. These effects were largely driven by the creation and negation of ambiguity across a topology. Root state and internal state estimation showed similar behavior. We conclude that increased taxon sampling density is generally advisable, and attention to topological effects may be advisable in evaluating the confidence placed in state estimation. We also explore the factors affecting ancestral state estimation and conjecture that as taxa are added to a tree, the total amount of information for root state estimation depends on the tree topology and distance to root state of added taxa. For a pure-birth model tree, we conjecture that the addition of N taxa increases root state information in proportion to log(N).
3070850|Prokaryotes have been at the forefront of the genome sequencing revolution. Many genomes have been completely sequenced, revealing much about bacterial and archaeal genome content and organization. Yet, a meaningful evolutionary picture of prokaryotes still eludes us. Much of the problem lies in understanding the mode and tempo of genome evolution. Here phenylalanyl-tRNA synthetase is used as an example of the complex interplay among lateral gene transfer, operon recombination, and gene recruitment in the evolution of some prokaryotic genes. Promising new approaches to genomic analyses, which could add to our understanding prokaryotic evolution and help in their classification, are discussed.
3070853|A phylogeny of the mosquito subfamily Anophelinae was inferred from fragments of two protein-coding nuclear genes, G<sub>6pd</sub> (462 bp) and white (801 bp), and from a combined data set (2,136 bp) that included a portion of the mitochondrial gene ND5 and the D2 region of the ribosomal 28S gene. Sixteen species from all three anopheline genera and six Anopheles subgenera were sampled, along with six species of other mosquitoes used as an outgroup. Each of four genes analyzed individually recovered the same well-supported clades; topological incongruence was limited to unsupported or poorly supported nodes. As assessed by the incongruence length difference test, most of the conflicting signal was contributed by third codon positions. Strong structural constraints, as observed in white and G<sub>6pd</sub>, apparently had little impact on phylogenetic inference. Compared with the other genes, white provided a superior source of phylogenetic information. However, white appears to have experienced accelerated rates of evolution in few lineages, the affinities of which are therefore suspect. In combined analyses, most of the inferred relationships were well-supported and in agreement with previous studies: monophyly of Anophelinae, basal position of Chagasia, monophyly of Anopheles subgenera, and subgenera Nyssorhynchus + Kerteszia as sister taxa. The results suggested also monophyletic origin of subgenera Cellia + Anopheles, and the white gene analysis supported genus Bironella as a sister taxon to Anopheles. The present data and other available evidence suggest a South American origin of Anophelinae, probably in the Mesozoic; a rapid diversification of Bironella and basal subgeneric lineages of Anopheles, potentially associated with the breakup of Gondwanaland; and a relatively recent and rapid dispersion of subgenus Anopheles.
3070855|Despite the growing popularity of supertree construction for combining phylogenetic information to produce more inclusive phylogenies, large-scale performance testing of this method has not been done. Through simulation, we tested the accuracy of the most widely used supertree method, matrix representation with parsimony analysis (MRP), with respect to a (maximum parsimony) total evidence solution and a known model tree. When source trees overlap completely, MRP provided a reasonable approximation of the total evidence tree; agreement was usually >85%. Performance improved slightly when using smaller, more numerous, or more congruent source trees, and especially when elements were weighted in proportion to the bootstrap frequencies of the nodes they represented on each source tree ("weighted MRP"). Although total evidence always estimated the model tree slightly better than nonweighted MRP methods, weighted MRP in turn usually outperformed total evidence slightly. When source studies were even moderately nonoverlapping (i.e., sharing only three-quarters of the taxa), the high proportion of missing data caused a loss in resolution that severely degraded the performance for all methods, including total evidence. In such cases, even combining more trees, which had positive effects elsewhere, did not improve accuracy. Instead, "seeding" the supertree or total evidence analyses with a single largely complete study improved performance substantially. This finding could be an important strategy for any studies that seek to combine phylogenetic information. Overall, our results suggest that MRP supertree construction provides a reasonable approximation of a total evidence solution and that weighted MRP should be used whenever possible.
3070856|Despite the relevant role of models of nucleotide substitution in phylogenetics, choosing among different models remains a problem. Several statistical methods for selecting the model that best fits the data at hand have been proposed, but their absolute and relative performance has not yet been characterized. In this study, we compare under various conditions the performance of different hierarchical and dynamic likelihood ratio tests, and of Akaike and Bayesian information methods, for selecting best-fit models of nucleotide substitution. We specifically examine the role of the topology used to estimate the likelihood of the different models and the importance of the order in which hypotheses are tested. We do this by simulating DNA sequences under a known model of nucleotide substitution and recording how often this true model is recovered by the different methods. Our results suggest that model selection is reasonably accurate and indicate that some likelihood ratio test methods perform overall better than the Akaike or Bayesian information criteria. The tree used to estimate the likelihood scores does not influence model selection unless it is a randomly chosen tree. The order in which hypotheses are tested, and the complexity of the initial model in the sequence of tests, influence model selection in some cases. Model fitting in phylogenetics has been suggested for many years, yet many authors still arbitrarily choose their models, often using the default models implemented in standard computer programs for phylogenetic estimation. We show here that a best-fit model can be readily identified. Consequently, given the relevance of models, model fitting should be routine in any phylogenetic analysis that uses models of evolution.
3070851|Bacteria are profoundly different from eukaryotes in their patterns of genetic exchange. Nevertheless, ecological diversity is organized in the same way across all of life: individual organisms fall into more or less discrete clusters on the basis of their phenotypic, ecological, and DNA sequence characteristics. Each sequence cluster in the bacterial world appears to correspond to an "ecotype," defined as a population of cells in the same ecological niche, which would all be out-competed by any adaptive mutant coming from the population. Ecotypes, so defined, share many of the dynamic properties attributed to eukaryotic species: genetic diversity within an ecotype is limited by a force of cohesion (in this case, periodic selection); different ecotypes are free to diverge without constraint from one another; and ecotypes are ecologically distinct. Also, ecotypes can be discovered and classified as DNA sequence clusters, even when we are ignorant of their ecology. Owing to the rarity and promiscuity of bacterial genetic exchange, speciation in the bacterial world is expected to be much less constrained than in the world of animals and plants.
3070838|Different views of the pattern of social evolution among the highly eusocial bees have arisen as a result of discordance between past molecular and morphology-based phylogenies. Here we present new data and taxa for four molecular data sets and reassess the morphological characters available to date. We show there is no significant character incongruence between four molecular data sets (two nuclear and two mitochondrial), but highly significant character incongruence leads to topological incongruence between the molecular and morphological data. We investigate the effects of using different outgroup combinations to root the estimated tree. We also consider various ways in which biases in the sequence data could be misleading, using several maximum likelihood models, LogDet corrections, and spectral analyses. Ultimately, we concede there is strong discordance between the molecular and morphological data partitions and appropriately apply the conditional combination approach in this case. We also find two equally well supported placements of the root for the molecular trees, one supported by 16S and 28S sequences, the other supported by cytochrome b and opsin. The strength of the evidence leads us to accept two equally well supported hypotheses based on analyses of the molecular data sets. These are the most rigorously supported hypotheses of corbiculate bee relationships at this time, and frame our argument that highly eusocial behavior within the corbiculate bees evolved twice independently.
3070840|The obligate mutualism between pollinating fig wasps in the family Agaonidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea) and Ficus species (Moraceae) is often regarded as an example of coevolution but little is known about the history of the interaction, and understanding the origin of functionally dioecious fig pollination has been especially difficult. The phylogenetic relationships of fig wasps pollinating functionally dioecious Ficus were inferred from mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase gene sequences (mtDNA) and morphology. Separate and combined analyses indicated that the pollinators of functionally dioecious figs are not monophyletic. However, pollinator relationships were generally congruent with host phylogeny and support a revised classification of Ficus. Ancestral changes in pollinator ovipositor length also correlated with changes in fig breeding systems. In particular, the relative elongation of the ovipositor was associated with the repeated loss of functionally dioecious pollination. The concerted evolution of interacting morphologies may bias estimates of phylogeny based on female head characters, but homoplasy is not so strong in other morphological traits. The lesser phylogenetic utility of morphology than of mtDNA is not due to rampant convergence in morphology but rather to the greater number of potentially informative characters in DNA sequence data; patterns of nucleotide substitution also limit the utility of mtDNA findings. Nonetheless, inferring the ancestral associations of fig pollinators from the best-supported phylogeny provided strong evidence of host conservatism in this highly specialized mutualism.
3070836|A new method of coding polymorphic multistate characters for phylogenetic analysis is presented. By dividing such characters into subcharacters, their frequency distributions can be represented with discrete states. Differential weighting is used to counter the effect of representing one character with multiple characters. The new method, generalized frequency coding (GFC), is potentially superior to previously used methods in that it incorporates more information and is applicable to both qualitative and quantitative characters. When applied to a previously published data set that includes both types of polymorphic multistate characters, the method performed well, as assessed with g1 and nonparametric bootstrap statistics and giving results congruent with those of other studies. The data set was also used to compare GFC with both gap-weighting and Manhattan distance step matrix coding. On these grounds and for philosophical reasons, we consider GFC to be a better estimator of phylogeny.
3070839|Homobasidiomycetes include the majority of wood-decaying fungi. Two basic forms of wood decay are known in homobasidiomycetes: white rot, in which lignin and cellulose are degraded, and brown rot, in which lignin is not appreciably degraded. An apparent correlation has been noted between production of a brown rot, decay of conifer substrates, and possession of a bipolar mating system (which has a single mating-type locus, in contrast to tetrapolar systems, which have two mating-type loci). The goals of this study were to infer the historical pattern of transformations in decay mode, mating type, and substrate range characters, and to determine if a causal relationship exists among them. Using nuclear and mitochondrial rDNA sequences, we performed a phylogenetic analysis of 130 species of homobasidiomycetes and performed ancestral state reconstructions by using parsimony on a range of trees, with various loss:gain cost ratios. We evaluated pairwise character correlations by using the concentrated changes test (CCT) of Maddison and the maximum likelihood (ML) method of Pagel. White rot, tetrapolar mating systems, and the ability to decay conifers and hardwoods appear to be plesiomorphic in homobasidiomycetes, whereas brown rot, bipolar mating systems, and exclusive decay of conifers appear to have evolved repeatedly. The only significant correlation among characters was that between brown rot (as the independent character) and exclusive decay of conifer substrates (P < 0.03). This correlation was supported by the CCT on a range of plausible trees, although not with every reconstruction of ancestral states, and by the ML test. Our findings suggest that the evolution of brown rot has promoted repeated shifts to specialization for conifer substrates.
3070837|The importance of fossils to phylogenetic reconstruction is well established. However, analyses of fossil data sets are confounded by problems related to the less complete nature of the specimens. Taxa that are incompletely known are problematic because of the uncertainty of their placement within a tree, leading to a proliferation of most-parsimonious solutions and "wild card" behavior. Problematic taxa are commonly deleted based on a priori criteria of completeness. Paradoxically, a taxon's problematic behavior is tree dependent, and levels of completeness are not directly associated with problematic behavior. Exclusion of taxa on the basis of completeness eliminates real character conflict and, by not allowing incomplete taxa to determine tree topology, diminishes the phylogenetic hypothesis. Here, the phylogenetic trunk approach is proposed to allow optimization of taxonomic inclusion and tree stability. The use of this method in an analysis of the Paleozoic Lepospondyli finds a single most-parsimonious tree, or trunk, after the removal of one taxon identified as being problematic. Moreover, the 38 trees found at one additional step from this primary trunk were reduced to 2 by removal of one additional taxon. These trunks are compared with the trees that were found by excluding taxa with various degrees of completeness, and the effects of incomplete taxa are explored with regard to use of the trunk. Correlated characters associated with limblessness are discussed regarding the assumption of character independence; however, inclusion of intermediate taxa is found to be the single best method for breaking down long branches.
3070841| The bee genus Lasioglossum includes >1,000 species of bees distributed on all continents except Antarctica. Lasioglossum is a major component of the bee fauna in the Holarctic, Ethiopian, and Asian regions and is an important group for investigating the evolution of social behavior in bees. Given its cosmopolitan distribution, the historical biogeography of the genus is of considerable interest. We reconstructed phylogenetic relationships among the subgenera and species within Lasioglossum s.s., using DNA sequence data from a slowly evolving nuclear gene, elongation factor-1. The entire data set includes >1,604 aligned nucleotide sites (including three exons plus two introns) for 89 species (17 outgroups plus 72 ingroups). Parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses provide strong evidence that the primarily Indoaustralian subgenera (Homalictus, Chilalictus, Parasphecodes) form a monophyletic group. Bootstrap support for the Australian clade ranged from 73% to 77%, depending on the method of analysis. Monophyly of the Australian Lasioglossum suggests that a single colonization event (by way of Southeast Asia and New Guinea) gave rise to a lineage of >350 native Indoaustralian bees. We discuss the implications of Australian monophyly for resolving the "Australian enigma"-the similarity in social behavior among the Australian halictine bees relative to that of Holarctic groups. 
3070806|Sea hares within the genus Aplysia are important neurobiological model organisms; as more studies based on different Aplysia species are appearing in the literature, a phylogenetic framework has become essential. We present a phylogenetic hypothesis for this genus, based on portions of two mitochondrial genes (12S and 16S). In addition, we reconstruct the evolution of several behavioral characters of interest to neurobiologists to illustrate the potential benefits of a phylogeny for the genus Aplysia. These benefits include determination of ancestral traits, direction and timing of evolution of characters, prediction of the distribution of traits, and identification of cases of independent acquisition of traits within lineages. This last benefit may prove especially useful in understanding the linkage between behaviors and their underlying neurological bases.
3070805|The notion that two characters evolve independently is of interest for two reasons. First, theories of biological integration often predict that change in one character requires complementary change in another. Second, character independence is a basic assumption of most phylogenetic inference methods, and dependent characters might confound attempts at phylogenetic inference. Previously proposed tests of correlated character evolution require a model phylogeny and therefore assume that nonphylogenetic correlation has a negligible effect on initial tree construction. This paper develops "tree-free" methods for testing the independence of cladistic characters. These methods can test the character independence model as a hypothesis before phylogeny reconstruction, or can be used simply to test for correlated evolution. We first develop an approach for visualizing suites of correlated characters by using character compatibility. Two characters are compatible if they can be used to construct a tree without homoplasy. The approach is based on the examination of mutual compatibilities between characters. The number of times two characters i and j share compatibility with a third character is calculated, and a pairwise shared compatibility matrix is constructed. From this matrix, an association matrix analogous to a dissimilarity matrix is derived. Eigenvector analyses of this association matrix reveal suites of characters with similar compatibility patterns. A priori character subsets can be tested for significant correlation on these axes. Monte Carlo tests are performed to determine the expected distribution of mutual compatibilities, given various criteria from the original data set. These simulated distributions are then used to test whether the observed amounts of nonphylogenetic correlation in character suites can be attributed to chance alone. We have applied these methods to published morphological data for caecilian amphibians. The analyses corroborate instances of dependent evolution hypothesized by previous workers and also identify novel partitions. Phylogenetic analysis is performed after reducing correlated suites to single characters. The resulting cladogram has greater topological resolution and implies appreciably less change among the remaining characters than does a tree derived from the raw data matrix.
3070807|Many aspects of morphological phylogenetics are controversial in the theoretical systematics literature and yet are often poorly explained and justified in empirical studies. In this paper, I argue that most morphological characters describe variation that is fundamentally quantitative, regardless of whether they are coded qualitatively or quantitatively by systematists. Given this view, three fundamental problems in morphological character analysis (definition, delimitation, and ordering of character states) may have a common solution: coding morphological characters as continuous quantitative traits. A new parsimony method (step-matrix gap-weighting, a modification of Thiele's approach) is proposed that allows quantitative traits to be analyzed as continuous variables. The problem of scaling or weighting quantitative characters relative to qualitative characters (and to each other) is reviewed, and three possible solutions are described. The new coding method is applied to data from hoplocercid lizards, and the results show the sensitivity of phylogenetic conclusions to different scaling methods. Although some authors reject the use of continuous, overlapping, quantitative characters in phylogenetic analysis, quantitative data from hoplocercid lizards that are coded using the new approach contain significant phylogenetic structure and exhibit levels of homoplasy similar to those seen in data that are coded qualitatively.
3070809| Maximum likelihood estimation of phylogenetic trees from nucleotide sequences is completely consistent when nucleotide substitution is governed by the general time reversible (GTR) model with rates that vary over sites according to the invariable sites plus gamma (I + ) distribution. 
3070808|Siparunaceae comprise Glossocalyx with one species in West Africa and Siparuna with 65 species in the neotropics; all have unisexual flowers, and 15 species are monoecious, 50 dioecious. Parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of combined nuclear ribosomal ITS and chloroplast trnL-trnF intergenic spacer sequences yielded almost identical topologies, which were used to trace the evolution of the two sexual systems. The African species, which is dioecious, was sister to all neotropical species, and the monoecious species formed a grade basal to a large dioecious Andean clade. Dioecy evolved a second time within the monoecious grade. Geographical mapping of 6,496 herbarium collections from all species sorted by sexual system showed that monoecy is confined to low-lying areas (altitude <700 m) in the Amazon basin and southern Central America. The only morphological trait with a strong phylogenetic signal is leaf margin shape (entire or toothed), although this character also correlates with altitude, probably reflecting selection on leaf shapes by temperature and rainfall regimes. The data do not reject the molecular clock, and branch lengths suggest that the shift to dioecy in the lowlands occurred many million years after the shift to dioecy in the ancestor of the Andean clade.
3070804|Ontogenetic trajectories are commonly quantified by characterizing changes in the sizes and shapes of organisms over the course of development. This formulation of ontogenetic transformations can be misleading in that it ignores critical aspects of the biological processes responsible for constructing morphology. Hypothetical examples are used to illustrate some of the shortcomings of methods that rely exclusively on size and shape data for ontogenetic analyses. By characterizing growth as a vector field, and representing growth vectors as complex numbers, one can simultaneously analyze size, shape, and growth processes. The utility of such an approach is demonstrated in a study of shape and growth process variation in turtle shells.
3070803|Statistical randomization tests in evolutionary biology often require a set of random, computer-generated trees. For example, earlier studies have shown how large numbers of computer-generated trees can be used to conduct phylogenetic comparative analyses even when the phylogeny is uncertain or unknown. These methods were limited, however, in that (in the absence of molecular sequence or other data) they allowed users to assume that no phylogenetic information was available or that all possible trees were known. Intermediate situations where only a taxonomy or other limited phylogenetic information (e.g., polytomies) are available are technically more difficult. The current study describes a procedure for generating random samples of phylogenies while incorporating limited phylogenetic information (e.g., four taxa belong together in a subclade). The procedure can be used to conduct comparative analyses when the phylogeny is only partially resolved or can be used in other randomization tests in which large numbers of possible phylogenies are needed.
3070931|Tests for incongruence as an indicator of among-data partition conflict have played an important role in conditional data combination. When such tests reveal significant incongruence, this has been interpreted as a rationale for not combining data into a single phylogenetic analysis. In this study of lorisiform phylogeny, we use the incongruence length difference (ILD) test to assess conflict among three independent data sets. A large morphological data set and two unlinked molecular data sets-the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene and the nuclear interphotoreceptor retinoid binding protein (exon 1)-are analyzed with various optimality criteria and weighting mechanisms to determine the phylogenetic relationships among slow lorises (Primates, Loridae). When analyzed separately, the morphological data show impressive statistical support for a monophyletic Loridae. Both molecular data sets resolve the Loridae as paraphyletic, though with different branching orders depending on the optimality criterion or character weighting used. When the three data partitions are analyzed in various combinations, an inverse relationship between congruence and phylogenetic accuracy is observed. Nearly all combined analyses that recover monophyly indicate strong data partition incongruence (P = 0.00005 in the most extreme case), whereas all analyses that recover paraphyly indicate lack of significant incongruence. Numerous lines of evidence verify that monophyly is the accurate phylogenetic result. Therefore, this study contributes to a growing body of information affirming that measures of incongruence should not be used as indicators of data set combinability.
3070925|Advocates of cladistic parsimony methods have invoked the philosophy of Karl Popper in an attempt to argue for the superiority of those methods over phylogenetic methods based on Ronald Fisher's statistical principle of likelihood. We argue that the concept of likelihood in general, and its application to problems of phylogenetic inference in particular, are highly compatible with Popper's philosophy. Examination of Popper's writings reveals that his concept of corroboration is, in fact, based on likelihood. Moreover, because probabilistic assumptions are necessary for calculating the probabilities that define Popper's corroboration, likelihood methods of phylogenetic inference-with their explicit probabilistic basis-are easily reconciled with his concept. In contrast, cladistic parsimony methods, at least as described by certain advocates of those methods, are less easily reconciled with Popper's concept of corroboration. If those methods are interpreted as lacking probabilistic assumptions, then they are incompatible with corroboration. Conversely, if parsimony methods are to be considered compatible with corroboration, then they must be interpreted as carrying implicit probabilistic assumptions. Thus, the non-probabilistic interpretation of cladistic parsimony favored by some advocates of those methods is contradicted by an attempt by the same authors to justify parsimony methods in terms of Popper's concept of corroboration. In addition to being compatible with Popperian corroboration, the likelihood approach to phylogenetic inference permits researchers to test the assumptions of their analytical methods (models) in a way that is consistent with Popper's ideas about the provisional nature of background knowledge.
3070928|Several methods have been proposed to infer the states at the ancestral nodes on a phylogeny. These methods assume a specific tree and set of branch lengths when estimating the ancestral character state. Inferences of the ancestral states, then, are conditioned on the tree and branch lengths being true. We develop a hierarchical Bayes method for inferring the ancestral states on a tree. The method integrates over uncertainty in the tree, branch lengths, and substitution model parameters by using Markov chain Monte Carlo. We compare the hierarchical Bayes inferences of ancestral states with inferences of ancestral states made under the assumption that a specific tree is correct. We find that the methods are correlated, but that accommodating uncertainty in parameters of the phylogenetic model can make inferences of ancestral states even more uncertain than they would be in an empirical Bayes analysis.
3070927|We defend and expand on our earlier proposal for an inclusive philosophical framework for phylogenetics, based on an interpretation of Popperian corroboration that is decoupled from the popular falsificationist interpretation of Popperian philosophy. Any phylogenetic inference method can provide Popperian "evidence" or "test statements" based on the method's goodness-of-fit values for different tree hypotheses. Corroboration, or the severity of that test, requires that the evidence is improbable without the hypothesis, given only background knowledge that includes elements of chance. This framework contrasts with attempted Popperian justifications for cladistic parsimony-in which evidence is the data, background knowledge is restricted to descent with modification, and "corroboration," as a by-product of nonfalsification, is to be measured by cladistic parsimony. Recognition that cladistic "corroboration" reflects only goodness-of-fit, not corroboration/severity, makes it clear that standard cladistic prohibitions, such as restrictions on the evolutionary models to be included in "background knowledge," have no philosophical status. The capacity to assess Popperian corroboration neither justifies nor excludes any phylogenetic method, but it does provide a framework in phylogenetics for learning from errors-cases where apparent good evidence is probable even without the hypothesis. We explore these issues in the context of corroboration assessments applied to likelihood methods and to a new form of parsimony. These different forms of evidence and corroboration assessment point also to a new way to combine evidence-not at the level of overall fit, but at the level of overall corroboration/severity. We conclude that progress in an inclusive phylogenetics will be well served by the rejection of cladistic philosophy.
3070929|A total of 7,806 nucleotide positions derived from one mitochondrial and eight nuclear DNA segments were used to provide a robust phylogeny for members of the order Artiodactyla. Twenty-four artiodactyl and two cetacean species were included, and the horse (order Perissodactyla) was used as the outgroup. Limited rate heterogeneity was observed among the nuclear genes. The partition homogeneity tests indicated no conflicting signal among the nuclear gene fragments, so the sequence data were analyzed together and as separate loci. Analyses based on the individual nuclear DNA fragments and on 34 unique indels all produced phylogenies largely congruent with the topology from the combined data set. In sharp contrast to the nuclear DNA data, the mtDNA cytochrome b sequence data showed high levels of homoplasy, failed to produce a robust phylogeny, and were remarkably sensitive to taxon sampling. The nuclear DNA data clearly support the paraphyletic nature of the Artiodactyla. Additionally, the family Suidae is diphyletic, and the nonruminating pigs and peccaries (Suiformes) were the most basal cetartiodactyl group. The morphologically derived Ruminantia was always monophyletic; within this group, all taxa with paired bony structures on their skulls clustered together. The nuclear DNA data suggest that the Antilocaprinae account for a unique evolutionary lineage, the Cervidae and Bovidae are sister taxa, and the Giraffidae are more primitive.
3070926|Sir Karl Popper is well known for explicating science in falsificationist terms, for which his degree of corroboration formalism, C(h,e,b), has become little more than a symbol. For example, de Queiroz and Poe in this issue argue that C(h,e,b) reduces to a single relative (conditional) probability, p(e,hb), the likelihood of evidence e, given both hypothesis h and background knowledge b, and in reaching that conclusion, without stating or expressing it, they render Popper a verificationist. The contradiction they impose is easily explained-de Queiroz and Poe fail to take account of the fact that Popper derived C(h,e,b) from absolute (logical) probability and severity of test, S(e,h,b), where critical evidence, p(e,b), is fundamental. Thus, de Queiroz and Poe's conjecture that p(e,hb) = C(h,e,b) is refuted. Falsificationism, not verificationism, remains a fair description of the parsimony method of inference used in phylogenetic systematics, not withstanding de Queiroz and Poe's mistaken understanding that "statistical" probability justifies that method. Although de Queiroz and Poe assert that maximum likelihood has the power "to explain data", they do not successfully demonstrate how causal explanation is achieved or what it is that is being explained. This is not surprising, bearing in mind that what is assumed about character evolution in the accompanying likelihood model M cannot then be explained by the results of a maximum likelihood analysis.
3070932|The conditional probability of reconstruction is a measure of the robustness of cladogram internodes and, unlike Bremer support and bootstrapping values, directly gauges probability. The new method compares the three putative branch lengths (the optimal and two alternatives) obtained through branch recalculation after nearest neighbor interchange and recalculation under constraint. With rooted trees, one switches the two free lineages attached at the distal end of an internal branch with the basal lineage. Probabilistic reconstruction of a branch for small data sets (e.g., morphological) is defined as having no contrary support for the two alternative branches and, when sufficient data are available (e.g., molecular studies), as meeting a selected confidence limit in chi-squared analysis. The exact probability that the internal branch is reconstructed is the same as the preselected confidence level met with chi-squared analysis; alternatively, it is a simple calculation of the length of the optimal branch divided by the sum of the lengths of all three putative branches. This new measure of robustness allows calculation of summary probabilities of subclade and tree reconstruction. The measure is conditional on a particular data set and optimization method but may also compare support from conflicting gene trees. Examples are provided by a morphological data set (the bryophyte Didymodon) and a molecular data set (primates).
3070930|A shift from a traditional biogeographical paradigm in cladistic biogeography to a chronobiogeographical paradigm is proposed. The chronobiogeographical paradigm aims to utilize temporal data in conjunction with spatial data in the detection of discrete historical events, such as vicariance and vicariant speciation, in cladograms. The concepts of primary and secondary congruency are introduced in relation to the distinction between repeated area relationships (primary congruency) and common extrinsic causality (secondary congruency). Simple hypothetical examples demonstrate that area cladograms cannot be safely interpreted purely as representing the sequence of area fragmentation; rather, they reflect recency of biotic interaction. Temporal data are shown to have a direct and potentially profound influence on the results of traditional cladistic biogeographical analyses, indicating the necessity of developing a chronobiogeographical approach. The implementation of the paradigm is considered first from a theoretical viewpoint and then in the context of the type of empirical data usually available. An as yet undevised "time/space algorithm" is deemed necessary for the latter, and guidelines are presented for the development of such an algorithm. Finally, we argue that the most rigorous and philosophically justified approach to the detection of phylogenetic causal events can be found only when temporal and spatial data are considered simultaneously. Consequently, the chronobiogeographical paradigm is seen as a logical elaboration of, not a replacement for, the biogeographical paradigm.
2585305|Modified interactions among developmental regulatory genes and changes in their expression domains are likely to be an important part of the developmental basis for evolutionary changes in morphology. Although developmental regulatory genes are now being studied in an increasing number of taxa, there has been little attempt to analyze the resulting data within an explicit phylogenetic context. Here we present comparative analyses of expression data from regulatory genes in the phylum Echinodermata, considering the implications for understanding both echinoderm evolution as well as the evolution of regulatory genes in general. Reconstructing the independent evolutionary histories of regulatory genes, their expression domains, their developmental roles, and the structures in which they are expressed reveals a number of distinct evolutionary patterns. A few of these patterns correspond to interpretations common in the literature, whereas others have received little prior mention. Together, the analyses indicate that the evolution of echinoderms involved: (1) the appearance of many apomorphic developmental roles and expression domains, some of which have plesiomorphic bilateral symmetry and others of which have apomorphic radial symmetry or left-right asymmetry; (2) the loss of some developmental roles and expression domains thought to be plesiomorphic for Bilateria; and (3) the retention of some developmental roles thought to be plesiomorphic for Bilateria, although with modification in expression domains. Some of the modifications within the Echinodermata concern adult structures; others, transient larval structures. Some changes apparently appeared early in echinoderm evolution (>450 Ma), whereas others probably happened more recently (<50 Ma). Cases of likely convergence in expression domains suggest caution when using developmental regulatory genes to make inferences about homology among morphological structures of distantly related taxa.
2585310|Antarctic waters represent a unique marine environment delimited by an oceanographic barrier, the Polar Front Zone, and characterized by constant subzero temperatures and presence of sea ice. A group of teleost fish, the Notothenioidei, have adapted to these challenging environmental conditions, undergoing a remarkable diversification. In the present study a total of 798 base pairs, generated from partial sequencing of 16S and 12S mitochondrial ribosomal RNA genes, were examined in 33 notothenioid species representative of all families included in the suborder Notothenioidei. Phylogenetic trees, reconstructed on the basis of sequence data by different methods, indicate that traditional hypotheses on notothenioid systematics and biogeography might be in need of reexamination. Molecular evidence suggests that vicariant speciation could be invoked to explain the early divergence of Eleginops maclovinus, a species previously included in the family Nototheniidae, which is now proposed as the closest sister group to all the rest of notothenioids apart from bovichtids. On the other hand, repeated, independent dispersal through the Polar Front is proposed for the divergence of other subantarctic notothenioid species. Likewise, multiple, independent transitions from benthic to pelagic habit are inferred from molecular data, at variance with the more conservative hypothesis based on cladograms reconstructed from morphological data.
2585307|Because phylogenies can be estimated without stratigraphic data and because estimated phylogenies also infer gaps in sampling, some workers have used phylogeny estimates as templates for evaluating sampling from the fossil record and for "correcting" historical diversity patterns. However, it is not known how sampling intensity (the probability of sampling taxa per unit time) and completeness (the proportion of taxa sampled) affect the accuracy of phylogenetic inferences, nor how phylogenetically inferred estimates of sampling and diversity respond to inaccurate estimates of phylogeny. Both issues are addressed with a series of simulations using simple models of character evolution, varying speciation patterns, and various rates of speciation, extinction, character change, and preservation. Parsimony estimates of simulated phylogenies become less accurate as sampling decreases, and inaccurate trees chronically underestimate sampling. Biotic factors such as rates of morphologic change and extinction both affect the accuracy of phylogenetic estimates and thus affect estimated gaps in sampling, indicating that differences in implied sampling need not reflect actual differences in sampling. Errors in inferred diversity are concentrated early in the history of a clade. This, coupled with failure to account for true extinction times (i.e., the Signor-Lipps effect), inflates relative diversity levels early in clade histories. Because factors other than differences in sampling predict differences in the numbers of gaps implied by phylogeny estimates, inferred phylogenies can be misleading templates for evaluating sampling or historical diversity patterns.
2585308|The horseshoe crabs, known as living fossils, have maintained their morphology almost unchanged for the past 150 million years. The little morphological differentiation among horseshoe crab lineages has resulted in substantial controversy concerning the phylogenetic relationship among the extant species of horseshoe crabs, especially among the three species in the Indo-Pacific region. Previous studies suggest that the three species constitute a phylogenetically unresolvable trichotomy, the result of a cladogenetic process leading to the formation of all three Indo-Pacific species in a short geological time. Data from two mitochondrial genes (for 16S ribosomal rRNA and cytochrome oxidase subunit I) and one nuclear gene (for coagulogen) in the four species of horse-shoe crabs and outgroup species were used in a phylogenetic analysis with various substitution models. All three genes yield the same tree topology, with Tachypleus-gigas and Carcinoscorpius-rotundicauda grouped together as a monophyletic taxon. This topology is significantly better than all the alternatives when evaluated with the RELL (resampling estimated log-likelihood) method.
2585309|Functional constraints are often assumed to influence the performance of nucleotide characters in phylogenetic analysis: First and second codon positions and sites of structural importance are considered to show less homoplasy. We investigate the performance of rbcL characters with differential functional constraints in a cladistic analysis of the plant family Apocynaceae s.l. (Sennblad and Bremer, in prep.). Performance is measured as rescaled consistency indices (rc). We show there is no significant difference in performance between parsimony-informative sites constrained by function in the enzyme, and sites that are not. Furthermore, the substitutions in third-codon position performed significantly better than those in first and second. The variation of rc within the different classes was high, however. Consequently, there is no support for routinely applied a priori differential weighting, neither of codon positions, nor of different functional classes from the present analysis of rbcL data in the Apocynaceae s.l.
2585304|Issues concerning transformational and taxic comparisons are central to understanding the impact of the recent proliferation of molecular developmental data on evolutionary biology. More importantly, an understanding of taxism and transformationalism in comparative biology is critical to assessing the impact of the recent developmental data on systematic theory and practice. We examine the philosophical and practical aspects of the transformational approach and the relevance of this approach to recent molecular-based developmental data. We also examine the theoretical basis of the taxic approach to molecular developmental data and suggest that developmental data are perfectly amenable to the taxic approach. Two recent examples from the molecular developmental biology literature-the evolution of insect wings and the evolution of dorsal ventral inversion in vertebrates and invertebrates-are used to compare the taxic and transformational approaches. We conclude that the transformational approach is entirely appropriate for ontogenetic studies and furthermore can serve as an excellent source of hypotheses about the evolution of characters. However, the taxic approach is the ultimate arbiter of these hypotheses.
2585303|Understanding how development varies both inter- and intraspecifically can be important for systematic and evolutionary studies. This review will explore three different ways such understanding can be applied to evolutionary analyses. First, developmental data can be useful for homology determination. Interspecific variation in development has been thought to make developmental data poor candidates for determining homology. However, an updated developmental criterion that is more broadly comparative and mechanistic augments the available criteria used in homology determination. Second, modern cell and molecular biology are providing a better understanding of the many developmental processes involved in a structure's formation and will augment the number of characters available for phylogenetic analyses. Recent work has revealed that what had been thought to be a highly conserved developmental stage, the pharyngula (the phylotypic and zootypic stage of craniates) is highly variable. This variation can be seen in the development of such tissues as neural crest and placodes. These tissues are particularly interesting from a phylogenetic standpoint because they and the structures they form contribute to key synapomorphies of craniates. Finally, understanding developmental processes and how they form the variety of morphologies seen in nature will help in constructing the transformations that occurred during evolution. One such example involves descriptions of how lateral line development is affected in different mutant lines of zebrafish. The many species of teleost fishes express great variation in the patterns of their lateral lines, and this is often an important systematic character. Understanding the genetic basis of lateral line development would help not only in hypothesizing possible transformational series but also in determining how many genes may have been required for these transformations.
2585312|Recent studies based on different types of data (i.e., morphology, molecules) have found strongly conflicting phylogenies for the genera of iguanid lizards but have been unable to explain the basis for this incongruence. We reanalyze published data from morphology and from the mitochondrial ND4, cytochrome b, 12S, and 16S genes to explore the sources of incongruence and resolve these conflicts. Much of the incongruence centers on the genus Cyclura, which is the sister taxon of Iguana, according to parsimony analyses of the morphology and the ribosomal genes, but is the sister taxon of all other Iguanini, according to the protein-coding genes. Maximum likelihood analyses show that there has been an increase in the rate of nucleotide substitution in Cyclura in the two protein-coding genes (ND4 and cytochrome b), although this increase is not as clear when parsimony is used to estimate branch lengths. Parametric simulations suggest that Cyclura may be misplaced by the protein-coding genes as a result of long-branch attraction; even when Cyclura and Iguana are sister taxa in a simulated phylogeny, Cyclura is still placed as the basal member of the Iguanini by parsimony analysis in 55% of the replicates. A similar long-branch attraction problem may also exist in the morphological data with regard to the placement of Sauromalus with the Galapagos iguanas (Amblyrhynchus and Conolophus). The results have many implications for the analysis of diverse data sets, the impact of long branches on parsimony and likelihood methods, and the use of certain protein-coding genes in phylogeny reconstruction.
2585306|Understanding the phylogenetic relationships of the three major urochordate groups within the deuterostomes is central to understanding the evolution of the chordates. We have prepared a detailed phylogenetic analysis of urochordates based on comparisons of 10 new urochordate 18S ribosomal DNA sequences with other urochordate sequences in GenBank. Maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining, minimum evolution, and maximum likelihood analyses of this large urochordate data set are consistent with a topology in which the urochordates are monophyletic within the deuterostomes and there are four separate clades of urochordates. These four distinct clades-styelid + pyurid ascidians, molgulid ascidians, phlebobranch ascidians + thaliaceans, and larvaceans-are mostly consistent with traditional morphological hypotheses and classifications. However, we find that the ascidians may not be a monophyletic group (as they have been considered traditionally) but instead appear paraphyletic. Another disparity with traditional classification is that the thaliaceans do not form a separate urochordate clade but rather cluster with the phlebobranch ascidians. Larvaceans have long branch lengths, which can be problematic for molecular phylogenetic methods, and their position within the urochordates cannot be unequivocally determined with 18S rDNA. This is important because the tadpole morphology of larvacean and ascidian larvae is the key trait of interest that distinguishes urochordates as chordates. Nevertheless, the present data set resolves at least three clades of urochordates and suggests strongly that urochordates form a monophyletic clade within the deuterostomes.
2585311|The phylogeny of the Bilateria and especially the early steps in the evolution of the bilaterian bauplan are still a controversial topic. In this context the relationships of the platyhelminths and the nematodes play a crucial role. Previous molecular studies of the relationships of these groups, which were based on 18S ribosomal DNA sequences, yielded conflicting results. In the present study a new framework is developed for the phylogenetic analysis of bilaterian relationships, using concatenated amino acid sequences of several nuclear genes. In this analysis, the rhabditophoran platyhelminths are probably the sister group of all other analyzed Bilateria, the Eubilateria, which are characterized by a one-way intestine with an anus. The Eubilateria are split into the nematode lineage and the coelomates. The phylogenetic results of the present study indicate that genetic features found in the model organisms Caenorhabditis and Drosophila might be found in all Eubilateria. Estimations of the divergence times show that the major bilaterian phyla did not originate in an explosive radiation during the Cambrian but rather that the Bilateria have a several hundred million years long Precambrian history.
2585291|The relatively new two-block partial least-squares method for analyzing the covariance between two sets of variables is described and contrasted with the well-known method of canonical correlation analysis. Their statistical properties, types of answers, and visualization techniques are discussed. Examples are given to show its usefulness in comparing two sets of variables-especially when one or both of the sets of variables are shape variables from a geometric morphometric study.
2585287|Phylogenetic analyses of large data sets pose special challenges, including the apparent tendency for the bootstrap support for a clade to decline with increased taxon sampling of that clade. We document this decline in data sets with increasing numbers of taxa in Astragalus, the most species-rich angiosperm genus. Support for one subclade, Neo-Astragalus, declined monotonically with increased sampling of taxa inside Neo-Astragalus, irrespective of whether parsimony or neighbor-joining methods were used or of which particular heuristic search algorithm was used (although more stringent algorithms tended to yield higher support). Three possible explanations for this decline were examined, including (1) mistaken assignment of the most recent common ancestor of the taxon sample (and its bootstrap support) with the most recent common ancestor of the clade from which it was sampled; (2) computational limitations of heuristic search strategies; and (3) statistical bias in bootstrap proportions, especially that from random homoplasy distributed among taxa. The best explanation appears to be (3), although computational shortcomings (2) may explain some of the problem. The bootstrap proportion, as currently used in phylogenetic analysis, does not accurately capture the classical notion of confidence assessments on the null hypothesis of nonmonophyly, especially in large data sets. More accurate assessments of confidence as type I error levels (relying on iterated bootstrap methods) remove most of the monotonic decline in confidence with increasing numbers of taxa.
2585289|Community ecologists are increasingly aware that the regional history of taxon diversification can have an important influence on community structure. Likewise, systematists recognize that ecological context can have an important influence on the processes of speciation and extinction that create patterns of descent. We present a phylogenetic analysis of 33 species of a North American radiation of damselflies (Zygoptera: Coenagrionidae: Enallagma Selys), which have been well studied ecologically, to elucidate the evolutionary mechanisms that have contributed to differences in diversity between larval habitats (lakes with and without fish predators). Analysis of molecular variation in 842 bp of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I and II subunit and of the intervening Leu-tRNA and 37 morphological characters resulted in three well-defined clades that are only partially congruent with previous phylogenetic hypotheses. Molecular and morphological data partitions were significantly incongruent (p < .01). Lack of haplotype monophyly within species and small amounts of sequence divergence (<1%) between related species in three of the four clades suggest that recent, and parallel, speciation has been an important source of community diversity. Reconstruction of habitat preference over the phylogeny suggests that the greater species diversity in fish-containing lake habitats reflects the recency of shifts into the fishless lake habit, although a difference in speciation or extinction rates between the two habitats is difficult to exclude as an additional mechanism.
2585288|Landmark-based morphometric methods must estimate the amounts of translation, rotation, and scaling (or, nuisance) parameters to remove nonshape variation from a set of digitized figures. Errors in estimaties of these nuisance variables will be reflected in the covariance structure of the coordinates, such as the residuals from a superimposition, or any linear combination of the coordinates, such as the partial warp and standard uniform scores. A simulation experiment was used to compare the ability of the generalized resistant fit (GRF) and a relative warp analysis (RWA) to estimate known covariance matrices with various correlations and variance structures. Random covariance matrices were perturbed so as to vary the magnitude of the average correlation among coordinates, the number of landmarks with excessive variance, and the magnitude of the excessive variance. The covariance structure was applied to random figures with between 6 and 20 landmarks. The results show the expected performance of GRF and RWA across a broad spectrum of conditions. The performance of both GRF and RWA depended most strongly on the number of landmarks. RWA performance decreased slightly when one or a few landmarks had excessive variance. GRF performance peaked when  25% of the landmarks had excessive variance. In general, both RWA and GRF performed better at estimating the direction of the first principal axis of the covariance matrix than the structure of the entire covariance matrix. RWA tended to outperform GRF when >75% of the coordinates had excessive variance. When <75% of the coordinates had excessive variance, the relative performance of RWA and GRF depended on the magnitude of the excessive variance; when the landmarks with excessive variance had standard deviations ()  4 minimum, GRF regularly out-performed RWA.
2585284|Nucleotide transitions are frequently down-weighted relative to transversions in phylogenetic analysis. This is based on the assumption that transitions, by virtue of their greater evolutionary rate, exhibit relatively more homoplasy and are therefore less reliable phylogenetic characters. Relative amounts of homoplastic and consistent transition and transversion changes in mitochondrial protein coding genes were determined from character-state reconstructions on a highly corroborated phylogeny of mammals. We found that although homoplasy was related to evolutionary rates and was greater for transitions, the absolute number of consistent transitions greatly exceeded the number of consistent transversions. Consequently, transitions provided substantially more useful phylogenetic information than transversions. These results suggest that down-weighting transitions may be unwarranted in many cases. This conclusion was supported by the fact that a range of transition: transversion weighting schemes applied to various mitochondrial genes and genomic partitions rarely provided improvement in phylogenetic estimates relative to equal weighting, and in some cases weighting transitions more heavily than transversions was most effective.
2585293|The galaxiid fishes exhibit a gondwanan distribution. We use mitochondrial DNA sequences to test conflicting vicariant and dispersal biogeographic hypotheses regarding the Southern Hemisphere range of this freshwater group. Although phylogenetic resolution of cytochrome b and 16S rRNA sequences is largely limited to more recent divergences, our data indicate that the radiation can be interpreted as several relatively recent dispersal events superimposed on an ancient gondwanan radiation. Genetic relationships contradict the findings of recent morphological analyses of galaxioid fishes. In particular, we examine several hypotheses regarding phylogenetic placement of the enigmatic Lepidogalaxias. Although most workers consider Lepidogalaxias to be an unusual scaled member of the Southern Hemisphere galaxioids, it has also been suggested that this species is related to the Northern Hemisphere esocoids. Our data strongly suggest that this species is not a galaxiid, and the alternative hypothesized esocoid relationship cannot be rejected. The species-rich genus Galaxias is shown to be polyphyletic and the generic taxonomy of the Galaxiinae is reassessed in the light of phylogenetic relationships. Juvenile saltwater-tolerance is phylogenetically distributed throughout the Galaxiinae, and the loss of this migratory phase may be a major cause of speciation.
2585285|Phylogenetic analyses of non-protein-coding nucleotide sequences such as ribosomal RNA genes, internal transcribed spacers, and introns are often impeded by regions of the alignments that are ambiguously aligned. These regions are characterized by the presence of gaps and their uncertain positions, no matter which optimization criteria are used. This problem is particularly acute in large-scale phylogenetic studies and when aligning highly diverged sequences. Accommodating these regions, where positional homology is likely to be violated, in phylogenetic analyses has been dealt with very differently by molecular systematists and evolutionists, ranging from the total exclusion of these regions to the inclusion of every position regardless of ambiguity in the alignment. We present a new method that allows the inclusion of ambiguously aligned regions without violating homology. In this three-step procedure, first homologous regions of the alignment containing ambiguously aligned sequences are delimited. Second, each ambiguously aligned region is unequivocally coded as a new character, replacing its respective ambiguous region. Third, each of the coded characters is subjected to a specific step matrix to account for the differential number of changes (summing substitutions and indels) needed to transform one sequence to another. The optimal number of steps included in the step matrix is the one derived from the pairwise alignment with the greatest similarity and the least number of steps. In addition to potentially enhancing phylogenetic resolution and support, by integrating previously nonaccessible characters without violating positional homology, this new approach can improve branch length estimations when using parsimony.
2585292|In decay analyses the support for a particular split in most-parsimonious trees is its decay index, that is, the extra steps required of the shortest trees that do not include the split. By focusing solely on the support for splits, traditional decay analysis may provide an incomplete and potentially misleading summary of the support for phylogenetic relationships common to the most-parsimonious tree or trees. Here, we introduce double decay analysis, a new approach to assessing support for phylogenetic relationships. Double decay analysis is the determination of the decay indices of all n-taxon statements/partitions common to the most-parsimonious tree. The results of double decay analyses are presented in a partition table, but various approaches to graphical representation of the results, including the use of reduced consensus support trees, are also discussed. Double decay analysis provides a more comprehensive summary and facilitates a better understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of complex phylogenetic hypotheses than does traditional decay analysis. The limitations of traditional decay analyses and the utility of double decay analyses are illustrated with both contrived data and real data for sauropod dinosaurs.
2585290|Several data partitions, including nuclear and mitochondrial gene sequences, chromosomes, isoenzymes, and morphological characters, were used to propose a new phylogeny and to test previously published hypotheses about the phylogenetic positions of basal clades of the lizard genus Sceloporus and the relationship of Sceloporus to the former genus "Sator". In accord with earlier studies, our results grouped "Sator" as internal to Sceloporus, and both support a hypothesis of transgulfian vicariance for the origin of the former genus "Sator" on islands in the Sea of Cortez. Robustness of support for internal nodes in our best tree was established though widely used indices (bootstrap proportions, decay values) but also through congruence among independent data partitions. Several deep nodes in the tree recovered by several methods, including equally weighted and differentially weighted parsimony and maximum likelihood models, are only weakly supported by the traditional indices. This methodological concordance is taken as evidence for insensitivity of the deep structure of the topology to alternative assumptions.
2585286|Likelihood-based statistical tests of competing evolutionary hypotheses (tree topologies) have been available for approximately a decade. By far the most commonly used is the Kishino-Hasegawa test. However, the assumptions that have to be made to ensure the validity of the Kishino-Hasegawa test place important restrictions on its applicability. In particular, it is only valid when the topologies being compared are specified a priori. Unfortunately, this means that the Kishino-Hasegawa test may be severely biased in many cases in which it is now commonly used: for example, in any case in which one of the competing topologies has been selected for testing because it is the maximum likelihood topology for the data set at hand. We review the theory of the Kishino-Hasegawa test and contend that for the majority of popular applications this test should not be used. Previously published results from invalid applications of the Kishino-Hasegawa test should be treated extremely cautiously, and future applications should use appropriate alternative tests instead. We review such alternative tests, both nonparametric and parametric, and give two examples which illustrate the importance of our contentions.
2585221|Phylogenetic relationships of mushrooms and their relatives within the order Agaricales were addressed by using nuclear large subunit ribosomal DNA sequences. Approximately 900 bases of the 5' end of the nucleus-encoded large subunit RNA gene were sequenced for 154 selected taxa representing most families within the Agaricales. Several phylogenetic methods were used, including weighted and equally weighted parsimony (MP), maximum likelihood (ML), and distance methods (NJ). The starting tree for branch swapping in the ML analyses was the tree with the highest ML score among previously produced MP and NJ trees. A high degree of consensus was observed between phylogenetic estimates obtained through MP and ML. NJ trees differed according to the distance model that was used; however, all NJ trees still supported most of the same terminal groupings as the MP and ML trees did. NJ trees were always significantly suboptimal when evaluated against the best MP and ML trees, by both parsimony and likelihood tests. Our analyses suggest that weighted MP and ML provide the best estimates of Agaricales phylogeny. Similar support was observed between bootstrapping and jackknifing methods for evaluation of tree robustness. Phylogenetic analyses revealed many groups of agaricoid fungi that are supported by moderate to high bootstrap or jackknife values or are consistent with morphology-based classification schemes. Analyses also support separate placement of the boletes and russules, which are basal to the main core group of gilled mushrooms (the Agaricineae of Singer). Examples of monophyletic groups include the families Amanitaceae, Coprinaceae (excluding Coprinus comatus and subfamily Panaeolideae), Agaricaceae (excluding the Cystodermateae), and Strophariaceae pro parte (Stropharia, Pholiota, and Hypholoma); the mycorrhizal species of Tricholoma (including Leucopaxillus, also mycorrhizal); Mycena and Resinomycena; Termitomyces, Podabrella, and Lyophyllum; and Pleurotus with Hohenbuehelia. Several groups revealed by these data to be nonmonophyletic include the families Tricholomataceae, Cortinariaceae, and Hygrophoraceae and the genera Clitocybe, Omphalina, and Marasmius. This study provides a framework for future systematics studies in the Agaricales and suggestions for analyzing large molecular data sets.
2585222|Following (1) the large-scale molecular phylogeny of seed plants based on plastid rbcL gene sequences (published in 1993 by Chase et al., Ann. Missouri Bot. Gard. 80:528-580) and (2) the 18S nuclear phylogeny of flowering plants (published in 1997 by Soltis et al., Ann. Missouri Bot. Gard. 84:1-49), we present a phylogenetic analysis of flowering plants based on a second plastid gene, atpB, analyzed separately and in combination with rbcL sequences for 357 taxa. Despite some discrepancies, the atpB-based phylogenetic trees were highly congruent with those derived from the analysis of rbcL and 18S rDNA, and the combination of atpB and rbcL DNA sequences (comprising 3000 base pairs) produced increased bootstrap support for many major sets of taxa. The angiosperms are divided into two major groups: noneudicots with inaperturate or uniaperturate pollen (monocots plus Laurales, Magnoliales, Piperales, Ceratophyllales, and Amborellaceae-Nymphaeaceae-Illiciaceae) and the eudicots with triaperturate pollen (particularly asterids and rosids). Based on rbcL alone and atpB/rbcL combined, the noneudicots (excluding Ceratophyllum) are monophyletic, whereas in the atpB trees they form a grade. Ceratophyllum is sister to the rest of angiosperms with rbcL alone and in the combined atpB/rbcL analysis, whereas with atpB alone, Amborellaceae, Nymphaeaceae, and Illiciaceae/Schisandraceae form a grade at the base of the angiosperms. The phylogenetic information at each codon position and the different types of substitutions (observed transitions and transversions in the trees vs. pairwise comparisons) were examined; taking into account their respective consistency and retention indices, we demonstrate that third-codon positions and transitions are the most useful characters in these phylogenetic reconstructions. This study further demonstrates that phylogenetic analysis of large matrices is feasible.
2585216|When a data set is partitioned, the resulting subsets may contain phylogenetically conflicting signals if they have different evolutionary histories. In a data set with many taxa, a single taxon that contains multiple phylogenetic histories may result in global incongruence, but no methods are available in a parsimony framework to localize incongruence to specific clades in a phylogeny or to test the significance of incongruence on a local scale. Here we present a new method to quantify the conflict between data partitions for any clade in a phylogeny and to test the statistical significance of that conflict by using a metric called the local incongruence length difference. We apply this method to the evolutionary history of the nuclear receptor superfamily, a large group of transcriptional regulators that play essential roles in metazoan development and physiology. All nuclear receptors are composed of several discrete domains, including one that binds to DNA response elements on specific target genes and another that binds to the appropriate ligand. We have performed combined and separate phylogenetic analyses of these two domains and have tested the hypothesis that nuclear receptors evolved by a simple process of lineage splitting and divergence, without domain shuffling or other forms of sequence transfer between proteins. Our analysis indicates that significant conflict exists between the partitioned domains at a few nodes on the tree, suggesting that several groups of receptors are "hybrid proteins" formed by domain shuffling or other forms of sequence transfer between more ancient nuclear receptors.
2585217|A central question concerning data collection strategy for molecular phylogenies has been, is it better to increase the number of characters or the number of taxa sampled to improve the robustness of a phylogeny estimate? A recent simulation study concluded that increasing the number of taxa sampled is preferable to increasing the number of nucleotide characters, if taxa are chosen specifically to break up long branches. We explore this hypothesis by using empirical data from noctuoid moths, one of the largest superfamilies of insects. Separate studies of two nuclear genes, elongation factor-1 (EF-1) and dopa decarboxylase (DDC), have yielded similar gene trees and high concordance with morphological groupings for 49 exemplar species. However, support levels were quite low for nodes deeper than the subfamily level. We tested the effects on phylogenetic signal of (1) increasing the taxon sampling by nearly 60%, to 77 species, and (2) combining data from the two genes in a single analysis. Surprisingly, the increased taxon sampling, although designed to break up long branches, generated greater disagreement between the two gene data sets and decreased support levels for deeper nodes. We appear to have inadvertently introduced new long branches, and breaking these up may require a yet larger taxon sample. Sampling additional characters (combining data) greatly increased the phylogenetic signal. To contrast the potential effect of combining data from independent genes with collection of the same total number of characters from a single gene, we simulated the latter by bootstrap augmentation of the single-gene data sets. Support levels for combined data were at least as high as those for the bootstrap-augmented data set for DDC and were much higher than those for the augmented EF-1 data set. This supports the view that in obtaining additional sequence data to solve a refractory systematic problem, it is prudent to take them from an independent gene.
2585218|Phylogenetic inference is well known to be problematic if both long and short branches occur together in the underlying tree. With biological data, correcting for this problem may require simultaneous consideration for both substitution biases and rate heterogeneity between lineages and across sequence positions. A particular form of the latter is the presence of invariable sites, which are well known to mislead estimation of genetic divergences. Here we describe a capture-recapture method to estimate the proportion of invariable sites in an alignment of amino acids or nucleotides. We use it to investigate phylogenetic signals in 18S ribosomal DNA sequences from Holometabolus insects. Our results suggest that, as taxa diverged, their 18S rDNA sequences have altered in both their distribution of sites that can vary as well as in their base compositions.
2585220|DNA sequences from 195 squamate reptiles indicate that mitochondrial gene order is the most reliable phylogenetic character establishing monophyly of acrodont lizards and of the snake families Boidae, Colubridae, and Viperidae. Gene order shows no evidence of evolutionary parallelisms or reversals in these taxa. Derived secondary structures of mitochondrial tRNAs also prove to be useful phylogenetic characters showing no reversals. Parallelisms for secondary structures of tRNAs are restricted to deep lineages that are separated by at least 200 million years of independent evolution. Presence of a stem-and-loop structure between the genes encoding tRNA<sup>Asn</sup> and tRNA<sup>Cys</sup>, where the replication origin for light-strand synthesis is typically located in vertebrate mitochondrial genomes, is found to undergo at least three and possibly as many as seven evolutionary shifts, most likely parallel losses. This character is therefore a less desirable phylogenetic marker than the other structural changes examined. Sequencing regions that contain multiple genes, including tRNA genes, may be preferable to the common practice of obtaining single-gene fragments for phylogenetic inference because it permits observation of major structural changes in the mitochondrial genome. Such characters may occasionally provide phylogenetic information on relatively short internal branches for which base substitutional changes are expected to be relatively uninformative.
2585219|A phylogenetic tree for acrodont lizards (Chamaeleonidae and Agamidae) is established based on 1434 bases (1041 informative) of aligned DNA positions from a 1685-1778 base pair region of the mitochondrial genome. Sequences from three protein-coding genes (ND1, ND2, and COI) are combined with sequences from eight intervening tRNA genes for samples of 70 acrodont taxa and two outgroups. Parsimony analysis of nucleotide sequences identifies eight major clades in the Acrodonta. Most agamid lizards are placed into three distinct clades. One clade is composed of all taxa occurring in Australia and New Guinea; Physignathus cocincinus from Southeast Asia is the sister taxon to the Australia-New Guinea clade. A second clade is composed of taxa occurring from Tibet and the Indian Subcontinent east through South and East Asia. A third clade is composed of taxa occurring from Africa east through Arabia and West Asia to Tibet and the Indian Subcontinent. These three clades contain all agamid lizards except Uromastyx, Leiolepis, and Hydrosaurus, which represent three additional clades of the Agamidae. The Chamaeleonidae forms another clade weakly supported as the sister taxon to the Agamidae. All eight clades of the Acrodonta contain members occurring on land masses derived from Gondwanaland. A hypothesis of agamid lizards rafting with Gondwanan plates is examined statistically. This hypothesis suggests that the African/West Asian clade is of African or Indian origin, and the South Asian clade is either of Indian or Southeast Asian origin. The shortest tree suggests a possible African origin for the former and an Indian origin for the latter, but this result is not statistically robust. The Australia-New Guinea clade rafted with the Australia-New Guinea plate and forms the sister group to a Southeast Asian taxon that occurs on plates that broke from northern Australia-New Guinea. Other acrodont taxa are inferred to be associated with the plates of Afro-Arabia and Madagascar (Chamaeleonidae), India (Uromastyx), or southeast Asia (Hydrosaurus and Leiolepis). Introduction of different biotic elements to Asia by way of separate Gondwanan plates may be a major theme of Asian biogeography. Three historical events may be responsible for the sharp faunal barrier between Southeast Asia and Australia-New Guinea, known as Wallace's line: (1) primary vicariance caused by plate separations; (2) secondary contact of Southeast Asian plates with Eurasia, leading to dispersal from Eurasia into Southeast Asia, and (3) dispersal of the Indian fauna (after collision of that subcontinent) to Southeast Asia. Acrodont lizards show the first and third of these biogeographic patterns and anguid lizards exhibit the second pattern. Modern faunal diversity may be influenced primarily by historical events such as tectonic collisions and land bridge connections, which are expected to promote episodic turnover of continental faunas by introducing new faunal elements into an area. Repeated tectonic collisions may be one of the most important phenomena promoting continental biodiversity. Phylogenetics is a powerful method for investigating these processes.
2585389|Nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial protein coding cytochrome b (cyt b; 650 bp) and small-subunit 12S ribosomal RNA (350 bp) genes were used in analyses of phylogenetic relationships among extant phrynosomatid sand lizards, including an examination of competing hypotheses regarding the evolution of "earlessness." Sequences were obtained from all currently recognized species of sand lizards as well as representatives of the first and second outgroups and analyzed using both parsimony and likelihood methods. The cyt b data offer strong support for relationships that correspond with relatively recent divergences and moderate to low support for relationships reflecting more ancient divergences within the clade. These data support monophyly of the "earless" taxa, the placement of Uma as the sister taxon to the other sand lizards, and monophyly of all four taxa traditionally ranked as genera. All well-supported relationships in the 12S phylogeny are completely congruent with well-supported relationships in the cyt b phylogeny; however, the 12S data alone provide very little support for deeper divergences. Phylogenetic relationships within species are concordant with geography and suggest patterns of phylogeographic differentiation, including the conclusion that at least one currently recognized species (Holbrookia maculata) actually consists of more than one species. By independently optimizing likelihood model parameters for various subsets of the data, we found that nucleotide substitution processes vary widely between genes and among the structural and functional regions or classes of sites within each gene. Therefore, we compared competing phylogenetic hypotheses, using parameter estimates specific to those subsets, analyzing the subsets separately and in various combinations. The hypothesis supported by the cyt b data was favored over rival hypotheses in all but one of the five comparisons made with the entire data set, including the set of partitions that best explained the data, although we were unable to confidently reject (P < 0.05) alternative hypotheses. Our results highlight the importance of optimizing models and parameter estimates for different genes or parts thereof-a strategy that takes advantages of the strengths of both combining and partitioning data.
2585384|The complete protein-coding sequences of the c-myc proto-oncogene were determined for five species of four new orders of eutherian (placental) mammals. These newly obtained sequences were aligned to each other and to other available orthologs for the phylogenetic estimation of eutherian interordinal relationships. Several measures of sequence difference and base composition were first calculated to assess the major evolutionary properties of the three codon positions and two protein-coding exons of the gene. On the basis of these calculations, different parsimony, distance, and maximum likelihood approaches were adopted, with the most sophisticated involving the separate, then combined, likelihood analyses of the third codon positions of exon 2 versus all other sites. These phylogenetic approaches provided clear support for the grouping of Chiroptera (bats) with Artiodactyla (ruminants, camels, and pigs) and Carnivora (cats, dogs, and their allies), an interordinal arrangement that receives strong corroboration from other lines of evidence including complete mitochondrial DNA sequences. In contrast, these analyses failed to provide strong to reasonable support for any other interordinal group. This study concludes with specific recommendations about sampling and other strategies for maximizing the phylogenetic contributions of the c-myc gene to the continued resolution of the eutherian ordinal tree.
2585383|Three-taxon statement analysis (3TA) and standard cladistic analysis (SCA) were evaluated relative to propositions of taxic homology. There are definite distinctions between complement relation homologs and paired homologs. The complement relation is discussed, relative to rooting, parsimony, and taxic propositions of homology. The complement relation, as implemented in SCA, makes sense only because SCA is a simple evolutionary model of character-state transformation. 3TA is a method for implementing complement relation data from a taxic perspective. The standard approach to cladistic analysis distinguishes taxa by rooting a tree, which means that that approach is incompatible with taxic propositions of homology, because a taxic homology is a hypothesis of relationship between taxa that possess a homolog relative to taxa that lack a homolog. It is not necessary to treat paired homologs from a transformational perspective to distinguish informative from uninformative data. 3TA yields results markedly different from those of SCA. SCA, which seeks to minimize tree length, may not maximize the relation of homology (congruence) relative to a tree.
2585380|Hybridization is an important evolutionary mechanism in plants and has been increasingly documented in animals. Difficulty in reconstruction of reticulate evolution, however, has been a longstanding problem in phylogenetics. Consequently, hybrid speciation may play a major role in causing topological incongruence between gene trees. The incongruence, in turn, offers an opportunity to detect hybrid speciation. Here we characterized certain distinctions between hybridization and other biological processes, including lineage sorting, paralogy, and lateral gene transfer, that are responsible for topological incongruence between gene trees. Consider two incongruent gene trees with three taxa, A, B, and C, where B is a sister group of A on gene tree 1 but a sister group of C on gene tree 2. With a theoretical model based on the molecular clock, we demonstrate that time of divergence of each gene between taxa A and C is nearly equal in the case of hybridization (B is a hybrid) or lateral gene transfer, but differs significantly in the case of lineage sorting or paralogy. After developing a bootstrap test to test these alternative hypotheses, we extended the model and test to account for incongruent gene trees with numerous taxa. Computer simulation studies supported the validity of the theoretical model and bootstrap test when each gene evolved at a constant rate. The computer simulation also suggested that the model remained valid as long as the rate heterogeneity was occurring proportionally in the same taxa for both genes. Although the model could not test hypotheses of hybridization versus lateral gene transfer as the cause of incongruence, these two processes may be distinguished by comparing phylogenies of multiple unlinked genes.
2585385|The saola, Pseudoryx nghetinhensis, was unknown to science until its formal description in 1993. This endangered species is a member of the ruminant artiodactyl family Bovidae (cattle, sheep, goats, and antelopes). However, given its puzzling combination of morphological traits, the specific affinities of Pseudoryx within Bovidae are controversial. A preliminary genetic investigation suggested that Pseudoryx should be placed in the subfamily Bovinae (cattle, buffaloes, spiral-horned antelopes, and nilgai), but a recent cladistic analysis of skeletal and dental characters allied Pseudoryx with caprine bovids (sheep, goats, musk oxen, goat antelopes, and Pantholops). The morphological and molecular hypotheses differ in assigning the saola to either of the two most divergent clades of Bovidae. In this report, phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences from five genes are used to test these alternatives. Protein coding regions, introns, and ribosomal DNAs from the nuclear and mitochondrial genomes discount the hypothesis that Pseudoryx is a close relative of Caprinae. Instead, combined analyses of the DNA data and published morphological evidence place Pseudoryx with Bovini (cattle and buffaloes), a subclade of Bovinae. In a separate analysis, the matrix of morphological characters links Pseudoryx with caprine bovids, but in the context of the molecular data, the gross anatomical evidence strongly supports a grouping of Pseudoryx with Bovinae. Surprisingly, the morphological partition provides the most character support in the combined analysis. This striking result is obscured by separate analyses of the individual data sets and the taxonomic congruence approach.
2585388|Previous studies of the small Southern Hemisphere family Atherospermataceae have drawn contradictory conclusions regarding the number of transantarctic disjunctions and role of transoceanic dispersal in its evolution. Clarification of intergeneric relationships is critical to resolving (1) whether the two Chilean species, Laurelia sempervirens and Laureliopsis philippiana, are related to different Austral-Pacific species, implying two transantarctic disjunctions as suggested by morphology; (2) where the group is likely to have originated; and (3) whether observed disjunctions reflect the breakup of Gondwana. We analyzed chloroplast DNA sequences from six regions (the rbcL gene, the rpl16 intron, and the trnL-trnF, trnT-trnL, psbA-trnH, and atpB-rbcL spacer regions; for all six regions, 4,372 bp) for all genera and most species of Atherospermataceae, using parsimony and maximum likelihood (ML). The family's sister group, the Chilean endemic Gomortega nitida (Gomortegaceae), was used to root the tree. Parsimony and ML yielded identical single best trees that contain three well-supported clades (75% bootstrap): Daphnandra and Doryphora from south-eastern Australia; Atherosperma and Nemuaron from Australia-Tasmania and New Caledonia, respectively; and Laurelia novae-zelandiae and Laureliopsis philippiana from New Zealand and Chile, respectively. The second Chilean species, Laurelia sempervirens, is sister to this last clade. Likelihood ratio testing did not reject the molecular clock assumption for the rbcL data, which can therefore be used for divergence time estimates. The atherosperm fossil record, which goes back to the Upper Cretaceous, includes pollen, wood, and leaf fossils from Europe, Africa, South America, Antarctica, New Zealand, and Tasmania. Calibration of rbcL substitution rates with the fossils suggests an initial diversification of the family at 100-140 million years ago (MYA), probably in West Gondwana, early entry into Antarctica, and long-distance dispersal to New Zealand and New Caledonia at 50-30 MYA by the ancestors of L. novae-zelandiae and Nemuaron.
2585387|The model of development and evolution of complex morphological structures conceived by Atchley and Hall in 1991 (Biol. Rev. 66:101-157), which establishes that changes at the macroscopic, morphogenetic level can be statistically detected as variation in skeletal units at distinct scales, was applied in combination with the formalism of geometric morphometrics to study variation in mandible shape among populations of the rodent species Thrichomys apereoides. The thin-plate spline technique produced geometric descriptors of shape derived from anatomical landmarks in the mandible, which we used with graphical and inferential approaches to partition the contribution of global and localized components to the observed differentiation in mandible shape. A major pattern of morphological differentiation in T. apereoides is attributable to localized components of shape at smaller geometric scales associated with specific morphogenetic units of the mandible. On the other hand, a clinal trend of variation is associated primarily with localized components of shape at larger geometric scales. Morphogenetic mechanisms assumed to be operating to produce the observed differentiation in the specific units of the mandible include mesenchymal condensation differentiation, muscle hypertrophy, and tooth growth. Perspectives for the application of models of morphological evolution and geometric morphometrics to morphologically based systematic biology are considered.
2585382|Paleontologists frequently contrast clade rank (i.e., nodal or patristic distance from the base of a cladogram) with age rank (i.e., relative first known appearances of the analyzed taxa) to measure the degree of congruence between the estimated phylogeny and the fossil record. Although some potential biases of these methods have been examined (e.g., the effect of tree imbalance), other properties of age rank/clade rank (ARCR) comparisons have not been studied in detail. A basic premise of ARCR metrics is that outgroup taxa diverged earlier than ingroups and thus should first appear in older strata. For example, given phylogeny (A,(B,C)), then taxon A should be sampled before either taxon B or taxon C. We examine this premise in the context of (1) phylogenetic theory, (2) taxonomic practice, (3) sampling intensity (R), and (4) factors other than sampling intensity (including cladogram accuracy). Simulations combining clade evolution and sampling over time indicate a poor relationship between ARCR metrics and R when all taxa are apomorphy-based monophyletic groups. However, a good relationship exists when taxa are either stem-based monophyletic groups or if workers include taxa without a priori decisions about monophyly or paraphyly. These results are not surprising because cladograms predict the order in which lineages diverged (which applies to stem-based monophyletic taxa) and the order in which morphologic grades appeared (which applies to paraphyletic taxa relative to derived monophyletic groups). Other factors that increase ARCR metrics when the average R stays the same include high temporal variation in R, budding instead of bifurcating speciation patterns, low extinction rates, cladogram inaccuracy, and (to a much lesser extent) large clade size. These results suggest several plausible explanations for patterned differences in ARCR metrics among clades, thereby compromising their validity as measures of the quality of the fossil record.
2585386|Triploblastic relationships were examined in the light of molecular and morphological evidence. Representatives for all triploblastic "phyla" (except Loricifera) were represented by both sources of phylogenetic data. The 18S ribosomal (rDNA) sequence data for 145 terminal taxa and 276 morphological characters coded for 36 supraspecific taxa were combined in a total evidence regime to determine the most consistent picture of triploblastic relationships for these data. Only triploblastic taxa are used to avoid rooting with distant outgroups, which seems to happen because of the extreme distance that separates diploblastic from triploblastic taxa according to the 18S rDNA data. Multiple phylogenetic analyses performed with variable analysis parameters yield largely inconsistent results for certain groups such as Chaetognatha, Acoela, and Nemertodermatida. A normalized incongruence length metric is used to assay the relative merit of the multiple analyses. The combined analysis having the least character incongruence yields the following scheme of relationships of four main clades: (1) Deuterostomia [((Echinodermata + Enteropneusta) (Cephalochordata (Urochordata + Vertebrata)))]; (2) Ecdysozoa [(((Priapulida + Kinorhyncha) (Nematoda + Nematomorpha)) ((Onychophora + Tardigrada) Arthropoda))]; (3) Trochozoa [((Phoronida + Brachiopoda) (Entoprocta (Nemertea (Sipuncula (Mollusca (Pogonophora (Echiura + Annelida)))))))]; and (4) Platyzoa [((Gnathostomulida (Cycliophora + Syndermata)) (Gastrotricha + Plathelminthes))]. Chaetognatha, nemertodermatida, and Bryozoa cannot be assigned to any one of these four groups. For the first time, a data analysis recognizes a clade of acoelomates, the Platyzoa (sensu Cavalier-Smith, Biol. Rev. 73:203-266, 1998). Other relationships that corroborate some morphological analyses are the existence of a clade that groups Gnathostomulida + Syndermata (= Gnathifera), which is expanded to include the enigmatic phylum Cycliophora, as sister group to Syndermata.
2585381|Extreme sexual body size dimorphism (SSD), in which males are only a small fraction of the size of the females, occurs only in a few, mostly marine, taxonomic groups. Spiders are the only terrestrial group in which small males are relatively common, particularly among orb-weavers (especially in the families Tetragnathidae and Araneidae) and crab spiders (Thomisidae). We used a taxonomic sample of 80 genera to study the phylogenetic patterns (origins and reversals) of SSD in orb-weaving spiders (Orbiculariae). We collected and compiled male and female size data (adult body length) for 536 species. Size data were treated as a continuous character, and ancestral sizes, for males and females separately, were reconstructed by using Wagner parsimony on a cladogram for the 80 genera used in this study. Of these 80 genera, 24 were female-biased dimorphic (twice or more the body length of the male); the remaining 56 genera were monomorphic. Under parsimony only four independent origins of dimorphism are required: in the theridiid genus Tidarren, in the distal nephilines, in the "argiopoid clade," and in the araneid genus Kaira. Dimorphism has reversed to monomorphism at least seven times, all of them within the large "argiopoid clade." The four independent origins of dimorphism represent two separate instances of an increase in female size coupled with a decrease of male size (involving only two genera), and two separate instances of an increase in female size with male size either remaining the same or increasing, but not as much as females (involving 30 genera). In orb-weaving spiders, far more taxa are sexually dimorphic as a result of female size increase (22 genera) than as a result of male size decrease (two genera). SSD in orb-weaving spiders encompasses several independent evolutionary histories that together suggest a variety of evolutionary pathways. This multiplicity strongly refutes all efforts thus far to find a general explanation for either the origin or maintenance (or both) of SSD, because the different pathways very likely will require distinctly different, possibly unique, explanations. Each pattern must be understood historically before its origin and maintenance can be explained in ecological and evolutionary terms. The most frequently cited example of male dwarfism in spiders, the golden orb-weaving spider genus Nephila (Tetragnathidae), is in fact a case of female giantism, not male dwarfism.
2585378|We investigated the coevolutionary history of seabirds (orders Procellariiformes and Sphenisciformes) and their lice (order Phthiraptera). Independent trees were produced for the seabirds (tree derived from 12S ribosomal RNA, isoenzyme, and behavioral data) and their lice (trees derived from 12S rRNA data). Brook's parsimony analysis (BPA) supported a general history of cospeciation (consistency index = 0.84, retention index = 0.81). We inferred that the homoplasy in the BPA was caused by one intrahost speciation, one potential host-switching, and eight or nine sorting events. Using reconciliation analysis, we quantified the cost of fitting the louse tree onto the seabird tree. The reconciled trees postulated one host-switching, nine cospeciation, three or four intrahost speciation, and 11 to 14 sorting events. The number of cospeciation events was significantly more than would be expected from chance alone (P < 0.01). The sequence data were used to test for rate heterogeneity for both seabirds and lice. Neither data set displayed significant rate heterogeneity. An examination of the codivergent nodes revealed that seabirds and lice have cospeciated synchronously and that lice have evolved at 5.5 times the rate of seabirds. The degree of sequence divergence supported some of the postulated intrahost speciation events (e.g., Halipeurus predated the evolution of their present hosts). The sequence data also supported some of the postulated host-switching events. These results demonstrate the value of sequence data and reconciliation analyses in unraveling complex histories between hosts and their parasites.
2585379|Populations of the jumping spider Habronattus pugillis Griswold isolated on nearby mountain ranges in southern Arizona are differentiated in many features of the males (color, shape, and orientation of setae on face; shape of carapace; markings of palpi and legs; motions during courtship behavior). These features are (mostly) consistent within a range and different between ranges. The concentration of differences in male courtship behavior and body parts exposed to the female during courtship and correlations between form and courtship behavior suggest sexual selection was involved in the differentiation. A phylogenetic analysis of the populations yields a tree that for the most part groups geographic neighbors, but the history of H. pugillis populations may not be adequately described by a tree. Geographic proximity of apparent convergences suggests that populations from at least some of the mountain ranges acquired characteristics through introgression. Lowering of the woodland habitat during the last glacial period probably brought some populations into contact, but it is not clear whether the interrange woodlands would have provided corridors for extensive mixing.
25677548|The "phylogenetic diversity" (PD) measure of biodiversity is evaluated using a phylogenetic tree, usually inferred from morphological or molecular data. Consequently, it is vulnerable to errors in that tree, including those resulting from sampling error, model misspecification, or conflicting signals. To improve the robustness of PD, we can evaluate the measure using either a collection (or distribution) of trees or a phylogenetic network. Recently, it has been shown that these 2 approaches are equivalent but that the problem of maximizing PD in the general concept is NP-hard. In this study, we provide an efficient dynamic programming algorithm for maximizing PD when splits in the trees or network form a circular split system. We illustrate our method using a case study of game birds ("Galliformes") and discuss the different choices of taxa based on our approach and PD.
25677549|Species traits may influence rates of speciation and extinction, affecting both the patterns of diversification among lineages and the distribution of traits among species. Existing likelihood approaches for detecting differential diversification require complete phylogenies; that is, every extant species must be present in a well-resolved phylogeny. We developed 2 likelihood methods that can be used to infer the effect of a trait on speciation and extinction without complete phylogenetic information, generalizing the recent binary-state speciation and extinction method. Our approaches can be used where a phylogeny can be reasonably assumed to be a random sample of extant species or where all extant species are included but some are assigned only to terminal unresolved clades. We explored the effects of decreasing phylogenetic resolution on the ability of our approach to detect differential diversification within a Bayesian framework using simulated phylogenies. Differential diversification caused by an asymmetry in speciation rates was nearly as well detected with only 50% of extant species phylogenetically resolved as with complete phylogenetic knowledge. We demonstrate our unresolved clade method with an analysis of sexual dimorphism and diversification in shorebirds (Charadriiformes). Our methods allow for the direct estimation of the effect of a trait on speciation and extinction rates using incompletely resolved phylogenies.
25677550|We explore the potential impact of conflicting gene trees on inferences of evolutionary history above the species level. When conflict between gene trees is discovered, it is common practice either to analyze the data separately or to combine the data having excluded the conflicting taxa or data partitions for those taxa (which are then recoded as missing). We demonstrate an alternative approach, which involves duplicating conflicting taxa in the matrix, such that each duplicate is represented by one partition only. This allows the combination of all available data in standard phylogenetic analyses, despite reticulations. We show how interpretation of contradictory gene trees can lead to conflicting inferences of both morphological evolution and biogeographic history, using the example of the pampas grasses, Cortaderia. The characteristic morphological syndrome of Cortaderia can be inferred as having arisen multiple times (chloroplast DNA [cpDNA]) or just once (nuclear ribosomal DNA [nrDNA]). The distributions of species of Cortaderia and related genera in Australia/New Guinea, New Zealand, and South America can be explained by few (nrDNA) or several (cpDNA) dispersals between the southern continents. These contradictions can be explained by past hybridization events, which have linked gains of complex morphologies with unrelated chloroplast lineages and have erased evidence of dispersals from the nuclear genome. Given the discrepancies between inferences based on the gene trees individually, we urge the use of approaches such as ours that take multiple gene trees into account.
25677546|In phylogenetic analysis, one possible approach to minimize missing data in DNA supermatrices consists in sampling sequences from different species to obtain a complete sequence for all genes included in the study. We refer to those complete sequences as composite taxa because DNA sequences that are combined belong to different species. An alternative approach is to analyze incomplete supermatrices by coding unavailable DNA sequences as missing. The accuracy of phylogenetic trees estimated using matrices that include composite taxa has recently been questioned, and the best approach for analyzing incomplete supermatrices is highly debated. Through computer simulations, we compared the phylogenetic accuracy of the 2 competing approaches. We explored the effect of composite taxa when inferring higher level relationships, that is, relationships between monophyletic groups. DNA sequences were simulated on a 42-taxon model tree and incomplete supermatrices containing different percentages of missing data were generated. These incomplete supermatrices were analyzed either by coding the missing data with "?" or by reducing the amount of missing data through the combination of 2 or more taxa to generate composite taxa. Of 180 comparisons (18 simulation cases with 2 different inference methods and 5 levels of incompleteness), we observed significantly higher phylogenetic accuracies for composite matrices in 46 comparisons, whereas missing data matrices outperformed composites in 8 comparisons. In all other cases, the phylogenetic accuracy obtained with composite matrices was not significantly different from that of missing data matrices. This study demonstrates that composite taxa represent an interesting approach to minimize the amount of missing data in supermatrices and we suggest that it is the optimal approach to use in phylogenomic studies to reduce computing time.
25677552|Madagascar's flora and fauna are remarkable both for their diversity and supraspecific endemism. Moreover, many taxa contain large numbers of species with limited distributions. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain this high level of microendemism, including 1) riverine barrier, 2) mountain refuge, and 3) watershed contraction hypotheses, the latter 2 of which center on fragmentation due to climatic shifts associated with Pliocene/Pleistocene glaciations. The Malagasy leaf chameleon genus Brookesia is a speciose group with a high proportion of microendemic taxa, thus making it an excellent candidate to test these vicariance scenarios. We used mitochondrial and nuclear sequence data to construct a Brookesia phylogeny, and temporal concordance with Pliocene/Pleistocene speciation scenarios was tested by estimating divergence dates using a relaxed-clock Bayesian method. We strongly reject a role for Pliocene/Pleistocene climatic fluctuations in species-level diversification of Brookesia. We also used simulations to test the spatial predictions of the watershed contraction model in a phylogenetic context, independent of its temporal component, and found no statistical support for this model. The riverine barrier model is likewise a qualitatively poor fit to our data, but some relationships support a more ancient mountain refuge effect. We assessed support for the 3 hypotheses in a nonphylogenetic context by examining altitude and species richness and found a significant positive correlation between these variables. This is consistent with a mountain refuge effect but does not support the watershed contraction or riverine barrier models. Finally, we find repeated higher level east-west divergence patterns 1) between the 2 sister clades comprising the Brookesia minima group and 2) within the clade of larger leaf chameleons, which shows a basal divergence between western and eastern/northern sister clades. Our results highlight the central role of phylogeny in any meaningful tests of species-level diversification theories.
25677547|The remarkable fossil record of whales and dolphins (Cetacea) has made them an exemplar of macroevolution. Although their overall adaptive transition from terrestrial to fully aquatic organisms is well known, this is not true for the radiation of modern whales. Here, we explore the diversification of extant cetaceans by constructing a robust molecular phylogeny that includes 87 of 89 extant species. The phylogeny and divergence times are derived from nuclear and mitochondrial markers, calibrated with fossils. We find that the toothed whales are monophyletic, suggesting that echolocation evolved only once early in that lineage some 3634 Ma. The rorqual family (Balaenopteridae) is restored with the exclusion of the gray whale, suggesting that gulp feeding evolved 1816 Ma. Delphinida, comprising all living dolphins and porpoises other than the Ganges/Indus dolphins, originated about 26 Ma; it contains the taxonomically rich delphinids, which began diversifying less than 11 Ma. We tested 2 hypothesized drivers of the extant cetacean radiation by assessing the tempo of lineage accumulation through time. We find no support for a rapid burst of speciation early in the history of extant whales, contrasting with expectations of an adaptive radiation model. However, we do find support for increased diversification rates during periods of pronounced physical restructuring of the oceans. The results imply that paleogeographic and paleoceanographic changes, such as closure of major seaways, have influenced the dynamics of radiation in extant cetaceans.
25677545|I investigated the impacts of phylogeographic sampling decisions on species tree estimation in the Sceloporus undulatus species group, a recent radiation of small, insectivorous lizards connected by parapatric and peripatric distribution across North America, using a variety of species tree inference methods (Bayesian estimation of species trees, Bayesian untangling of concordance knots, and minimize deep coalescences). Phylogenetic analyses of 16 specimens representing 4 putative species within S. "undulatus" using complete (8 loci, >5.5 kb) and incomplete (29 loci, >23.6 kb) nuclear data sets result in species trees that share features with the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genealogy at the phylogeographic level but provide new insights into the evolutionary history of the species group. The concatenated nuclear data and mtDNA data both recover 4 major clades connecting populations across North America; however, instances of discordance are localized at the contact zones between adjacent phylogeographic groups. A random sub-sampling experiment designed to vary the phylogeographic samples included across hundreds of replicate species tree inferences suggests that inaccurate species assignments can result in inferred phylogenetic relationships that are dependent upon which particular populations are used as exemplars to represent species and can lead to increased estimates of effective population size (). For the phylogeographic data presented here, reassigning specimens with introgressed mtDNA genomes to their prospective species, or excluding them from the analysis altogether, produces species tree topologies that are distinctly different from analyses that utilize mtDNA-based species assignments. Evolutionary biologists working at the interface of phylogeography and phylogenetics are likely to encounter multiple processes influencing gene trees congruence, which increases the relevance of estimating species trees with multilocus nuclear data and models that accommodate deep coalescence.
25677551|Time-calibrated molecular phylogenies provide a valuable window into the tempo and mode of species diversification, especially for the large number of groups that lack adequate fossil records. Molecular phylogenetic data frequently suggest an initial "explosive speciation" phase, leading to widespread speculation that ecological niche-filling processes might govern the dynamics of species diversification during evolutionary radiations. However, these patterns are difficult to reconcile with the fossil record. The fossil record strongly suggests that extinction rates have been high relative to speciation rates, but such elevated background extinction should erase the signal of early, rapid speciation from molecular phylogenies. For this reason, extinction rates in molecular phylogenies are frequently estimated as zero under the widely used birthdeath model. Here, I construct a simple model that combines phylogenetically patterned extinction with pulsed turnover dynamics and constant diversity through time. Using approximate Bayesian methods, I show that heritable extinction can easily explain the phenomenon of explosive early diversification, even when net diversification rates are equal to zero. Several assumptions of the model are more consistent with both the fossil record and neontological data than the standard birthdeath model and it may thus represent a viable alternative interpretation of phylogenetic diversification patterns. These results suggest that variation in the absolute rate of lineage turnover through time, in conjunction with phylogenetically nonrandom extinction, may underlie the apparent diversity-dependent speciation observed in molecular phylogenies.
25677482|Consensus methods provide a useful strategy for summarizing information from a collection of gene trees. An important application of consensus methods is to combine gene trees to estimate a species tree. To investigate the theoretical properties of consensus trees that would be obtained from large numbers of loci evolving according to a basic evolutionary model, we construct consensus trees from rooted gene trees that occur in proportion to gene-tree probabilities derived from coalescent theory. We consider majority-rule, rooted triple (R*), and greedy consensus trees obtained from known, rooted gene trees, both in the asymptotic case as numbers of gene trees approach infinity and for finite numbers of genes. Our results show that for some combinations of species-tree branch lengths, increasing the number of independent loci can make the rooted majority-rule consensus tree more likely to be at least partially unresolved. However, the probability that the R* consensus tree has the species-tree topology approaches 1 as the number of gene trees approaches . Although the greedy consensus algorithm can be the quickest to converge on the correct species-tree topology when increasing the number of gene trees, it can also be positively misleading. The majority-rule consensus tree is not a misleading estimator of the species-tree topology, and the R* consensus tree is a statistically consistent estimator of the species-tree topology. Our results therefore suggest a method for using multiple loci to infer the species-tree topology, even when it is discordant with the most likely gene tree.
25677480|Understanding the mechanisms by which widely disjunct members of a clade came to occupy their current distribution is one of the fundamental challenges of biogeography. Here, we used data from 7 nuclear and 1 mitochondrial gene to examine the phylogenetic and biogeographic history of Emys, a clade of turtles that is broadly disjunct in western and eastern North America and Europe. We found strong disagreement between mitochondrial and nuclear gene trees, with mitochondrial DNA supporting the monophyly of the North American taxa (marmorata + blandingii) to the exclusion of the European orbicularis, and nuclear genes supporting the monophyly of (blandingii + orbicularis) to the exclusion of marmorata. We used fossil-calibrated molecular chronograms, in combination with supporting evidence from the fossil record and paleoclimatology, to identify a potential example of ancient hybridization and mitochondrial gene capture 12 million years ago, which explains this discrepancy. Based on the weight of evidence, we argue that the invasion of Eurasia by Emys orbicularis occurred about 16 Ma via a trans-Beringian land bridge. The case of Emys emphasizes how single-gene trees can be strongly affected by population processes, including hybridization, and that the effects of these processes can persist through long periods of evolutionary history. Given the chaotic state of the current taxonomy of these turtles, our work also emphasizes the care that should be used in implementing taxonomic changes based on 1 or a few gene trees and the importance of taking a conservative approach in renaming or splitting higher taxa based on apparent nonmonophyly.
25677483|Although polyploidy plays a fundamental role in plant evolution, the elucidation of polyploid origins is fraught with methodological challenges. For example, allopolyploid species may confound phylogenetic reconstruction because commonly used methods are designed to trace divergent, rather than reticulate patterns. Recently developed techniques of phylogenetic network estimation allow for a more effective identification of incongruence among trees. However, incongruence can also be caused by incomplete lineage sorting, paralogy, concerted evolution, and recombination. Thus, initial hypotheses of hybridization need to be examined via additional sources of evidence, including the partitioning of infraspecific genetic polymorphisms, morphological characteristics, chromosome numbers, crossing experiments, and distributional patterns. Primula sect. Aleuritia subsect. Aleuritia (Aleuritia) represents an ideal case study to examine reticulation because specific hypotheses have been derived from morphology, karyology, interfertility, and distribution to explain the observed variation of ploidy levels, ranging from diploidy to 14-ploidy. Sequences from 5 chloroplast and 1 nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) markers were analyzed to generate the respective phylogenies and consensus networks. Furthermore, extensive cloning of the nrDNA marker allowed for the identification of shared nucleotides at polymorphic sites, investigation of infraspecific genetic polymorphisms via principal coordinate analyses PCoAs, and detection of recombination between putative progenitor sequences. The results suggest that most surveyed polyploids originated via hybridization and that 2 taxonomic species formed recurrently from different progenitors, findings that are congruent with the expectations of speciation via secondary contact. Overall, the study highlights the importance of using multiple experimental and analytical approaches to disentangle complex patterns of reticulation.
25677481|Random similarity of sequences or sequence sections can impede phylogenetic analyses or the identification of gene homologies. Additionally, randomly similar sequences or ambiguously aligned sequence sections can negatively interfere with the estimation of substitution model parameters. Phylogenomic studies have shown that biases in model estimation and tree reconstructions do not disappear even with large data sets. In fact, these biases can become pronounced with more data. It is therefore important to identify possible random similarity within sequence alignments in advance of model estimation and tree reconstructions. Different approaches have been already suggested to identify and treat problematic alignment sections. We propose an alternative method that can identify random similarity within multiple sequence alignments (MSAs) based on Monte Carlo resampling within a sliding window. The method infers similarity profiles from pairwise sequence comparisons and subsequently calculates a consensus profile. This consensus profile represents a summary of all calculated single similarity profiles. In consequence, consensus profiles identify dominating patterns of non-random similarity or randomness within sections of MSAs. We show that the approach clearly identifies randomness in simulated and real data. After the exclusion of putative random sections, node support drastically improves in tree reconstructions of both data. It thus appears to be a powerful tool to identify possible biases of tree reconstructions or gene identification. The method is currently restricted to nucleotide data but will be extended to protein data in the near future.
25677485|The genomics revolution offers great promise for resolving the phylogeny of living taxa, but does it offer any benefits for reconstructing relationships among extinct (fossil) taxa? Superficially, the answer would seem to be "no," given that molecular data cannot be obtained for most fossil taxa. However, because fossil taxa often interdigitate among living taxa on the Tree of Life, molecular data may indirectly enhance phylogenetic accuracy for fossil taxa in the context of a combined analysis of morphological and molecular data for living and fossil taxa. Here, I use simulations to assess accuracy for fossil taxa in a mixed analysis of living and fossil taxa, before and after addition of molecular data to the living taxa. The results show conditions where the accuracy for fossil taxa is greatly increased by adding molecular data, sometimes by as much as 100%. In other cases, the increase is negligible, such as when fossil taxa greatly outnumber living taxa in the analysis. However, there were few cases where accuracy was significantly decreased by the addition of the molecular data, suggesting that this practice may range from highly beneficial to mostly harmless. Overall, the results suggest that improvements in molecular phylogenetics can potentially benefit phylogeny reconstruction for fossil taxa.
25677486|Several methods have recently been developed that allow the reconstruction of species trees from gene trees, an important achievement in our ongoing quest to obtain reliable species phylogenies. However, considerably less attention has been given to evaluating the accuracy of species trees' estimates. Four methods for measuring branch support of species trees are tested in this study in a gene tree parsimony framework: 1) bootstrap lineages (BL) (sequences) within species, 2) bootstrap characters (BC) within genes (i.e., the standard nonparametric bootstrap), 3) bootstrap lineages and characters (BLC), and 4) posterior probability gene tree sampling (PPGTS) (where, for each resampled data set, gene trees are sampled according to their posterior probability). For each method, n species trees are reconstructed from n resampled data sets and the branch support consists in the percentage of the n species trees in which a branch is recovered. The 4 methods were tested for several species trees and for different sampling efforts (i.e., number of genes and individuals sampled) using coalescent simulations. PPGTS performed best overall with lowest Type I and II error rates, followed by BLC. The BL and BC methods had higher error rates. This suggests that in order to properly measure branch support in a species tree context, it is important to account for the uncertainty involved in reconstructing gene trees from DNA sequences as well as that involved in reconstructing the species tree from individual gene trees. With the parameters used in the simulations, sampling more individuals per species resulted in similar improvements in support values as when sampling more genes. Moreover, sampling more individuals per species appeared to be important for escaping the anomaly zone present when only 1 sequence was sampled. We also apply the 4 methods to obtain branch supports for the species phylogeny of diploid wild roses (Rosa) in North America.
25677487|Phylogenies of closely related animal species are often inferred using mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) gene sequences. The accuracy of mtDNA gene trees is compromised through hybridization that leads to introgression of mitochondrial genomes. Using DNA sequences from 6 single-copy nuclear genes and 2 regions of the mitochondrial genome, we investigated the temporal and geographic signature of mitochondrial and nuclear introgression in the Etheostoma spectabile darter clade. Phylogenetic analyses of the nuclear genes result in the monophyly of the E. spectabile clade; however, with respect to sampled specimens of 5 species (Etheostoma fragi, Etheostoma uniporum, Etheostoma pulchellum, Etheostoma burri, and E. spectabile), the mitochondrial phylogeny is inconsistent with E. spectabile clade monophyly. Etheostoma uniporum and E. fragi are both fixed for heterospecific mitochondrial genomes. Limited nuclear introgression is restricted to E. uniporum. Our analyses show that the pattern of introgression is consistently asymmetric, with movement of heterospecific mitochondrial haplotypes and nuclear alleles into E. spectabile clade species; introgressive hybridization spans broad temporal scales; and introgression is restricted to species and populations in the Ozarks. The introgressed mitochondrial genome observed in E. fragi has an obscure phylogenetic placement among darters, an ancient age, and is possibly a mitochondrial fossil from an Etheostoma species that has subsequently gone extinct. These results indicate that introgression, both ancient and more contemporaneous, characterizes the history of diversification in the E. spectabile species clade and may be relatively common among clades comprising the species-rich North American freshwater fauna.
25677484|Because species names play an important role in scientific communication, it is more important that species be understood to be taxa than that they be equated with functional ecological or evolutionary entities. Although most biologists would agree that taxa are composed of organisms that share a unique common history, 2 major challenges remain in developing a species-as-taxa concept. First, grouping: in the face of genealogical discordance at all levels in the taxonomic hierarchy, how can we understand the nature of taxa? Second, ranking: what criteria should be used to designate certain taxa in a nested series as being species? The grouping problem can be solved by viewing taxa as exclusive groups of organismssets of organisms that form a clade for a plurality of the genome (more than any conflicting set). However, no single objective criterion of species rank can be proposed. Instead, the species rank should be assigned by practitioners based on the semisubjective application of a set of species-ranking criteria. Although these criteria can be designed to yield species taxa that approximately match the ecological, evolutionary, and morphological entities that taxonomists have traditionally associated with the species rank, such a correspondence cannot be enforced without undermining the assumption that species are taxa. The challenge and art of monography is to use genealogical and other kinds of data to assign all organisms to one and only one species-ranked taxon. Various implications of the species-as-ranked-taxa view are discussed, including the synchronic nature of taxa, fossil species, the treatment of hybrids, and species nomenclature. I conclude that, although challenges remain, adopting the view that species are ranked taxa will facilitate a much-needed revolution in taxonomy that will allow it to better serve the biodiversity informatic needs of the 21st century.
25677488|Although an increasing number of phylogenetic data sets are incomplete, the effect of ambiguous data on phylogenetic accuracy is not well understood. We use 4-taxon simulations to study the effects of ambiguous data (i.e., missing characters or gaps) in maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian frameworks. By introducing ambiguous data in a way that removes confounding factors, we provide the first clear understanding of 1 mechanism by which ambiguous data can mislead phylogenetic analyses. We find that in both ML and Bayesian frameworks, among-site rate variation can interact with ambiguous data to produce misleading estimates of topology and branch lengths. Furthermore, within a Bayesian framework, priors on branch lengths and rate heterogeneity parameters can exacerbate the effects of ambiguous data, resulting in strongly misleading bipartition posterior probabilities. The magnitude and direction of the ambiguous data bias are a function of the number and taxonomic distribution of ambiguous characters, the strength of topological support, and whether or not the model is correctly specified. The results of this study have major implications for all analyses that rely on accurate estimates of topology or branch lengths, including divergence time estimation, ancestral state reconstruction, tree-dependent comparative methods, rate variation analysis, phylogenetic hypothesis testing, and phylogeographic analysis.
25677522|Detailed biogeographic studies of pantropical clades are still relatively few, and those conducted to date typically use parsimony or event-based methods to reconstruct ancestral areas. In this study, a recently developed likelihood method for reconstructing ancestral areas (the dispersalextinction cladogenesis [DEC] model) is applied to the angiosperm family Simaroubaceae, a geographically widespread and ecologically diverse clade of pantropical and temperate trees and shrubs. To estimate divergence dates in the family, Bayesian uncorrelated rates analyses and robust fossil calibrations are applied to the well-sampled and strongly supported phylogeny. For biogeographic analyses, the effects of parameter configurations in the DEC model are assessed for different possible ancestral ranges, and the likelihood method is compared with dispersalvicariance analysis (DIVA). Regardless of the parameters used, likelihood analyses show a common pattern of multiple recent range shifts that overshadow reconstruction of events deeper in the family's history. DIVA produced results similar to the DEC model when ancestral ranges were restricted to two areas, but some improbable ancestral ranges were also observed. Simaroubaceae exhibit an early history of range expansion between major continental areas in the Northern Hemisphere, but reconstruction of ancestral areas for lineages diverging in the early Tertiary are sensitive to the parameters of the model used. A North American origin is suggested for the family, with migration via Beringia by ancestral taxa. In contrast to traditional views, long-distance dispersal events are common, particularly in the Late Oligocene and later. Notable dispersals are inferred to have occurred across the Atlantic Ocean in both directions, as well as between Africa and Asia, and around the Indian Ocean basin and Pacific islands.
25677524|In molecular phylogenetic studies, a major aspect of experimental design concerns the choice of markers and taxa. Although previous studies have investigated the phylogenetic performance of different genes and the effectiveness of increasing taxon sampling, their conclusions are partly contradictory, probably because they are highly context specific and dependent on the group of organisms used in each study. Goldman introduced a method for experimental design in phylogenetics based on the expected information to be gained that has barely been used in practice. Here we use this method to explore the phylogenetic utility of mitochondrial (mt) genes, mt genomes, and nuclear rag1 for studies of the systematics of caecilian amphibians, as well as the effect of taxon addition on the stabilization of a controversial branch of the tree. Overall phylogenetic information estimates per gene, specific estimates per branch of the tree, estimates for combined (mitogenomic) data sets, and estimates as a hypothetical new taxon is added to different parts of the caecilian tree are calculated and compared. In general, the most informative data sets are those for mt transfer and ribosomal RNA genes. Our results also show at which positions in the caecilian tree the addition of taxa have the greatest potential to increase phylogenetic information with respect to the controversial relationships of Scolecomorphus, Boulengerula, and all other teresomatan caecilians. These positions are, as intuitively expected, mostly (but not all) adjacent to the controversial branch. Generating whole mitogenomic and rag1 data for additional taxa joining the Scolecomorphus branch may be a more efficient strategy than sequencing a similar amount of additional nucleotides spread across the current caecilian taxon sampling. The methodology employed in this study allows an a priori evaluation and testable predictions of the appropriateness of particular experimental designs to solve specific questions at different levels of the caecilian phylogeny.
25677523|Orthology analysis aims at identifying orthologous genes and gene products from different organisms and, therefore, is a powerful tool in modern computational and experimental biology. Although reconciliation-based orthology methods are generally considered more accurate than distance-based ones, the traditional parsimony-based implementation of reconciliation-based orthology analysis (most parsimonious reconciliation [MPR]) suffers from a number of shortcomings. For example, 1) it is limited to orthology predictions from the reconciliation that minimizes the number of gene duplication and loss events, 2) it cannot evaluate the support of this reconciliation in relation to the other reconciliations, and 3) it cannot make use of prior knowledge (e.g., about species divergence times) that provides auxiliary information for orthology predictions. We present a probabilistic approach to reconciliation-based orthology analysis that addresses all these issues by estimating orthology probabilities. The method is based on the gene evolution model, an explicit evolutionary model for gene duplication and gene loss inside a species tree, that generalizes the standard birthdeath process. We describe the probabilistic approach to orthology analysis using 2 experimental data sets and show that the use of orthology probabilities allows a more informative analysis than MPR and, in particular, that it is less sensitive to taxon sampling problems. We generalize these anecdotal observations and show, using data generated under biologically realistic conditions, that MPR give false orthology predictions at a substantial frequency. Last, we provide a new orthology prediction method that allows an orthology and paralogy classification with any chosen sensitivity/specificity combination from the spectra of achievable combinations. We conclude that probabilistic orthology analysis is a strong and more advanced alternative to traditional orthology analysis and that it provides a framework for sophisticated comparative studies of processes in genome evolution.
25677521|Many published phylogenies are based on methods that assume equal nucleotide composition among taxa. Studies have shown, however, that this assumption is often not accurate, particularly in divergent lineages. Nonstationary sequence evolution, when taxa in different lineages evolve in different ways, can lead to unequal nucleotide composition. This can cause inference methods to fail and phylogenies to be inaccurate. Recent advancements in phylogenetic theory have proposed new models of nonstationary sequence evolution; these models often outperform equivalent stationary models. A variety of new phylogenetic software implementing such models has been developed, but the studies employing the new methodology are still few. We discovered convergence of nucleotide composition within mitochondrial genomes of the insect order Coleoptera (beetles). We found variation in base content both among species and among genes in the genome. To this data set, we have applied a broad range of phylogenetic methods, including some traditional stationary models of evolution and all the more recent nonstationary models. We compare 8 inference methods applied to the same data set. Although the more commonly used methods universally fail to recover established clades, we find that some of the newer software packages are more appropriate for data of this nature. The software packages p4, PHASE, and nhPhyML were able to overcome the systematic bias in our data set, but parsimony, MrBayes, NJ, LogDet, and PhyloBayes were not.
25677499|Statistical models for the evolution of molecular sequences play an important role in the study of evolutionary processes. For the evolutionary analysis of protein-coding sequences, 3 types of evolutionary models are available: 1) nucleotide, 2) amino acid, and 3) codon substitution models. Selecting appropriate models can greatly improve the estimation of phylogenies and divergence times and the detection of positive selection. Although much attention has been paid to the comparisons among the same types of models, relatively little attention has been paid to the comparisons among the different types of models. Additionally, because such models have different data structures, comparison of those models using conventional model selection criteria such as Akaike information criterion (AIC) or Bayesian information criterion (BIC) is not straightforward. Here, we suggest new procedures to convert models of the above-mentioned 3 types to 64-dimensional models with nucleotide triplet substitution. These conversion procedures render it possible to statistically compare the models of these 3 types by using AIC or BIC. By analyzing divergent and conserved interspecific mammalian sequences and intraspecific human population data, we show the superiority of the codon substitution models and discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the models of the 3 types.
25677500|The appropriate interpretation of bootstrap support for splits and the question of what constitutes large bootstrap support have received considerable attention. One desirable interpretation, indeed the interpretation that was put forward when bootstrap support for splits was first introduced, is that 1-minus bootstrap support is a P value for the hypothesis that the split is not well resolved. As a P value, bootstrap support has been argued to be first-order correct. By obtaining the limiting distribution of bootstrap support for a split when maximum likelihood estimation is conducted, it is shown that bootstrap support is not first-order correct and insight is provided into the nature of the problem. Borrowing from earlier results, it is also shown that similar results hold when the neighbor-joining algorithm is used. Examples suggest that bootstrap support is generally conservative as a P value and give insight as to why this is usually the case. The analysis indicates that the problem is largely due to the unusual nature of tree space where boundary trees always have at least 2 neighbors.
25677503|Multiple unlinked genetic loci often provide a more comprehensive picture of evolutionary history than any single gene can, but analyzing multigene data presents particular challenges. Differing rates and patterns of nucleotide substitution, combined with the limited information available in any data set, can make it difficult to specify a model of evolution. In addition, conflict among loci can be the result of real differences in evolutionary process or of stochastic variance and errors in reconstruction. We used 6 presumably unlinked nuclear loci to investigate relationships within the mammalian family Tupaiidae (Scandentia), containing all but one of the extant tupaiid genera. We used a phylogenetic mixture model to analyze the concatenated data and compared this with results using partitioned models. We found that more complex models were not necessarily preferred under tests using Bayes factors and that model complexity affected both tree length and parameter variance. We also compared the results of single-gene and multigene analyses and used splits networks to analyze the source and degree of conflict among genes. Networks can show specific relationships that are inconsistent with each other; these conflicting and minority relationships, which are implicitly ignored or collapsed by traditional consensus methods, can be useful in identifying the underlying causes of topological uncertainty. In our data, conflict is concentrated around particular relationships, not widespread throughtout the tree. This pattern is further clarified by considering conflict surrounding the root separately from conflict within the ingroup. Uncertainty in rooting may be because of the apparent evolutionary distance separating these genera and our outgroup, the tupaiid genus Dendrogale. Unlike a previous mitochondrial study, these nuclear data strongly suggest that the genus Tupaia is not monophyletic with respect to the monotypic Urogale, even when uncertainty about rooting is taken into account. These data concur with mitochondrial DNA on other relationships, including the close affinity of Tupaia tana with the enigmatic Tupaia splendidula and of Tupaia belangeri with Tupaia glis. We also discuss the taxonomic and biogeographic implications of these results.
25677501|We present a 6-gene, 420-species maximum-likelihood phylogeny of Ascomycota, the largest phylum of Fungi. This analysis is the most taxonomically complete to date with species sampled from all 15 currently circumscribed classes. A number of superclass-level nodes that have previously evaded resolution and were unnamed in classifications of the Fungi are resolved for the first time. Based on the 6-gene phylogeny we conducted a phylogenetic informativeness analysis of all 6 genes and a series of ancestral character state reconstructions that focused on morphology of sporocarps, ascus dehiscence, and evolution of nutritional modes and ecologies. A gene-by-gene assessment of phylogenetic informativeness yielded higher levels of informativeness for protein genes (RPB1, RPB2, and TEF1) as compared with the ribosomal genes, which have been the standard bearer in fungal systematics. Our reconstruction of sporocarp characters is consistent with 2 origins for multicellular sexual reproductive structures in Ascomycota, once in the common ancestor of Pezizomycotina and once in the common ancestor of Neolectomycetes. This first report of dual origins of ascomycete sporocarps highlights the complicated nature of assessing homology of morphological traits across Fungi. Furthermore, ancestral reconstruction supports an open sporocarp with an exposed hymenium (apothecium) as the primitive morphology for Pezizomycotina with multiple derivations of the partially (perithecia) or completely enclosed (cleistothecia) sporocarps. Ascus dehiscence is most informative at the class level within Pezizomycotina with most superclass nodes reconstructed equivocally. Characterstate reconstructions support a terrestrial, saprobic ecology as ancestral. In contrast to previous studies, these analyses support multiple origins of lichenization events with the loss of lichenization as less frequent and limited to terminal, closely related species.
25677502|Supertree and supermatrix methods have great potential in the quest to build the tree of life and yet they remain controversial, with most workers opting for one approach or the other, but rarely both. Here, we employed both methods to construct phylogenetic trees of all genera of palms (Arecaceae/Palmae), an iconic angiosperm family of great economic importance. We assembled a supermatrix consisting of 16 partitions, comprising DNA sequence data, plastid restriction fragment length polymorphism data, and morphological data for all genera, from which a highly resolved and well-supported phylogenetic tree was built despite abundant missing data. To construct supertrees, we used variants of matrix representation with parsimony (MRP) analysis based on input trees generated directly from subsamples of the supermatrix. All supertrees were highly resolved. Standard MRP with bootstrap-weighted matrix elements performed most effectively in this case, generating trees with the greatest congruence with the supermatrix tree and fewest clades unsupported by any input tree. Nonindependence due to input trees based on combinations of data partitions was an acceptable trade-off for improvements in supertree performance. Irreversible MRP and the use of strictly independent input trees only provided no obvious benefits. Contrary to previous claims, we found that unsupported clades are not infrequent under some MRP implementations, with up to 13% of clades lacking support from any input tree in some irreversible MRP supertrees. To build a formal synthesis, we assessed the cross-corroboration between supermatrix trees and the variant supertrees using semistrict consensus, enumerating shared clades and compatible clades. The semistrict consensus of the supermatrix tree and the most congruent supertree contained 160 clades (of a maximum of 204), 137 of which were present in both trees. The relationships recovered by these trees strongly support the current phylogenetic classification of palms. We evaluate 2 composite supertree support measures (rQS and V) and conclude that it is more informative to report numbers of input trees that support or conflict with a given supertree clade. This study demonstrates that supertree and supermatrix methods can provide effective, explicit, and complimentary mechanisms for synthesizing disjointed phylogenetic evidence while emphasizing the need for further refinement of supertree methods.
25677497|In this paper, we present a new way to describe the timing of branching events in phylogenetic trees. Our description is in terms of the relative timing of diversification events between sister clades; as such it is complementary to existing methods using lineages-through-time plots which consider diversification in aggregate. The method can be applied to look for evidence of diversification happening in lineage-specific "bursts", or the opposite, where diversification between 2 clades happens in an unusually regular fashion. In order to be able to distinguish interesting events from stochasticity, we discuss 2 classes of neutral models on trees with relative timing information and develop a statistical framework for testing these models. These model classes include both the coalescent with ancestral population size variation and global rate speciationextinction models. We end the paper with 2 example applications: first, we show that the evolution of the hepatitis C virus deviates from the coalescent with arbitrary population size. Second, we analyze a large tree of ants, demonstrating that a period of elevated diversification rates does not appear to have occurred in a bursting manner.
25677498|Distinguishing phylogenetic signal from homoplasy (shared similarities among taxa that do not arise by common ancestry) is an implicit goal of any phylogenetic study. Large amounts of homoplasy can interfere with accurate tree inference, and it is expected that common measures of clade support, including bootstrap proportions and Bayesian posterior probabilities, should also be impacted to some degree by homoplasy. Through data simulation and analysis of 38 empirical data sets, we show that high amounts of homoplasy will affect all measures of clade support in a manner that is dependent on clade size. More specifically, the smallest taxon bipartitions in an unrooted tree topology will receive higher support relative to clades of intermediate sizes, even when all clades are supported by the same amount of data. We determine that the ultimate causes of this effect are the inclusion of random trees (due to homoplasy) during bootstrap resampling and Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) topology searching and the higher relative proportion of small taxon bipartitions (i.e., 2 or 3 taxa) to larger sized bipartitions. However, the use of explicit model-based methods, especially Bayesian MCMC methods, effectively overcomes this clade size effect even when very small amounts of phylogenetic signal are present. We develop a post hoc statistic, the clade disparity index (CDI), to measure both the relative magnitude of the clade size effect and its statistical significance. In analyses of both simulated and empirical data, CDI values indicate that Bayesian MCMC analyses are substantially more likely to estimate clade support values that are uncorrelated with clade size than are maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood bootstrap analyses and thus less affected by homoplasy. These results may be especially relevant to "deep" phylogenetic problems, such as reconstructing the tree of life, as they represent the largest possible extremes of time and evolutionary rates, 2 factors that cause homoplasy.
25677536|Several methods have recently been developed to infer multilocus phylogenies by incorporating information from topological incongruence of the individual genes. In this study, we investigate 2 such methods, Bayesian concordance analysis and Bayesian estimation of species trees. Our test data are a collection of genes from cultivated rice (genus Oryza) and the most closely related wild species, generated using a high-throughput sequencing protocol and bioinformatics pipeline. Trees inferred from independent genes display levels of topological incongruence that far exceed that seen in previous data sets analyzed with these species tree methods. We identify differences in phylogenetic results between inference methods that incorporate gene tree incongruence. Finally, we discuss the challenges of scaling these analyses for data sets with thousands of gene trees and extensive levels of missing data.
25677534|The estimation of species trees (phylogenies) is one of the most important problems in evolutionary biology, and recently, there has been greater appreciation of the need to estimate species trees directly rather than using gene trees as a surrogate. A Bayesian method constructed under the multispecies coalescent model can consistently estimate species trees but involves intensive computation, which can hinder its application to the phylogenetic analysis of large-scale genomic data. Many summary statisticsbased approaches, such as shallowest coalescences (SC) and Global LAteSt Split (GLASS), have been developed to infer species phylogenies for multilocus data sets. In this paper, we propose 2 methods, species tree estimation using average ranks of coalescences (STAR) and species tree estimation using average coalescence times (STEAC), based on the summary statistics of coalescence times. It can be shown that the 2 methods are statistically consistent under the multispecies coalescent model. STAR uses the ranks of coalescences and is thus resistant to variable substitution rates along the branches in gene trees. A simulation study suggests that STAR consistently outperforms STEAC, SC, and GLASS when the substitution rates among lineages are highly variable. Two real genomic data sets were analyzed by the 2 methods and produced species trees that are consistent with previous results.
25677535|As DNA sequences have become more readily available, it has become increasingly desirable to infer species phylogenies from multigene data sets. Much recent work has centered around the recognition that substantial incongruence in single-gene phylogenies necessitates the development of statistical procedures to estimate species phylogenies that appropriately model the process of evolution at the level of the individual genes. One process that gives rise to variation in the histories of individual genes is incomplete lineage sorting, which is commonly modeled by the coalescent, and thus much current work is focused on proper estimation of species phylogenies under the coalescent model. A second common source of discord in single-gene phylogenies is hybridization, a process that is ubiquitous in many groups of plants and animals. Although methods to incorporate hybridization into phylogenetic estimation have also been developed, only a handful of methods that address both coalescence and hybridization have been proposed. Here, I propose an extension of an existing model that incorporates both of these processes simultaneously by utilizing gene trees for inference in a likelihood framework. The model allows examination of the evidence for hybridization in the presence of incomplete lineage sorting due to deep coalescence via model selection using standard information criteria (e.g., Akaike information criterion and Bayesian information criterion). The potential of the method is evaluated using simulated data.
25677539|The increasing number of observations of gene trees with discordant topologies in phylogenetic studies has raised awareness about the problems of incongruence between species trees and gene trees. Moreover, theoretical treatments focusing on the impact of coalescent variance on phylogenetic study have also identified situations where the most probable gene trees are ones that do not match the underlying species tree (i.e., anomalous gene trees [AGTs]). However, although the theoretical proof of the existence of AGTs is alarming, the actual risk that AGTs pose to empirical phylogenetic study is far from clear. Establishing the conditions (i.e., the branch lengths in a species tree) for which AGTs are possible does not address the critical issue of how prevalent they might be. Furthermore, theoretical characterization of the species trees for which AGTs may pose a problem (i.e., the anomaly zone or the species histories for which AGTs are theoretically possible) is based on consideration of just one source of variance that contributes to species tree and gene tree discordgene lineage coalescence. Yet, empirical data contain another important stochastic componentmutational variance. Estimated gene trees will differ from the underlying gene trees (i.e., the actual genealogy) because of the random process of mutation. Here, we take a simulation approach to investigate the prevalence of AGTs, among estimated gene trees, thereby characterizing the boundaries of the anomaly zone taking into account both coalescent and mutational variances. We also determine the frequency of realized AGTs, which is critical to putting the theoretical work on AGTs into a realistic biological context. Two salient results emerge from this investigation. First, our results show that mutational variance can indeed expand the parameter space (i.e., the relative branch lengths in a species tree) where AGTs might be observed in empirical data. By exploring the underlying cause for the expanded anomaly zone, we identify aspects of empirical data relevant to avoiding the problems that AGTs pose for species tree inference from multilocus data. Second, for the empirical species histories where AGTs are possible, unresolved treesnot AGTspredominate the pool of estimated gene trees. This result suggests that the risk of AGTs, while they exist in theory, may rarely be realized in practice. By considering the biological realities of both mutational and coalescent variances, the study has refined, and redefined, what the actual challenges are for empirical phylogenetic study of recently diverged taxa that have speciated rapidlyAGTs themselves are unlikely to pose a significant danger to empirical phylogenetic study.
25677537|The understanding that gene trees are often in discord with each other and with the species trees that contain them has led researchers to methods that incorporate the inherent stochasticity of genetic processes in the phylogenetic estimation procedure. Recently developed methods for species-tree estimation that not only consider the retention and sorting of ancestral polymorphism but also quantify the actual probabilities of incomplete lineage sorting are expected to provide an improvement over earlier summary-statistic based approaches that discard much of the information content of gene trees. However, these new methods have yet to be tested on truly challenging evolutionary histories such as those marked by recent rapid speciation where high levels of incomplete lineage sorting and discord among gene trees predominate. Here, we test a new maximum-likelihood method that incorporates stochastic models of both nucleotide substitution and lineage sorting for species-tree estimation. Using a simulation approach, we consider a broad range of species-tree topologies under 2 scenarios representing moderate and severe incomplete lineage sorting. We show that the maximum-likelihood method results in more accurate species trees than a summary-statistic based approach, demonstrating that information contained in discordant gene trees can be effectively extracted using a full probabilistic model. Moreover, we demonstrate that the shape of the original species tree (i.e., the relative lengths of internal branches) has a significant impact on whether the species tree is estimated accurately. In the speciation histories explored here, it is not just the recent origin of species that affects the accuracy of the estimates but the variance in relative species divergence times as well. Additionally, we show that sampling effort (number of individuals and/or loci) and sampling design (ratio of individuals to loci) are both important factors affecting the accuracy of species-tree estimates, which is again affected by the relative timing of divergence among species. The inherent difficulties of estimating relationships when species have undergone a recent radiation are discussed, and in particular, the limitations with maximum-likelihood estimates of species trees that do not consider uncertainty in the estimated gene trees of individual loci. Thus, despite substantial improvements over current summary-statistic based approaches, and the increased sophistication of procedures that incorporate the process of gene lineage coalescence, recent radiations still appear to pose daunting challenges for phylogenetics.
25677538|Two fundamental life cycle types are recognized among hydrozoan cnidarians, the benthic (generally colonial) polyp stage either producing pelagic sexual medusae or directly releasing gametes elaborated from an attached gonophore. The existence of intermediate forms, with polyps producing simple medusoids, has been classically considered compelling evidence in favor of phyletic gradualism. In order to gain insights about the evolution of hydrozoan life history traits, we inferred phylogenetic relationships of 142 species of Thecata (=Leptothecata, Leptomedusae), the most species-rich hydrozoan group, using 3 different ribosomal RNA markers (16S, 18S, and 28S). In conflict with morphology-derived classifications, most thecate species fell in 2 well-supported clades named here Statocysta and Macrocolonia. We inferred many independent medusa losses among Statocysta. Several instances of secondary regain of medusoids (but not of full medusa) from medusa-less ancestors were supported among Macrocolonia. Furthermore, life cycle character changes were significantly correlated with changes affecting colony shape. For both traits, changes did not reflect graded and progressive loss or gain of complexity. They were concentrated in recent branches, with intermediate character states being relatively short lived at a large evolutionary scale. This punctuational pattern supports the existence of 2 alternative stable evolutionary strategies: simple stolonal colonies with medusae (the ancestral strategy, seen in most Statocysta species) versus large complex colonies with fixed gonophores (the derived strategy, seen in most Macrocolonia species). Hypotheses of species selection are proposed to explain the apparent long-term stability of these life history traits despite a high frequency of character change. Notably, maintenance of the medusa across geological time in Statocysta might be due to higher extinction rates for species that have lost this dispersive stage.
25677512|Among the diverse clade of Paleozoic dissorophoid amphibians, the small, terrestrial amphibamids and the neotenic branchiosaurids have frequently been suggested as possible antecedents of either all or some of the modern amphibian clades. Classically, amphibamids and branchiosaurids have been considered to represent distinct, but closely related clades within dissorophoids, but despite their importance for the controversial lissamphibian origins, a comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of small dissorophoids has thus far not been attempted. On the basis of an integrated data set, the relationships of amphibamids and branchiosaurids were analyzed using parsimony and Bayesian approaches. Both groups represent miniaturized forms and it was tested whether similar developmental pathways, associated with miniaturization, lead to an artificial close relationship of branchiosaurids and amphibamids. Moreover, the fit of the resulting tree topologies to the distribution of fossil taxa in the stratigraphic rock record was assessed as an additional source of information. The results show that characters associated with a miniaturized morphology are not responsible for the close clustering of branchiosaurids and amphibamids. Instead, all analyses invariably demonstrate a monophyletic clade of branchiosaurids highly nested within derived amphibamids, indicating that branchiosaurids represent a group of secondarily neotenic amphibamid dissorophoids. This understanding of the phylogenetic relationships of small dissorophoid amphibians provides a new framework for the discussion of their evolutionary history and the evolution of characters shared by branchiosaurids and/or amphibamids with modern amphibian taxa.
25677511|High-throughput DNA sequencing has the potential to accelerate species discovery if it is able to recognize evolutionary entities from sequence data that are comparable to species. The general mixed Yule-coalescent (GMYC) model estimates the species boundary from DNA surveys by identifying independently evolving lineages as a transition from coalescent to speciation branching patterns on a phylogenetic tree. Applied here to 12 families from 4 orders of insects in Madagascar, we used the model to delineate 370 putative species from mitochondrial DNA sequence variation among 1614 individuals. These were compared with data from the nuclear genome and morphological identification and found to be highly congruent (98% and 94%). We developed a modified GMYC that allows for a variable transition from coalescent to speciation among lineages. This revised model increased the congruence with morphology (97%), suggesting that a variable threshold better reflects the clustering of sequence data into biological species. Local endemism was pronounced in all 5 insect groups. Most species (6091%) and haplotypes (8899%) were found at only 1 of the 5 study sites (401000 km apart). This pronounced endemism resulted in a 37% increase in species numbers using diagnostic nucleotides in a population aggregation analysis. Sample sizes between 7 and 10 individuals represented a threshold above which there was minimal increase in genetic diversity, broadly agreeing with coalescent theory and other empirical studies. Our results from >1.4 Mb of empirical data suggest that the GMYC model captures species boundaries comparable to those from traditional methods without the need for prior hypotheses of population coherence. This provides a method of species discovery and biodiversity assessment using single-locus data from mixed or environmental samples while building a globally available taxonomic database for future identifications.
25677510|Fungi associated with photosynthetic organisms are major determinants of terrestrial biomass, nutrient cycling, and ecosystem productivity from the poles to the equator. Whereas most fungi are known because of their fruit bodies (e.g., saprotrophs), symptoms (e.g., pathogens), or emergent properties as symbionts (e.g., lichens), the majority of fungal diversity is thought to occur among species that rarely manifest their presence with visual cues on their substrate (e.g., the apparently hyperdiverse fungal endophytes associated with foliage of plants). Fungal endophytes are ubiquitous among all lineages of land plants and live within overtly healthy tissues without causing disease, but the evolutionary origins of these highly diverse symbionts have not been explored. Here, we show that a key to understanding both the evolution of endophytism and the diversification of the most species-rich phylum of Fungi (Ascomycota) lies in endophyte-like fungi that can be isolated from the interior of apparently healthy lichens. These "endolichenic" fungi are distinct from lichen mycobionts or any other previously recognized fungal associates of lichens, represent the same major lineages of Ascomycota as do endophytes, largely parallel the high diversity of endophytes from the arctic to the tropics, and preferentially associate with green algal photobionts in lichen thalli. Using phylogenetic analyses that incorporate these newly recovered fungi and ancestral state reconstructions that take into account phylogenetic uncertainty, we show that endolichenism is an incubator for the evolution of endophytism. In turn, endophytism is evolutionarily transient, with endophytic lineages frequently transitioning to and from pathogenicity. Although symbiotrophic lineages frequently give rise to free-living saprotrophs, reversions to symbiosis are rare. Together, these results provide the basis for estimating trophic transition networks in the Ascomycota and provide a first set of hypotheses regarding the evolution of symbiotrophy and saprotrophy in the most species-rich fungal phylum.
25677513|We used four potentially unlinked nuclear DNA regions from the gene family encoding the second largest subunit of the RNA polymerases, as well as the psbE-petG spacer and the rps16 intron from the chloroplast genome, to evaluate the origin of and relationships within Heliosperma (Sileneae, Caryophyllaceae). Relative dates of divergence times are used to discriminate between hybridization and gene duplication/loss as alternative explanations for topological conflicts between gene trees. The observed incongruent relationships among the three major lineages of Heliosperma are better explained by homoploid hybridization than by gene duplication/losses because species branching events exceed gene coalescence times under biologically reasonable population sizes and generation times, making lineage sorting an unlikely explanation. The origin of Heliosperma is complex and the gene trees likely reflect both reticulate evolution and sorting events. At least two lineages have been involved in the origin of Heliosperma, one most closely related to the ancestor of Viscaria and Atocion and the other to Eudianthe and/or Petrocoptis.
10.2307/2413483|We assessed the utility of congruence and multiple data sets to test species relationships and the accuracy of phylogenetic methods. The ongoing controversy about whether to combine data sets for phylogenetic analysis was evaluated against the naturalness of different types of data (as commonly recognized by systematists) and character independence. We defend the recommendation that independent data sets (defined in terms of process partitions; sensu Bull et al., 1993, Syst. Biol. 42:384-397) should rarely be combined but should be kept separate for phylogenetic analysis because their independence increases the significance of corroboration. Trees of natural taxa, well supported by many independent lines of evidence, should be used in the same way as the known phylogenies of simulations and of certain laboratory and domesticated groups, i.e., as standards for evaluating the accuracy of different phylogenetic methods. Although compromised by their imperfect reliabilities, such tests using well-supported trees of wild taxa provide important reality checks on the conclusions of the other two approaches by encompassing more of the complexity and diversity of natural systems and their evolutionary processes. In this way, a combination of testing with the well-supported trees of natural groups, with simulations, and with those laboratory and domesticated taxa with known phylogenies is most likely to prove effective in establishing the strengths, weaknesses, and assumptions of different phylogenetic methods.
10.2307/2413481|Computer simulations are useful because they can characterize the expected performance of phylogenetic methods under idealized conditions. However, simulation studies are also subject to several sources of bias that make the results of different simulation studies difficult to interpret and often contradictory. In this study, I examined the performance of 26 commonly used methods of phylogenetic inference for three statistical criteria: consistency, efficiency, and robustness. Methods examined included parsimony (general, weighted, and transversion), maximum likelihood (assuming Jukes-Cantor and Kimura models of DNA substitution), and UPGMA, minimum evolution, and weighted and unweighted least squares (with uncorrected, Jukes-Cantor, Kimura, modified Kimura, and gamma distances). The performance of methods was examined under three models of DNA substitution for four taxa. The branch lengths of the four-taxon trees were varied extensively in this simulation. The results indicate that most methods perform well (i.e., estimate the correct tree 95% of the time) over a large portion of the four-taxon parameter space. In general, maximum likelihood performed best, followed by the additive distance methods and the parsimony methods. Lake's method of invariants and UPGMA are, respectively, inefficient and extremely sensitive to branch-length inequalities. In general, differential weighting of character-state transformations increases the performance of methods when the weighting can be applied appropriately. Although methods differ in their consistency, efficiency, and robustness, additional criteria-mainly falsifiability-are extremely important considerations when choosing a method of phylogenetic inference.
10.2307/2413482|In this article, we review (1) statistical tests of DNA phylogenies inferred by the maximum-parsimony method, including tests that take into account the effect of different base compositions among lineages, (2) statistical tests based on the minimum-evolution criterion, i.e., the best tree is the tree with the smallest sum of branch-length estimates, and (3) the bootstrap technique for estimating the confidence level of a phylogenetic hypothesis based on either the maximum-parsimony or the neighbor-joining method. We explain why the bootstrap technique usually gives biased estimates and how to correct the bias.
10.2307/2413480|Accuracy of phylogenetic methods may be assessed in terms of consistency, efficiency, and robustness. Four principal methods have been used for assessing phylogenetic accuracy: simulation, known phylogenies, statistical analyses, and congruence studies. Simulation studies are useful for studying accuracy of methods under idealized conditions and can be used to make general predictions about the behavior of methods if the limitations of the models are taken into account. Studies of known phylogenies can be used to test predictions from simulation studies, thus providing a check on the robustness of the models (and possibly suggesting refinements for future simulations). Statistical analyses allow general predictions to be applied to specific results, facilitate assessments as to whether or not sufficient data have been collected to formulate a robust conclusion, and indicate whether a given data set is any more structured than random noise. Finally, congruence studies of multiple data sets can be used to assess the degree to which independent results agree and thus the minimum proportion of the findings that can be attributed to an underlying phylogeny. These different methods of assessing phylogenetic accuracy are largely complementary, and the results are consistent in identifying a large class of problems that are amenable to phylogenetic reconstruction.
10.2307/2413655|Parsimony methods are often used to map a character's evolution on a phylogenetic tree by reconstructing the ancestral states at interior nodes of the tree. Although the statistical behavior of methods for reconstructing trees has been studied using stochastic models of evolution, there is little comparable work on methods for reconstructing character evolution. If a discrete character were to begin with an ancestral state at the root of a phylogenetic tree and evolve with specified probabilities of change on the branches of the tree, then the terminal taxa would receive one of many possible distributions of character states. These states in terminal taxa are the data used by parsimony methods in reconstructing character evolution on trees. Given a stochastic model of character evolution that specifies probabilities of change on the branches of a known phylogenetic tree, it is possible to calculate the probabilities of various ancestral state reconstructions at each node in the tree. Exact calculations for these probabilities are presented here. They can be used, for example, to calculate the probability that ancestral states would be reconstructed accurately.
10.2307/2413658|Orthogenetic evolutionary patterns may appear within taxa as a result of developmental constraints on the expression of genetic variation. Metachromism is a theory of variation in mammalian coat color that predicts an orthogenetic evolutionary pattern. This theory was based in part on studies of interspecific and geographic variation in the coat colors of New World monkeys. We tested the theory of metachromism in tamarins (Saguinus) using phylogenetic information derived from mitochondrial DNA sequences. Parsimony analysis of mitochondrial DNA sequences from the D-loop and cytochrome b genes supports recognition of Saguinus as a monophyletic genus composed of two major clades. Coat colors for 16 chromogenetic regions of the tamarin coat were examined using the molecular phylogeny to test predictions of the metachromatic theory. Our results support the hypothesis of an orthogenetic evolutionary pattern for coat color in tamarins.
10.2307/2413657|When cladistic data sets include taxa with abundant missing entries, parsimony analysis may yield multiple equally optimal trees and necessitate the use of consensus methods to summarize relationships that are common to the multiple trees. Determination of those relationships that are common to the equally parsimonious trees and are thus unambiguously supported by the parsimonious interpretation of the data may not be possible using consensus methods that are widely employed by systematists. Thus, missing data may have an obfuscatory effect upon phylogenetic relationships. This problem can be ameliorated or overcome by adopting a strategy of safe taxonomic reduction. In this approach, taxa that can have no effect upon the relationships inferred for other taxa but that may increase the numbers of equally most-parsimonious trees are identified. Eliminating such taxa through the application of a series of safe deletion rules may reduce the number of equally most-parsimonious trees and thereby facilitate the consensus representation of unambiguous relationships supported by the data. The methods are illustrated by reanalysis of cladistic data for the Saurischia.
10.2307/2413654|Although congruence among multiple taxa is accepted as the basis of the cladistic approach to biogeography, seldom has congruence been tested for patterns within continents. Moreover, contiguous land areas are subject to confounding factors that might lead to incongruence, and areas of endemism are difficult to define. Most previous studies have analyzed single taxa and therefore could not test for congruence. Here, we report the first cladistic biogeographic analysis of multiple plant taxa (11 angiosperm groups) within continental Australasia. We have used Page's (1994, Syst. Biol. 43:58-77) new mapping method implemented in his program COMPONENT 2.0, minimizing the optimality criterion "leaves added," which is the number of terminal branches that need to be added to reconcile all input cladograms with the general area cladogram. A randomization test showed significant congruence, and a jackknife test indicated which parts of the general area pattern are robust. Conflicting patterns shown by widespread species may have been influenced by recent range expansions. At least two independent histories are postulated for taxa endemic to the tropics. One appears as a close relationship between the monsoon tropical areas, including southern New Guinea, and the other is a track (a group of areas with a common history) of successive differentiation along the east and south coasts. The Australian wet tropics (the Atherton area), although geographically proximate to the monsoon tropics, are part of the east coast track. Tasmania shows a very early vicariance from the rest of the continent, and the central arid areas appear related to adjacent coastal areas rather than to each other (contra Cracraft, 1991, Aust. Syst. Bot. 4:211-227). The postulated exchange of taxa with southeast Asia following late Miocene contact was not tested because of a lack of suitable taxon cladograms.
10.2307/2413656|The use of discrete, intraspecifically variable characters in parsimony analysis is reviewed. Seven data sets (two from morphology and five from allozymes) were analyzed to (1) compare different methods for treating polymorphic characters, (2) test for phylogenetic information in polymorphic characters, and (3) determine if there is a relationship between homoplasy and intraspecific variability. The performance of eight methods was compared using five criteria (number of characters treated as informative, number of shortest trees, phylogenetic signal, number of nodes supported by bootstrapping, and sensitivity to reduced sample size). Approaches that incorporate explicit frequency information perform best overall for all the criteria, although the "majority" method ties for best for the bootstrapping criterion. Levels of phylogenetic information in the polymorphic characters differed greatly among data sets and methods. Polymorphic characters in most data sets contained significant phylogenetic structure using most methods, but only one, the frequency method, extracted significant signal from the polymorphic characters in all seven data sets. Fixed characters appear to contain more signal than polymorphic characters, and homoplasy is significantly and positively correlated with intraspecific variability. This study supports the traditional view that polymorphic characters are less reliable in inferring phylogeny but does not necessarily support their exclusion. Systematists working with morphological data often do not report intraspecific variation, the frequencies of different traits, or how polymorphic characters are screened and analyzed; this situation should change.
10.2307/2413659|The Felsenstein zone of various tree reconstruction methods for a four-species tree was evaluated for two models of sequence evolution. The first model assumes correlated sequence sites, as suggested by Schoruger and von Haeseler (1994, Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 3:240-247), thereby preserving the nonoverlapping doublet correlations (e.g., within base-paired nucleotides of stem regions of ribosomal RNA). The second model was proposed by Hasegawa, Kishino, and Yano (1985, J. Mol. Evol. 22:160-174) and assumes that the nucleotide sites are evolving independently of each other. The methods examined are maximum likelihood, maximum parsimony, and neighbor joining with uncorrected, Jukes-Cantor-corrected, and Kimura-corrected distances. All methods, including maximum likelihood, are inconsistent for certain model trees. Maximum likelihood only shows a Felsenstein zone if sequence sites are not evolving independently. The location of the border of the Felsenstein zone indicates that maximum likelihood is very robust against violation of the independence assumption. The other tree reconstruction methods are more sensitive to violation of this assumption. Moreover, the addition of dependence to a model of sequence evolution does not change the boundary of the Felsenstein zone very much if tree reconstruction methods that are already inconsistent for certain model trees are applied.
10.2307/2413703|Phylogenetic relationships were examined within the salamander family Salamandridae using 18 species representing 14 salamandrid genera and six outgroup taxa from the families Ambystomatidae, Dicamptodontidae, Plethodontidae, and Proteidae. Mitochondrial DNA sequences encoding the 12S and 16S ribosomal RNA and the intervening valine transfer RNA provided 431 phylogenetically informative nucleotide sequence positions from a multiple alignment of approximately 1,000 bases per species. This variation was analyzed in conjunction with 44 previously reported morphological characters representing primarily hyobranchial myology and osteology, cranial osteology, and reproductive biology. The molecular and morphological character sets were highly congruent, with only 2.8% of the total character incongruence attributable to conflict between them. Parsimony analysis of the combined molecular and morphological data produced a single most-parsimonious tree whose topology was identical to that of the most-parsimonious tree derived from the molecular data alone. This tree suggests that the "true" salamanders (Chioglossa, Mertensiella, and Salamandra) form a monophyletic sister group to the newts (all remaining salamandrid genera). Within the newts, the first phylogenetic split separates Salamandrina from the remaining genera, within which Pleurodeles and Tylototriton form a monophyletic sister group to the remaining taxa. The genus Triturus appears not to be monophyletic. Using a phylogenetic reconstruction of character changes, we tested hypotheses of adaptation in the evolution of aquatic suction feeding and terrestrial feeding featuring tongue protrusion. Phylogenetic trends in the evolution of salamandrid courtship behavior were also examined.
10.2307/2413705|It has been claimed that quantified features are inappropriate for phylogenetic analysis. We consider that claim to be true under most conditions for characters discovered by commonly used morphometric methods, including outline-based and conventional multivariate methods. The most important reason these characters are unsuitable is that one of the tests of homology, the test of similarity, may be difficult to apply to them. This test is not even possible if the methods for comparing forms, such as outline-based techniques, do not ensure that the characters are located in the same part of the anatomy. Conventional methods, including principal components analysis, have no explicit basis for localizing characters. In addition, unless the transformation between forms is homogeneous, conventional methods cannot dissect transformations region by region to discover characters. However, one morphometric method, the thin-plate spline decomposed by its partial warps (TPS), finds characters that can be subjected to the same tests of homology (conjunction, similarity, and congruence) that we would apply to all other characters. Among available methods, TPS is unique in being able to locate the center and spatial extent of regional differences in shape and ensures that the same regions are compared among forms. We provide an example using the teleost fishes piranhas, in which tests of homology are applied to a synapomorphy found by the method.
10.2307/2413708|Researchers investigating historical biogeography rely on taxon cladograms to infer the relationships of different areas of endemism. Unfortunately, systematists are often faced with many equally parsimonious taxon cladograms from a single data set or conflicting phylogenetic hypotheses from independent data sets. We present an analysis of congruence between two conflicting phylogenetic hypotheses of the poeciliid fish genus Gambusia, one based on mitochondrial DNA sequences and the other based on morphological characters. We explore how different phylogenetic hypotheses alter interpretations of area relationships and propose a set of area relationships for the genus. Furthermore, we compared the area relationships depicted for Gambusia with that of two Middle American fish genera (Xiphophorus and Heterandria) with similar distributional limits. Our analysis revealed areas of congruence among taxa from nuclear Central America but areas of incongruence among taxa from the Panuco basin and North American components. We discuss the implications of our findings in light of conventional hypotheses regarding Caribbean biogeography. This study illustrates the importance of considering alternative phylogenetic hypotheses fully before attempting to interpret the biogeographic history of a taxon or region.
10.2307/2413704|Continuous track analysis (CTA) can depict reticulate evolutionary patterns in phylogenetics and biogeography. A reticulate connection implies convergence, hybridization, or introgression in an evolutionary graph of taxa and implies dispersal in an evolutionary graph of biogeographic areas. CTA finds graphs that (1) have a minimal number of connections and (2) imply that most character states or taxa have distributions or tracks across taxa or areas (objects) that are continuous, i.e., can be traced across the connections among the objects including that state without traveling through any other objects. Continuous tracks imply either that character states in phylogenies have unique evolutionary origins or that taxa in biogeographic analyses are monophyletic. Relatively simple graphs usually cannot imply completely continuous tracks. Therefore, CTA graphs seek to minimize the number of track fragments, which are locally continuous parts of a track; tracks with more than one fragment are discontinuous. Minimizing fragments is the same as minimizing character-state transitions only if there are no reticulations. Because hypothetical ancestors do little to reduce the number of fragments, CTA tends to place known taxa or areas at internal nodes. A heuristic algorithm analogous to tree bisection-reconnection is used to find highly parsimonious CTA graphs. In phylogenetic analyses, CTA employs a special complementary binary coding convention that serendipitously solves the missing characters/missing data problem. Although the problem of ancestors "inheriting" states from hybrid descendants is irrelevant if reticulations merely represent convergence patterns, CTA includes an optional algorithm that avoids such instances by explicitly identifying ancestors and descendants. CTA was compared with standard parsimony analysis using a data set of 17 Neogene species of North American fossil hipparionine horses. CTA separates the three major clades and illustrates their convergent features with reticulations, whereas standard parsimony analysis groups the three in an unresolved polytomy. CTA also minimizes the number of hypothetical, unsampled ancestors and lineages.
10.2307/2413706|Two recent analyses of asteroid phylogeny have come to surprisingly different conclusions concerning both the tree topology and rooting. We reanalyzed the problem for nine asteroids, with representatives from five of the major higher taxa: Paxillosida, Forcipulatida, Valvatida, Spinulosida, and Velatida. We combined the two previously published morphological data sets to generate a well-supported, though unrooted, phylogenetic tree. We also derived a molecular phylogeny from the analysis of the first 400 bases of the 28S ribosomal RNA sequences for the same nine taxa. This tree provides less resolution but does not contradict the morphological tree. The combined morphological and molecular data were used to derive the most well-supported unrooted topology. To avoid assumptions as to what represents derived versus primitive morphological character states among asteroids, we used only molecular data from other echinoderm classes to identify the root position. Although this approach does not resolve the rooting point unambiguously, evidence favors the Astropectenidae as the sister group to the rest of the asteroids. We then polarized the morphological characters of crown group asteroids and estimated relative rates of molecular evolution, which show a five-fold difference. Molecular data give no support to the recent suggestion that Forcipulatida diverged significantly earlier than did other asteroids.
10.2307/2413707|There have been no major advances in understanding the evolution of the Old World fruit bats (Megachiroptera: Pteropodidae) since the work of Andersen (1912, Catalogue of the Chiroptera in the collection of the British Museum, 2nd edition, Volume 1, Megachiroptera, British Museum of Natural History, London), nor have there been any rigorous cladistic analyses of megachiropteran interrelationships. Here we report a phylogenetic investigation of restriction endonuclease site variation in the ribosomal RNA cistrons of 25 species in 14 genera of Indo-West Pacific Megachiroptera. Twenty-three of the 82 mapped sites were phylogenetically informative. Analyses of these informative sites suggest three considerable modifications to the morphological understanding of megachiropteran relationships: (1) the most-parsimonious explanation of site-state distribution is that the Macroglossinae (as previously defined) is paraphyletic with respect to other groups; (2) the cynopterine and rousettine sections are not shown as monophyletic sister groups in any of the most-parsimonious trees; and (3) Pteropus and Acerodon are not closely related to any other rousettine genera.
10.2307/2413601|We used a generalized parsimony model to estimate the phylogeny of 47 species in the avian subfamily Icterinae using restriction enzyme cleavage sites in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Deep branches in the tree are poorly resolved, either because blackbirds radiated rapidly after the origin of the clade or because substitutions have saturated sites in the mtDNA. Our tree is similar to one published by Lanyon (1994, Evolution 48:679-693) based on mtDNA sequences, which suggests that lack of basal resolution might be attributable to closely spaced speciation events. Both data sets had similar consistency and retention indices, suggesting comparable information content in these two types of data. Neither the restriction-site tree nor the sequence tree support the monophyly of the genus Agelaius. The restriction-site tree suggests that several traditional taxonomic rearrangements are likely based on phenotypic resemblance rather than phylogeny and that the feature viewed as a key innovation of blackbirds (gaping) might not be the basal condition; gaping might be a composite of characters rather than a single homologous condition. The restriction-site tree suggests that the brood-parasitic cowbird species are not monophyletic, contra the sequence data. A combined analysis of sequences and restriction sites for cowbirds supports the sequence tree of Lanyon (1994); however, we suggest an alternative view of the evolution of brood parasitism that is also consistent with the combined data tree. Polygyny appears to be independently derived within blackbirds. Icterus galbula and I. bullockii, which hybridize and are therefore currently considered a single biological species, are not sister taxa; these are likely phylogenetic species.
10.2307/2413595|The dependence of the results of molecular phylogenetic sequence analysis (both alignment and cladogram construction) on variation in analytical parameters is examined. Phylogenetic analyses of molecular sequence data are necessarily based on intrinsically unmeasurable parameters such as transition-transversion and alignment gap cost ratios (among others). Procedures for robust and liberal hypothesis choice are proposed using congruence as an optimality criterion. To illustrate and explain this process further, data on arthropod relationships are used. The effects of variation in transversion-transition and gap-change ratio parameters on alignment and phylogeny reconstruction are assessed in light of both taxonomic and character-based congruence measures.
10.2307/2413599|The parameter space of the phylogenetic tree estimation problem consists of three components, T, t, and . The tree topology T is a discrete entity that is not a proper statistical parameter but that can nevertheless be estimated using the maximum likelihood criterion. Its role is to specify the branch length parameters and the form of the likelihood function(s). Branch lengths t are conditional on T and are meaningful only for specific values of T. Parameters  in the model of nucleotide substitution are common to all the tree topologies and represent such values as the transition/transversion rate ratio. T and t thus represent the tree, and  represents the model. With typical DNA sequence data, differences in T have only a small effect on the likelihood, but changing  will influence the likelihood greatly. Estimates of  are also found to be insensitive to T, making it possible to obtain reliable estimates of  and to perform tests concerning the model () even if knowledge of the evolutionary relationship (T) is not available. In contrast, tests concerning t, such as testing the existence of a molecular clock, appear to be more difficult to perform when the true topology is unknown. In this paper, we explore the peculiarity of the parameter space of the tree estimation problem and suggest methods for overcoming some difficulties involved with tests concerning the model. We also address difficulties concerning hypothesis testing on T, i.e., evaluation of the reliability of the estimated tree topology. We note that estimation of and particularly tests concerning T depend critically on the assumed model.
10.2307/2413593|In this history of numerical taxonomy since the publication in 1963 of Sokal and Sneath's Principles of Numerical Taxonomy, I include reminiscences of the reactions of biologists in Britain and elsewhere. Much of the original program has proved sound. The debate on phenetic and phylogenetic classifications has been valuable, although the logical and theoretical aspects of phenetics have been greatly overlooked in the debate. Hennigian cladistics, however, is a side issue that has not proven its value. Numerical taxonomy in the broad sense is the greatest advance in systematics since Darwin or perhaps since Linnaeus. It has stimulated several new areas of growth, including numerical phylogenetics, molecular taxonomy, morphometrics, and numerical identification. It has wide application outside systematic biology. Landmarks and trends are important aspects of numerical taxonomy. In microbiology, the program of numerical taxonomy has been successful, as indicated by the preponderance of papers describing numerical relationships in the International Journal of Systematic Bacteriology. This review concludes with comments on the needs and prospects of the future.
10.2307/2413596|Cladistic tree balance is the extent to which internal nodes on a cladistic tree define clades of equal size. More robust maximum-parsimony trees taken from the literature are more balanced. Simulation studies suggest that a methodological bias is responsible for this correlation because incorrect reconstructions are also likely to be less balanced than the true trees they estimate. Misinformative cladistic characters can be expected to make trees more unbalanced if there is marked variation in their rates of change. This bias may contribute to the excess of unbalanced phylogenies reported in the literature.
10.2307/2413597|Despite the potential information that may lie in phylogenetic analyses of ontogenies of body form, few studies have examined methods for extracting and analyzing ontogenetic shape characters. We propose and exemplify a procedure for phylogenetic shape analysis. We use the thin-plate spline decomposed by its partial warps, a method that has several critical advantages over available alternatives. Most notably, shape variables extracted by this method refer to localizable features of the morphology. We demonstrate how these characters can be coded and include them in a phylogenetic analysis of the piranha genus Pygocentrus, using a data set also comprising meristic, myological, and osteological characters. Using ontogenies of these localized shape variables, we have corroborated the monophyly of Pygocentrus. Although we found no new characters corroborating the proposed sister-group relationship of P. nattereri and P. cariba, our characters are all congruent with this hypothesis. Several ontogenetic shape characters serve to diagnose the previously undiagnosed P. nattereri. Independence of ontogenetic shape features is assessed in the same manner as for any other features: by examination of their distributions on the corroborated cladogram. In addition to inspecting associations among characters that changed multiple times, character independence was assessed using the information in the kinds of ontogenetic modifications (gain, loss, reorientation, reversal) and the information in observed development. Most of the geometrically independent features extracted during this study are phylogenetically independent of each other. We also found that region-specific ontogenetic allometries are phylogenetically independent of each other. In addition, localized ontogenetic changes along orthogonal body axes (anteroposterior and dorsoventral in this case) are usually phylogenetically independent. Although these findings of character independence may be specific to this study, the method for assessing this independence can be applied generally. Evolution of both spatial and temporal patterns of growth is an inference that depends upon using methods, such as the one employed here, capable of describing the spatial patterning of ontogeny.
10.2307/2413594|Despite widespread use, the bootstrap remains a controversial method for assessing confidence limits in phylogenies. Opposition to its use has centered on a small set of basic philosophical and statistical objections that have largely gone unanswered by advocates of statistical approaches to phylogeny reconstruction. The level of generality of these objections varies greatly, however. Some of the objections are merely technical, involving problems that are found in almost all statistical tests, such as bias in small data sets. Other objections are really associated not so much with a rejection of the bootstrap but with the rejection of statistical methods in phylogeny reconstruction, which resurrects an old debate. The most relevant aspects of this debate revolve around the issue of whether or not an unknown parameter, such as a tree, can have probabilities (confidence limits) associated with it. The relevant statistical aspects are reviewed, but because this issue remains controversial within statistical theory, it is unreasonable to expect it to be anything else in phylogenetic systematics. An area of common ground between statistical and nonstatistical approaches emerges in the use of statistical likelihood as a measure of support for phylogenetic hypotheses. This common ground requires the abandonment of classical notions of confidence limits by statistically oriented systematists and the acceptance of probabilistic models and likelihood by opponents of statistical methods. There remains a small set of objections directly germane to bootstrapping phylogenies per se. These objections involve issues of random sampling and whether or not character data are independent and identically distributed (IID). Nonrandom-sample bootstrapping is discussed, as are sample designs that impose the IID assumption on characters regardless of evolutionary nonindependence and nonidentical distribution of those data. Systematists wishing to use the bootstrap have an alternative to making explicit and rather strong evolutionary assumptions; they can consider the issue of character sampling designs much more carefully.
10.2307/2413598|Recently developed methods in phylogenetic systematics enable the discovery of associations among diverse characters of organisms such as morphology, biomechanics, and ecology among clades. In this study, the results of multiple character correlation techniques were compared using a data set on the functional morphology and ecology of feeding in the Cheilinini and outgroups (Perciformes: Labridae). The following two questions were addressed: What are the patterns of evolutionary change in structure and function of the feeding mechanisms of labrid fishes? Are evolutionary changes in trophic structure, feeding biomechanics, and feeding ecology congruent at different levels of labrid phylogeny? This study integrated previous work on the phylogenetic relationships of labrid fishes, quantitative modeling of jaw protrusion and hyoid depression mechanisms, analysis of morphometric variation in the trophic apparatus, and description of the natural diet of labrids. Analysis of phylogenetic association between dietary and biomechanical characters within the phylogeny was performed using character optimization to map characters onto the phylogeny. Statistical tests of association between pairs of discrete characters involved contingent states tests and concentrated changes tests. Phylogenetic correlations between continuous quantitative characters were determined using the methods of squared-change parsimony, independent contrasts, and phylogenetic autocorrelation. A diversity of techniques yielded similar answers in this case study, suggesting that evolution of dietary habits and feeding behavior is tightly linked to the biomechanics of the feeding apparatus.
10.2307/2413600|Although entirely surrounded by estuarine waters, the sea islands of South Carolina are of dubious biogeographic integrity. Pleistocene sea level fluctuations have periodically inundated these regions and left them de-watered inland. Samples from 10 populations of the freshwater pulmonate snail, Physa heterostropha, inhabiting six land masses isolated by putative estuarine barriers in the Charleston area were used for allozyme electrophoresis to estimate gene frequencies at 10 polymorphic loci. Although intrapopulation and interpopulation gene diversity was extensive, none of the variance could be attributed to island or land mass by hierarchical analysis of F statistics. The matrix of genetic distances among all sites was significantly correlated with the matrix of linear geographic distances, even though estuaries dissect the study area. Nearest neighbors separated by estuaries tended to be more similar genetically than nearest neighbors sharing a land mass. These data on the population genetics of freshwater snails seem to hold no evidence of biogeographic boundaries among sea islands. Dispersal by birds is a plausible explanation for the observed overall correlation between genetic and geographic distance, but vicariance or natural selection hypotheses cannot be excluded.
27896388|Molecular data offer great potential to resolve the phylogeny of living taxa but can molecular data improve our understanding of relationships of fossil taxa? Simulations suggest that this is possible, but few empirical examples have demonstrated the ability of molecular data to change the placement of fossil taxa. We offer such an example here. We analyze the placement of snakes among squamate reptiles, combining published morphological data (363 characters) and new DNA sequence data (15,794 characters, 22 nuclear loci) for 45 living and 19 fossil taxa. We find several intriguing results. First, some fossil taxa undergo major changes in their phylogenetic position when molecular data are added. Second, most fossil taxa are placed with strong support in the expected clades by the combined data Bayesian analyses, despite each having >98% missing cells and despite recent suggestions that extensive missing data are problematic for Bayesian phylogenetics. Third, morphological data can change the placement of living taxa in combined analyses, even when there is an overwhelming majority of molecular characters. Finally, we find strong but apparently misleading signal in the morphological data, seemingly associated with a burrowing lifestyle in snakes, amphisbaenians, and dibamids. Overall, our results suggest promise for an integrated and comprehensive Tree of Life by combining molecular and morphological data for living and fossil taxa.
27896390|Understanding the origin of island endemics is a central task of historical biogeography. Recent methodological advances provide a rigorous framework to determine the relative contribution of different biogeographic processes (e.g., vicariance, land migration, long-distance dispersal) to the origin of island endemics. With its complex but well-known history of microplate movements and climatic oscillations, the Mediterranean region (including the Mediterranean basin and Macaronesia) provides the geographic backdrop for the diversification of Ruta L., the type genus of Rutaceae (citrus family). Phylogenetic, molecular dating, and ancestral range reconstruction analyses were carried out to investigate the extent to which past geological connections and climatic history of the Mediterranean region explain the current distribution of species in Ruta, with emphasis on its island endemics. The analyses showed that Ruta invaded the region from the north well before the onset of the Mediterranean climate and diversified in situ as the climate became Mediterranean. The continental fragment island endemics of the genus originated via processes of land migration/vicariance driven by connections/disconnections between microplates, whereas the oceanic island endemics were the product of a single colonization event from the mainland followed by in situ diversification. This study emphasizes the need for an integrative, hypothesis-based approach to historical biogeography and stresses the importance of temporary land connections and colonization opportunity in the biotic assembly of continental fragment and oceanic islands, respectively.
27896389|Some of the most basic questions about the history of life concern evolutionary trends. These include determining whether or not metazoans have become more complex over time, whether or not body size tends to increase over time (the CopeDepret rule), or whether or not brain size has increased over time in various taxa, such as mammals and birds. Despite the proliferation of studies on such topics, assessment of the reliability of results in this field is hampered by the variability of techniques used and the lack of statistical validation of these methods. To solve this problem, simulations are performed using a variety of evolutionary models (gradual Brownian motion, speciational Brownian motion, and OrnsteinUhlenbeck), with or without a drift of variable amplitude, with variable variance of tips, and with bounds placed close or far from the starting values and final means of simulated characters. These are used to assess the relative merits (power, Type I error rate, bias, and mean absolute value of error on slope estimate) of several statistical methods that have recently been used to assess the presence of evolutionary trends in comparative data. Results show widely divergent performance of the methods. The simple, nonphylogenetic regression (SR) and variance partitioning using phylogenetic eigenvector regression (PVR) with a broken stick selection procedure have greatly inflated Type I error rate (0.1230.180 at a 0.05 threshold), which invalidates their use in this context. However, they have the greatest power. Most variants of Felsenstein's independent contrasts (FIC; five of which are presented) have adequate Type I error rate, although two have a slightly inflated Type I error rate with at least one of the two reference trees (0.0640.090 error rate at a 0.05 threshold). The power of all contrast-based methods is always much lower than that of SR and PVR, except under Brownian motion with a strong trend and distant bounds. Mean absolute value of error on slope of all FIC methods is slightly higher than that of phylogenetic generalized least squares (PGLS), SR, and PVR. PGLS performs well, with low Type I error rate, low error on regression coefficient, and power comparable with some FIC methods. Four variants of skewness analysis are examined, and a new method to assess significance of results is presented. However, all have consistently low power, except in rare combinations of trees, trend strength, and distance between final means and bounds. Globally, the results clearly show that FIC-based methods and PGLS are globally better than nonphylogenetic methods and variance partitioning with PVR. FIC methods and PGLS are sensitive to the model of evolution (and, hence, to branch length errors). Our results suggest that regressing raw character contrasts against raw geological age contrasts yields a good combination of power and Type I error rate. New software to facilitate batch analysis is presented.
27896391|Rates of phenotypic evolution derive from numerous interrelated processes acting at varying spatial and temporal scales and frequently differ substantially among lineages. Although current models employed in reconstructing ancestral character states permit independent rates for distinct types of transition (forward and reverse transitions and transitions between different states), these rates are typically assumed to be identical for all branches in a phylogeny. In this paper, I present a general model of character evolution enabling rate heterogeneity among branches. This model is employed in assessing the extent to which the assumption of uniform transition rates affects reconstructions of ancestral limb morphology in the scincid lizard clade Lerista and, accordingly, the potential for rate variability to mislead inferences of evolutionary patterns. Permitting rate variation among branches significantly improves model fit for both the manus and the pes. A constrained model in which the rate of digit acquisition is assumed to be effectively zero is strongly supported in each case; when compared with a model assuming unconstrained transition rates, this model provides a substantially better fit for the manus and a nearly identical fit for the pes. Ancestral states reconstructed assuming the constrained model imply patterns of limb evolution differing significantly from those implied by reconstructions for uniform-rate models, particularly for the pes; whereas ancestral states for the uniform-rate models consistently entail the reacquisition of pedal digits, those for the model incorporating among-lineage rate heterogeneity imply repeated, unreversed digit loss. These results indicate that the assumption of identical transition rates for all branches in a phylogeny may be inappropriate in modeling the evolution of phenotypic traits and emphasize the need for careful evaluation of phylogenetic tests of Dollo's law.
27896387|Phylogenetic trees often depart from the expectations of stochastic models, exhibiting imbalance in diversification among lineages and slowdowns in the rate of lineage accumulation through time. Such departures have led to a widespread perception that ecological differences among species or adaptation and subsequent niche filling are required to explain patterns of diversification. However, a key element missing from models of diversification is the geographical context of speciation and extinction. In this study, we develop a spatially explicit model of geographic range evolution and cladogenesis, where speciation arises via vicariance or peripatry, and explore the effects of these processes on patterns of diversification. We compare the results with those observed in 41 reconstructed avian trees. Our model shows that nonconstant rates of speciation and extinction are emergent properties of the apportioning of geographic ranges that accompanies speciation. The dynamics of diversification exhibit wide variation, depending on the mode of speciation, tendency for range expansion, and rate of range evolution. By varying these parameters, the model is able to capture many, but not all, of the features exhibited by birthdeath trees and extant bird clades. Under scenarios with relatively stable geographic ranges, strong slowdowns in diversification rates are produced, with faster rates of ranges dynamics leading to constant or accelerating rates of apparent diversification. A peripatric model of speciation with stable ranges also generates highly unbalanced trees typical of bird phylogenies but fails to produce realistic range size distributions among the extant species. Results most similar to those of a birthdeath process are reached under a peripatric speciation scenario with highly volatile range dynamics. Taken together, our results demonstrate that considering the geographical context of speciation and extinction provides a more conservative null model of diversification and offers a very different perspective on the phylogenetic patterns expected in the absence of ecology.
27896385|The disparity in species richness across the tree of life is one of the most striking and pervasive features of biological diversity. Some groups are exceptionally diverse, whereas many other groups are species poor. Differences in diversity among groups are frequently assumed to result from primary control by differential rates of net diversification. However, a major alternative explanation is that ecological and other factors exert primary control on clade diversity, such that apparent variation in net diversification rates is a secondary consequence of ecological limits on clade growth. Here, I consider a likelihood framework for distinguishing between these competing hypotheses. I incorporate hierarchical modeling to explicitly relax assumptions about the constancy of diversification rates across clades, and I propose several statistics for a posteriori evaluation of model adequacy. I apply the framework to a recent dated phylogeny of ants. My results reject the hypothesis that net diversification rates exert primary control on species richness in this group and demonstrate that clade diversity is better explained by total time-integrated speciation. These results further suggest that it may not possible to estimate meaningful speciation and extinction rates from higher-level phylogenies of extant taxa only.
27896384|Quantitative traits have long been hypothesized to affect speciation and extinction rates. For example, smaller body size or increased specialization may be associated with increased rates of diversification. Here, I present a phylogenetic likelihood-based method (quantitative state speciation and extinction [QuaSSE]) that can be used to test such hypotheses using extant character distributions. This approach assumes that diversification follows a birthdeath process where speciation and extinction rates may vary with one or more traits that evolve under a diffusion model. Speciation and extinction rates may be arbitrary functions of the character state, allowing much flexibility in testing models of trait-dependent diversification. I test the approach using simulated phylogenies and show that a known relationship between speciation and a quantitative character could be recovered in up to 80% of the cases on large trees (500 species). Consistent with other approaches, detecting shifts in diversification due to differences in extinction rates was harder than when due to differences in speciation rates. Finally, I demonstrate the application of QuaSSE to investigate the correlation between body size and diversification in primates, concluding that clade-specific differences in diversification may be more important than size-dependent diversification in shaping the patterns of diversity within this group.
27896386|Traditionally, patterns and processes of diversification could only be inferred from the fossil record. However, there are an increasing number of tools that enable diversification dynamics to be inferred from molecular phylogenies. The application of these tools to new data sets has renewed interest in the question of the prevalence of diversity-dependent diversification. However, there is growing recognition that the absence of extinct species in molecular phylogenies may prevent accurate inferences about the underlying diversification dynamics. On the other hand, even though the fossil record provides direct data on extinct species, its completeness can also mask true diversification processes. Here, using computer-generated diversity-dependent phylogenies, we mimicked molecular phylogenies by eliminating extinct lineages. We also simulated the fossil record by converting the temporal axis into discrete intervals and imposing a variety of preservation processes on the lineages. Given the lack of reliable phylogenies. For the simulated molecular phylogenies, we examined the efficacy of the standard metric (the  statistic) for identifying decreasing rates of diversification. We find that the underlying decreasing rate of diversification is detected only when the rate of change in the diversification rate is high, and if the molecular phylogeny happens to capture the diversification process as the equilibrium diversity is first reached or shortly thereafter. In contrast, estimating rates of diversification from the simulated fossil record captures the expected zero rate of diversification after equilibrium is reached under a wide range of preservation scenarios. The ability to detect the initial decreasing rate of diversification, as will the fossil record, although the fossil record still retains the signature of the diversity dependence in yielding approximately zero diversification rates. Thus, although a significantly negative  value for a molecular phylogeny indicates a decreasing rate of diversification, a nonsignificantly negative or positive  value might mean exponential diversification, or a slowly decreasing rate of diversification, or simply species turnover at a constant diversity. The fossil record can be of assistance in helping choose among these possibilities.
25677561|As phylogenetic data sets grow in size and number, objective methods to summarize this information are becoming increasingly important. Supermatrices can combine existing data directly and in principle provide effective syntheses of phylogenetic information that may reveal new relationships. However, several serious difficulties exist in the construction of large supermatrices that must be overcome before these approaches will enjoy broad utility. We present analyses that examine the performance of sparse supermatrices constructed from large sequence databases for the reconstruction of species-level phylogenies. We develop a largely automated informatics pipeline that allows for the construction of sparse supermatrices from GenBank data. In doing so, we develop strategies for alleviating some of the outstanding impediments to accurate phylogenetic inference using these approaches. These include taxonomic standardization, automated alignment, and the identification of rogue taxa. We use turtles as an exemplar clade and present a well-supported species-level phylogeny for two-thirds of all turtle species based on a 50 kb supermatrix consisting of 93% missing data. Finally, we discuss some of the remaining pitfalls and concerns associated with supermatrix analyses, provide comparisons to supertree approaches, and suggest areas for future research.
25677562|Species delimitation and species tree inference are difficult problems in cases of recent divergence, especially when different loci have different histories. This paper quantifies the difficulty of jointly finding the division of samples to species and estimating a species tree without constraining the possible assignments a priori. It introduces a parametric and a nonparametric method, including new heuristic search strategies, to do this delimitation and tree inference using individual gene trees as input. The new methods were evaluated using thousands of simulations and 4 empirical data sets. These analyses suggest that the new methods, especially the nonparametric one, may provide useful insights for systematists working at the species level with molecular data. However, they still often return incorrect results.
25677564|Ratites are large, flightless birds and include the ostrich, rheas, kiwi, emu, and cassowaries, along with extinct members, such as moa and elephant birds. Previous phylogenetic analyses of complete mitochondrial genome sequences have reinforced the traditional belief that ratites are monophyletic and tinamous are their sister group. However, in these studies ratite monophyly was enforced in the analyses that modeled rate heterogeneity among variable sites. Relaxing this topological constraint results in strong support for the tinamous (which fly) nesting within ratites. Furthermore, upon reducing base compositional bias and partitioning models of sequence evolution among protein codon positions and RNA structures, the tinamoumoa clade grouped with kiwi, emu, and cassowaries to the exclusion of the successively more divergent rheas and ostrich. These relationships are consistent with recent results from a large nuclear data set, whereas our strongly supported finding of a tinamoumoa grouping further resolves palaeognath phylogeny. We infer flight to have been lost among ratites multiple times in temporally close association with the CretaceousTertiary extinction event. This circumvents requirements for transient microcontinents and island chains to explain discordance between ratite phylogeny and patterns of continental breakup. Ostriches may have dispersed to Africa from Eurasia, putting in question the status of ratites as an iconic Gondwanan relict taxon.
25677563|Bayesian inference provides a powerful framework for integrating different sources of information (in particular, molecules and fossils) to derive estimates of species divergence times. Indeed, it is currently the only framework that can adequately account for uncertainties in fossil calibrations. We use 2 Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo programs, MULTIDIVTIME and MCMCTREE, to analyze 3 empirical data sets to estimate divergence times in amphibians, actinopterygians, and felids. We evaluate the impact of various factors, including the priors on rates and times, fossil calibrations, substitution model, the violation of the molecular clock and the rate-drift model, and the exact and approximate likelihood calculation. Assuming the molecular clock caused seriously biased time estimates when the clock is violated, but 2 different rate-drift models produced similar estimates. The prior on times, which incorporates fossil-calibration information, had the greatest impact on posterior time estimation. In particular, the strategies used by the 2 programs to incorporate minimum- and maximum-age bounds led to very different time priors and were responsible for large differences in posterior time estimates in a previous study. The results highlight the critical importance of fossil calibrations to molecular dating and the need for probabilistic modeling of fossil depositions, preservations, and sampling to provide statistical summaries of information in the fossil record concerning species divergence times.
25677560|Evolutionary biologists have introduced numerous statistical approaches to explore nonvertical evolution, such as horizontal gene transfer, recombination, and genomic reassortment, through collections of Markov-dependent gene trees. These tree collections allow for inference of nonvertical evolution, but only indirectly, making findings difficult to interpret and models difficult to generalize. An alternative approach to explore nonvertical evolution relies on phylogenetic networks. These networks provide a framework to model nonvertical evolution but leave unanswered questions such as the statistical significance of specific nonvertical events. In this paper, we begin to correct the shortcomings of both approaches by introducing the "stochastic model for reassortment and transfer events" (SMARTIE) drawing upon ancestral recombination graphs (ARGs). ARGs are directed graphs that allow for formal probabilistic inference on vertical speciation events and nonvertical evolutionary events. We apply SMARTIE to phylogenetic data. Because of this, we can typically infer a single most probable ARG, avoiding coarse population dynamic summary statistics. In addition, a focus on phylogenetic data suggests novel probability distributions on ARGs. To make inference with our model, we develop a reversible jump Markov chain Monte Carlo sampler to approximate the posterior distribution of SMARTIE. Using the BEAST phylogenetic software as a foundation, the sampler employs a parallel computing approach that allows for inference on large-scale data sets. To demonstrate SMARTIE, we explore 2 separate phylogenetic applications, one involving pathogenic Leptospirochete and the other Saccharomyces.
25677559|We develop statistical methods for phylogenetic logistic regression in which the dependent variable is binary (0 or 1) and values are nonindependent among species, with phylogenetically related species tending to have the same value of the dependent variable. The methods are based on an evolutionary model of binary traits in which trait values switch between 0 and 1 as species evolve up a phylogenetic tree. The more frequently the trait values switch (i.e., the higher the rate of evolution), the more rapidly correlations between trait values for phylogenetically related species break down. Therefore, the statistical methods also give a way to estimate the phylogenetic signal of binary traits. More generally, the methods can be applied with continuous- and/or discrete-valued independent variables. Using simulations, we assess the statistical properties of the methods, including bias in the estimates of the logistic regression coefficients and the parameter that estimates the strength of phylogenetic signal in the dependent variable. These analyses show that, as with the case for continuous-valued dependent variables, phylogenetic logistic regression should be used rather than standard logistic regression when there is the possibility of phylogenetic correlations among species. Standard logistic regression does not properly account for the loss of information caused by resemblance of relatives and as a result is likely to give inflated type I error rates, incorrectly identifying regression parameters as statistically significantly different from zero when they are not.
25677558|Because a constant rate of DNA sequence evolution cannot be assumed to be ubiquitous, relaxed molecular clock inference models have proven useful when estimating rates and divergence dates. Furthermore, it has been recently suggested that using relaxed molecular clocks may provide superior accuracy and precision in phylogenetic inference compared with traditional time-free methods that do not incorporate a molecular clock. We perform a simulation study to determine if assuming a relaxed molecular clock does indeed improve the quality of phylogenetic inference. We analyze sequence data simulated under various rate distributions using relaxed-clocks, strict-clocks, and time-free Bayesian phylogenetic inference models. Our results indicate that no difference exists in the quality of phylogenetic inference between assuming a relaxed molecular clock and making no assumption about the clock-likeness of sequence evolution. This pattern is likely due to the biasvariance trade-off inherent in this type of phylogenetic inference. We also compared the quality of inference between Bayesian and maximum likelihood time-free inference models and found them to be qualitatively similar.
20780357|Nested clade phylogeographic analysis (NCPA) is a widely used method that aims to identify past demographic events that have shaped the history of a population. In an earlier study, NCPA has been fully automated, allowing it to be tested with simulated data sets generated under a null model in which samples simulated from a panmictic population are geographically distributed. It was noted that NCPA was prone to inferring false positives, corroborating earlier findings. The present study aims to evaluate both single-locus and multilocus NCPA under the scenario of restricted gene flow among spatially distributed populations. We have developed a new program, ANeCA-ML, which implements multilocus NCPA. Data were simulated under 3 models of gene flow: a stepping stone model, an island model, and a stepping stone model with some long-distance dispersal. Results indicate that single-locus NCPA tends to give a high frequency of false positives, but, unlike the random-mating scenario presented previously, inferences are not limited to restricted gene flow with isolation by distance or contiguous range expansion. The proportion of single-locus data sets that contained false inferences was 76% for the panmictic case, 87% for the stepping stone model, 79% for the stepping stone model with long-distance dispersal, and more than 99% for the island model. The frequency of inferences is inversely related to the amount of gene flow between demes. We performed multilocus NCPA by grouping the simulated loci into data sets of 5 loci. The false-positive rate was reduced in multilocus NCPA for some inferences but remained high for others. The proportion of multilocus data sets that contained false inferences was 17% for the panmictic case, 30% for the stepping stone model, 4% for the stepping stone model with long-distance dispersal, and 54% for the island model. Multilocus NCPA reduces the false-positive rate by restricting the sensitivity of the method but does not appear to increase the accuracy of the approach. Three classical teststhe analysis of molecular variance method, Fu's Fs, and the Mantel testshow that there is information in the data that gives rise to explicable results using these standard approaches. In conclusion, for the scenarios that we have examined, our simulation study suggests that the NCPA method is unreliable and its inferences may be misleading. We suggest that the NCPA method should not be used without objective simulation-based testing by independent researchers.
20780355|Long branches are potentially problematic in molecular dating because they can encompass a vast number of combinations of substitution rate and time. A long branch is suspected to have biased molecular clock estimates of the age of flowering plants (angiosperms) to be much older than their earliest fossils. This study explores the effect of the long branch subtending angiosperms in molecular dating and how different relaxed clocks react to it. Fossil angiosperm relatives, identified through a combined morphological and molecular phylogenetic analysis for living and fossil seed plants, were used to break the long angiosperm stem branch. Nucleotide sequences of angiosperm fossil relatives were simulated using a phylogeny and model parameters from living taxa and incorporated in molecular dating. Three relaxed clocks, which implement among-lineage rate heterogeneity differently, were used: penalized likelihood (using 2 different rate smoothing optimization criteria), a Bayesian rate-autocorrelated method, and a Bayesian uncorrelated method. Different clocks provided highly correlated ages across the tree. Breaking the angiosperm stem branch did not result in major age differences, except for a few sensitive nodes. Breaking the angiosperm stem branch resulted in a substantially younger age for crown angiosperms only with 1 of the 4 methods, but, nevertheless, the obtained age is considerably older than the oldest angiosperm fossils. The origin of crown angiosperms is estimated between the Upper Triassic and the early Permian. The difficulty in estimating crown angiosperm age probably lies in a combination of intrinsic and extrinsic complicating factors, including substantial molecular rate heterogeneity among lineages and through time. A more adequate molecular dating approach might combine moderate background rate heterogeneity with large changes in rate at particular points in the tree.
20780356|Coalescent modelbased methods for phylogeny estimation force systematists to confront issues related to the identification of species boundaries. Unlike conventional phylogenetic analysis, where species membership can be assessed qualitatively after the phylogeny is estimated, the phylogenies that are estimated under a coalescent model treat aggregates of individuals as the operational taxonomic units and thus require a priori definition of these sets because the models assume that the alleles in a given lineage are sampled from a single panmictic population. Fortunately, the use of coalescent modelbased approaches allows systematists to conduct probabilistic tests of species limits by calculating the probability of competing models of lineage composition. Here, we conduct the first exploration of the issues related to applying such tests to a complex empirical system. Sequence data from multiple loci were used to assess species limits and phylogeny in a clade of North American Myotis bats. After estimating gene trees at each locus, the likelihood of models representing all hierarchical permutations of lineage composition was calculated and Akaike information criterion scores were computed. Metrics borrowed from information theory suggest that there is strong support for several models that include multiple evolutionary lineages within the currently described species Myotis lucifugus and M. evotis. Although these results are preliminary, they illustrate the practical importance of coupled species delimitation and phylogeny estimation.
20780361|A wide range of evolutionary models for species-level (and higher) diversification have been developed. These models can be used to test evolutionary hypotheses and provide comparisons with phylogenetic trees constructed from real data. To carry out these tests and comparisons, it is often necessary to sample, or simulate, trees from the evolutionary models. Sampling trees from these models is more complicated than it may appear at first glance, necessitating careful consideration and mathematical rigor. Seemingly straightforward sampling methods may produce trees that have systematically biased shapes or branch lengths. This is particularly problematic as there is no simple method for determining whether the sampled trees are appropriate. In this paper, we show why a commonly used simple sampling approach (SSA)simulating trees forward in time until n species are first reachedshould only be applied to the simplest pure birth model, the Yule model. We provide an alternative general sampling approach (GSA) that can be applied to most other models. Furthermore, we introduce the constant-rate birthdeath model sampling approach, which samples trees very efficiently from a widely used class of models. We explore the bias produced by SSA and identify situations in which this bias is particularly pronounced. We show that using SSA can lead to erroneous conclusions: When using the inappropriate SSA, the variance of a gradually evolving trait does not correlate with the age of the tree; when the correct GSA is used, the trait variance correlates with tree age. The algorithms presented here are available in the Perl Bio::Phylo package, as a stand-alone program TreeSample, and in the R TreeSim package.
20780354|The rich knowledge of morphological variation among organisms reported in the systematic literature has remained in free-text format, impractical for use in large-scale synthetic phylogenetic work. This noncomputable format has also precluded linkage to the large knowledgebase of genomic, genetic, developmental, and phenotype data in model organism databases. We have undertaken an effort to prototype a curated, ontology-based evolutionary morphology database that maps to these genetic databases (http://kb.phenoscape.org) to facilitate investigation into the mechanistic basis and evolution of phenotypic diversity. Among the first requirements in establishing this database was the development of a multispecies anatomy ontology with the goal of capturing anatomical data in a systematic and computable manner. An ontology is a formal representation of a set of concepts with defined relationships between those concepts. Multispecies anatomy ontologies in particular are an efficient way to represent the diversity of morphological structures in a clade of organisms, but they present challenges in their development relative to single-species anatomy ontologies. Here, we describe the Teleost Anatomy Ontology (TAO), a multispecies anatomy ontology for teleost fishes derived from the Zebrafish Anatomical Ontology (ZFA) for the purpose of annotating varying morphological features across species. To facilitate interoperability with other anatomy ontologies, TAO uses the Common Anatomy Reference Ontology as a template for its upper level nodes, and TAO and ZFA are synchronized, with zebrafish terms specified as subtypes of teleost terms. We found that the details of ontology architecture have ramifications for querying, and we present general challenges in developing a multispecies anatomy ontology, including refinement of definitions, taxon-specific relationships among terms, and representation of taxonomically variable developmental pathways.
20780360|Studies of diversification patterns often find a slowing in lineage accumulation toward the present. This seemingly pervasive pattern of rate downturns has been taken as evidence for adaptive radiations, density-dependent regulation, and metacommunity species interactions. The significance of rate downturns is evaluated with statistical tests (the  statistic and Monte Carlo constant rates (MCCR) test; birthdeath likelihood models and Akaike Information Criterion [AIC] scores) that rely on null distributions, which assume that the included species are a random sample of the entire clade. Sampling in real phylogenies, however, often is nonrandom because systematists try to include early-diverging species or representatives of previous intrataxon classifications. We studied the effects of biased sampling, structured sampling, and random sampling by experimentally pruning simulated trees (60 and 150 species) as well as a completely sampled empirical tree (58 species) and then applying the  statistic/MCCR test and birthdeath likelihood models/AIC scores to assess rate changes. For trees with random species sampling, the true model (i.e., the one fitting the complete phylogenies) could be inferred in most cases. Oversampling deep nodes, however, strongly biases inferences toward downturns, with simulations of structured and biased sampling suggesting that this occurs when sampling percentages drop below 80%. The magnitude of the effect and the sensitivity of diversification rate models is such that a useful rule of thumb may be not to infer rate downturns from real trees unless they have >80% species sampling.
20780358|A phylogenetic tree comprising clades with high bootstrap values or other strong measures of statistical support is usually interpreted as providing a good estimate of the true phylogeny. Convergent evolution acting on groups of characters in concert, however, can lead to highly supported but erroneous phylogenies. Identifying such groups of phylogenetically misleading characters is obviously desirable. Here we present a procedure that uses an independent data source to identify sets of characters that have undergone concerted convergent evolution. We examine the problematic case of the cormorants and shags, for which trees constructed using osteological and molecular characters both have strong statistical support and yet are fundamentally incongruent. We find that the osteological characters can be separated into those that fit the phylogenetic history implied by the molecular data set and those that do not. Moreover, these latter nonfitting osteological characters are internally consistent and form groups of mutually compatible characters or "cliques," which are significantly larger than cliques of shuffled characters. We suggest, therefore, that these cliques of characters are the result of similar selective pressures and are a signature of concerted convergence.
20780359|A controversial topic that underlies much of phylogenetic experimental design is the relative utility of increased taxonomic versus character sampling. Conclusions about the relative utility of adding characters or taxa to a current phylogenetic study have subtly hinged upon the appropriateness of the rate of evolution of the characters added for resolution of the phylogeny in question. Clearly, the addition of characters evolving at optimal rates will have much greater impact upon accurate phylogenetic analysis than will the addition of characters with an inappropriate rate of evolution. Development of practical analytical predictions of the asymptotic impact of adding additional taxa would complement computational investigations of the relative utility of these two methods of expanding acquired data. Accordingly, we here formulate a measure of the phylogenetic informativeness of the additional sampling of character states from a new taxon added to the canonical phylogenetic quartet. We derive the optimal rate of evolution for characters assessed in taxa to be sampled and a metric of informativeness based on the rate of evolution of the characters assessed in the new taxon and the distance of the new taxon from the internode of interest. Calculation of the informativeness per base pair of additional character sampling for included taxa versus additional character sampling for novel taxa can be used to estimate cost-effectiveness and optimal efficiency of phylogenetic experimental design. The approach requires estimation of rates of evolution of individual sites based on an alignment of genes orthologous to those to be sequenced, which may be identified in a well-established clade of sister taxa or of related taxa diverging at a deeper phylogenetic scale. Some approximate idea of the potential phylogenetic relationships of taxa to be sequenced is also desirable, such as may be obtained from ribosomal RNA sequence alone. Application to the solution of recalcitrant unresolved nodes in an otherwise well-known phylogeny is the most obvious application. We validate the theory by analysis of its predictions regarding the phylogenetic informativeness for taxon addition of 46 amino acid alignments of 21 fungal taxa. Gene and taxon sampling according to the theory herein and following a "deepest ingroup" heuristic are shown to provide significantly improved resolution of specified deep internodes.
25677573|Estimating divergence times using molecular sequence data has become a common application of statistical phylogenetics. However, disparities between estimated ages for clades produced in different studies have become equally commonplace. Here, I propose a method for the objective assessment of the likelihood of inferred divergence times to evaluate the placement of fossil constraints using information from the broader fossil record. The inclusion of nodes from the Tree of Life for which credible age ranges are known, in addition to the fossil constraints used in the ingroup, will allow for the comparison of alternate fossil placements when the phylogenetic affinity of a fossil is ambiguous as well as provide a heuristic assessment of the global likelihood of estimated divergence times. The use of these "likelihood checkpoints" will allow for the comparison of inferred dates across data sets and across taxonomic groups to place divergence time estimates into a broader evolutionary timescale. The method is illustrated with an example using an expanded phylogenetic estimate of the Gnathostomata, inferred with relaxed-clock molecular dating methods.
25677569|Bayesian methods are increasingly being used to estimate divergence times without the restrictive assumption of a global clock. Little is known about their reliability for shallow phylogenies where DNA sequence divergence is low. We analyzed both simulated and real sequences to evaluate dating methods in phylogenies with midlate Miocene roots. A large number of data sets (5000) with 10 taxa each were simulated under a rate-drift model for trees with 2 topologies (balanced or unbalanced) and with different sets of divergence times (characterized by long or short external branches). Data were analyzed using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo methods in which the prior on divergence times was specified from a birthdeath process with species sampling (BDS) or a Dirichlet distribution using the programs MCMCTREE and MULTIDIVTIME. The programs generally performed well on shallow phylogenies, but posterior mean node ages were biased and 95% posterior intervals included true ages in fewer than 95% of trees in some analyses. This typically occurred when the 95% prior interval did not include the true age and/or sequence lengths were 1 kbp. Widths of posterior intervals were also very dependent on the position of the calibrated node within the tree, particularly when sequences were short. Different divergence times priors within MCMCTREE, MULTIDIVTIME, and BEAST were used to analyze mitochondrial DNA data sets from a Bovid subfamily (the Caprinae) from Asian Laudakia and North African Chalcides lizards. Posterior divergence times were quite sensitive to different BDS priors but less sensitive to different Dirichlet priors. Our study demonstrates the impact of the prior on divergence times in shallow phylogenies and shows that 1) prior intervals on nodes should be assessed as a prerequisite to a dating analysis, 2) 1 kbp of quite rapidly evolving sequence may be required to obtain accurate posterior means and usefully narrow posterior intervals.
25677574|Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is one of the main mechanisms driving the evolution of microorganisms. Its accurate identification is one of the major challenges posed by reticulate evolution. In this article, we describe a new polynomial-time algorithm for inferring HGT events and compare 3 existing and 1 new tree comparison indices in the context of HGT identification. The proposed algorithm can rely on different optimization criteria, including least squares (LS), Robinson and Foulds (RF) distance, quartet distance (QD), and bipartition dissimilarity (BD), when searching for an optimal scenario of subtree prune and regraft (SPR) moves needed to transform the given species tree into the given gene tree. As the simulation results suggest, the algorithmic strategy based on BD, introduced in this article, generally provides better results than those based on LS, RF, and QD. The BD-based algorithm also proved to be more accurate and faster than a well-known polynomial time heuristic RIATA-HGT. Moreover, the HGT recovery results yielded by BD were generally equivalent to those provided by the exponential-time algorithm LatTrans, but a clear gain in running time was obtained using the new algorithm. Finally, a statistical framework for assessing the reliability of obtained HGTs by bootstrap analysis is also presented.
25677576|How to quantify the phylogenetic information content of a data set is a longstanding question in phylogenetics, influencing both the assessment of data quality in completed studies and the planning of future phylogenetic projects. Recently, a method has been developed that profiles the phylogenetic informativeness (PI) of a data set through time by linking its site-specific rates of change to its power to resolve relationships at different timescales. Here, we evaluate the performance of this method in the case of 2 standard genetic markers for phylogenetic reconstruction, 28S ribosomal RNA and cytochrome oxidase subunit 1 (CO1) mitochondrial DNA, with maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analyses of relationships within a group of parasitoid wasps (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae, Diplazontinae). Retrieving PI profiles of the 2 genes from our own and from 3 additional data sets, we find that the method repeatedly overestimates the performance of the more quickly evolving CO1 compared with 28S. We explore possible reasons for this bias, including phylogenetic uncertainty, volation of the molecular clock assumption, model misspecification, and nonstationary nucleotide composition. As none of these provides a sufficient explanation of the observed discrepancy, we use simulated data sets, based on an idealized setting, to show that the optimum evolutionary rate decreases with increasing number of taxa. We suggest that this relationship could explain why the formula derived from the 4-taxon case overrates the performance of higher versus lower rates of evolution in our case and that caution should be taken when the method is applied to data sets including more than 4 taxa.
25677572|Species delimitation has been invigorated as a discipline in systematics by an influx of new character sets, analytical methods, and conceptual advances. We use genetic data from 68 markers, combined with distributional, bioclimatic, and coloration information, to hypothesize boundaries of evolutionarily independent lineages (species) within the widespread and highly variable nominal fire ant species Solenopsis saevissima, a member of a species group containing invasive pests as well as species that are models for ecological and evolutionary research. Our integrated approach uses diverse methods of analysis to sequentially test whether populations meet specific operational criteria (contingent properties) for candidacy as morphologically cryptic species, including genetic clustering, monophyly, reproductive isolation, and occupation of distinctive niche space. We hypothesize that nominal S. saevissima comprises at least 46 previously unrecognized species, including several pairs whose parapatric distributions implicate the development of intrinsic premating or postmating barriers to gene flow. Our genetic data further suggest that regional genetic differentiation in S. saevissima has been influenced by hybridization with other nominal species occurring in sympatry or parapatry, including the quite distantly related Solenopsis geminata. The results of this study illustrate the importance of employing different classes of genetic data (coding and noncoding regions and nuclear and mitochondrial DNA [mtDNA] markers), different methods of genetic data analysis (tree-based and nontree based methods), and different sources of data (genetic, morphological, and ecological data) to explicitly test various operational criteria for species boundaries in clades of recently diverged lineages, while warning against over reliance on any single data type (e.g., mtDNA sequence variation) when drawing inferences.
25677575|Thymidylate synthases (Thy) are key enzymes in the synthesis of deoxythymidylate, 1 of the 4 building blocks of DNA. As such, they are essential for all DNA-based forms of life and therefore implicated in the hypothesized transition from RNA genomes to DNA genomes. Two evolutionally unrelated Thy enzymes, ThyA and ThyX, are known to catalyze the same biochemical reaction. Both enzymes are sporadically distributed within each of the 3 domains of life in a pattern that suggests multiple nonhomologous lateral gene transfer (LGT) events. We present a phylogenetic analysis of the evolution of the 2 enzymes, aimed at unraveling their entangled evolutionary history and tracing their origin back to early life. A novel probabilistic evolutionary model was developed, which allowed us to compute the posterior probabilities and the posterior expectation of the number of LGT events. Simulation studies were performed to validate the model's ability to accurately detect LGT events, which have occurred throughout a large phylogeny. Applying the model to the Thy data revealed widespread nonhomologous LGT between and within all 3 domains of life. By reconstructing the ThyA and ThyX gene trees, the most likely donor of each LGT event was inferred. The role of viruses in LGT of Thy is finally discussed.
25677570|Polyploidy, the genome wide duplication of chromosome number, is a key feature in eukaryote evolution. Polyploidy exists in diverse groups including animals, fungi, and invertebrates but is especially prevalent in plants with most, if not all, plant species having descended from a polyploidization event. Polyploids often differ markedly from their diploid progenitors in morphological, physiological, and life history characteristics as well as rates of adaptation. The altered characteristics displayed by polyploids may contribute to their success in novel ecological habitats. Clearly, a better understanding of the processes underlying changes in the number of chromosomes within genomes is a key goal in our understanding of speciation and adaptation for a wide range of families and genera. Despite the fundamental role of chromosome number change in eukaryotic evolution, probabilistic models describing the evolution of chromosome number along a phylogeny have not yet been formulated. We present a series of likelihood models, each representing a different hypothesis regarding the evolution of chromosome number along a given phylogeny. These models allow us to reconstruct ancestral chromosome numbers and to estimate the expected number of polyploidization events and single chromosome changes (dysploidy) that occurred along a phylogeny. We test, using simulations, the accuracy of this approach and its dependence on the number of taxa and tree length. We then demonstrate the application of the method for the study of chromosome number evolution in 4 plant genera: Aristolochia, Carex, Passiflora, and Helianthus. Considering the depth of the available cytological and phylogenetic data, formal models of chromosome number evolution are expected to advance significantly our understanding of the importance of polyploidy and dysploidy across different taxonomic groups.
25677571|A surprising number of recent Bayesian phylogenetic analyses contain branch-length estimates that are several orders of magnitude longer than corresponding maximum-likelihood estimates. The levels of divergence implied by such branch lengths are unreasonable for studies using biological data and are known to be false for studies using simulated data. We conducted additional Bayesian analyses and studied approximate-posterior surfaces to investigate the causes underlying these large errors. We manipulated the starting parameter values of the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) analyses, the moves used by the MCMC analyses, and the prior-probability distribution on branch lengths. We demonstrate that inaccurate branch-length estimates result from either 1) poor mixing of MCMC chains or 2) posterior distributions with excessive weight at long tree lengths. Both effects are caused by a rapid increase in the volume of branch-length space as branches become longer. In the former case, both an MCMC move that scales all branch lengths in the tree simultaneously and the use of overdispersed starting branch lengths allow the chain to accurately sample the posterior distribution and should be used in Bayesian analyses of phylogeny. In the latter case, branch-length priors can have strong effects on resulting inferences and should be carefully chosen to reflect biological expectations. We provide a formula to calculate an exponential rate parameter for the branch-length prior that should eliminate inference of biased branch lengths in many cases. In any phylogenetic analysis, the biological plausibility of branch-length output must be carefully considered.
20780372|Single locus studies might not resolve phylogenetic relationships and the evolutionary history of taxa. The analysis of multiple markers promises higher resolution, and congruence among loci may indicate that the phylogenies represent the underlying species history. Here, we examine the utility of a genome-wide approach based on amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) and several DNA sequence markers in resolving phylogenetic signals in the rapidly radiating rodent genus Microtus which produced about 70 vole species within the last 1.2-2 myr. The current Holarctic distribution of Microtus is assumed to have resulted from three independent colonization events out of Asia to North America, Europe, and northern Asia without subsequent colonization, which would have led to deep splits between species from different continents. We investigated this hypothesis of three single colonization events by reconstructing the phylogenetic relationships among species from all three continents based on data from the first exon of the nuclear arginine vasopressin receptor 1a gene (EXON1), an adjacent noncoding region and the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. The phylogenetic patterns obtained from these sequence markers are contrasted to genome-wide data on more than 1800 amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) analyzed for the same samples. Our results show that the single sequence markers partially resolve the phylogenetic relationships within Microtus, but with some incongruence mostly between EXON1 and the other loci. However, deeper nodes of the radiation are only weakly supported and neither the combination of the markers nor additional nuclear sequences improved the resolution significantly. AFLPs provided much stronger support for major continent-specific clades, and show also that reciprocal monophyly of American and European voles is incomplete. Our results demonstrate that Microtus voles colonized the American and European continents each repeatedly in several independent events on similar colonization routes during their radiation. More generally, this study supports the suitability of AFLPs as an alternative to sequence markers to resolve the evolutionary history of rapidly radiating taxa.
20780369|Mechanisms of speciation are best understood in the context of phylogenetic relationships and as such have often been inferred from single gene trees, typically those derived from mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) markers. Recent studies, however, have noted the potential for phylogenetic discordance between gene trees and underlying species trees (e.g., due to stochastic lineage sorting, introgression, or selection). Here, we employ a variety of nuclear DNA loci to reassess evolutionary relationships within a recent freshwater fish radiation to reappraise modes of speciation. New Zealand's freshwater-limited Galaxias vulgaris complex is thought to have evolved from G. brevipinnis, a widespread migratory species that retains a plesiomorphic marine juvenile phase. A well-resolved tree, based on four mtDNA regions, previously suggested that marine migratory ability has been lost on 3 independent occasions in the evolution of this species flock (assuming that loss of diadromy is irreversible). Here, we use pseudogene (galaxiid Numt: 1801 bp), intron (S7: 903 bp), and exon (RAG-1: 1427 bp) markers, together with mtDNA, to reevaluate this hypothesis of parallel evolution. Interestingly, partitioned Bayesian analysis of concatenated nuclear sequences (3141 bp) and concatenated nuclear and mtDNA (4770 bp) both recover phylogenies implying a single loss of diadromy, not three parallel losses as previously inferred from mtDNA alone. This phylogenetic result is reinforced by a multilocus analysis performed using Bayesian estimation of species trees (BEST) software that estimates the posterior distribution of species trees under a coalescent model. We discuss factors that might explain the apparently misleading phylogenetic inferences generated by mtDNA.
20780370|An accurate reconstruction of the eukaryotic tree of life is essential to identify the innovations underlying the diversity of microbial and macroscopic (e.g., plants and animals) eukaryotes. Previous work has divided eukaryotic diversity into a small number of high-level "supergroups," many of which receive strong support in phylogenomic analyses. However, the abundance of data in phylogenomic analyses can lead to highly supported but incorrect relationships due to systematic phylogenetic error. Furthermore, the paucity of major eukaryotic lineages (19 or fewer) included in these genomic studies may exaggerate systematic error and reduce power to evaluate hypotheses. Here, we use a taxon-rich strategy to assess eukaryotic relationships. We show that analyses emphasizing broad taxonomic sampling (up to 451 taxa representing 72 major lineages) combined with a moderate number of genes yield a well-resolved eukaryotic tree of life. The consistency across analyses with varying numbers of taxa (88-451) and levels of missing data (17-69%) supports the accuracy of the resulting topologies. The resulting stable topology emerges without the removal of rapidly evolving genes or taxa, a practice common to phylogenomic analyses. Several major groups are stable and strongly supported in these analyses (e.g., SAR, Rhizaria, Excavata), whereas the proposed supergroup "Chromalveolata" is rejected. Furthermore, extensive instability among photosynthetic lineages suggests the presence of systematic biases including endosymbiotic gene transfer from symbiont (nucleus or plastid) to host. Our analyses demonstrate that stable topologies of ancient evolutionary relationships can be achieved with broad taxonomic sampling and a moderate number of genes. Finally, taxon-rich analyses such as presented here provide a method for testing the accuracy of relationships that receive high bootstrap support (BS) in phylogenomic analyses and enable placement of the multitude of lineages that lack genome scale data.
20780373|Discord in the estimated gene trees among loci can be attributed to both the process of mutation and incomplete lineage sorting. Effectively modeling these two sources of variationmutational and coalescent varianceprovides two distinct challenges for phylogenetic studies. Despite extensive investigation on mutational models for gene-tree estimation over the past two decades and recent attention to modeling of the coalescent process for phylogenetic estimation, the effects of these two variances have yet to be evaluated simultaneously. Here, we partition the effects of mutational and coalescent processes on phylogenetic accuracy by comparing the accuracy of species trees estimated from gene trees (i.e., the actual coalescent genealogies) with that of species trees estimated from estimated gene trees (i.e., trees estimated from nucleotide sequences, which contain both coalescent and mutational variance). Not only is there a significant contribution of both mutational and coalescent variance to errors in species-tree estimates, but the relative magnitude of the effects on the accuracy of species-tree estimation also differs systematically depending on 1) the timing of divergence, 2) the sampling design, and 3) the method used for species-tree estimation. These findings explain why using more information contained in gene trees (e.g., topology and branch lengths as opposed to just topology) does not necessarily translate into pronounced gains in accuracy, highlighting the strengths and limits of different methods for species-tree estimation. Differences in accuracy scores between methods for different sampling regimes also emphasize that it would be a mistake to assume more computationally intensive species-tree estimation procedures that will always provide better estimates of species trees. To the contrary, the performance of a method depends not only on the method per se but also on the compatibilities between the input genetic data and the method as determined by the relative impact of mutational and coalescent variance.
20780374|The recent explosion in the availability of genetic sequence data has made large-scale phylogenetic inference routine in many life sciences laboratories. The outcomes of such analyses are, typically, a variety of candidate phylogenetic relationships or tree topologies, even when the power of genome-scale data is exploited. Because much phylogenetic information must be buried in such topology distributions, it is important to reveal that information as effectively as possible; however, existing methods need to adopt complex structures to represent such information. Hence, researchers, in particular those not experts in evolutionary studies, sometimes hesitate to adopt these methods and much phylogenetic information could be overlooked and wasted. In this paper, we propose the centroid wheel tree representation, which is an informative representation of phylogenetic topology distributions, and which can be readily interpreted even by nonexperts. Furthermore, we mathematically prove this to be the most balanced representation of phylogenetic topologies and efficiently solvable in the framework of the traveling salesman problem, for which very sophisticated program packages are available. This theoretically and practically superior representation should aid biologists faced with abundant data. The centroid representation introduced here is fairly general, so it can be applied to other fields that are characterized by high-dimensional solution spaces and large quantities of noisy data. The software is implemented in Java and available via http://cwt.cb.k.u-tokyo.ac.jp/.
20780368|We propose a method for delimiting species based on dominant or codominant multilocus data using Gaussian clustering with a noise component for outliers. Case studies show that provisional species delimited using Gaussian clustering based on dominant multilocus data correspond well with provisional species delimited based on other data. However, the performance of Gaussian clustering in delimiting species based on few codominant markers was only moderate. Species represented by few individuals are usually included in the noise component because clusters are difficult to recognize with limited data. As alternative methods, we evaluated two model-based clustering methods originally proposed to infer population structure and assign individuals to populations based on the assumption of HardyWeinberg equilibrium within populations, namely STRUCTURE and STRUCTURAMA, as well as the "fields for recombination" approach. The latter resulted in lumping all individuals of each data set with codominant markers together, and whereas STRUCTURE often provides no decision about the number of clusters, STRUCTURAMA usually yields correct or almost correct numbers of clusters. The classification success of STRUCTURAMA analyses based on codominant markers was very good, but its performance with dominant markers was less consistent. Based on the classification success of the different methods for delimiting species with dominant and codominant multilocus markers in the case studies, we recommend using Gaussian clustering for data sets with dominant markers and STRUCTURAMA for data sets with codominant markers.
20780371|It is widely recognized that many genes and lineages do not adhere to a molecular clock, yet molecular clocks are commonly used to date divergences in comparative genomic studies. We test the application of a molecular clock across genes and lineages in a phylogenetic framework utilizing 12 genes linked in a 1-Mb region on chromosome 13 of soybean (Glycine max); homoeologous copies of these genes formed by polyploidy in Glycine; and orthologous copies in G. tomentella, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Medicago truncatula. We compare divergence dates estimated by two methods each in three frameworks: a global molecular clock with a single rate across genes and lineages using full and approximate likelihood methods based on synonymous substitutions, a gene-specific clock assuming rate constancy over lineages but allowing a different rate for each gene, and a relaxed molecular clock where rates may vary across genes and lineages estimated under penalized likelihood and Bayesian inference. We use the cumulative variance across genes as a means of quantifying precision. Our results suggest that divergence dating methods produce results that are correlated, but that older nodes are more variable and more difficult to estimate with precision and accuracy. We also find that models incorporating less rate heterogeneity estimate older dates of divergence than more complex models, as node age increases. A mixed model nested analysis of variance testing the effects of framework, method, and gene found that framework had a significant effect on the divergence date estimates but that most variation among dates is due to variation among genes, suggesting a need to further characterize and understand the evolutionary phenomena underlying rate variation within genomes, among genes, and across lineages.
25677581|The relationship between morphometrics and phylogenetic analysis has long been controversial. Here we propose an approach that is based on mapping morphometric traits onto phylogenies derived from other data and thus avoids the pitfalls encountered by previous studies. This method treats shape as a single, multidimensional character. We propose a test for the presence of a phylogenetic signal in morphometric data, which simulates the null hypothesis of the complete absence of phylogenetic structure by permutation of the shape data among the terminal taxa. We also propose 2 measures of the fit of morphometric data to the phylogeny that are direct extensions of the consistency index and retention index used in traditional cladistics. We apply these methods to a small study of the evolution of wing shape in the Drosophila melanogaster subgroup, for which a very strongly supported phylogeny is available. This case study reveals a significant phylogenetic signal and a relatively low degree of homoplasy. Despite the low homoplasy, the shortest tree computed from landmark data on wing shape is inconsistent with the well-supported phylogenetic tree from molecular data, underscoring that morphometric data may not provide reliable information for inferring phylogeny.
25677585|Traditionally, the goal of systematics has been to produce classifications that are both strongly supported and biologically meaningful. In recent years several authors have advocated complementing phylogenetic analyses with measures of another form of evolutionary change, ecological divergence. These analyses frequently rely on ecological niche models to determine if species have comparable environmental requirements, but it has heretofore been difficult to test the accuracy of these inferences. To address this problem, I simulate the geographic distributions of allopatric species with identical environmental requirements. I then test whether existing analyses based on geographic distributions will correctly infer that the 2 species' requirements are identical. This work demonstrates that when taxa disperse to different environments, many analyses can erroneously infer changes in environmental requirements, but the severity of the problem depends on the method used. As this could exaggerate the number of ecologically distinct taxa in a clade, I suggest diagnostics to mitigate this problem.
25677586|PhyML is a phylogeny software based on the maximum-likelihood principle. Early PhyML versions used a fast algorithm performing nearest neighbor interchanges to improve a reasonable starting tree topology. Since the original publication (Guindon S., Gascuel O. 2003. A simple, fast and accurate algorithm to estimate large phylogenies by maximum likelihood. Syst. Biol. 52:696704), PhyML has been widely used (>2500 citations in ISI Web of Science) because of its simplicity and a fair compromise between accuracy and speed. In the meantime, research around PhyML has continued, and this article describes the new algorithms and methods implemented in the program. First, we introduce a new algorithm to search the tree space with user-defined intensity using subtree pruning and regrafting topological moves. The parsimony criterion is used here to filter out the least promising topology modifications with respect to the likelihood function. The analysis of a large collection of real nucleotide and amino acid data sets of various sizes demonstrates the good performance of this method. Second, we describe a new test to assess the support of the data for internal branches of a phylogeny. This approach extends the recently proposed approximate likelihood-ratio test and relies on a nonparametric, ShimodairaHasegawalike procedure. A detailed analysis of real alignments sheds light on the links between this new approach and the more classical nonparametric bootstrap method. Overall, our tests show that the last version (3.0) of PhyML is fast, accurate, stable, and ready to use. A Web server and binary files are available from http://www.atgc-montpellier.fr/phyml/.
25677582|The development of methods to reconstruct phylogenies from karyotypic data has lagged behind what has been achieved with molecular and morphological characters. This hampers our understanding of the role of chromosomal rearrangements in speciation, which depends on knowledge of the karyotypic relationships both among forms that have recently speciated and among forms within species that may speciate in the future. Here, we present a new approach to reconstruct chromosomal phylogenies. Our approach involves the use of networks, which we believe offer a flexible alternative to bifurcating phylogenetic trees for chromosomal phylogenetic analyses, and can incorporate a wide range of chromosomal mutations as well as allowing reticulate evolution through hybridization. In this paper, we apply our method at the within-species level to establish the phylogenetic history, in terms of minimum number of evolutionary steps, of chromosomal races within both the common shrew (Sorex araneus) and the house mouse (Mus musculus). There have been several previous attempts to reconstruct the phylogenies of chromosomal races within shrews and mice, but we describe the first computer-based analysis that considers the whole range of possible mutations generating new races (Robertsonian fusions and fissions and whole-arm reciprocal translocations [WARTs]) and other race-generating processes (zonal raciation events involving both acrocentric and recombinant peaks) postulated for these species. The analysis for common shrew chromosomal races reveals a greater importance of zonal raciation and WARTs than has been suggested hitherto.
25677588|Ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) are conspicuous organisms in most terrestrial ecosystems, often attaining high levels of abundance and diversity. In this study, we investigate the evolutionary history of a major clade of ants, the subfamily Dolichoderinae, whose species frequently achieve ecological dominance in ant communities. This group has also produced some of the world's most successful invasive ants. We use an extensive molecular data set (9 kb of sequence data from 10 nuclear genes, covering 48 dolichoderine species and 6 outgroup taxa) to infer the phylogenetic relationships, divergence dates, and biogeographic history of these ants. We evaluate the effects of data partitioning and outgroup composition on phylogenetic inference by estimating relationships under a series of increasingly partitioned data sets and by running analyses both with and without Aneuretus simoni, a rare and localized species that is the nearest living relative of Dolichoderinae. We also examine the effects of excluding 2 data partitions with significant base composition heterogeneity. Our results reveal 4 well-supported and mutually exclusive clades of dolichoderines, corresponding to 4 newly defined tribes: Bothriomyrmecini (B), Dolichoderini (D), Leptomyrmecini (L), and Tapinomini (T). All Bayesian and likelihood analyses yield the same unrooted (ingroup-only) topology, ((D,L),(B,T)), with the outgroups attaching either on the Dolichoderini branch or on the Tapinomini branch. Placement of the root is highly sensitive to choice of model partition and to inclusion/exclusion of Aneuretus. Bayes' factors strongly favor the more partitioned models, and in these Tapinomini is recovered as sister to the remaining dolichoderines, but only if Aneuretus is included. Exclusion of Aneuretus precludes recovery of this topology in all but the most highly partitioned Bayesian analyses and then only with nonsignificant support, underscoring the importance of relict, taxonomically isolated taxa for phylogenetic inference. Removal of 2 partitions with heterogeneous base composition also markedly increases support for placement of the root on the Tapinomini branch. Our divergence date estimates and biogeographic analyses indicate that crown-group dolichoderines arose about 65 million years ago (Ma), although this was preceded by a substantial period (30 million years) of stem group evolution. The 4 extant tribes are estimated to have crown-group origins in the late Paleocene or Eocene (40-60 Ma). Tapinomini and Bothriomyrmecini orginated in the Paleotropics and subsequently dispersed to other biogeographic regions. Crown-group Leptomyrmecini arose and diversified in the Neotropics, but they also gave rise to one clade that colonized Australia about 30 Ma and subsequently experienced a massive radiation on that continent. This event occurred later than the diversification of dolichoderines in the northern hemisphere, so that by the time dolichoderines came to dominate the Australian fauna they had already declined in abundance in the Holarctic region.
25677587|The Lonicera clade Caprifolium contains 25 species distributed around the Northern Hemisphere, including in the Mediterranean climates of California and Europe. We sequenced the second intron of LFY to help resolve relationships within the clade where the internal transcribed spacer and chloroplast markers had previously failed to do so. Divergence time estimation and biogeographic analyses over the posterior distribution of dated trees suggest that a widespread ancestor was distributed across the Northern Hemisphere some 717 million years ago. Asian species form a sister group to a clade in which the European species are sister to the North American species. We use climatic niche modeling and divergence time estimates to explore the evolution of climate variables in the group. Principal component analyses help to identify instances of convergence, especially between distantly related species in the Mediterranean basin and in the chaparral of California. We document several cases of significant divergence between sister species in eastern North America and western North America. Climatic models were projected from one continent into the others (e.g., North American species projected into Asia and Europe) to examine whether species living in these areas occupy similar climates. This study demonstrates the utility of combining niche modeling with historical biogeographic analyses and documents significant climatic niche evolution within a group of species distributed throughout the Northern Hemisphere. These results suggest a possible model for the origin of the MadreanTethyan disjunction pattern.
25677584|Commonly used phylogenetic models assume a homogeneous process through time in all parts of the tree. However, it is known that these models can be too simplistic as they do not account for nonhomogeneous lineage-specific properties. In particular, it is now widely recognized that as constraints on sequences evolve, the proportion and positions of variable sites can vary between lineages causing heterotachy. The extent to which this model misspecification affects tree reconstruction is still unknown. Here, we evaluate the effect of changes in the proportions and positions of variable sites on model fit and tree estimation. We consider 5 current models of nucleotide sequence evolution in a Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo framework as well as maximum parsimony (MP). We show that for a tree with 4 lineages where 2 nonsister taxa undergo a change in the proportion of variable sites tree reconstruction under the best-fitting model, which is chosen using a relative test, often results in the wrong tree. In this case, we found that an absolute test of model fit is a better predictor of tree estimation accuracy. We also found further evidence that MP is not immune to heterotachy. In addition, we show that increased sampling of taxa that have undergone a change in proportion and positions of variable sites is critical for accurate tree reconstruction.
25677583|Amino acid substitution models are essential to most methods to infer phylogenies from protein data. These models represent the ways in which proteins evolve and substitutions accumulate along the course of time. It is widely accepted that the substitution processes vary depending on the structural configuration of the protein residues. However, this information is very rarely used in phylogenetic studies, though the 3-dimensional structure of dozens of thousands of proteins has been elucidated. Here, we reinvestigate the question in order to fill this gap. We use an improved estimation methodology and a very large database comprising 1471 nonredundant globular protein alignments with structural annotations to estimate new amino acid substitution models accounting for the secondary structure and solvent accessibility of the residues. These models incorporate a confidence coefficient that is estimated from the data and reflects the reliability and usefulness of structural annotations in the analyzed sequences. Our results with 300 independent test alignments show an impressive likelihood gain compared with standard models such as JTT or WAG. Moreover, the use of these models induces significant topological changes in the inferred trees, which should be of primary interest to phylogeneticists. Our data, models, and software are available for download from http://atgc.lirmm.fr/phyml-structure/.
27756413|This study attempts to resolve relationships among and within the four basal arthropod lineages (Pancrustacea, Myriapoda, Euchelicerata, Pycnogonida) and to assess the widespread expectation that remaining phylogenetic problems will yield to increasing amounts of sequence data. Sixty-eight regions of 62 protein-coding nuclear genes (approximately 41 kilobases (kb)/taxon) were sequenced for 12 taxonomically diverse arthropod taxa and a tardigrade outgroup. Parsimony, likelihood, and Bayesian analyses of total nucleotide data generally strongly supported the monophyly of each of the basal lineages represented by more than one species. Other relationships within the Arthropoda were also supported, with support levels depending on method of analysis and inclusion/exclusion of synonymous changes. Removing third codon positions, where the assumption of base compositional homogeneity was rejected, altered the results. Removing the final class of synonymous mutationsfirst codon positions encoding leucine and arginine, which were also compositionally heterogeneousyielded a data set that was consistent with a hypothesis of base compositional homogeneity. Furthermore, under such a data-exclusion regime, all 68 gene regions individually were consistent with base compositional homogeneity. Restricting likelihood analyses to nonsynonymous change recovered trees with strong support for the basal lineages but not for other groups that were variably supported with more inclusive data sets. In a further effort to increase phylogenetic signal, three types of data exploration were undertaken. (1) Individual genes were ranked by their average rate of nonsynonymous change, and three rate categories were assignedfast, intermediate, and slow. Then, bootstrap analysis of each gene was performed separately to see which taxonomic groups received strong support. Five taxonomic groups were strongly supported independently by two or more genes, and these genes mostly belonged to the slow or intermediate categories, whereas groups supported only by a single gene region tended to be from genes of the fast category, arguing that fast genes provide a less consistent signal. (2) A sensitivity analysis was performed in which increasing numbers of genes were excluded, beginning with the fastest. The number of strongly supported nodes increased up to a point and then decreased slightly. Recovery of Hexapoda required removal of fast genes. Support for Mandibulata (Pancrustacea + Myriapoda) also increased, at times to "strong" levels, with removal of the fastest genes. (3) Concordance selection was evaluated by clustering genes according to their ability to recover Pancrustacea, Euchelicerata, or Myriapoda and analyzing the three clusters separately. All clusters of genes recovered the three concordance clades but were at times inconsistent in the relationships recovered among and within these clades, a result that indicates that the a priori concordance criteria may bias phylogenetic signal in unexpected ways. In a further attempt to increase support of taxonomic relationships, sequence data from 49 additional taxa for three slow genes (i.e., EF-1, EF-2, and Pol II) were combined with the various 13-taxon data sets. The 62-taxon analyses supported the results of the 13-taxon analyses and provided increased support for additional pancrustacean clades found in an earlier analysis including only EF-1, EF-2, and Pol II.
27756409|With 14 species currently recognized, the beaked whale genus Mesoplodon (family Ziphiidae) is the most speciose in the order Cetacea. Beaked whales are widely distributed but are rarely seen at sea due to their oceanic distribution, deep-diving capacity, and apparent low abundance. Morphological differentiation among Mesoplodon species is relatively limited, with the exception of tooth form in adult males. Based on scarring patterns, males appear to use their tusk-like teeth as weapons in aggressive encounters with other males. Females are effectively toothless. We used sequences from seven nuclear introns (3348 base pairs) to construct a robust and highly resolved phylogeny, which was then used as a framework to test predictions from four hypotheses seeking to explain patterns of Mesoplodon tusk morphology and/or the processes that have driven the diversification of this genus: (1) linear progression of tusk form; (2) allopatric speciation through isolation in adjacent deep-sea canyons; (3) sympatric speciation through sexual selection on tusks; and (4) selection for species-recognition cues. Maximum-likelihood and Bayesian reconstructions confirmed the monophyly of the genus and revealed that what were considered ancestral and derived tusk forms have in fact arisen independently on several occasions, contrary to predictions from the linear-progression hypothesis. Further, none of the three well-supported species clades was confined to a single ocean basin, as might have been expected from the deep-sea canyon-isolation or sexual-selection hypotheses, and some species with similar tusks have overlapping distributions, contrary to predictions from the species-recognition hypothesis. However, the divergent tusk forms and sympatric distributions of three of the four sister-species pairs identified suggest that sexual selection on male tusks has likely played an important role in this unique radiation, although other forces are clearly also involved. To our knowledge, this is the first time that sexual selection has been explicitly implicated in the radiation of a mammalian group outside terrestrial ungulates.
27756410|Conifer-feeding sawflies in the genus Neodiprion provide an excellent opportunity to investigate the origin and maintenance of barriers to reproduction, but obtaining a phylogenetic estimate for comparative studies of Neodiprion speciation has proved difficult. Specifically, nonmonophyly within and discordance between individual gene trees, both of which are common in groups that diverged recently and/or rapidly, make it impossible to infer a species tree using methods that are designed to estimate gene trees. Therefore, in this study, we estimate relationships between members of the lecontei species group using four approaches that are intended to estimate species, not gene, trees: (1) minimize deep coalescences (MDC), (2) shallowest divergences (SD), (3) Bayesian estimation of species trees (BEST), and (4) a novel approach that combines concatenation with monophyly constraints (CMC). Multiple populations are sampled for most species and all four methods incorporate this intraspecific variation into estimates of interspecific relationships. We investigate the sensitivity of each method to taxonomic sampling, and, for the BEST method, we assess the impact of prior choice on species-tree inference. We also compare species-tree estimates to one another and to a morphologically based hypothesis to identify clades that are supported by multiple analyses and lines of evidence. We find that both taxonomic sampling and method choice impact species-tree estimates and that, for these data, the BEST method is strongly influenced by  and branch-length priors. We also find that the CMC method is the least sensitive to taxonomic sampling. Finally, although interspecific genetic variation is low due to the recent divergence of the lecontei group, our results to date suggest that incomplete lineage sorting and interspecific gene flow are the main factors complicating species-tree inference in Neodiprion. Based on these analyses, we propose a phylogenetic hypothesis for the lecontei group. Finally, our results suggest that, even for very challenging groups like Neodiprion, an underlying species-tree signal can be extracted from multi-locus data as long as intraspecific variation is adequately sampled and methods that focus on the estimation of species trees are used.
27756408|Genome phylogenies are used to build tree-like representations of evolutionary relationships among genomes. However, in condensing the phylogenetic signals within a set of genomes down to a single tree, these methods generally do not explicitly take into account discordant signals arising due to lateral genetic transfer. Because conflicting vertical and horizontal signals can produce compromise trees that do not reflect either type of history, it is essential to understand the sensitivity of inferred genome phylogenies to these confounding effects. Using replicated simulations of genome evolution, we show that different scenarios of lateral genetic transfer have significant impacts on the ability to recover the "true" tree of genomes, even when corrections for phylogenetically discordant signals are used.
27756411|Palaeontologists routinely map their cladograms onto what is known of the fossil record. Where sister taxa first appear as fossils at different times, a ghost range is inferrred to bridge the gap between these dates. Some measure of the total extent of ghost ranges across, the tree underlies several indices of cladistic/stratigraphic congruence. We investigate this congruence for 19 independent, published cladograms of major dinosaur groups and report exceptional agreement between the phylogenetic and stratigraphic patterns, evidenced by sums of ghost ranges near the theoretical minima. This implies that both phylogeneti and stratigraphic data reflect faithfully the evolutionary history of dinosaurs, at least for the taxa included in this study. We formally propose modifications to an existing index of congruence (the gap excess ratio; GER), designed to remove a bias in the range of values possiblee with trees of different shapes. We also propose a more informative index of congruenceGER*that takes account of the underlying distribution of sums of ghost ranges possible when permuting stratigraphic range data across the tree. Finally, we incorporate data on the range of possible first occurence dates into our estimates of congruence, extending a procedure originally implemented with the modified Manhattan stratigraphic measure and GER to our new indices. Most dinosaur data set maintain extremely high congruence despite such modifications.
27756407|Directed indels, insertions or deletions within paralogous genes, have the potential to root the tree of life. Here we apply the top-down rooting algorithm to indels found in PyrD (dihydroorotate dehydrogenase), a key enzyme involved in the de novo biosynthesis of pyrimidines, and HisA (P-ribosylformimino-AICAR-P-isomerase), an essential enzyme in the histidine biosynthesis pathway. Through the comparison of each indel with its two paralogous outgroups, we exclude the root of the tree of life from the clade that encompasses the Actinobacteria, the double-membrane prokaryotes, and their last common ancestor. In combination with previous indel rooting studies excluding the root from a clade consisting of the Firmicutes, the Archaea, and their last common ancestor, this provides evidence for a unique eubacterial root for the tree of life located between the actinobacterialdouble-membrane clade and the archaeal-firmicute clade. Mapping the phylogenetic distributions of genes involved in peptidoglycan and lipid synthesis onto this rooted tree parsimoniously implies that the cenancestral prokaryotic population consisted of organisms enclosed by a single, ester-linked lipid membrane, covered by a peptidoglycan layer.
27756406|Three desirable properties for any method of selecting a subset of evolutionary units (EUs) for conservation or for genomic sequencing are discussed. These properties are spread, stability, and applicability. We are motivated by a practical case in which the maximization of phylogenetic diversity (PD), which has been suggested as a suitable method, appears to lead to counterintuitive collections of EUs and does not meet these three criteria. We define a simple greedy algorithm (GreedyMMD) as a close approximation to choosing the subset that maximizes the minimum pairwise distance (MMD) between EUs. GreedyMMD satisfies our three criteria and may be a useful alternative to PD in real-world situations. In particular, we show that this method of selection is suitable under a model of biodiversity in which features arise and/or disappear during evolution. We also show that if distances between EUs satisfy the ultrametric condition, then GreedyMMD delivers an optimal subset of EUs that maximizes both the minimum pairwise distance and the PD. Finally, because GreedyMMD works with distances and does not require a tree, it is readily applicable to many data sets.
27756412|Although substantial uncertainty typically surrounds the coice of the best model in most phylogentic analyses, little is known about how accomodating this uncertainty affects phylogenetic inference. Here we explore the influence of Bayesian model averaging on the phylogenetic inference of the triggerfishes (Family: Balistidae), a charismatic group of reef fishes. We focus on clade support as this area has received little attention and is typically one of the most important outcomes of phylogenetic studies. We present a novel phylogenetic hypothesis for the family Balistidae based on an analysis of two mitochondrial (12S, 16S) and three nuclear genes (TMO-4C4, Rhodopsin, RAG1) sampled from 26 ingroup species. Despite the presence of substantial model uncertainty in almost all partitions of our data, we found model-averaged topologies and clade posteriors to be nearly identical to those conditioned on a single model. Furthermore, statistical comparison of clade posteriors using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test revealed no significant differences. Our results suggest that although current model-selection approaches are likely to lead to overparameterization of the substitution model, the consequences of conditioning on this overparameterized model are likely to be mild. Our phylogenetic results strongly support the monophyly of the triggerfishes but suggest that the genera Balistoides and Pesudobalistes are polyphyletic. Divergence time estimation supports a Miocene origin of the crown group. Despite the presence of several young species-rich subclades, statistical analysis of temporal diversification patterns reveals no significant increase in the rate of cladogenesis across geologic time intervals.
20143117|Despite the prior use of 9000 bp, deep-level relationships within the angiosperm clade, Saxifragales remain enigmatic, due to an ancient, rapid radiation (89.5 to 110 Ma based on the fossil record). To resolve these deep relationships, we constructed several new data sets: (1) 16 genes representing the three genomic compartments within plant cells (2 nuclear, 10 plastid, 4 mitochondrial; aligned, analyzed length = 21,460 bp) for 28 taxa; (2) the entire plastid inverted repeat (IR; 26,625 bp) for 17 taxa; (3) "total evidence" (50,845 bp) for both 17 and 28 taxa (the latter missing the IR). Bayesian and ML methods yielded identical topologies across partitions with most clades receiving high posterior probability (pp = 1.0) and bootstrap (95% to 100%) values, suggesting that with sufficient data, rapid radiations can be resolved. In contrast, parsimony analyses of different partitions yielded conflicting topologies, particularly with respect to the placement of Paeoniaceae, a clade characterized by a long branch. In agreement with published simulations, the addition of characters increased bootstrap support for the putatively erroneous placement of Paeoniaceae. Although having far fewer parsimony-informative sites, slowly evolving plastid genes provided higher resolution and support for deep-level relationships than rapidly evolving plastid genes, yielding a topology close to the Bayesian and ML total evidence tree. The plastid IR region may be an ideal source of slowly evolving genes for resolution of deep-level angiosperm divergences that data to 90 My or more. Rapidly evolving genes provided support for tip relationships not recovered with slowly evolving genes, indicating some complementarity. Age estimates using penalized likelihood with and without age constraints for the 28-taxon, total evidence data set are comparable to fossil dates, whereas estimates based on the 17-taxon data are much older than implied by the fossil record. Hence, sufficient taxon density, and not simply numerous base pairs, is important in reliably estimating ages. Age estimates indicate that the early diversification of Saxifragales occurred rapidly, over a time span as short as 6 million years. Between 25,000 and 50,000 bp were needed to resolve this radiation with high support values. Extrapolating from Saxifragales, a similar number of base pairs may be needed to resolve the many other deep-level radiations of comparable age in angiosperms.
20143115|In historical biogeography, model-based inference methods for reconstructing the evolution of geographic ranges on phylogenetic trees are poorly developed relative to the diversity of analogous methods available for inferring character evolution. We attempt to rectify this deficiency by constructing a dispersal-extinction-cladogenesis (DEC) model for geographic range evolution that specifies instantaneous transition rates between discrete states (ranges) along phylogenetic branches and apply it to estimating likelihoods of ancestral states (range inheritance scenarios) at cladogenesis events. Unlike an earlier version of this approach, the present model allows for an analytical solution to probabilities of range transitions as a function of time, enabling free parameters in the model, rates of dispersal, and local extinction to be estimated by maximum likelihood. Simulation results indicate that accurate parameter estimates may be difficult to obtain in practice but also show that ancestral range inheritance scenarios nevertheless can be correctly recovered with high success if rates of range evolution are low relative to the rate of cladogenesis. We apply the DEC model to a previously published, exemplary case study of island biogeography involving Hawaiian endemic angiosperms in Psychotria (Rubiaceae), showing how the DEC model can be iteratively refined from inspecting inferences of range evolution and also how geological constraints involving times of island origin may be imposed on the likelihood function. The DEC model is sufficiently similar to character models that it might serve as a gateway through which many existing comparative methods for characters could be imported into the realm of historical biogeography; moreover, it might also inspire the conceptual expansion of character models toward inclusion of evolutionary change as directly coincident, either as cause or consequence, with cladogenesis events. The DEC model is thus an incremental advance that highlights considerable potential in the nascent field of model-based historical biogeographic inference.
20143119|In order to have confidence in model-based phylogenetic analysis, the model of nucleotide substitution adopted must be selected in a statistically rigorous manner. Several model-selection methods are applicable to maximum likelihood (ML) analysis, including the hierarchical likelihood-ratio test (hLRT), Akaike information criterion (AIC), Bayesian information criterion (BIC), and decision theory (DT), but their performance relative to empirical data has not been investigated thoroughly. In this study, we use 250 phylogenetic data sets obtained from TreeBASE to examine the effects that choice in model selection has on ML estimation of phylogeny, with an emphasis on optimal topology, bootstrap support, and hypothesis testing. We show that the use of different methods leads to the selection of two or more models for 80% of the data sets and that the AIC typically selects more complex models than alternative approaches. Although ML estimation with different best-fit models results in incongruent tree topologies 50% of the time, these differences are primarily attributable to alternative resolutions of poorly supported nodes. Furthermore, topologies and bootstrap values estimated with ML using alternative statistically supported models are more similar to each other than to topologies and bootstrap values estimated with ML under the Kimura two-parameter (K2P) model or maximum parsimony (MP). In addition, Swofford-Olsen-Waddell-Hillis (SOWH) tests indicate that ML trees estimated with alternative best-fit models are usually not significantly different from each other when evaluated with the same model. However, ML trees estimated with statistically supported models are often significantly suboptimal to ML trees made with the K2P model when both are evaluated with K2P, indicating that not all models perform in an equivalent manner. Nevertheless, the use of alternative statistically supported models generally does not affect tests of monophyletic relationships under either the Shimodaira-Hasegawa (S-H) or SOWH methods. Our results suggest that although choice in model selection has a strong impact on optimal tree topology, it rarely affects evolutionary inferences drawn from the data because differences are mainly confined to poorly supported nodes. Moreover, since ML with alternative best-fit models tends to produce more similar estimates of phylogeny than ML under the K2P model or MP, the use of any statistically based model-selection method is vastly preferable to forgoing the model-selection process altogether.
20143124|Ancestral state reconstructions of morphological or ecological traits on molecular phylogenies are becoming increasingly frequent. They rely on constancy of character state change rates over trees, a correlation between neutral genetic change and phenotypic change, as well as on adequate likelihood models and (for Bayesian methods) prior distributions. This investigation explored the outcomes of a variety of methods for reconstructing discrete ancestral state in the ascus apex of the Lecanorales, a group containing the majority of lichen-forming ascomycetes. Evolution of this character complex has been highly controversial in lichen systematics for more than two decades. The phylogeny was estimated using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo inference on DNA sequence alignments of three genes (small subunit of the mitochondrial rDNA, large subunit of the nuclear rDNA, and largest subunit of RNA polymerase II). We designed a novel method for assessing the suitable number of discrete gamma categories, which relies on the effect on phylogeny estimates rather than on likelihoods. Ancestral state reconstructions were performed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood on a posterior tree sample as well as two fully Bayesian methods. Resulting reconstructions were often strikingly different depending on the method used; different methods often assign high confidence to different states at a given node. The two fully Bayesian methods disagree about the most probable reconstruction in about half of the nodes, even when similar likelihood models and similar priors are used. We suggest that similar studies should use several methods, awaiting an improved understanding of the statistical properties of the methods. A Lecanora-type ascus may have been ancestral in the Lecanorales. State transformations counts, obtained using stochastic mapping, indicate that the number of state changes is 12 to 24, which is considerably greater than the minimum three changes needed to explain the four observed ascus apex types. Apparently, the ascus in the Lecanorales is far more apt to change than has been recognized. Phylogeny corresponds well with morphology, although it partly contradicts currently used delimitations of the Crocyniaceae, Haematommataceae, Lecanoraceae, Megalariaceae, Mycoblastaceae, Pilocarpaceae, Psoraceae, Ramalinaceae, Scoliciosporaceae, and Squamarinaceae.
20143121|Phylogenomic analyses of large sets of genes or proteins have the potential to revolutionize our understanding of the tree of life. However, problems arise because estimated phylogenies from individual loci often differ because of different histories, systematic bias, or stochastic error. We have developed Concaterpillar, a hierarchical clustering method based on likelihood-ratio testing that identifies congruent loci for phylogenomic analysis. Concaterpillar also includes a test for shared relative evolutionary rates between genes indicating whether they should be analyzed separately or by concatenation. In simulation studies, the performance of this method is excellent when a multiple comparison correction is applied. We analyzed a phylogenomic data set of 60 translational protein sequences from the major supergroups of eukaryotes and identified three congruent subsets of proteins. Analysis of the largest set indicates improved congruence relative to the full data set and produced a phylogeny with stronger support for five eukaryote supergroups including the Opisthokonts, the Plantae, the stramenopiles + Apicomplexa (chromalveolates), the Amoebozoa, and the Excavata. In contrast, the phylogeny of the second largest set indicates a close relationship between stramenopiles and red algae, to the exclusion of alveolates, suggesting gene transfer from the red algal secondary symbiont to the ancestral stramenopile host nucleus during the origin of their chloroplast. Investigating phylogenomic data sets for conflicting signals has the potential to both improve phylogenetic accuracy and inform our understanding of genome evolution.
20143118|Bumble bees (Bombus) are a cold-adapted, largely alpine group that can elucidate patterns of Holarctic historical biogeography, particularly in comparison to the alpine plants with which they likely coevolved. A recently published molecular phylogeny of bumble bees provides uniquely comprehensive species sampling for exploring historical patterns of distribution and diversification. Using this phylogeny and detailed data on extant distributions, I reconstruct the historical distribution of bumble bees in a temporal framework, estimating divergence times using fossil data and molecular rates derived from the literature. The nearly comprehensive phylogeny allows assessment of the tempo of diversification within the bumble bees using lineage-through-time plots and diversification statistics, which have been performed with special consideration to confidence intervals. These analyses reveal movements of Bombus concordant with geographic and climatic events of the late Cenozoic. The initial diversification of extant bumble bee lineages was estimated at around 25 to 40 Ma, near the Eocene-Oligocene boundary 34 Ma, a period of dramatic global cooling. Dispersal-vicariance analysis (DIVA) predicted an Old World Bombus ancestor, with early diversification events largely restricted to the eastern Old World. The numerous intercontinental dispersal events occurred mostly in the direction of Old World to New World and North America to South America. Early movements from the Palearctic into the Nearctic most likely took place after 20 Ma and may have coincided with a period of Miocene cooling that gave rise to taiga habitat across Beringia. Subsequent dispersal between these regions is estimated to have occurred among boreal and tundra-adapted species mostly in the last 5 million years. Radiations are estimated in both Nearctic and Neotropical regions at 6 to 8 Ma and after 3.5 Ma, concordant with the opening of land corridors between the continents.
20143116|The origin of baleen in mysticete whales represents a major transition in the phylogenetic history of Cetacea. This key specialization, a keratinous sieve that enables filter-feeding, permitted exploitation of a new ecological niche and heralded the evolution of modern baleen-bearing whales, the largest animals on Earth. To date, all formally described mysticete fossils conform to two types: toothed species from Oligocene-age rocks (24 to 34 million years old) and toothless species that presumably utilized baleen to feed (Recent to 30 million years old). Here, we show that several Oligocene toothed mysticetes have nutrient foramina and associated sulci on the lateral portions of their palates, homologous structures in extant mysticetes house vessels that nourish baleen. The simultaneous occurrence of teeth and nutrient foramina implies that both teeth and baleen were present in these early mysticetes. Phylogenetic analyses of a supermatrix that includes extinct taxa and new data for 11 nuclear genes consistently resolve relationships at the base of Mysticeti. The combined data set of 27,340 characters supports a stepwise transition from a toothed ancestor, to a mosaic intermediate with both teeth and baleen, to modern baleen whales that lack an adult dentition but retain developmental and genetic evidence of their ancestral toothed heritage. Comparative sequence data for ENAM (enamelin) and AMBN (ameloblastin) indicate that enamel-specific loci are present in Mysticeti but have degraded to pseudogenes in this group. The dramatic transformation in mysticete feeding anatomy documents an apparently rare, stepwise mode of evolution in which a composite phenotype bridged the gap between primitive and derived morphologies; a combination of fossil and molecular evidence provides a multifaceted record of this macroevolutionary pattern.
20143122|We applied Bayesian phylogenetics, divergence time estimation, diversification pattern analysis, and parsimony-based methods of ancestral state reconstruction to a combination of nucleotide sequences, maximum body sizes, fossils, and paleoclimate data to explore the influence of an extrinsic (climate change) and an intrinsic (maximum body size) factor on diversification rates in a North American clade of catfishes (Ictaluridae). We found diversification rate to have been significantly variable over time, with significant (or nearly significant) rate increases in the early history of Noturus. Though the latter coincided closely with a period of dramatic climate change at the Eocene-Oligocene boundary, we did not detect evidence for a general association between climate change and diversification rate during the entire history of Ictaluridae. Within Ictaluridae, small body size was found to be a near significant predictor of species richness. Morphological stasis of several species appears to be a consequence of a homoplastic increase in body size. We estimated the maximum standard length of the ictalurid ancestor to be approximately 50 cm, comparable to Eocene ictalurids (Astephus) and similar to modern sizes of Ameiurus and their Asian sister-taxon Cranoglanis. During the late Paleocene and early Eocene, the ictalurid ancestor diversified into the lineages represented by the modern epigean genera. The majority of modern species originated in the Oligocene and Miocene, most likely according to a peripheral isolates model of speciation. We discuss the difficulties of detecting macroevolutionary patterns within a lineage history and encourage the scrutiny of the terminal Eocene climatic event as a direct promoter of diversification.
20143123|Under a coalescent model for within-species evolution, gene trees may differ from species trees to such an extent that the gene tree topology most likely to evolve along the branches of a species tree can disagree with the species tree topology. Gene tree topologies that are more likely to be produced than the topology that matches that of the species tree are termed anomalous, and the region of branch-length space that gives rise to anomalous gene trees (AGTs) is the anomaly zone. We examine the occurrence of anomalous gene trees for the case of five taxa, the smallest number of taxa for which every species tree topology has a nonempty anomaly zone. Considering all sets of branch lengths that give rise to anomalous gene trees, the largest value possible for the smallest branch length in the species tree is greater in the five-taxon case (0.1934 coalescent time units) than in the previously studied case of four taxa (0.1568). The five-taxon case demonstrates the existence of three phenomena that do not occur in the four-taxon case. First, anomalous gene trees can have the same unlabeled topology as the species tree. Second, the anomaly zone does not necessarily enclose a ball centered at the origin in branch-length space, in which all branches are short. Third, as a branch length increases, it is possible for the number of AGTs to increase rather than decrease or remain constant. These results, which help to describe how the properties of anomalous gene trees increase in complexity as the number of taxa increases, will be useful in formulating strategies for evading the problem of anomalous gene trees during species tree inference from multilocus data.
20143120|The main limiting factor in Bayesian MCMC analysis of phylogeny is typically the efficiency with which topology proposals sample tree space. Here we evaluate the performance of seven different proposal mechanisms, including most of those used in current Bayesian phylogenetics software. We sampled 12 empirical nucleotide data sets--ranging in size from 27 to 71 taxa and from 378 to 2,520 sites--under difficult conditions: short runs, no Metropolis-coupling, and an oversimplified substitution model producing difficult tree spaces (Jukes Cantor with equal site rates). Convergence was assessed by comparison to reference samples obtained from multiple Metropolis-coupled runs. We find that proposals producing topology changes as a side effect of branch length changes (LOCAL and Continuous Change) consistently perform worse than those involving stochastic branch rearrangements (nearest neighbor interchange, subtree pruning and regrafting, tree bisection and reconnection, or subtree swapping). Among the latter, moves that use an extension mechanism to mix local with more distant rearrangements show better overall performance than those involving only local or only random rearrangements. Moves with only local rearrangements tend to mix well but have long burn-in periods, whereas moves with random rearrangements often show the reverse pattern. Combinations of moves tend to perform better than single moves. The time to convergence can be shortened considerably by starting with a good tree, but this comes at the cost of compromising convergence diagnostics based on overdispersed starting points. Our results have important implications for developers of Bayesian MCMC implementations and for the large group of users of Bayesian phylogenetics software.
27756377|A recent advance in the phylogenetic comparative analysis of continuous traits has been explicit, model-based measurement of "phylogenetic signal" in data sets composed of observations collected from species related by a phylogenetic tree. Phylogenetic signal is a measure of the statistical dependence among species' trait values due to their phylogenetic relationships. Although phylogenetic signal is a measure of pattern (statistical dependence), there has nonetheless been a widespread propensity in the literature to attribute this pattern to aspects of the evolutionary process or rate. This may be due, in part, to the perception that high evolutionary rate necessarily results in low phylogenetic signal; and, conversely, that low evolutionary rate or stabilizing selection results in high phylogenetic signal (due to the resulting high resemblance between related species). In this study, we use individual-based numerical simulations on stochastic phylogenetic trees to clarify the relationship between phylogenetic signal, rate, and evolutionary process. Under the simplest model for quantitative trait evolution, homogeneous rate genetic drift, there is no relation between evolutionary rate and phylogenetic signal. For other circumstances, such as functional constraint, fluctuating selection, niche conservatism, and evolutionary heterogeneity, the relationship between process, rate, and phylogenetic signal is complex. For these reasons, we recommend against interpretations of evolutionary process or rate based on estimates of phylogenetic signal.
27756374|Due to lack of an adequate statistical framework, biologists studying phylogeography are abandoning traditional methods of estimating phylogeographic history in favor of statistical methods designed to test a priori hypotheses. These new methods may, however, have limited descriptive utility. Here, we develop a new statistical framework that can be used to both test a priori hypotheses and estimate phylogeographic history of a gene (and the statistical confidence in that history) in the absence of such hypotheses. The statistical approach concentrates on estimation of geographic locations of the ancestors of a set of sampled organisms. Assuming a spatially explicit random walk model of migration, we derive an equation describing the likelihood of the geographic coordinates of the individuals represented by internal nodes on a tree (the parameters of interest) and the mean per-generation dispersal distance (which can be estimated as a nuisance parameter), given the geographic coordinates of the individuals represented by tips on the tree (topology and branch lengths are assumed to be known). Using a maximum likelihood approach, which is implemented in the new program PhyloMapper, we apply this statistical framework to a 246-taxon mitochondrial genealogy of North American chorus frogs, focusing in detail on one of these species. We demonstrate three lines of evidence for recent northward expansion of the mitochondrion of the coastal clade of Pseudacris feriarum: higher per-generation dispersal distance in the recently colonized region, a noncentral ancestral location, and directional migration. After illustrating one method of accommodating phylogenetic uncertainty, we conclude by discussing how extensions of this framework could function to incorporate a priori ecological and geological information into phylogeographic analyses.
27756376|The macroevolutionary transition of whales (cetaceans) from a terrestrial quadruped to an obligate aquatic form involved major changes in sensory abilities. Compared to terrestrial mammals, the olfactory system of baleen whales is dramatically reduced, and in toothed whales is completely absent. We sampled the olfactory receptor (OR) subgenomes of eight cetacean species from four families. A multigene tree of 115 newly characterized OR sequences from these eight species and published data for Bos taurus revealed a diverse array of class II OR paralogues in Cetacea. Evolution of the OR gene superfamily in toothed whales (Odontoceti) featured a multitude of independent pseudogenization events, supporting anatomical evidence that odontocetes have lost their olfactory sense. We explored the phylogenetic utility of OR pseudogenes in Cetacea, concentrating on delphinids (oceanic dolphins), the product of a rapid evolutionary radiation that has been difficult to resolve in previous studies of mitochondrial DNA sequences. Phylogenetic analyses of OR pseudogenes using both gene-tree reconciliation and supermatrix methods yielded fully resolved, consistently supported relationships among members of four delphinid subfamilies. Alternative minimizations of gene duplications, gene duplications plus gene losses, deep coalescence events, and nucleotide substitutions plus indels returned highly congruent phylogenetic hypotheses. Novel DNA sequence data for six single-copy nuclear loci and three mitochondrial genes (&gt;5000 aligned nucleotides) provided an independent test of the OR trees. Nucleotide substitutions and indels in OR pseudogenes showed a very low degree of homoplasy in comparison to mitochondrial DNA and, on average, provided more variation than single-copy nuclear DNA. Our results suggest that phylogenetic analysis of the large OR superfamily will be effective for resolving relationships within Cetacea whether supermatrix or gene-tree reconciliation procedures are used.
27756380|Here we present an objective, repeatable approach to delineating species when populations are divergent and highly structured geographically using the Californian trapdoor spider species complex Aptostichus atomarius Simon as a model system. This system is particularly difficult because under strict criteria of geographical concordance coupled with estimates of genetic divergence, an unrealistic number of population lineages would qualify as species (20 to 60). Our novel phylogeographic approach, which is generally applicable but particularly relevant to highly structured systems, uses genealogical exclusivity to establish a topological framework to examine lineages for genetic and ecological exchangeability in an effort to delimit cohesion species. Both qualitative assessments of habitat and niche-based distribution modeling are employed to evaluate selective regime and ecological interchangeability among genetic lineages; adaptive divergence among populations is weighted more heavily than simple geographical concordance. Based on these analyses we conclude that five cohesion species should be recognized, three of which are new to science.
27756375|We examine the effects of ecological opportunity and geographic area on rates of species accumulation and morphological evolution following archipelago colonization in day geckos (genus Phelsuma) in the Indian Ocean. Using a newly generated molecular phylogeny for the genus, we present evidence that these geckos likely originated on Madagascar, whereas colonization of three archipelagos in the Indian Ocean, the Seychelles, Mascarene, and Comoros Islands has produced three independent monophyletic radiations. We find that rates of species accumulation are not elevated following colonization but are roughly equivalent on all three isolated archipelagos and on the larger island of Madagascar. However, rates of species accumulation have slowed through time on Madagascar. Rates of morphological evolution are higher in both the Mascarene and Seychelles archipelagos compared to rates on Madagascar. This negative relationship between rate of morphological evolution and island area suggests that ecological opportunity is an important factor in diversification of day gecko species.
27756379|Phylogenies involving nonmodel species are based on a few genes, mostly chosen following historical or practical criteria. Because gene trees are sometimes incongruent with species trees, the resulting phylogenies may not accurately reflect the evolutionary relationships among species. The increase in availability of genome sequences now provides large numbers of genes that could be used for building phylogenies. However, for practical reasons only a few genes can be sequenced for a wide range of species. Here we asked whether we can identify a few genes, among the single-copy genes common to most fungal genomes, that are sufficient for recovering accurate and well-supported phylogenies. Fungi represent a model group for phylogenomics because many complete fungal genomes are available. An automated procedure was developed to extract single-copy orthologous genes from complete fungal genomes using a Markov Clustering Algorithm (Tribe-MCL). Using 21 complete, publicly available fungal genomes with reliable protein predictions, 246 single-copy orthologous gene clusters were identified. We inferred the maximum likelihood trees using the individual orthologous sequences and constructed a reference tree from concatenated protein alignments. The topologies of the individual gene trees were compared to that of the reference tree using three different methods. The performance of individual genes in recovering the reference tree was highly variable. Gene size and the number of variable sites were highly correlated and significantly affected the performance of the genes, but the average substitution rate did not. Two genes recovered exactly the same topology as the reference tree, and when concatenated provided high bootstrap values. The genes typically used for fungal phylogenies did not perform well, which suggests that current fungal phylogenies based on these genes may not accurately reflect the evolutionary relationships among species. Analyses on subsets of species showed that the phylogenetic performance did not seem to depend strongly on the sample. We expect that the best-performing genes identified here will be very useful for phylogenetic studies of fungi, at least at a large taxonomic scale. Furthermore, we compare the method developed here for finding genes for building robust phylogenies with previous ones and we advocate that our method could be applied to other groups of organisms when more complete genomes are available.
27756373|D. Huson and M. Steel showed that for any two binary phylogenetic trees on the same set of n taxa, there exists a sequence of multistate characters that is homoplasy-free only on the first tree but perfectly additive only on the second one. The original construction of such a sequence required n  1 character states and it remained an open question whether a sequence using fewer character states can always be found. In the present note we will answer this question by showing that three character states suffice to construct such misleading sequenceseven if we insist that they conform to an ultrametric (i.e., fit a molecular clock).
27756372|Data partitioning, the combined phylogenetic analysis of homogeneous blocks of data, is a common strategy used to accommodate heterogeneities in complex multilocus data sets. Variation in evolutionary rates and substitution patterns among sites are typically addressed by partitioning data by gene, codon position, or both. Excessive partitioning of the data, however, could lead to overparameterization; therefore, it seems critical to define the minimum numbers of partitions necessary to improve the overall fit of the model. We propose a new method, based on cluster analysis, to find an optimal partitioning strategy for multilocus protein-coding data sets. A heuristic exploration of alternative partitioning schemes, based on Bayesian and maximum likelihood (ML) criteria, is shown here to produce an optimal number of partitions. We tested this method using sequence data of 10 nuclear genes collected from 52 ray-finned fish (Actinopterygii) and four tetrapods. The concatenated sequences included 7995 nucleotide sites maximally split into 30 partitions defined a priori based on gene and codon position. Our results show that a model based on only 10 partitions defined by cluster analysis performed better than partitioning by both gene and codon position. Alternative data partitioning schemes also are shown to affect the topologies resulting from phylogenetic analysis, especially when Bayesian methods are used, suggesting that overpartitioning may be of major concern. The phylogenetic relationships among the major clades of ray-finned fish were assessed using the best data-partitioning schemes under ML and Bayesian methods. Some significant results include the monophyly of "Holostei" (Amia and Lepisosteus), the sister-group relationships between (1) esociforms and salmoniforms and (2) osmeriforms and stomiiforms, the polyphyly of Perciformes, and a close relationship of cichlids and atherinomorphs.
27756378|Several authors have recently noted that when data are generated from a star topology, posterior probabilities can often be very large, even with arbitrarily large sequence lengths. This is counter to intuition, which suggests convergence to the limit of equal probability for each topology. Here the limiting distributions of bootstrap support and posterior probabilities are obtained for a four-taxon star tree. Theoretical results are given, providing confirmation that this counterintuitive phenomenon holds for posterior probabilities and bootstrap support. For large samples the limiting results for posterior probabilities are the same regardless of the prior. With equal-length terminal edges, the limiting distribution is similar but not the same across different choices for the lengths of the edges. In contrast to previous results, the case of unequal lengths of terminal edges is considered. With two long edges, the posterior probability of the tree with long edges together tends to be much larger. Using the neighbor-joining algorithm, with equal edge lengths, the distribution of bootstrap support tends to be qualitatively comparable to posterior probabilities. As with posterior probabilities, when two of the edges are long, bootstrap support for the tree with long branches together tends to be large. The bias is less pronounced, however, as the distribution of bootstrap support gets close to uniform for this tree, whereas posterior probabilities are much more likely to be large. Our findings for maximum likelihood estimation are based entirely on simulation and in contrast suggest that bootstrap support tends to be fairly constant across edge-length choices.
20143143|Species complexes undergoing rapid radiation present a challenge in molecular systematics because of the possibility that ancestral polymorphism is retained in component gene trees. Coalescent theory has demonstrated that gene trees often fail to match lineage trees when taxon divergence times are less than the ancestral effective population sizes. Suggestions to increase the number of loci and the number of individuals per taxon have been proposed; however, phylogenetic methods to adequately analyze these data in a coalescent framework are scarce. We compare two approaches to estimating lineage (species) trees using multiple individuals and multiple loci: the commonly used partitioned Bayesian analysis of concatenated sequences and a modification of a newly developed hierarchical Bayesian method (BEST) that simultaneously estimates gene trees and species trees from multilocus data. We test these approaches on a phylogeny of rapidly radiating species wherein divergence times are likely to be smaller than effective population sizes, and incomplete lineage sorting is known, in the rodent genus, Thomomys. We use seven independent noncoding nuclear sequence loci (total 4300 bp) and between 1 and 12 individuals per taxon to construct a phylogenetic hypothesis for eight Thomomys species. The majority-rule consensus tree from the partitioned concatenated analysis included 14 strongly supported bipartitions, corroborating monophyletic species status of five of the eight named species. The BEST tree strongly supported only the split between the two subgenera and showed very low support for any other clade. Comparison of both lineage trees to individual gene trees revealed that the concatenation method appears to ignore conflicting signals among gene trees, whereas the BEST tree considers conflicting signals and downweights support for those nodes. Bayes factor analysis of posterior tree distributions from both analyses strongly favor the model underlying the BEST analysis. This comparison underscores the risks of overreliance on results from concatenation, and ignoring the properties of coalescence, especially in cases of recent, rapid radiations.
20143142|We investigate the performance of phylogenetic mixture models in reducing a well-known and pervasive artifact of phylogenetic inference known as the node-density effect, comparing them to partitioned analyses of the same data. The node-density effect refers to the tendency for the amount of evolutionary change in longer branches of phylogenies to be underestimated compared to that in regions of the tree where there are more nodes and thus branches are typically shorter. Mixture models allow more than one model of sequence evolution to describe the sites in an alignment without prior knowledge of the evolutionary processes that characterize the data or how they correspond to different sites. If multiple evolutionary patterns are common in sequence evolution, mixture models may be capable of reducing node-density effects by characterizing the evolutionary processes more accurately. In gene-sequence alignments simulated to have heterogeneous patterns of evolution, we find that mixture models can reduce node-density effects to negligible levels or remove them altogether, performing as well as partitioned analyses based on the known simulated patterns. The mixture models achieve this without knowledge of the patterns that generated the data and even in some cases without specifying the full or true model of sequence evolution known to underlie the data. The latter result is especially important in real applications, as the true model of evolution is seldom known. We find the same patterns of results for two real data sets with evidence of complex patterns of sequence evolution: mixture models substantially reduced node-density effects and returned better likelihoods compared to partitioning models specifically fitted to these data. We suggest that the presence of more than one pattern of evolution in the data is a common source of error in phylogenetic inference and that mixture models can often detect these patterns even without prior knowledge of their presence in the data. Routine use of mixture models alongside other approaches to phylogenetic inference may often reveal hidden or unexpected patterns of sequence evolution and can improve phylogenetic inference.
20143139|The parsimony score of a character on a tree equals the number of state changes required to fit that character onto the tree. We show that for unordered, reversible characters this score equals the number of tree rearrangements required to fit the tree onto the character. We discuss implications of this connection for the debate over the use of consensus trees or total evidence and show how it provides a link between incongruence of characters and recombination.
20143137|Increasing the number of characters used in phylogenetic studies is the next crucial step towards generating robust and stable phylogenetic hypotheses--i.e., strongly supported and consistent across reconstruction method. Here we describe a genomic approach to finding new protein-coding genes for systematics in nonmodel taxa, which can be PCR amplified from standard, slightly degraded genomic DNA extracts. We test this approach on Lepidoptera, searching the draft genomic sequence of the silk moth Bombyx mori, for exons &gt500 bp in length, removing annotated gene families, and compared remaining exons with butterfly EST databases to identify conserved regions for primer design. These primers were tested on a set of 65 taxa primarily in the butterfly family Nymphalidae. We were able to identify and amplify six previously unused gene regions (Arginine Kinase, GAPDH, IDH, MDH, RpS2, and RpS5) and two rarely used gene regions (CAD and DDC) that when added to the three traditional gene regions (COI, EF-1 and wingless) gave a data set of 8114 bp. Phylogenetic robustness and stability increased with increasing numbers of genes. Smaller taxanomic subsets were also robust when using the full gene data set. The full 11-gene data set was robust and stable across reconstruction methods, recovering the major lineages and strongly supporting relationships within them. Our methods and insights should be applicable to taxonomic groups having a single genomic reference species and several EST databases from taxa that diverged less than 100 million years ago.
20143134|The study of morphological evolution after the inferred origin of active flight homologous with that in Aves has historically been characterized by an emphasis on anatomically disjunct, mosaic patterns of change. Relatively few prior studies have used discrete morphological character data in a phylogenetic context to quantitatively investigate morphological evolution or mosaic evolution in particular. One such previously employed method, which used summed unambiguously optimized synapomorphies, has been the basis for proposing disassociated and sequential "modernizing" or "fine-tuning" of pectoral and then pelvic locomotor systems after the origin of flight ("pectoral early--pelvic late" hypothesis). We use one of the most inclusive phylogenetic data sets of basal birds to investigate properties of this method and to consider the application of a Bayesian phylogenetic approach. Bayes factor and statistical comparisons of branch length estimates were used to evaluate support for a mosaic pattern of character change and the specific pectoral early--pelvic late hypothesis. Partitions were defined a priori based on anatomical subregion (e.g., pelvic, pectoral) and were based on those hypothesized using the summed synapomorphy approach. We compare 80 models all implementing the $\text{M}_{\text{k}}$ model for morphological data but varying in the number of anatomical subregion partitions, the models for among-partition rate variation and among-character rate variation, as well as the branch length prior. Statistical analysis reveals that partitioning data by anatomical subregion, independently estimating branch lengths for partitioned data, and use of shared or per partition gamma-shaped among-character rate distribution significantly increases estimated model likelihoods. Simulation studies reveal that partitioned models where characters are randomly assigned perform significantly worse than both the observed model and the single-partition equal-rate model, suggesting that only partitioning by anatomical subregion increases model performance. The preference for models with partitions defined a priori by anatomical subregion is consistent with a disjunctive pattern of character change for the data set investigated and may have implications for parameterization of Bayesian analyses of morphological data more generally. Statistical tests of differences in estimated branch lengths from the pectoral and pelvic partitions do not support the specific pectoral early--pelvic late hypothesis proposed from the summed synapomorphy approach; however, results suggest limited support for some pectoral branch lengths being significantly longer only early at / after the origin of flight.
20143138|We analyze a maximum likelihood approach for combining phylogenetic trees into a larger "supertree." This is based on a simple exponential model of phylogenetic error, which ensures that ML supertrees have a simple combinatorial description (as a median tree, minimizing a weighted sum of distances to the input trees). We show that this approach to ML supertree reconstruction is statistically consistent (it converges on the true species supertree as more input trees are combined), in contrast to the widely used MRP method, which we show can be statistically inconsistent under the exponential error model. We also show that this statistical consistency extends to an ML approach for constructing species supertrees from gene trees. In this setting, incomplete lineage sorting (due to coalescence rates of homologous genes being lower than speciation rates) has been shown to lead to gene trees that are frequently different from species trees, and this can confound efforts to reconstruct the species phylogeny correctly.
20143140|The phylogeny of the thrushes (Aves: Turdus) has been difficult to reconstruct due to short internal branches and lack of node support for certain parts of the tree. Reconstructing the biogeographic history of this group is further complicated by the fact that current implementations of biogeographic methods, such as dispersal-vicariance analysis (DIVA; Ronquist, 1997), require a fully resolved tree. Here, we apply a Bayesian approach to dispersal-vicariance analysis that accounts for phylogenetic uncertainty and allows a more accurate analysis of the biogeographic history of lineages. Specifically, ancestral area reconstructions can be presented as marginal distributions, thus displaying the underlying topological uncertainty. Moreover, if there are multiple optimal solutions for a single node on a certain tree, integrating over the posterior distribution of trees often reveals a preference for a narrower set of solutions. We find that despite the uncertainty in tree topology, ancestral area reconstructions indicate that the Turdus clade originated in the eastern Palearctic during the Late Miocene. This was followed by an early dispersal to Africa from where a worldwide radiation took place. The uncertainty in tree topology and short branch lengths seems to indicate that this radiation took place within a limited time span during the Late Pliocene. The results support the role of Africa as a probable source area for intercontinental dispersals as suggested for other passerine groups, including basal diversification within the songbird tree.
20143136|Although genetic methods of species identification, especially DNA barcoding, are strongly debated, tests of these methods have been restricted to a few empirical cases for pragmatic reasons. Here we use simulation to test the performance of methods based on sequence comparison (BLAST and genetic distance) and tree topology over a wide range of evolutionary scenarios. Sequences were simulated on a range of gene trees spanning almost three orders of magnitude in tree depth and in coalescent depth; that is, deep or shallow trees with deep or shallow coalescences. When the query's conspecific sequences were included in the reference alignment, the rate of positive identification was related to the degree to which different species were genetically differentiated. The BLAST, distance, and liberal tree-based methods returned higher rates of correct identification than did the strict tree-based requirement that the query was within, but not sister to, a single-species clade. Under this more conservative approach, ambiguous outcomes occurred in inverse proportion to the number of reference sequences per species. When the query's conspecific sequences were not in the reference alignment, only the strict tree-based approach was relatively immune to making false-positive identifications. Thresholds affected the rates at which false-positive identifications were made when the query's species was unrepresented in the reference alignment but did not otherwise influence outcomes. A conservative approach using the strict tree-based method should be used initially in large-scale identification systems, with effort made to maximize sequence sampling within species. Once the genetic variation within a taxonomic group is well characterized and the taxonomy resolved, then the choice of method used should be dictated by considerations of computational efficiency. The requirement for extensive genetic sampling may render these techniques inappropriate in some circumstances.
20143135|DNA barcoding as a method for species identification is rapidly increasing in popularity. However, there are still relatively few rigorous methodological tests of DNA barcoding. Current distance-based methods are frequently criticized for treating the nearest neighbor as the closest relative via a raw similarity score, lacking an objective set of criteria to delineate taxa, or for being incongruent with classical character-based taxonomy. Here, we propose an artificial intelligence--based approach--inferring species membership via DNA barcoding with back-propagation neural networks (named BP-based species identification)--as a new advance to the spectrum of available methods. We demonstrate the value of this approach with simulated data sets representing different levels of sequence variation under coalescent simulations with various evolutionary models, as well as with two empirical data sets of COI sequences from East Asian ground beetles (Carabidae) and Costa Rican skipper butterflies. With a 630- to 690-bp fragment of the COI gene, we identified 97.50% of 80 unknown sequences of ground beetles, 95.63%, 96.10%, and 100% of 275, 205, and 9 unknown sequences of the neotropical skipper butterfly to their correct species, respectively. Our simulation studies indicate that the success rates of species identification depend on the divergence of sequences, the length of sequences, and the number of reference sequences. Particularly in cases involving incomplete lineage sorting, this new BP-based method appears to be superior to commonly used methods for DNA-based species identification.
20143141|Despite the remarkable species richness of the Mediterranean flora and its well-known geological history, few studies have investigated its temporal and spatial origins. Most importantly, the relative contribution of geological processes and long-distance dispersal to the composition of contemporary Mediterranean biotas remains largely unknown. We used phylogenetic analyses of sequences from six chloroplast DNA markers, Bayesian dating methods, and ancestral area reconstructions, in combination with paleogeographic, paleoclimatic, and ecological evidence, to elucidate the time frame and biogeographic events associated with the diversification of Araceae in the Mediterranean Basin. We focused on the origin of four species, Ambrosina bassii, Biarum dispar, Helicodiceros muscivorus, Arum pictum, subendemic or endemic to Corsica, Sardinia, and the Balearic Archipelago. The results support two main invasions of the Mediterranean Basin by the Araceae, one from an area connecting North America and Eurasia in the Late Cretaceous and one from the Anatolian microplate in western Asia during the Late Eocene, thus confirming the proposed heterogeneous origins of the Mediterranean flora. The subendemic Ambrosina bassii and Biarum dispar likely diverged sympatrically from their widespread Mediterranean sister clades in the Early-Middle Eocene and Early-Middle Miocene, respectively. Combined evidence corroborates a relictual origin for the endemic Helicodiceros muscivorus and Arum pictum, the former apparently representing the first documented case of vicariance driven by the initial splitting of the Hercynian belt in the Early Oligocene. A recurrent theme emerging from our analyses is that land connections and interruptions, caused by repeated cycles of marine transgressions-regressions between the Tethys and Paratethys, favored geodispersalist expansion of biotic ranges from western Asia into the western Mediterranean Basin and subsequent allopatric speciation at different points in time from the Late Eocene to the Late Oligocene.
27756390|Island systems have long been useful models for understanding lineage diversification in a geographic context, especially pertaining to the importance of dispersal in the origin of new clades. Here we use a well-resolved phylogeny of the flowering plant genus Cyrtandra (Gesneriaceae) from the Pacific Islands to compare four methods of inferring ancestral geographic ranges in islands: two developed for character-state reconstruction that allow only single-island ranges and do not explicitly associate speciation with range evolution (Fitch parsimony [FP; parsimony-based] and stochastic mapping [SM; likelihood-based]) and two methods developed specifically for ancestral range reconstruction, in which widespread ranges (spanning islands) are integral to inferences about speciation scenarios (dispersal-vicariance analysis [DIVA; parsimony-based] and dispersal-extinction-cladogenesis [DEC; likelihood-based]). The methods yield conflicting results, which we interpret in light of their respective assumptions. FP exhibits the least power to unequivocally reconstruct ranges, likely due to a combination of having flat (uninformative) transition costs and not using branch length information. SM reconstructions generally agree with a prior hypothesis about dispersal-driven speciation across the Pacific, despite the conceptual mismatch between its character-based model and this mode of range evolution. In contrast with narrow extant ranges for species of Cyrtandra, DIVA reconstructs broad ancestral ranges at many nodes. DIVA results also conflict with geological information on island ages; we attribute these conflicts to the parsimony criterion not considering branch lengths or time, as well as vicariance being the sole means of divergence for widespread ancestors. DEC analyses incorporated geological information on island ages; we attribute these conflicts to the parsimony criterion not considering branch lengths or time, as well as vicariance being the sole means of divergence for widespread ancestors. DEC analyses incorporated geological information on island ages and allowed prior hypotheses about range size and dispersal rates to be evaluated in a likelihood framework and gave more nuanced inferences about range evolution and the geography of speciation than other methods tested. However, ancestral ranges at several nodes could not be conclusively resolved, due possibly to uncertainty in the phylogeny or the relative complexity of the underlying model. Of the methods tested, SM and DEC both converge on plausible hypotheses for area range histories in Cyrtandra, due in part to the consideration of branch lengths and/or timing of events. We suggest that DEC model-based methods for ancestral range inference could be improved by adopting a Bayesian SM approach, in which stochastic sampling of complete geographic histories could be integrated over alternative phylogenetic topologies. Likelihood-based estimates of ancestral ranges for Cyrtandra suggest a major dispersal route into the Pacific through the islands of Fiji and Samoa, motivating future biogeographic investigation of this poorly known region.
27756393|Whereas examples of insular speciation within the endemic-rich Macaronesian hotspot flora have been documented, the phylogeography of recently evolved plants in the region has received little attention. The Macaronesian red fescues constitute a narrow and recent radiation of four closely related diploid species distributed in the Canary Islands (F. agustinii), Madeira (F. jubata), and the Azores (F. francoi and F. petraea), with a single extant relative distributed in mainland southwest Europe (F. rivularis). Bayesian structure and priority consensus tree approaches and population spatial correlations between genetic, geographical, and dispersal distances were used to elucidate the phylogeographical patterns of these grasses. Independent versus related origins and dispersal versus isolation by distance (IBD) hypotheses were tested to explain the genetic differentiation of species and populations, respectively. Genetic structure was found to be geographically distributed among the archipelagos and the islands endemics. The high number of shared AFLP fragments in all four species suggests a recent single origin from a continental Pliocene ancestor. However, the strong allelic structure detected among the Canarian, Madeiran, and Azorean endemics and the significant standardized residual values obtained from structured Bayesian analysis for pairwise related origin hypotheses strongly supported the existence of three independent continental-oceanic colonization events. The Canarian F. agustinii, the Madeiran F. jubata, and the two sister F. francoi and F. petraea Azorean species likely evolved from different continental founders in their respective archipelagos. Despite the short span of time elapsed since colonization, the two sympatric Azorean species probably diverged in situ, following ecological adaptation, from a common ancestor that arrived from the near mainland. Simple dispersal hypotheses explained most of the genetic variation at the species level better than IBD models. The optimal dispersal model for F. agustinii was a bidirectional centripetal stepping-stone colonization pattern, an eastern-to-western volcanism-associated dispersion was favored for F. francoi, whereas for the recently derived F. petraea a counterintuitive direction of colonization (west-to-east) was suggested. The population-based phylogeographical trends deduced from our study could be used as predictive models for other Macaronesian plant endemics with similar distribution areas and dispersal abilities.
27756389|In this article, we present a likelihood-based framework for modeling site dependencies. Our approach builds upon standard evolutionary models but incorporates site dependencies across the entire tree by letting the evolutionary parameters in these models depend upon the ancestral states at the neighboring sites. It thus avoids the need for introducing new and high-dimensional evolutionary models for site-dependent evolution. We propose a Markov chain Monte Carlo approach with data augmentation to infer the evolutionary parameters under our model. Although our approach allows for wide-ranging site dependencies, we illustrate its use, in two non-coding datasets, in the case of nearest-neighbor dependencies (i.e., evolution directly depending only upon the immediate flanking sites). The results reveal that the general time-reversible model with nearest-neighbor dependencies substantially improves the fit to the data as compared to the corresponding model with site independence. Using the parameter estimates from our model, we elaborate on the importance of the 5-methylcytosine deamination process (i.e., the CpG effect) and show that this process also depends upon the 5 neighboring base identity. We hint at the possibility of a so-called TpA effect and show that the observed substitution behavior is very complex in the light of dinucleotide estimates. We also discuss the presence of CpG effects in a nuclear small subunit dataset and find significant evidence that evolutionary models incorporating context-dependent effects perform substantially better than independent-site models and in some cases even outperform models that incorporate varying rates across sites.
27756388|The increasing diversity and heterogeneity of molecular data for phylogeny estimation has led to development of complex models and model-based estimators. Here, we propose a penalized likelihood (PL) framework in which the levels of complexity in the underlying model can be smoothly controlled. We demonstrate the PL framework for a four-taxon tree case and investigate its properties. The PL framework yields an estimator in which the majority of currently employed estimators such as the maximum-parsimony estimator, homogeneous likelihood estimator, gamma mixture likelihood estimator, etc., become special cases of a single family of PL estimators. Furthermore, using the appropriate penalty function, the complexity of the underlying models can be partitioned into separately controlled classes allowing flexible control of model complexity.
27756395|Despite recent advances achieved by application of high-performance computing methods and novel algorithmic techniques to maximum likelihood (ML)-based inference programs, the major computational bottleneck still consists in the computation of bootstrap support values. Conducting a probably insufficient number of 100 bootstrap (BS) analyses with current ML programs on large datasetseither with respect to the number of taxa or base pairscan easily require a month of run time. Therefore, we have developed, implemented, and thoroughly tested rapid bootstrap heuristics in RAxML (Randomized Axelerated Maximum Likelihood) that are more than an order of magnitude faster than current algorithms. These new heuristics can contribute to resolving the computational bottleneck and improve current methodology in phylogenetic analyses. Computational experiments to assess the performance and relative accuracy of these heuristics were conducted on 22 diverse DNA and AA (amino acid), single gene as well as multigene, real-world alignments containing 125 up to 7764 sequences. The standard BS (SBS) and rapid BS (RBS) values drawn on the best-scoring ML tree are highly correlated and show almost identical average support values. The weighted RF (Robinson-Foulds) distance between SBS- and RBS-based consensus trees was smaller than 6% in all cases (average 4%). More importantly, RBS inferences are between 8 and 20 times faster (average 14.73) than SBS analyses with RAxML and between 18 and 495 times faster than BS analyses with competing programs, such as PHYML or GARLI. Moreover, this performance improvement increases with alignment size. Finally, we have set up two freely accessible Web servers for this significantly improved version of RAxML that provide access to the 200-CPU cluster of the Vital-IT unit at the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics and the 128-CPU cluster of the CIPRES project at the San Diego Supercomputer Center. These Web servers offer the possibility to conduct large-scale phylogenetic inferences to a large part of the community that does not have access to, or the expertise to use, high-performance computing resources.
27756398|Simulations suggest that molecular clock analyses can correctly identify the root of a tree even when the clock assumption is severely violated. Clock-based rooting of phylogenies may be particularly useful when outgroup rooting is problematic. Here, we explore relaxed-clock rooting in the Acer/Dipteronia clade of Sapindaceae, which comprises genera of highly uneven species richness and problematic mutual monophyly. Using an approach that does not presuppose rate autocorrelation between ancestral and descendant branches and hence does not require a rooted a priori topology, we analyzed data from up to seven chloroplast loci for some 50 ingroup species. For comparison, we used midpoint and outgroup rooting and dating methods that rely on rooted input trees, namely penalized likelihood, a Bayesian autocorrelated-rates model, and a strict clock. The chloroplast sequences used here reject a single global substitution rate, and the assumption of autocorrelated rates was also rejected. The root was placed between Acer and Dipteronia by all three rooting methods, albeit with low statistical support. Analyses of Acer diversification with a lineage-through-time plot and different survival models, although sensitive to missing data, suggest a gradual decrease in the average diversification rate. The nine North American species of Acer diverged from their nearest relatives at widely different times: eastern American Acer diverged in the Oligocene and Late Miocene; western American species in the Late Eocene and Mid Miocene; and the Acer core clade, including A. saccharum, dates to the Miocene. Recent diversification in North America is strikingly rare compared to diversification in eastern Asia.
27756397|Phylogenetic analysis very commonly produces several alternative trees for a given fixed set of taxa. For example, different sets of orthologous genes may be analyzed, or the analysis may sample from a distribution of probable trees. This article describes an approach to comparing and visualizing multiple alternative phylogenies via the idea of a "tree of trees" or "meta-tree." A meta-tree clusters phylogenies with similar topologies together in the same way that a phylogeny clusters species with similar DNA sequences. Leaf nodes on a meta-tree correspond to the original set of phylogenies given by some analysis, whereas interior nodes correspond to certain consensus topologies. The construction of meta-trees is motivated by analogy with construction of a most parsimonious tree for DNA data, but instead of using DNA letters, in a meta-tree the characters are partitions or splits of the set of taxa. An efficient algorithm for meta-tree construction is described that makes use of a known relationship between the majority consensus and parsimony in terms of gain and loss of splits. To illustrate these ideas meta-trees are constructed for two datasets: a set of gene trees for species of yeast and trees from a bootstrap analysis of a set of gene trees in ray-finned fish. A software tool for constructing meta-trees and comparing alternative phylogenies is available online, and the source code can be obtained from the author.
27756392|Although the power of multi-locus data in estimating species trees is apparent, it is also clear that the analytical methodologies for doing so are still maturing. For example, of the methods currently available for estimating species trees from multiocus data, the Bayesian method introduced by Liu and Pearl (2007; BEST) is the only one that provides nodal support values. Using gene sequences from five nuclear loci, we explored two analytical methods (deep coalescence and BEST) to reconstruct the species tree of the five primary Manacus OTUs: M. aurantiacus, M. candei, M. vitellinus, populations of M. manacus from west of the Andes (M. manacus (w)), and populations of M. manacus from east of the Andes (M. manacus (e)). Both BEST and deep coalescence supported a sister relationship between M. vitellinus and M. manacus (w). A lower probability tree from the BEST analysis and one of the most parsimonious deep coalescence trees also supported a sister relationship between M. candei and M. aurantiacus. Because hybrid zones connect the distributions of most Manacus species, we examined the potential influence of post-divergence gene flow on the sister relationship of parapatrically distributed M. vitellinus and M. manacus (w). An isolation-with-migration (IM) analysis found relatively high levels of gene flow between M. vitellinus and M. manacus (w). Whether the gene flow is obscuring a true sister relationship between M. manacus (w) and M. manacus (e) remained unclear, pointing to the need for more detailed models accommodating multispecies, multilocus DNA sequence data.
27756394|We provide a new automated statistical method for DNA barcoding based on a Bayesian phylogenetic analysis. The method is based on automated database sequence retrieval, alignment, and phylogenetic analysis using a custom-built program for Bayesian phylogenetic analysis. We show on real data that the method outperforms Blast searches as a measure of confidence and can help eliminate 80% of all false assignment based on best Blast hit. However, the most important advance of the method is that it provides statistically meaningful measures of confidence. We apply the method to a re-analysis of previously published ancient DNA data and show that, with high statistical confidence, most of the published sequences are in fact of Neanderthal origin. However, there are several cases of chimeric sequences that are comprised of a combination of both Neanderthal and modern human DNA.
27756391|The Hox genes encode transcription factors that play vital roles in the anterior-posterior patterning of all bilaterian phyla studied to date. Additionally, the gain of Hox genes by duplication has been widely implicated as a driving force in the evolution of animal body plans. Because of this, reconstructing the evolution of the Hox cluster has been the focus of intense research interest. It has been commonly assumed that an ancestral four-gene ProtoHox cluster was duplicated early in animal evolution to give rise to the Hox and ParaHox clusters. However, this hypothesis has recently been called into question, and a number of alternative hypotheses of Hox and ParaHox gene evolution have been proposed. Here, we present the first statistical comparisons of current hypotheses of Hox and ParaHox gene evolution have been proposed. Here, we present the first statistical comparisons of current hypotheses of Hox and ParaHox gene evolution. We use two statistical methods that represent two different approaches to the treatment of phylogenetic uncertainty. In the first method, we estimate the maximum-likelihood tree for each hypothesis and compare these trees to one another using a parametric bootstrapping approach. In the second method, we use Bayesian phylogenetics to estimate the posterior distribution of trees, then we calculate the support for each hypothesis from this distribution. The results of both methods are largely congruent. We find that we are able to reject five out of the eight current hypotheses of Hox and ParaHox gene evolution that we consider. We conclude that the ProtoHox cluster is likely to have contained either three or four genes but that there is insufficient phylogenetic signal in the homeodomains to distinguish between these alternatives.
27756396|New contributions toward generalizing evolutionary models expand greatly our ability to analyze complex evolutionary characters and advance phylogeny reconstruction. In this article, we extend the binary stochastic Dollo model to allow for multi-state characters. In doing so, we align previously incompatible Wagner and Dollo parsimony principles under a common probabilistic framework by embedding arbitrary continuous-time Markov chains into the binary stochastic Dollo model. This approach enables us to analyze character traits that exhibit both Dollo and Wagner characteristics throughout their evolutionary histories. Utilizing Bayesian inference, we apply our novel model to analyze intron conservation patterns and the evolution of alternatively spliced exons. The generalized framework we develop demonstrates potential in distinguishing between phylogenetic hypotheses and providing robust estimates of evolutionary rates. Moreover, for the two applications analyzed here, our framework is the first to provide an adequate stochastic process for the data. We discuss possible extensions to the framework from both theoretical and applied perspectives.
27756359|A new approach for biogeography to find patterns of sympatry, based on network analysis, is proposed. Biogeographic analysis focuses basically on sympatry patterns of species. Sympatry is a network (= relational) datum, but it has never been analyzed before using relational tools such as Network Analysis. Our approach to biogeographic analysis consists of two parts: first the sympatry inference and second the network analysis method (NAM). The sympatry inference method was designed to propose sympatry hypothesis, constructing a basal sympatry network based on punctual data, independent of a priori distributional area determination. In this way, two or more species are considered sympatric when there is interpenetration and relative proximity among their records of occurrence. In nature, groups of species presenting within-group sympatry and between-group allopatry constitute natural units (units of co-occurrence). These allopatric units are usually connected by intermediary species. The network analysis method (NAM) that we propose here is based on the identification and removal of intermediary species to segregate units of co-occurrence, using the betweenness measure and the clustering coefficient. The species ranges of the units of co-occurrence obtained are transferred to a map, being considered as candidates to areas of endemism. The new approach was implemented on three different real complex data sets (one of them a classic example previously used in biogeography) resulting in (1) independence of predefined spatial units; (2) definition of co-occurrence patterns from the sympatry network structure, not from species range similarities; (3) higher stability in results despite scale changes; (4) identification of candidates to areas of endemism supported by strictly endemic species; (5) identification of intermediary species with particular biological attributes.
27756353|The amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) technique is an increasingly popular component of the phylogenetic toolbox, particularly for plant species. Technological advances in capillary electrophoresis now allow very precise estimates of DNA fragment mobility and amplitude, and current AFLP software allows greater control of data scoring and the production of the binary character matrix. However, for AFLP to become a useful modern tool for large data sets, improvements to automated scoring are required. We design a procedure that can be used to optimize AFLP scoring parameters to improve phylogenetic resolution and demonstrate it for two AFLP scoring programs (GeneMapper and GeneMarker). In general, we found that there was a trade-off between getting more characters of lower quality and fewer characters of high quality. Conservative settings that gave the least error did not give the best phylogenetic resolution, as too many useful characters were discarded. For example, in GeneMapper, we found that bin width was a crucial parameter, and that although reducing bin width from 1.0 to 0.5 base pairs increased the error rate, it nevertheless improved resolution due to the increased number of informative characters. For our 30-taxon data sets, moving from default to optimized parameter settings gave between 3 and 11 extra internal edges with &gt;50% bootstrap support, in the best case increasing the number of resolved edges from 14 to 25 out of a possible 27. Nevertheless, improvements to current AFLP software packages are needed to (1) make use of replicate profiles to calibrate the data and perform error calculations and (2) perform tests to optimize scoring parameters in a rigorous and automated way. This is true not only when AFLP data are used for phylogenetics, but also for other applications, including linkage mapping and population genetics.
27756352|As an archive of sequence data for over 165,000 species, GenBank is an indispensable resource for phylogenetic inference. Here we describe an informatics processing pipeline and online database, the PhyLoTA Browser (http://loco.biosci.arizona.edu/pb), which offers a view of GenBank tailored for molecular phylogenetics. The first release of the Browser is computed from 2.6 million sequences representing the taxonomically enriched subset of GenBank sequences for eukaryotes (excluding most genome survey sequences, ESTs, and other high-throughput data). In addition to summarizing sequence diversity and species diversity across nodes in the NCBI taxonomy, it reports 87,000 potentially phylogenetically informative clusters of homologous sequences, which can be viewed or downloaded, along with provisional alignments and coarse phylogenetic trees. At each node in the NCBI hierarchy, the user can display a "data availability matrix" of all available sequences for entries in a subtaxa-by-clusters matrix. This matrix provides a guidepost for subsequent assembly of multigene data sets or supertrees. The database allows for comparison of results from previous GenBank releases, highlighting recent additions of either sequences or taxa to GenBank and letting investigators track progress on data availability worldwide. Although the reported alignments and trees are extremely approximate, the database reports several statistics correlated with alignment quality to help users choose from alternative data sources.
27756362|Significant phylogenetic codivergence between plant or animal hosts (H) and their symbionts or parasites (P) indicates the importance of their interactions on evolutionary time scales. However, valid and realistic methods to test for codivergence are not fully developed. One of the systems where possible codivergence has been of interest involves the large subfamily of temperate grasses (Pooideae) and their endophytic fungi (epichloae). These widespread symbioses often help protect host plants from herbivory and stresses and affect species diversity and food web structures. Here we introduce the MRCALink (most-recent-common-ancestor link) method and use it to investigate the possibility of grass-epichlo codivergence. MRCALink applied to ultrametric H and P trees identifies all corresponding nodes for pairwise comparisons of MRCA ages. The result is compared to the space of random H and P tree pairs estimated by a Monte Carlo method. Compared to tree reconciliation, the method is less dependent on tree topologies (which often can be misleading), and it crucially improves on phylogeny-independent methods such as ParaFit or the Mantel test by eliminating an extreme (but previously unrecognized) distortion of node-pair sampling. Analysis of 26 grass species-epichlo species symbioses did not reject random association of H and P MRCA ages. However, when five obvious host jumps were removed, the analysis significantly rejected random association and supported grass-endophyte codivergence. Interestingly, early cladogenesis events in the Pooideae corresponded to early cladogenesis events in epichloae, suggesting concomitant origins of this grass subfamily and its remarkable group of symbionts. We also applied our method to the well-known gopher-louse data set.
27756358|Many authors have claimed that short branches in the Tree of Life will be very difficult to resolve with strong support, even with the large multilocus data sets now made possible by genomic resources. Short branches may be especially problematic because the underlying gene trees are expected to have discordant phylogenetic histories when the time between branching events is very short. Although there are many examples of short branches that are difficult to resolve, surprisingly, no empirical studies have systematically examined the relationships between branch lengths, branch support, and congruence among genes. Here, we examine these fundamental relationships quantitatively using a data set of 20 nuclear loci for 50 species of snakes (representing most traditionally recognized families). A combined maximum likelihood analysis of the 20 loci gives strong support for 69% of the nodes, but many remain weakly supported, with bootstrap values for 20% ranging from 21% to 66%. For the combined-data tree, we find significant correlations between the length of a branch, levels of bootstrap support, and the proportion of genes that are congruent with that branch in the separate analyses of each gene. We also find that strongly supported conflicts between gene trees over the resolution of individual branches are common (roughly 35% of clades), especially for shorter branches. Overall, our results support the hypothesis that short branches may be very difficult to confidently resolve, even with large, multilocus data sets. Nevertheless, our study provides strong support for many clades, including several that were controversial or poorly resolved in previous studies of snake phylogeny.
27756354|Codon- and amino acid-substitution models are widely used for the evolutionary analysis of protein-coding DNA sequences. Using codon models, the amounts of both nonsynonymous and synonymous DNA substitutions can be estimated. The ratio of these amounts represents the strength of selective pressure. Using amino acid models, the amount of nonsynonymous substitutions is estimated, but that of synonymous substitutions, is ignored. Although amino acid models lose any information regarding synonymous substitutions, they explicitly incorporate the information for amino acid replacement, which is empirically derived from databases. It is often presumed that when the protein-coding sequences are highly divergent, synonymous substitutions might be saturated and the evolutionary analysis may be hampered by synonymous noise. However, there exists no quantitative procedure to verify whether synonymous substitutions can be ignored; therefore, amino acid models have been arbitrarily selected. In this study, we investigate the issue of a statistical comparison between codon- and amino acid-substitution models. For this purpose, we propose a new procedure to transform a 20-dimensional amino acid model to a 61-dimensional codon model. This transformation reveals that amino acid models belong to a subset of the codon models and enables us to test whether synonymous substitutions can be ignored by using the likelihood ratio. Our theoretical results and analyses of real data indicate that synonymous substitutions are very informative and substantially improve evolutionary inference, even when the sequences are highly divergent. Therefore, we note that amino acid models should be adopted only after carefully investigating and discarding the possibility that synonymous substitutions can reveal important evolutionary information.
27756361|The phylogenetic history of Medicago was examined for 60 accessions from 56 species using two nuclear genes (CNGC5 and -cop) and one mitochondrial region (rpS14-cob). The results of several analyses revealed that extensive robustly supported incongruence exists among the nuclear genes, the cause of which we seek to explain. After rejecting several processes, hybridization and lineage sorting of ancestral polymorphisms remained as the most likely factors promoting incongruence. Using coalescence simulations, we rejected lineage sorting alone as an explanation of the differences among gene trees. The results indicate that hybridization has been common and ongoing among lineages since the origin of Medicago. Coalescence provides a good framework to test the causes of incongruence commonly seen among gene trees but requires knowledge of effective population sizes and generation times. We estimated the effective population size at 240,000 individuals and assumed a generation time of 1 year in Medicago (many are annual plants). A sensitivity analysis showed that our conclusions remain unchanged using a larger effective population size and/or longer generation time.
27756356|Reconstructing the phylogeny of sponges (Porifera) is one of the remaining challenges to resolve the metazoan Tree of Life and is a prerequisite for understanding early animal evolution. Molecular phylogenetic analyses for two of the three extant classes of the phylum, Demospongiae and Calcarea, are largely incongruent with traditional classifications, most likely because of a paucity of informative morphological characters and high levels of homoplasy. For the third class, Hexactinellida (glass sponges)predominantly deep-sea inhabitants with unusual morphology and biologywe present the first molecular phylogeny, along with a cladistic analysis of morphological characters. We collected 18S, 28S, and mitochondrial 16S ribosomal DNA sequences of 34 glass sponge species from 27 genera, 9 families, and 3 orders and conducted partitioned Bayesian analyses using RNA secondary structure-specific substitution models (paired-sites models) for stem regions. Bayes factor comparisons of different paired-sites models against each other and conventional (independent-sites) models revealed a significantly better fit of the former but, contrary to previous predictions, the least parameter-rich of the tested paired-sites models provided the best fit to our data. In contrast to Demospongiae and Calcarea, our rDNA phylogeny agrees well with the traditional classification and a previously proposed phylogenetic system, which we ascribe to a more informative morphology in Hexactinellida. We find high support for a close relationship of glass sponges and Demospongiae sensu stricto, though the latter may be paraphyletic with respect to Hexactinellida. Homoscleromorpha appears to be the sister group of Calcarea. Contrary to most previous findings from rDNA, we recover Porifera as monophyletic, although support for this clade is low under paired-sites models.
27756355|Developmental biology often yields data in a temporal context. Temporal data in phylogenetic systematics has important uses in the field of evolutionary developmental biology and, in general, comparative biology. The evolution of temporal sequences, specifically developmental sequences, has proven difficult to examine due to the highly variable temporal progression of development. Issues concerning the analysis of temporal sequences and problems with current methods of analysis are discussed. We present here an algorithm to infer ancestral temporal sequences, quantify sequence heterochronies, and estimate pseudoreplicate consensus support for sequence changes using Parsimov-based genetic inference [PGi]. Real temporal developmental sequence data sets are used to compare PGi with currently used approaches, and PGi is shown to be the most efficient, accurate, and practical method to examine biological data and infer ancestral states on a phylogeny. The method is also expandable to address further issues in developmental evolution, namely modularity.
27756357|Several stochastic models of character change, when implemented in a maximum likelihood framework, are known to give a correspondence between the maximum parsimony method and the method of maximum likelihood. One such model has an independently estimated branch-length parameter for each site and each branch of the phylogenetic tree. This modelthe no-common-mechanism modelhas many parameters, and, in fact, the number of parameters increases as fast as the alignment is extended. We take a Bayesian approach to the no-common-mechanism model and place independent gamma prior probability distributions on the branch-length parameters. We are able to analytically integrate over the branch lengths, and this allowed us to implement an efficient Markov chain Monte Carlo method for exploring the space of phylogenetic trees. We were able to reliably estimate the posterior probabilities of clades for phylogenetic trees of up to 500 sequences. However, the Bayesian approach to the problem, at least as implemented here with an independent prior on the length of each branch, does not tame the behavior of the branch-length parameters. The integrated likelihood appears to be a simple rescaling of the parsimony score for a tree, and the marginal posterior probability distribution of the length of a branch is dependent upon how the maximum parsimony method reconstructs the characters at the interior nodes of the tree. The method we describe, however, is of potential importance in the analysis of morphological character data and also for improving the behavior of Markov chain Monte Carlo methods implemented for models in which sites share a common branch-length parameter.
27756360|Although most studies of codivergence rely primarily on topological comparisons of host and parasite phylogenies, temporal assessments are necessary to determine if divergence events in host and parasite trees occurred contemporaneously. A combination of cophylogenetic analyses and comparisons of branch lengths are used in this study to understand the host-parasite association between heteromyid rodents (Rodentia: Heteromyidae) and their sucking lice of the genus Fahrenholzia (Phthiraptera: Anoplura). Cophylogenetic comparisons based on nucleotide substitutions in the mitochondrial COI gene reveal a significant, but not perfect, pattern of cophylogeny between heteromyids and their sucking lice. Regression analyses show a significant functional relationship between the lengths of analogous branches in the host and parasite trees, indicating that divergence events in hosts and parasites were approximately contemporaneous. Thus, the topological similarity observed between heteromyids and their lice is the result of codivergence. These analyses also show that the COI gene in lice is evolving two to three times faster than the same gene in their hosts (similar to the results of studies of other lice and their vertebrate hosts) and that divergence events in lice occurred shortly after host divergence. We recommend that future studies of codivergence include temporal comparisons and, when possible, use the same molecular marker(s) in hosts and parasites to achieve the greatest insight into the history of the host-parasite relationship.
2585265|We look at the higher-order phylogeny of mammals, analyzing in detail the complete mtDNA sequences of more than 40 species. We test the support for several proposed superordinal relationships. To this end, we apply a number of recently programmed methods and approaches, plus better-established methods. New pairwise tests show highly significant evidence that amino acid frequencies are changing among nearly all the genomes studied when unvaried sites are ignored. LogDet amino acid distances, with modifications to take into account invariant sites, are combined with bootstrapping and the Neighbor Joining algorithm to account for these violations of standard models. To weight the more slowly evolving sites, we exclude the more rapidly evolving sites from the data by using "site stripping". This leads to changing optimal trees with nearly all methods. The bootstrap support for many hypotheses varies widely between methods, and few hypotheses can claim unanimous support from these data. Rather, we uncover good evidence that many of the earlier branching patterns in the placental subtree could be incorrect, including the placement of the root. The tRNA genes, for example, favor a split between the group hedgehog, rodents, and primates versus all other sequenced placentals. Such a grouping is not ruled out by the amino acid sequence data. A grouping of all rodents plus rabbit, the old Glires hypothesis, is also feasible with stripped amino acid data, and rodent monophyly is also common. The elephant sequence allows confident rejection of the older taxon Ferungulata (Simpson, 1945). In its place, the new taxa Scrotifera and Fereuungulata are defined. A new likelihood ratio test is used to detect differences between the optimal tree for tRNA versus that for amino acids. While not clearly significant as made, some results indicate the test is tending towards significance with more general models of evolution. Individual placement tests suggest alternative positions for hedgehog and elephant. Congruence arguments to support elephant and armadillo together are striking, suggesting a superordinal group composed of Xenarthra and African endemic mammals, which in turn may be near the root of the placental subtree. Thus, while casting doubt on some recent conclusions, the analyses are also unveiling some interesting new possibilities.
2585271|Using the set of all vertebrate mtDNA protein sequences published as of May 1998, plus unpublished examples for elephant and birds, we examined divergence times in Placentalia and Aves. Using a parsimony-based test, we identified a subset of slower evolutionary rate placental sequences that do not appear to violate the clock assumption. Analyzing just these sequences decreases support for Marsupionta and the carnivore + perissodactyl group but increases support for armadillo diverging earlier than rabbit (which may represent the whole Glires group). A major theme of the paper is to use more comprehensive estimates of divergence time standard error (SE). From the well-studied horse/rhino split, estimated to be 55 million years before present (mybp), the splitting time within carnivores is confidently shown to be older than 50 million years. Some of our estimates of divergence times within placentals are relatively old, at up to 169 million years, but are within 2 SE of other published estimates. The whale/cow split at 65 mybp may be older than commonly assumed. All the sampled splits between the main groups of fereuungulates (the clade of carnivores, cetartiodactyls, perissodactyls, and pholidotes) seem to be distinctly before the Cretaceous/Tertiary boundary. Analyses suggest a close relationship between elephants (representing Afrotheria) and armadillos (Xenarthra), and our timing of this splitting is coincident with the opening of the South Atlantic, a major vicariant event. Recalibrating with this event (at 100 mybp), we obtain younger estimates for the earliest splits among placentals. Divergence times within birds are also assessed by using previously unpublished sequences. We fail to reject a clock for all bird taxa available. Unfortunately, available deep calibration points for birds are questionable, so a new calibration based on the age of the Anseriform stem lineage is estimated. The divergence time of rhea and ostrich may be much more recent than commonly assumed, while that of passerines may be older. Our major concern is the rooting point of the bird subtree, as the nearest outgroup (alligator) is very distant.
2585268|We explore the tree of mammalian mtDNA sequences, using particularly the LogDet transform on amino acid sequences, the distance Hadamard transform, and the Closest Tree selection criterion. The amino acid composition of different species show significant differences, even within mammals. After compensating for these differences, nearest-neighbor bootstrap results suggest that the tree is locally stable, though a few groups show slightly greater rearrangements when a large proportion of the constant sites are removed. Many parts of the trees we obtain agree with those on published protein ML trees. Interesting results include a preference for rodent monophyly. The detection of a few alternative signals to those on the optimal tree were obtained using the distance Hadamard transform (with results expressed as a Lento plot). One rearrangement suggested was the interchange of the position of primates and rodents on the optimal tree. The basic stability of the tree, combined with two calibration points (whale/cow and horse/rhinoceros), together with a distant secondary calibration from the mammal/bird divergence, allows inferences of the times of divergence of putative clades. Allowing for sampling variances due to finite sequence length, most major divergences amongst lineages leading to modern orders, appear to occur well before the Cretaceous/Tertiary (K/T) boundary. Implications arising from these early divergences are discussed, particularly the possibility of competition between the small dinosaurs and the new mammal clades.
2585274|The concentrated changes test (CCT) calculates the probability that changes in a binary character are distributed randomly on the branches of a cladogram. This test is used to examine hypotheses of correlated evolution, especially cases where changes in the state of one character influence changes in the state of another character. The test may be sensitive to the addition of branches that lack either trait of interest (white branches). To examine the effects of the proportion of white branches and of tree topology on the CCT probability, we conducted a simulation analysis using a series of randomly generated 100-taxon trees, in addition to a nearly perfectly balanced (symmetrical) and a completely imbalanced (asymmetrical) 100-taxon tree. Using two models of evolution (gains only, or gains and losses), we evolved character pairs randomly onto these trees to simulate cases where (1) characters evolve independently (i.e., no correlation among the traits) or (2) all changes in the dependent character occur on branches containing the independent trait (i.e., a strong correlation among the traits). This allowed us to evaluate the sensitivity of the CCT to type I and type II errors, respectively. In the simulations, the CCT did not appear to be overly sensitive to the inclusion of white branches (low likelihood of type I error with both CCT probabilities <0.05 and <0.01). However, the CCT was susceptible to type II error when the proportion of white branches was <20%. The test was also sensitive to tree shape and was positively correlated to Colless's tree imbalance statistic I. Finally, the CCT responded differently for simulations where only gains were allowed and those where both gains and losses were permitted. These results indicate that the CCT is unlikely to detect a correlation between characters when no such correlation exists. However, when a trait can be gained but not lost, the CCT is conservative and may fail to detect true correlations among traits (increased type II error). Determination of the sampling universe (the taxa included in the comparative analysis) can strongly influence the probability of making such type II errors. We suggest guidelines to circumvent these limitations.
2585270|Paleontologists long have argued that the most important evolutionary radiation of mammals occurred during the early Cenozoic, if not that all eutherians originated from a single common post-Cretaceous ancestor. Nonetheless, several recent molecular analyses claim to show that because several interordinal splits occurred during the Cretaceous, a major therian radiation was then underway. This claim conflicts with statistical evidence from the well-sampled latest Cretaceous and Cenozoic North American fossil record. Paleofaunal data confirm that there were fewer mammalian species during the latest Cretaceous than during any interval of the Cenozoic, and that a massive diversification took place during the early Paleocene, immediately after a mass extinction. Measurement data show that Cretaceous mammals were on average small and occupied a narrow range of body sizes; after the Cretaceous-Tertiary mass extinction, there was a rapid and permanent shift in the mean. The fact that there was an early Cenozoic mammalian radiation is entirely compatible with the existence of a few Cretaceous splits among modern mammal lineages.
2585273|The discrepancy between theoretical and observed distributions of tree shapes in recent surveys of phylogeny estimates has lead to investigations of possible biological and methodological causes. I investigated whether the phylogenetic quality of characters is related to the tree shape on which they evolve. Simulated evolution revealed shape-related tendencies for characters to indicate correct cladistic relationships; these differences were measured by examining the characters directly, without deriving any phylogeny estimates. Tree stemminess indices correlated strongly with character quality when characters evolved either speciationally or phyletically. Tree balance was a significant correlate of character quality under speciational evolution but not under phyletic evolution. These results help explain the findings of other simulation studies. With additional study of the behavior of evolving characters and their interaction with phylogenetic methods, we might be able to increase the accuracy of tree estimation and compensate for potential biases related to shape. These results give further reason for caution in trusting phylogeny estimates.
2585267|We concatenated sequences for four mitochondrial genes (12S rRNA, tRNA valine, 16S rRNA, cytochrome b) and four nuclear genes [aquaporin, alpha 2B adrenergic receptor (A2AB), interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP), von Willebrand factor (vWF)] into a multigene data set representing 11 eutherian orders (Artiodactyla, Hyracoidea, Insectivora, Lagomorpha, Macroscelidea, Perissodactyla, Primates, Proboscidea, Rodentia, Sirenia, Tubulidentata). Within this data set, we recognized nine mitochondrial partitions (both stems and loops, for each of 12S rRNA, tRNA valine, and 16S rRNA; and first, second, and third codon positions of cytochrome b) and 12 nuclear partitions (first, second, and third codon positions, respectively, of each of the four nuclear genes). Four of the 21 partitions (third positions of cytochrome b, A2AB, IRBP, and vWF) showed significant heterogeneity in base composition across taxa. Phylogenetic analyses (parsimony, minimum evolution, maximum likelihood) based on sequences for all 21 partitions provide 99-100% bootstrap support for Afrotheria and Paenungulata. With the elimination of the four partitions exhibiting heterogeneity in base composition, there is also high bootstrap support (89-100%) for cow + horse. Statistical tests reject Altungulata, Anagalida, and Ungulata. Data set heterogeneity between mitochondrial and nuclear genes is most evident when all partitions are included in the phylogenetic analyses. Mitochondrial-gene trees associate cow with horse, whereas nuclear-gene trees associate cow with hedgehog and these two with horse. However, after eliminating third positions of A2AB, IRBP, and vWF, nuclear data agree with mitochondrial data in supporting cow + horse. Nuclear genes provide stronger support for both Afrotheria and Paenungulata. Removal of third positions of cytochrome b results in improved performance for the mitochondrial genes in recovering these clades.
2585266|The interordinal relationships of eutherian (placental) mammals were evaluated by a phylogenetic analysis of four published data sets (three sequences and one morphological). The nature and degree of support and conflict for particular groups were assessed by separate bootstrap and homogeneity tests, which were followed by combined analyses of the sequence and morphological data. Between orders, strong support (i.e.,  95% bootstrap scores) was found for a paraphyletic Artiodactyla (relative to Cetacea) and a monophyletic Cetartiodactyla (Artiodactyla and Cetacea) and Paenungulata (Hyracoidea, Proboscidea, and Sirenia). In turn, some reasonable to strong evidence ( 85%) was obtained for Hyracoidea with Sirenia, Dermoptera with Scandentia, Glires (Lagomorpha with Rodentia), and Afrotheria (Amblysomus, Macroscelidea, Paenungulata, and Tubulidentata). Otherwise, no other interordinal clades were supported at these reasonable to strong levels. This overall lack of resolution for eutherian interordinal clusters agrees with other studies that suggest further progress will continue to be slow and difficult. Further resolution will require the integration of more recently published data, the continued sampling of taxa and characters, and the use of more powerful methods of data analysis.
2585263|Over the past 10 years, the phylogenetic relationships among higher-level artiodactyl taxa have been examined with multiple data sets. Many of these data sets suggest that Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates) is paraphyletic and that Cetacea (whales) represents a highly derived "artiodactyl" subgroup. In this report, phylogenetic relationships between Cetacea and artiodactyls are tested with a combination of 15 published data sets plus new DNA sequence data from two nuclear loci, interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) and von Willebrand factor (vWF). The addition of the IRBP and vWF character sets disrupts none of the relationships supported by recent cladistic analyses of the other 15 data sets. Simultaneous analyses support three critical clades: (Cetacea + Hippopotamidae), (Cetacea + Hippopotamidae + Ruminantia), and (Cetacea + Hippopotamidae + Ruminantia + Suina). Perturbations of the combined matrix show that the above clades are stable to a variety of disturbances. A chronicle of phylogenetic results over the past 3 years suggests that cladistic relationships between Cetacea and artiodactyls have been stable to increased taxonomic sampling and to the addition of more than 1,400 informative characters from 15 data sets.
2585264|Recent molecular studies are inconsistent with ungulate phylogenetic trees that are based on morphological traits. These inconsistencies especially relate to the position of cetaceans and perissodactyls. Evaluation of the close phylogenetic ties between artiodactyls and cetaceans has been hampered by the absence of tarsal bones of primitive cetaceans, as artiodactyls are often diagnosed on the basis of their tarsus. We here describe newly discovered tarsal bones that are the oldest cetacean tarsals known. We present a character analysis for primitive ungulate tarsals and evaluate their impact on the ungulate phylogenetic tree. Tarsal data are consistent with some molecular studies in suggesting that the extant sister group of Cetacea is Artiodactyla or that Cetacea should be included within the latter order. Tarsal data do not support Cete (Mesonychia plus Cetacea) and are consistent with the exclusion of perissodactyls from paenungulates as suggested by some molecular studies.
2585269|Shared insertions or deletions (indels) in protein-coding DNA can be strong indicators of the monophyly of a taxon. A three-amino acid deletion had previously been noted in the eye lens protein A-crystallin of two species of sloths and two species of anteaters, which represent the Pilosa, one of the two infraorders of Xenarthra (Edentata). This deletion has not been observed in 55 species from 16 other eutherian orders, or in 2 species of marsupials, or in 34 nonmammalian vertebrates, from birds to shark. At the genomic level, we have now detected this deletion in two species of armadillos of the second xenarthran infraorder, Cingulata, as well as in an additional species of anteater. Phylogenetic trees were constructed from a 145-bp sequence of the A-crystallin gene of 39 tetrapod species, supporting xenarthran monophyly with values from 76% to 90%. To quantify the additional support for xenarthran monophyly, as given by the three-residue deletion, we computed the probabilities for the occurrence of this deletion per evolutionary time unit for alternative hypothetical tree topologies. In the estimates obtained, the six trees in which the xenarthran sub-groups are unresolved or paraphyletic give an increasingly lower likelihood than do the two trees that assume xenarthran monophyly. For the monophyletic trees, the probability that the deletion observed in the xenarthrans is due to a single event is > 0.99. Thus, this deletion in A-crystallin gives strong molecular support for the monophyly of this old and diverse order.
2585272|Several different groups of birds have been proposed as being the oldest or earliest diverging extant lineage within the avian phylogenetic tree, particularly ratites (Struthioniformes), waterfowl (Anseriformes), and shorebirds (Charadriiformes). Difficulty in resolving this issue stems from several factors, including the relatively rapid radiation of primary (ordinal) bird lineages and the lack of characters from an extant outgroup for birds that is closely related to them by measure of time. To help resolve this question, we have sequenced entire mitochondrial genomes for five birds (a rhea, a duck, a falcon, and two perching birds), one crocodilian, and one turtle. Maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of these new sequences together with published sequences (18 taxa total) yield the same optimal tree topology, in which a perching bird (Passeriformes) is sister to all the other bird taxa. A basal position for waterfowl among the bird study taxa is rejected by maximum likelihood analyses. However, neither the conventional view, in which ratites (including rhea) are basal to other birds, nor tree topologies with falcon or chicken basal among birds could be rejected in the same manner. In likelihood analyses of a subset of seven birds, alligator, and turtle (9 taxa total), we find that increasing the number of parameters in the model shifts the optimal topology from one with a perching bird basal among birds to the conventional view with ratites diverging basally; moreover, likelihood scores for the two trees are not significantly different. Thus, although our largest set of taxa and characters supports a tree with perching birds diverging basally among birds, the position of this earliest divergence among birds appears unstable. Our analyses indicate a sister relationship between a waterfowl/chicken clade and ratites, relative to perching birds and falcon. We find support for a sister relationship between turtles and a bird/crocodilian clade, and for rejecting both the Haemothermia hypothesis (birds and mammals as sister taxa) and the placement of turtles as basal within the phylogenetic tree for amniote animals.
2585342|Cladistic relationships between 7 parts of the hesionid polychaete group Heteropodarke are assessed in a parsimony analysis based on 34 morphological characters. Taxon names are defined by apomorphy-based phylogenetic definitions, without reference to Linnean ranks or types. Species entities are omitted and denied any role in taxonomy; taxon names refer to monophyletic groups only. Linnean binomial species names are not employed, and all taxa are assigned uninomials. Previously known parts of Heteropodarke (Africana Hartmann-Schroder, 1974; Formalis, Perkins, 1984; Heteromorpha Hartmann-Schroder, 1962; Lyonsi Perkins, 1984; Xiamenensis Ding, Wu, and Westheide, 1997) are reexamined, and Bidentata, new taxon, and "Zmyrina" (informal name) are described from Papua New Guinea and Belize, respectively. The new taxon Crassichaetae is named for a subgroup of Heteropodarke, which is diagnosed by enlarged, anteriorly situated falcigers, and includes Africana, Heteromorpha, Lyonsi, and Xiamenensis. Within this group Africana and Heteromorpha are treated as taxa inquirendae.
2585341|Cladistic analyses of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS), sequences from 55 samples corresponding to 34 taxa in the genus Armeria reveal that ITS sequence diversity among and within species utterly conflicts with patterns of morphological similarity. Three facts are apparent from the results here reported: (1) different samples of a single subspecies, A. villosa subsp. longiaristata, appear in three of the five major clades; (2) samples of at least one of the six subspecies of A. villosa appear in four of the five major clades; and (3) the composition of major clades shows greater congruence with the geographic origin of plants than with the traditional systematic arrangement based primarily on morphology. Specifically, the clades here termed Ia, II, III, and IV each encompass terminals restricted to geographically delimited areas. There are alternative explanations for the ITS pattern, but the most likely one is that nucleotide positions supporting the major clades are due, in some of the samples, to concerted evolution following horizontal transfer (gene flow) rather than to recency of common ancestry. This interpretation is consistent with previous systematic and experimental evidence and implies that reticulation in Armeria may be extensive. Harlan and de Wet (1963, Evolution 17:497-501) proposed the compilospecies concept to account for situations in which a genetically "aggressive" species captures portions of the genome of other sympatric species by means of extensive introgression. Evidence of extensive reticulation, ecological diversification, and geographic pattern indicates that A. villosa may fit the compilospecies concept, which is here supported on molecular grounds for the first time.
2585339|The unwitting inclusion of convergent characters in phylogenetic estimates poses a serious problem for efforts to recover phylogeny. Convergence is not inscrutable, however, particularly when one group of characters tracks phylogeny and another set tracks adaptive history. In such cases, convergent characters may be correlated with one or a few functional anatomical units and readily identifiable by using comparative methods. Stifftail ducks (Oxyurinae) offer one such opportunity to study correlated character evolution and function in the context of phylogenetic reconstruction. Morphological analyses place stifftail ducks as part of a large clade of diving ducks that includes the sea ducks (Mergini), Hymenolaimus, Merganetta, and Tachyeres, and possibly the pochards (Aythyini). Molecular analyses, on the other hand, place stifftails far from other diving ducks and suggest, moreover, that stifftails are polyphyletic. Mitochondrial cytochrome b gene sequences of eight stifftail species traditionally supposed to form a clade were compared with each other and with sequences from 50 other anseriform and galliform species. Stifftail ducks are not the sister group of sea ducks but lie outside the typical ducks (Anatinae). Of the four traditional stifftail genera, monophyly of Oxyura and its sister group relationship with Nomonyx are strongly supported. Heteronetta probably is the sister group of that clade, but support is weak. Biziura is not a true stifftail. Within Oxyura, Old World species (O. australis, O. leucocephala, O. maccoa) appear to form a clade, with New World species (O. jamaicensis, O. vittata) branching basally. Incongruence between molecules and morphology is interpreted to be the result of adaptive specialization and functional convergence in the hind limbs of Biziura and true stifftails. When morphological characters are divided into classes, only hind-limb characters are significantly in conflict with the molecular tree. Likewise, null models of synonymous and nonsynonymous substitution based on patterns of codon-degeneracy and chemical dissimilarity indicate that the nucleotide and amino acid changes postulated by the molecular tree are more plausible than those postulated by the morphological tree. These findings teach general lessons about the utility of highly adaptive characters (in particular those related to foraging ecology) and underscore the problems that convergence can pose for attempts to recover phylogeny. They also demonstrate how the concept of natural data partitions and simple models of evolution (e.g., parsimony, likelihood, neutrality) can be used to test the accuracy of independent phylogenetic estimates and provide arguments in favor of one tree topology over another.
2585340|There are 14 species of marmots distributed across the Holarctic, and despite extensive systematic study, their phylogenetic relationships remain largely unresolved. In particular, comprehensive studies have been lacking. A well-supported phylogeny is needed to place the numerous ecological and behavioral studies on marmots in an evolutionary context. To address this situation, we obtained complete cytochrome (cyt) b sequences for 13 of the species and a partial sequence for the 14th. We applied a statistical approach to both phylogeny estimation and hypothesis testing, using parsimony and maximum likelihood-based methods. We conducted statistical tests on a suite of previously proposed hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships and biogeographic histories. The cyt b data strongly support the monophyly of Marmota and a western montane clade in the Nearctic. Although some other scenarios cannot be rejected, the results are consistent with an initial diversification in North America, followed by an invasion and subsequent rapid diversification in the Palearctic. These analyses reject the two major competing hypotheses of M. broweri's phylogenetic relationships-namely, that it is the sister species to M. camtschatica of eastern Siberia, and that it is related closely to M. caligata of the Nearctic. The Alaskan distribution of M. broweri is best explained as a reinvasion from the Palearctic, but a Nearctic origin can not be rejected. Several other conventionally recognized species groups can also be rejected. Social evolution has been homoplastic, with large colonial systems evolving in two groups convergently. The cyt b data do not provide unambiguous resolution of several basal nodes in the Palearctic radiation, leaving some aspects of pelage and karyotypic evolution equivocal.
2585343|Linnaean binomial nomenclature is logically incompatible with the phylogenetic nomenclature of de Queiroz and Gauthier (1992, Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 23:449-480): The former is based on the concept of genus, thus making this rank mandatory, while the latter is based on phylogenetic definitions and requires the abandonment of mandatory ranks. Thus, if species are to receive names under phylogenetic nomenclature, a different method must be devised to name them. Here, 13 methods for naming species in the context of phylogenetic nomenclature are contrasted with each other and with Linnaean binomials. A fundamental dichotomy among the proposed methods distinguishes those that retain the entire binomial of a preexisting species name from those that retain only the specific epithet. Other relevant issues include the stability, uniqueness, and ease of pronunciation of species names; their capacity to convey phylogenetic information; and the distinguishability of species names that are governed by a code of phylogenetic nomenclature both from clade names and from species names governed by the current codes. No method is ideal. Each has advantages and drawbacks, and preference for one option over another will be influenced by one's evaluation of the relative importance of the pros and cons for each. Moreover, sometimes the same feature is viewed as an advantage by some and a drawback by others. Nevertheless, all of the proposed methods for naming species in the context of phylogenetic nomenclature provide names that are more stable than Linnaean binomials.
2585361|The ability of permutation tail probability (PTP) analyses to discriminate between character covariance and noise is investigated with both hypothetical and published data sets. PTP is shown to be a powerful tool, not only for detecting character covariance, but also for locating that covariance on trees. PTP is especially useful for evaluating DNA sequence data that may have a high level of homoplasy. A three-step PTP procedure for locating covaried characters is presented.
2585353|A phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrial and nuclear rDNA sequences from species of all the superfamilies of the insect order Orthoptera (grasshoppers, crickets, and relatives) confirmed that although mitochondrial sequences provided good resolution of the youngest superfamilies, nuclear rDNA sequences were necessary to separate the basal groups. To try to reconcile these data sets into a single, fully resolved orthopteran phylogeny, we adopted consensus and combined data strategies. The consensus analysis produced a partially resolved tree that lacked several well-supported features of the individual analyses. However, this lack of resolution was explained by an examination of resampled data sets, which identified the likely source of error as the relatively short length of the individual mitochondrial data partitions. In a subsequent comparison in which the mitochondrial sequences were initially combined, we observed less conflict. We then used two approaches to examine the validity of combining all of the data in a single analysis: comparative analysis of trees recovered from resampled data sets, and the application of a randomization test. Because the results did not point to significant levels of heterogeneity in phylogenetic signal between the mitochondrial and nuclear data sets, we therefore proceeded with a combined analysis. Reconstructing phylogenies under the minimum evolution and maximum likelihood optimality criteria, we examined monophyly of the major orthopteran groups, using nonparametric and parametric bootstrap analysis and Kishino-Hasegawa tests. Our analysis suggests that phylogeny reconstruction under the maximum likelihood criteria is the most discriminating approach for the combined sequences. The results indicate, moreover, that the caeliferan Pneumoroidea and Pamphagoidea, as previously suggested, are polyphyletic. The Acridoidea is redefined to include all pamphagoid families other than the Pyrgomorphidae, which we propose should be accorded superfamily status.
2585359|It has long been argued that Charles Darwin was the founder of the school of "evolutionary taxonomy" of the Modern Synthesis and, accordingly, that he recognized genealogy and similarity as dual, synergistic criteria for classification. This view is based on three questionable interpretations: first, of isolated passages in the 13th chapter of the Origin of Species; second, of one phrase in a letter that Darwin wrote about the work of an author he had partly misunderstood; and third, of his taxonomic practice in the barnacle monographs, which only implicitly embody his philosophy of classification, if at all. These works, seen in fuller context and with the perspective of extensive correspondence, are consistent with the view that Darwin advocated only genealogy as the basis of classification, and that similarity was merely a tool for discovering evolutionary relationships. Darwin was neither a Mayrian taxonomist nor a cladist, and he did not approach systematic issues in the same terms that we do in the late 20th century.
2585354|We examine phylogenetic relationships among anoles using mitochondrial DNA sequences from the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 gene (ND2) and five transfer-RNA genes representing 1,455 alignable base positions and 866 phylogenetically informative characters (parsimony criterion). We also present 16 morphological characters for phylogenetic analysis. Our analyses yielded poorly-supported nodes deep in the anole tree but many well-supported nodes for more recent phylogenetic divergences. We test the hypothesis that the major clades of anoles form a hard polytomy and present a general statistical framework for testing hypotheses of simultaneous branching of lineages by using molecular sequence data. Our results suggest that rapid diversification early in the evolutionary history of anoles explains why numerous researchers have had difficulty reconstructing well-supported dichotomous phylogenetic trees for anoles.
2585357|All current phylogenetic methods assume that DNA substitutions are independent among sites. However, ample empirical evidence suggests that the process of substitution is not independent but is, in fact, temporally and spatially correlated. The robustness of several commonly used phylogenetic methods to the assumption of independent substitution is examined. A compound Poisson process is used to model DNA substitution. This model assumes that substitution events are Poisson-distributed in time and that the number of substitutions associated with each event is geometrically distributed. The asymptotic properties of phylogenetic methods do not appear to change under a compound Poisson process of DNA substitution. Moreover, the rank order of the performance of different methods does not change. However, all phylogenetic methods become less efficient when substitution follows a compound Poisson process.
2585360|The methodology of coding polymorphic taxa has received limited attention to date. A search of the taxonomic literature revealed seven types of coding methods. Apart from ignoring polymorphic characters (sometimes called the fixed-only method), two main categories can be distinguished: methods that identify the start of a new character state with the origin of an evolutionary novelty, and methods that identify the new state with the fixation of a novelty. The methods of the first category introduce soft reversals, yielding signals that support cladograms incompatible with true phylogenies. We conclude that coding the plesiomorphy is the method to be preferred, unless the ancestral state is unknown, in which case coding as ambiguous is recommended. This holds for coding polymorphism in species as well as in supraspecific taxa. In this light we remark on methods proposed by previous authors.
2585358|A general rationale for the formulation and placement of taxonomic definitions in phylogenetic taxonomy is proposed, and commonly used terms such as "crown taxon" or "node-based definition" are more precisely defined. In the formulation of phylogenetic definitions, nested reference taxa stabilize taxonomic content. A definitional configuration termed a node-stem triplet also stabilizes the relationship between the trio of taxa at a branchpoint, in the face of local change in phylogenetic relationships or addition/deletion of taxa. Crown-total taxonomies use survivorship as a criterion for placement of node-stem triplets within a taxonomic hierarchy. Diversity, morphology, and tradition also constitute heuristic criteria for placement of node-stem triplets.
2585356|We present a new procedure for assessing the statistical significance of the most likely unrooted dichotomous topology inferrable from four DNA sequences. The procedure calculates directly a P-value for the support given to this topology by the informative sites congruent with it, assuming the most likely star topology as the null hypothesis. Informative sites are crucial in the determination of the maximum likelihood dichotomous topology and are therefore an obvious target for a statistical test of phylogenies. Our P-value is the probability of producing through parallel substitutions on the branches of the star topology at least as much support as that given to the maximum likelihood dichotomous topology by the aforementioned informative sites, for any of the three possible dichotomous topologies. The degree of statistical significance is simply the complement of this P-value. Ours is therefore an a posteriori testing approach, in which no dichotomous topology is specified in advance. We implement the test for the case in which all sites behave identically and the substitution model has a single parameter. Under these conditions, the P-value can be easily calculated on the basis of the probabilities of change on the branches of the most likely star topology, because under these assumptions, each site can become informative independently from every other site; accordingly, the total number of informative sites of each kind is binomially distributed. We explore the test's type I error by applying it to data produced in star topologies having all branches equally long, or having two short and two long branches, and various degrees of homoplasy. The test is conservative but we demonstrate, by means of a discreteness correction and progressively assumption-free calculations of the P-values, that (1) the conservativeness is mostly due to the discrete nature of informative sites and (2) the P-values calculated empirically are moreover mostly quite accurate in absolute terms. Applying the test to data produced in dichotomous topologies with increasing internal branch length shows that, despite the test's "conservativeness," its power is much higher than that of the bootstrap, especially when the relevant informative sites are few.
2585355|Aligned protein-coding genes from 19 completely sequenced mammalian mitochondrial genomes were examined by parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses. Particular attention is given to a comparison between gene-based and structure-based data partitions. Because actual structures are not known for most of the mitochondrially encoded proteins, three different surrogate partitioning schemes were examined, each based on the identity of the consensus amino acid at a specific homologous position. One of the amino-acid-based partitioning schemes gave the highest likelihood, but that scheme was based on concordance with a well-corroborated phylogeny from an earlier parsimony analysis. The gene-based partitioning scheme gave a significantly higher likelihood compared to the only structure-based scheme examined that could be generated without prior assumptions about the phylogeny. Two contrasting phylogenetic inferences were supported by the analyses. Both unpartitioned analyses and analyses in which all partitions were constrained to have identical patterns of branch lengths supported ((Artiodactyla, Cetacea) (Perissodactyla, Carnivora)), whereas all analyses with that constraint relaxed supported (((Artiodactyla, Cetacea) Carnivora) Perissodactyla).
2585318|Using different data sets mainly from the plant family Rubiaceae, but in parts also from the Apocynaceae, Asteraceae, Lardizabalaceae, Saxifragaceae, and Solanaceae, we have investigated the effect of number of characters, number of taxa, and kind of data on bootstrap values within phylogenetic trees. The percentage of supported nodes within a tree is positively correlated with the number of characters, and negatively correlated with the number of taxa. The morphological analyses are based on few characters and weakly supported trees are expected. The percentage of supported nodes is also dependent on the kind of data analyzed. In analyses of Rubiaceae based on the same number of characters, RFLP data give trees with higher percentage of supported nodes than rbcL and morphological data. We also discuss the support values for particular nodes at the familial and subfamilial levels. Two new data sets of ndhF and rbcL sequences of Rubiaceae are analyzed and together with earlier studies of the family we can conclude that the monophyly of the Rubiaceae is supported and within the family there are three well supported, but not easily characterized, large subfamilies, Rubioideae, Cinchonoideae s.s. and Ixoroideae s.l. There are also a few genera (Luculia and Coptosapelta) unclassified to subfamily.
2585322|A morphologically based cladistic analysis of the Enterobiinae, which includes most of the Oxyuridae parasitic in Primates, allows a reevaluation of the Cameron's hypothesis of close coevolution with cospeciation between hosts and parasites. Each of the three genera separated in the Enterobiinae fits with one of the suborders defined in Primates: Lemuricola with the Strepsirhini, Trypanoxyuris with the Platyrrhini, and Enterobius with the Catarrhini. Inside each of the three main groups, the subdivisions observed in the parasite tree also fit with many of the subdivisions generally accepted within the Primate order. These results confirm the subgroups previously described in the subfamily and support Cameron's hypothesis in its aspect of association by descent. Although the classification of the Enterobiinae generally closely underlines the classification of Primates, several discordances also are observed. These are discussed case by case, with use of computed reconstruction scenarios. Given that the occurrences of the same pinworm species as a parasite for several congeneric host species is not the generalized pattern, and given that several occurrences also are observed in which the speciations of the parasites describe a more complex network, Cameron's hypothesis of a slower rhythm of speciation in the parasites can be considered partly refuted. The presence of two genera parasitic on squirrels in a family that contains primarily primate parasites also is discussed. The cladistic analysis does not support close relationships between the squirrel parasites and suggests an early separation from the Enterobiinae for the first (Xeroxyuris), and a tardy host-switching from the Platyrrhini to the squirrels for the second (Rodentoxyuris).
2585320|Knowledge of the phylogenetic position of the order Cetacea (whales, dolphins, and porpoises) within Mammalia is of central importance to evolutionary biologists studying the transformations of biological form and function that accompanied the shift from fully terrestrial to fully aquatic life in this clade. Phylogenies based on molecular data and those based on morphological data both place cetaceans among ungulates but are incongruent in other respects. Morphologists argue that cetaceans are most closely related to mesonychians, an extinct group of terrestrial ungulates. They have disagreed, however, as to whether Perissodactyla (odd-toed ungulates) or Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates) is the extant clade most closely related to Cetacea, and have long maintained that each of these orders is monophyletic. The great majority of molecule-based phylogenies show, by contrast, not only that artiodactyls are the closest extant relatives of Cetacea, but also that Artiodactyla is paraphyletic unless cetaceans are nested within it, often as the sister group of hippopotamids. We tested morphological evidence for several hypotheses concerning the sister taxon relationships of Cetacea in a maximum parsimony analysis of 123 morphological characters from 10 extant and 30 extinct taxa. We advocate treating certain multistate characters as ordered because such a procedure incorporates information about hierarchical morphological transformation. In all most-parsimonious trees, whether multistate characters are ordered or unordered, Artiodactyla is the extant sister taxon of Cetacea. With certain multistate characters ordered, the extinct clade Mesonychia (Mesonychidae + Hapalodectidae) is the sister taxon of Cetacea, and Artiodactyla is monophyletic. When all fossils are removed from the analysis, Artiodactyla is paraphyletic with Cetacea nested inside, indicating that inclusion of mesonychians and other extinct stem taxa in a phylogenetic analysis of the ungulate clade is integral to the recovery of artiodactyl monophyly. Phylogenies derived from molecular data alone may risk recovering inconsistent branches because of an inability to sample extinct clades, which by a conservative estimate, amount to 89% of the ingroup. Addition of data from recently described astragali attributed to cetaceans does not overturn artiodactyl monophyly.
2585323|We examined the effect of soft polytomies on the performance (Type I error rate and bias) of Felsenstein's (1985; Am. Nat: 125:1-15) method of phylogenetically independent contrasts for estimating a bivariate correlation. We specifically tested the adequacy of bounding degrees of freedom, as suggested by Purvis and Garland (1993; Syst. Biol. 42:569-575). We simulated bivariate character evolution under Brownian motion (assumed by independent contrasts) and eight other models on five phylogenetic trees. For non-Brownian motion simulations, the adequacy of branch-length standardization was checked with a simple diagnostic (Garland et al., 1992; Syst. Biol. 41: 18-32), and transformations were applied as indicated. Surprisingly, soft polytomies tended to have negligible effects on Type I error rates when models other than Brownian motion were used. Overall, and irrespective of evolutionary model, degrees of freedom were appropriately bounded for hypothesis testing, and unbiased estimates of the correlation coefficient were obtained. Our results, along with those of previous simulation studies, suggest that independent contrasts can reliably be applied to real data, even with phylogenetic uncertainty.
2585319|Phylogenetic analyses of molecular and morphological data sets for a group of parasitic wasps (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) give strikingly different results. The molecular data indicate that the major life history transition from ectoparasitism to endoparasitism has occurred independently several times within the family while the morphological data indicate a single origin. Similar incongruent topologies are obtained if the morphological data are partitioned by either of two methods: distinguishing (1) characters of the larval stage and female reproductive system, or (2) characters selected individually by the authors prior to the analysis as likely to be mechanistically associated with endo/ectoparasitism. This result is supported by significant differences in tests of incongruence, and we propose that it is caused by convergence among morphological characters resulting from a shared life history strategy.
2585324|Stratigraphic congruence indices (e.g., stratigraphic consistency index [SCI] of Huelsenbeck, 1994, Paleobiology 40:563-569; relative completeness index [RCI] of Benton, 1994, Trends Ecol. Evol. 9:181-185 [not to be confused with the rescaled consistency index of Farris, 1989, Cladistics 5:417-419]) are increasingly being quoted for cladograms containing fossil taxa. However, like the character consistency index (CI, summed over all characters), these values cannot be compared for trees derived from different data sets. Just as the number of characters and taxa in data matrices affects typical CI values, so tree balance and the distribution of stratigraphic ranges (and indirectly tree size) delimit the range of congruence indices that can be obtained. Because investigators often seek to compare the performance of cladograms from different sources (e.g., different taxa, habitats, periods in history), indices of fit insensitive to these factors are desirable. Two approaches are proposed here: (1) The gap excess ratio (GER) is a new metric that controls for the distribution of range data but is sensitive to differences in tree balance. The GER expresses the difference between the minimum implied gap (MIG; the total ghost range implied by a given set of stratigraphic ranges on a given tree) and G<sub>min</sub> (the minimum possible ghost range for those data on any tree) as a fraction of the range of values possible for those stratigraphic data on any tree. Rather than reflecting inferred completeness of the fossil record (as does the RCI, which is only partially determined by cladistic constraints), the GER indicates congruence alone. (2) Randomization tests hold most potentially conflated parameters constant and compare the observed RCI or GER index with the distribution of indices obtained by randomly reassigning range data over the tree. This enables us to deduce whether the MIG is significantly less (i.e., shows greater congruence) than for random permutations of the same range data. Stratigraphic congruence indices have been invoked as an ancillary criterion for assessing competing hypotheses of relationships derived from different sources or for choosing between equally parsimonous trees derived from the same character matrix. The first application is illustrated with comparisons of actinopterygian and eutherian phylogenies, and the second is illustrated with a study of trees for fossil and Recent arthropods.
2585321|It has been hypothesized that morphological diversity within clades can be generated by simple alterations of shared developmental programs. However, few studies have examined changes in heterochrony, the rate and timing of developmental events, in an explicitly phylogenetic context. We studied how developmental patterns have changed phylogenetically in the northern swordtail clade of Xiphophorus. We reared individuals of an outgroup and seven of nine species in the clade and followed their development for 300 days. For each individual, we used nonlinear regression to estimate three growth parameters: growth rate, adult body size, and age of cessation of growth. We estimated sword growth rates in males by linear regression. We then used the means of these growth parameters to construct standard growth curves for each species and to study growth patterns in a phylogenetic context. A combined phylogeny was constructed from both phenotypic and DNA sequence data. The phenotypic data set, compiled from the literature, consisted of 86 morphological, pigmentation, behavioral, and random amplified polymorphic DNA characters, many of which had not been used before for phylogenetic analysis. DNA sequence data from three genes for a total of 1284 bases were also obtained from the literature and included in the analysis. Relationships between growth parameters were examined by phylogenetically independent contrasts in relation to seven different phylogenies based on the most-parsimonious trees generated from the phenotypic, DNA sequence, and combined data sets; this allowed us to identify relationships between variables that were not sensitive to ambiguities in Xiphophorus phylogeny. Our analysis revealed statistically significant correlations between female body size and male body size, and between female growth rate and male sword growth rate, for all seven phylogenies. Marginally statistically significant relationships were also identified between female body size and female growth rate, and between female growth rate and male body size. We relate these relationships to what is known about the ecology, genetics, and behavior of Xiphophorus to better understand the evolution of growth patterns of both the body as a whole and the sword in particular. The relationship of these data to the evolution of swords is discussed.
2585236|The effect of the evolutionary rate of a gene on the accuracy of phylogeny reconstruction was examined by computer simulation. The evolutionary rate is measured by the tree length, that is, the expected total number of nucleotide substitutions per site on the phylogeny. DNA sequence data were simulated using both fixed trees with specified branch lengths and random trees with branch lengths generated from a model of cladogenesis. The parsimony and likelihood methods were used for phylogeny reconstruction, and the proportion of correctly recovered branch partitions by each method was estimated. Phylogenetic methods including parsimony appear quite tolerant of multiple substitutions at the same site. The optimum levels of sequence divergence were even higher than upper limits previously suggested for saturation of substitutions, indicating that the problem of saturation may have been exaggerated. Instead, the lack of information at low levels of divergence should be seriously considered in evaluation of a gene's phylogenetic utility, especially when the gene sequence is short. The performance of parsimony, relative to that of likelihood, does not necessarily decrease with the increase of the evolutionary rate.
2585234|We have developed a rapid parsimony method for reconstructing ancestral nucleotide states that allows calculation of initial branch lengths that are good approximations to optimal maximum-likelihood estimates under several commonly used substitution models. Use of these approximate branch lengths (rather than fixed arbitrary values) as starting points significantly reduces the time required for iteration to a solution that maximizes the likelihood of a tree. These branch lengths are close enough to the optimal values that they can be used without further iteration to calculate approximate maximum-likelihood scores that are very close to the "exact" scores found by iteration. Several strategies are described for using these approximate scores to substantially reduce times needed for maximum-likelihood tree searches.
2585229|The effects on phylogenetic accuracy of adding characters and/or taxa were explored using data generated by computer simulation. The conditions of this study were constrained but allowed for systematic investigation of certain parameters. The starting point for the study was a four-taxon tree in the "Felsenstein zone," representing a difficult phylogenetic problem with an extreme situation of long branch attraction. Taxa were added sequentially to this tree in a manner specifically designed to break up the long branches, and for each tree data matrices of different sizes were simulated. Phylogenetic trees were reconstructed from these data using the criteria of parsimony and maximum likelihood. Phylogenetic accuracy was measured in three ways: (1) proportion of trees that are completely correct, (2) proportion of correctly reconstructed branches in all trees, and (3) proportion of trees in which the original four-taxon statement is correctly reconstructed. Accuracy improved dramatically with the addition of taxa and much more slowly with the addition of characters. If taxa can be added to break up long branches, it is much more preferable to add taxa than characters.
2585233|Analyses of both the nucleotide and amino acid sequences derived from all 13 mitochondrial protein-encoding genes (12,234 bp) of 19 metazoan species, including that of the lancelet Branchiostoma floridae ("amphioxus"), fail to yield the widely accepted phylogeny for chordates and, within chordates, for vertebrates. Given the breadth and the compelling nature of the data supporting that phylogeny, relationships supported by the mitochondrial sequence comparisons are almost certainly incorrect, despite their being supported by equally weighted parsimony, distance, and maximum-likelihood analyses. The incorrect groupings probably result in part from convergent base-compositional similarities among some of the taxa, similarities that are strong enough to overwhelm the historical signal. Comparisons among very distantly related taxa are likely to be particularly susceptible to such artifacts, because the historical signal is already greatly attenuated. Empirical results underscore the need for approaches to phylogenetic inference that go beyond simple site-by-site comparison of aligned sequences. This study and others indicate that, once a sequence sample of reasonable size has been obtained, accurate phylogenetic estimation may be better served by incorporating knowledge of molecular structures and processes into inference models and by seeking additional higher order characters embedded in those sequences, than by gathering ever larger sequence samples from the same organisms in the hope that the historical signal will eventually prevail.
2585231|To explore the feasibility of parsimony analysis for large data sets, we conducted heuristic parsimony searches and bootstrap analyses on separate and combined DNA data sets for 190 angiosperms and three outgroups. Separate data sets of 18S rDNA (1,855 bp), rbcL (1,428 bp), and atpB (1,450 bp) sequences were combined into a single matrix 4,733 bp in length. Analyses of the combined data set show great improvements in computer run times compared to those of the separate data sets and of the data sets combined in pairs. Six searches of the 18S rDNA + rbcL + atpB data set were conducted; in all cases TBR branch swapping was completed, generally within a few days. In contrast, TBR branch swapping was not completed for any of the three separate data sets, or for the pairwise combined data sets. These results illustrate that it is possible to conduct a thorough search of tree space with large data sets, given sufficient signal. In this case, and probably most others, sufficient signal for a large number of taxa can only be obtained by combining data sets. The combined data sets also have higher internal support for clades than the separate data sets, and more clades receive bootstrap support of 50% in the combined analysis than in analyses of the separate data sets. These data suggest that one solution to the computational and analytical dilemmas posed by large data sets is the addition of nucleotides, as well as taxa.
2585232|Performance measures of phylogenetic estimation methods such as accuracy, consistency, and power are an attempt at summarizing an ensemble of a given estimator's behavior. These summaries characterize an ensemble behavior with a single number, leading to a variety of definitions. In particular, the relationships between different performance measures such as accuracy and consistency or accuracy and error depend on the exact definition of these measures. In addition, it is relatively common to use large-sample behavior to infer similar behavior for small samples. In fact, large-sample results such as the claimed asymptotic efficiency of the maximum-likelihood estimator are often uninformative for small samples. Conversely, small-sample behavior using simulations is sometimes used to imply large-sample behavior such as consistency. However, such extrapolation is often difficult. How the performance of a phylogenetic estimator scales with the addition of taxa must be qualified with respect to whether the whole tree is being estimated or a fixed subset of taxa is being estimated. It must also be qualified with respect to how tree models are sampled. Over the ensemble of all possible trees of a given size, the performance of the estimators for the whole tree estimate suffers when the tree size becomes larger. However, under certain models of cladogenesis, the estimate can improve with the addition of taxa. In fact, at all numbers of taxa there are subsets of tree models that are easier to estimate than others. This suggests that with judicious addition or subtraction of taxa we can move from tree models that are more difficult to estimate at one number of taxa to those that are easier to estimate at another number of taxa.
2585235|Recent phylogenetic analyses of cetacean relationships based on DNA sequence data have challenged the traditional view that baleen whales (Mysticeti) and toothed whales (Odontoceti) are each monophyletic, arguing instead that baleen whales are the sister group of the odontocete family Physeteridae (sperm whales). We reexamined this issue in light of a morphological data set composed of 207 characters and molecular data sets of published 12S, 16S, and cytochrome b mitochondrial DNA sequences. We reach four primary conclusions: (1) Our morphological data set strongly supports the traditional view of odontocete monophyly; (2) the unrooted molecular and morphological trees are very similar, and most of the conflict results from alternative rooting positions; (3) the rooting position of the molecular tree is sensitive to choice of artiodactyl outgroup taxa and the treatment of two small but ambiguously aligned regions of the 12S and 16S sequences, whereas the morphological root is strongly supported; and (4) combined analyses of the morphological and molecular data provide a well-supported phylogenetic estimate consistent with that based on the morphological data alone (and the traditional view of toothed-whale monophyly) but with increased bootstrap support at nearly every node of the tree.
2585230|Recent studies have shown that addition or deletion of taxa from a data matrix can change the estimate of phylogeny. I used 29 data sets from the literature to examine the effect of taxon sampling on phylogeny estimation within data sets. I then used multiple regression to assess the effect of number of taxa, number of characters, homoplasy, strength of support, and tree symmetry on the sensitivity of data sets to taxonomic sampling. Sensitivity to sampling was measured by mapping characters from a matrix of culled taxa onto optimal trees for that reduced matrix and onto the pruned optimal tree for the entire matrix, then comparing the length of the reduced tree to the length of the pruned complete tree. Within-data-set patterns can be described by a second-order equation relating fraction of taxa sampled to sensitivity to sampling. Multiple regression analyses found number of taxa to be a significant predictor of sensitivity to sampling; retention index, number of informative characters, total support index, and tree symmetry were nonsignificant predictors. I derived a predictive regression equation relating fraction of taxa sampled and number of taxa potentially sampled to sensitivity to taxonomic sampling and calculated values for this equation within the bounds of the variables examined. The length difference between the complete tree and a subsampled tree was generally small (average difference of 0-2.9 steps), indicating that subsampling taxa is probably not an important problem for most phylogenetic analyses using up to 20 taxa.
2585203|We examined Type I error rates of Felsenstein's (1985; Am. Nat. 125:1-15) comparative method of phylogenetically independent contrasts when branch lengths are in error and the model of evolution is not Brownian motion. We used seven evolutionary models, six of which depart strongly from Brownian motion, to simulate the evolution of two continuously valued characters along two different phylogenies (15 and 49 species). First, we examined the performance of independent contrasts when branch lengths are distorted systematically, for example, by taking the square root of each branch segment. These distortions often caused inflated Type I error rates, but performance was almost always restored when branch length transformations were used. Next, we investigated effects of random errors in branch lengths. After the data were simulated, we added errors to the branch lengths and then used the altered phylogenies to estimate character correlations. Errors in the branches could be of two types: fixed, where branch lengths are either shortened or lengthened by a fixed fraction; or variable, where the error is a normal variate with mean zero and the variance is scaled to the length of the branch (so that expected error relative to branch length is constant for the whole tree). Thus, the error added is unrelated to the microevolutionary model. Without branch length checks and transformations, independent contrasts tended to yield extremely inflated and highly variable Type I error rates. Type I error rates were reduced, however, when branch lengths were checked and transformed as proposed by Garland et al. (1992; Syst. Biol. 41:18-32), and almost never exceeded twice the nominal P-value at  = 0.05. Our results also indicate that, if branch length transformations are applied, then the appropriate degrees of freedom for testing the significance of a correlation coefficient should, in general, be reduced to account for estimation of the best branch length transformation. These results extend those reported in Diaz-Uriarte and Garland (1996; Syst. Biol. 45:27-47), and show that, even with errors in branch lengths and evolutionary models different from Brownian motion, independent contrasts are a robust method for testing hypotheses of correlated evolution.
2585199|Two qualitative taxonomic characters are potentially compatible if the states of each can be ordered into a character state tree in such a way that the two resulting character state trees are compatible. The number of potentially compatible pairs (NPCP) of qualitative characters from a data set may be considered to be a measure of its phylogenetic randomness. The value of NPCP depends on the number of evolutionary units (EUs), the number of characters, the number of states in the characters, the distributions of EUs among these states, and the amount and distribution of missing information and so does not directly indicate degree of phylogenetic randomness. Thus, for an observed data set, we used Monte Carlo methods to estimate the probability that a data set chosen equiprobably from among those identical (with respect to all the other above determining features) to the observed data set would have as high (or low) an NPCP as the observed data set. This probability, the realized significance of the observed NPCP, is attractive as an indication of phylogenetic randomness because it does not require the assumptions made by other such methods: No character state trees are assumed and consequently, only potential compatibility can be determined; no particular method of phylogenetic estimation is assumed; and no phylogenetic trees are constructed. We determined the values and significances of NPCP for analyses of 57 data sets taken from 53 published sources. All data sets from 37 of those sources exhibited realized significances of <0.01, indicating high levels of phylogenetic nonrandomness. From each of the remaining 16 sources, at least one data set was more phylogenetically random. Inclusion of outgroups changed significance in some cases, but not always in the same direction. Data sets with significantly low NPCP may be consistent with an ancient hybrid origin (or other ancient polyphyletic gene exchange, crossing over, viral transfer, etc.) of the study group.
2585200|Three properties of bifurcating branching diagrams that are used for representing a specific number of taxa are (1) the number of possible arrangements, (2) the number of possible topologies, and (3) the probabilities of formation according to particular models of cladogenesis. Of these, the probabilities have received the least attention in the literature. Indeed, many biologists would be astonished by the observation that the probability of a commonly cited cladogram containing 35 phyla of the animal kingdom is < 0.0072% of the value of the average probability taken over all possible cladograms! We reviewed works on cladogram arrangements and topologies and developed a computer-generated table of enumerations that extends and corrects such tables in the literature. We also developed a nonrecursive formula for the determination of cladogram probabilities. This formula facilitates calculation and thereby should promote use of cladogram probabilities, which might provide more accurate null hypotheses for tests of cladogenic events than do considerations of cladogram arrangements or topologies.
2585196|The possibility that two data sets may have different underlying phylogenetic histories (such as gene trees that deviate from species trees) has become an important argument against combining data in phylogenetic analysis. However, two data sets sampled for a large number of taxa may differ in only part of their histories. This is a realistic scenario and one in which the relative advantages of combined, separate, and consensus analysis become much less clear. I propose a simple methodology for dealing with this situation that involves (1) partitioning the available data to maximize detection of different histories, (2) performing separate analyses of the data sets, and (3) combining the data but considering questionable or unresolved those parts of the combined tree that are strongly contested in the separate analyses (and which therefore may have different histories) until a majority of unlinked data sets support one resolution over another. In support of this methodology, computer simulations suggest that (1) the accuracy of combined analysis for recovering the true species phylogeny may exceed that of either of two separately analyzed data sets under some conditions, particularly when the mismatch between phylogenetic histories is small and the estimates of the underlying histories are imperfect (few characters, high homoplasy, or both) and (2) combined analysis provides a poor estimate of the species tree in areas of the phylogenies with different histories but gives an improved estimate in regions that share the same history. Thus, when there is a localized mismatch between the histories of two data sets, the separate, consensus, and combined analyses may all give unsatisfactory results in certain parts of the phylogeny. Similarly, approaches that allow data combination only after a global test of heterogeneity will suffer from the potential failings of either separate or combined analysis, depending on the outcome of the test. Excision of conflicting taxa is also problematic, in that doing so may obfuscate the position of conflicting taxa within a larger tree, even when their placement is congruent between data sets. Application of the proposed methodology to molecular and morphological data sets for Sceloporus lizards is discussed.
2585195|A morphological data set and three sources of data from the chloroplast genome (two genes and a restriction site survey) were used to reconstruct the phylogenetic history of the pickerel-weed family Pontederiaceae. The chloroplast data converged towards a single tree, presumably the true chloroplast phylogeny of the family. Unrooted trees estimated from each of the three chloroplast data sets were identical or extremely similar in shape to each other and mostly robustly supported. There was no evidence of significant heterogeneity among the data sets, and the few topological differences seen among unrooted trees from each chloroplast data set are probably artifacts of sampling error on short branches. Despite well-documented differences in rates of evolution for different characters in individual data sets, equally weighted parsimony permits accurate reconstructions of chloroplast relationships in Pontederiaceae. A separate morphology-based data set yielded trees that were very different from the chloroplast trees. Although there was substantial support from the morphological evidence for several major clades supported by chloroplast trees, most of the conflicting phylogenetic structure on the morphology trees was not robust. Nonetheless, several statistical tests of incongruence indicate significant heterogeneity between molecules and morphology. The source of this apparent incongruence appears to be a low ratio of phylogenetic signal to noise in the morphological data.
2585201|Missing data are a widely recognized nuisance factor in phylogenetic analyses, and the fear of missing data may deter systematists from including characters that are highly incomplete. In this paper, I used simulations to explore the consequences of including sets of characters that contain missing data. More specifically, I tested whether the benefits of increasing the number of characters outweigh the costs of adding missing data cells to a matrix. The results show that the addition of a set of characters with missing data is generally more likely to increase phylogenetic accuracy than decrease it, but the potential benefits of adding these characters quickly disappear as the proportion of missing data increases. Furthermore, despite the overall trend, adding characters with missing data does decrease accuracy in some cases. In these situations, the missing data entries are not themselves misleading, but their presence may mimic the effects of limited taxon sampling, which can positively mislead. Criteria are discussed for predicting whether adding characters with missing data may increase or decrease accuracy. The results of this study also suggest that accuracy can be increased to a surprising degree by (1) "filling the holes" in a data matrix as much as possible (even when relatively few taxa are missing data), and (2) adding fewer characters scored for all taxa rather than adding a larger number of characters known for fewer taxa. Missing data can also be eliminated from an analysis through the exclusion of incomplete taxa rather than incomplete characters, but this approach may reduce the usefulness of the analysis and (in some cases) the accuracy of the estimated trees.
2585197|Assumptions about the costs of character change, coded in the form of a step matrix, determine most-parsimonious inferences of character evolution on phylogenies. We present a graphical approach to exploring the relationship between cost assumptions and evolutionary inferences from character data. The number of gains and losses of a binary trait on a phylogeny can be plotted over a range of cost assumptions, to reveal the inflection point at which there is a switch from more gains to more losses and the point at which all changes are inferred to be in one direction or the other. Phylogenetic structure in the data, the tree shape, and the relative frequency of states among the taxa influence the shape of such graphs and complicate the interpretation of possible permutation-based tests for directionality of change. The costs at which the most-parsimonious state of each internal node switches from one state to another can also be quantified by iterative ancestral-state reconstruction over a range of costs. This procedure helps identify the most robust inferences of change in each direction, which should be of use in designing comparative studies.
2585204|Randomization tests allow the formulation and statistical testing of null hypotheses about the quality of entire data sets or the quality of fit between the data and particular phylogenetic hypotheses. Randomization tests of phylogenetic hypotheses based on the concepts of split support and split conflict are described here, as are tests where splits, rather than the data, are randomly permuted. These tree-independent randomization tests are explored through their application to phylogenetic data for caecilian amphibians. Of these tests, split support randomization tests appear to be the most promising tools for phylogeneticists. These tests seem quite conservative, are applicable to nonpolar data and unordered multistate characters, and do not have the problems of nonindependence that affect split conflict and hierarchy tests. Unlike split conflict tests, their power does not appear to be correlated with split size. However, all tests are sensitive to taxonomic scope. Split support tests may help discern data that are likely to be affected by the problems of long-branches effects. Comparison of test results for mutually incompatible splits may help identify the presence of strong misleading signals in phylogenetic data. Significant split support could be a prerequisite for considering phylogenetic hypotheses to be well supported by the data, and split support randomization tests might be usefully applied prior to or as part of tree construction.
2585198|Among-site rate variation () and transition bias () have been shown, most often as independent parameters, to be important dynamics in DNA evolution. Accounting for these dynamics should result in better estimates of phylogenetic relationships. To test this idea, we simultaneously estimated overall (averaged over all codon positions) and codon-specific values of  and , using maximum likelihood analyses of cytochrome b data from all genera of pipits and wagtails (Aves: Motacillidae), and six outgroup species, using initial trees generated with default values. Estimates of  and  were robust to initial tree topology and suggested substantial among-site rate variation even within codon classes;  was lowest (large among-site rate variation) at second-codon and highest (low among-site rate variation) at third-codon positions. When overall values were applied, there were shifts in tree topology and dramatic and statistically significant improvements in log-likelihood scores of trees compared with the scores from application of default values. Applying codon-specific values resulted in yet another highly significant increase in likelihood. However, although incorporating substitution dynamics into maximum likelihood, maximum parsimony, and neighbor-joining analyses resulted in increases in congruence among trees, there were only minor improvements in phylogenetic signal, and none of the successive approximations tree topologies were statistically distinguishable from one another by the data. We suggest that the bushlike nature of many higher-level phylogenies in birds makes estimating the dynamics of DNA evolution less sensitive to tree topology but also less susceptible to improvement via weighting.
2585202|The individuality of species provides the basis for linking practical taxonomy with evolutionary and ecological theory. An individual is here defined as a collection of parts (lower-level entities) that are mutually connected. Different types of species individual exist, based on different types of connection between organisms. An interbreeding species is a group of organisms connected by the potential to share common descendants; whereas a genealogical species is integrated by the sharing of common ancestors. Such species definitions serve to set the limits of species at a moment of time and these slices connect through time to form time-extended lineages. This perspective on the nature of individuality has implications that conflict with traditional views of species and lineages: (1) Several types of connections among organisms may serve to individuate species in parallel (species pluralism); (2) each kind of species corresponds to a distinct kind of lineage; (3) although lineage branching is the most obvious criterion to break lineages into diachronic species, it cannot be justified simply by reference to species individuality; (4) species (like other individuals) have fuzzy boundaries; (5) if we wish to retain a species rank, we should focus on either the most- or least-inclusive individual in a nested series; (6) not all organisms will be in any species; and (7) named species taxa are best interpreted as hypotheses of real species. Although species individuality requires significant changes to systematic practice and challenges some preconceptions we may have about the ontology of species, it provides the only sound basis for asserting that species exist independently of human perception.
2585373|Characters derived from advertisement calls, morphology, allozymes, and the sequences of the small subunit of the mitochondrial ribosomal gene (12S) and the cytochrome oxidase I (COI) mitochondrial gene were used to estimate the phylogeny of frogs of the Physalaemus pustulosus group (Leptodactylidae). The combinability of these data partitions was assessed in several ways: measures of phylogenetic signal, character support for trees, congruence of tree topologies, compatibility of data partitions with suboptimal trees, and homogeneity of data partitions. Combined parsimony analysis of all data equally weighted yielded the same tree as the 12S partition analyzed under parsimony and maximum likelihood. The COI, allozyme, and morphology partitions were generally congruent and compatible with the tree derived from combined data. The call data were significantly different from all other partitions, whether considered in terms of tree topology alone, partition homogeneity, or compatibility of data with trees derived from other partitions. The lack of effect of the call data on the topology of the combined tree is probably due to the small number of call characters. The general incongruence of the call data with other data partitions is consistent with the idea that the advertisement calls of this group of frogs are under strong sexual selection.
2585372|We examined three parallel data sets with respect to qualities relevant to phylogenetic analysis of 20 exemplar monocotyledons and related dicotyledons. The three data sets represent restriction-site variation in the inverted repeat region of the chloroplast genome, and nucleotide sequence variation in the chloroplast-encoded gene rbcL and in the mitochondrion-encoded gene atp A, the latter of which encodes the -subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. The plant mitochondrial genome has been little used in plant systematics, in part because nucleotide sequence evolution in enzyme-encoding genes of this genome is relatively slow. The three data sets were examined in separate and combined analyses, with a focus on patterns of congruence, homoplasy, and data decisiveness. Data decisiveness (described by P. Goloboff) is a measure of robustness of support for most parsimonious trees by a data set in terms of the degree to which those trees are shorter than the average length of all possible trees. Because indecisive data sets require relatively fewer additional steps than decisive ones to be optimized on nonparsimonious trees, they will have a lesser tendency to be incongruent with other data sets. One consequence of this relationship between decisiveness and character incongruence is that if incongruence is used as a criterion of noncombinability, decisive data sets, which provide robust support for relationships, are more likely to be assessed as noncombinable with other data sets than are indecisive data sets, which provide weak support for relationships. For the sampling of taxa in this study, the atp A data set has about half as many cladistically informative nucleotides as the rbcL data set per site examined, and is less homoplastic and more decisive. The rbcL data set, which is the least decisive of the three, exhibits the lowest levels of character incongruence. Whatever the molecular evolutionary cause of this phenomenon, it seems likely that the poorer performance of rbcL than atpA, in terms of data decisiveness, is due to both its higher overall level of homoplasy and the fact that it is performing especially poorly at nonsynonymous sites.
2585370|In the analysis of organismal form, landmark-based geometrical morphometrics now are preferred to traditional morphometrics by many systematists. However, certain forms have eluded geometrical morphometric analysis because landmarks on them are difficult to define; this situation is a problem of logistics rather than an inadequacy of the landmark-based approach. In this article, a landmark-based geometrical morphometric analysis is performed on one such form (the gastropod shell), and the results obtained are compared to those obtained using more traditional methods of morphometric analysis.
2585367|The phylogeny of baobab trees was analyzed using four data sets: chloroplast DNA restriction sites, sequences of the chloroplast rpl16 intron, sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA, and morphology. We sampled each of the eight species of Adansonia plus three outgroup taxa from tribe Adansonieae. These data were analyzed singly and in combination using parsimony. ITS and morphology provided the greatest resolution and were largely concordant. The two chloroplast data sets showed concordance with one another but showed significant conflict with ITS and morphology. A possible explanation for the conflict is genealogical discordance within the Malagasy Longitubae, perhaps due to introgression events. A maximum-likelihood analysis of branching times shows that the dispersal between Africa and Australia occurred well after the fragmentation of Gondwana and therefore involved overwater dispersal. The phylogeny does not permit unambiguous reconstruction of floral evolution but suggests the plausible hypothesis that hawkmoth pollination was ancestral in Adansonia and that there were two parallel switches to pollination by mammals in the genus.
2585369|Intraspecific variation is abundant in all types of systematic characters but is rarely addressed in simulation studies of phylogenetic method performance. We compared the accuracy of 15 phylogenetic methods using simulations to (1) determine the most accurate method(s) for analyzing polymorphic data (under simplified conditions) and (2) test if generalizations about the performance of phylogenetic methods based on previous simulations of fixed (nonpolymorphic) characters are robust to a very different evolutionary model that explicitly includes intraspecific variation. Simulated data sets consisted of allele frequencies that evolved by genetic drift. The phylogenetic methods included eight parsimony coding methods, continuous maximum likelihood, and three distance methods (UPGMA, neighbor joining, and Fitch-Margoliash) applied to two genetic distance measures (Nei's and the modified Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards chord distance). Two sets of simulations were performed. The first examined the effects of different branch lengths, sample sizes (individuals sampled per species), numbers of characters, and numbers of alleles per locus in the eight-taxon case. The second examined more extensively the effects of branch length in the four-taxon, two-allele case. Overall, the most accurate methods were likelihood, the additive distance methods (neighbor joining and Fitch-Margoliash), and the frequency parsimony method. Despite the use of a very different evolutionary model in the present article, many of the results are similar to those from simulations of fixed characters. Similarities include the presence of the "Felsenstein zone," where methods often fail, which suggests that long-branch attraction may occur among closely related species through genetic drift. Differences between the results of fixed and polymorphic data simulations include the following: (1) UPGMA is as accurate or more accurate than nonfrequency parsimony methods across nearly all combinations of branch lengths, and (2) likelihood and the additive distance methods are not positively misled under any combination of branch lengths tested (even when the assumptions of the methods are violated and few characters are sampled). We found that sample size is an important determinant of accuracy and affects the relative success of methods (i.e., distance and likelihood methods outperform parsimony at small sample sizes). Attempts to generalize about the behavior of phylogenetic methods should consider the extreme examples offered by fixed-mutation models of DNA sequence data and genetic-drift models of allele frequencies.
2585371|We examined and compared several morphometric methods for describing complex shapes. We chose the leaves of maples (Acer) and other tree species because they can all be visually discriminated from each other solely by leaf shape. We digitized the leaf outlines with a video camera and then examined the outlines with several morphometric methods to determine the extent to which margin details could be quantified and compared. Elliptic Fourier analysis provides complete and accurate descriptions of complex outlines and can be used to reconstruct images accurately. We compared several metrics that summarize overall shape complexity. A new measure of margin roughness is useful for quantifying and comparing margin detail independently of overall shape. Fractal dimension is highly correlated with the ratio of perimeter to area (dissection index) and reveals little additional information about shape. In combination, the summaries of shape complexity provide good discrimination of groups. We used canonical discriminant analysis to compare methods for outlines to traditional morphometric analysis of measurements taken between landmark points. Groups were discriminated from each other more clearly with outline methods than with landmark-based analyses.
2585368|We examined the efficiencies of ordination methods in the treatment of gene frequency data at intraspecific level, using metric and nonmetric distance measures (Nei's and Rogers' genetic distances, <sup>2</sup> distance). We assessed initial processes responsible for the geographical distribution of the Mediterranean land snail Helix aspersa. Seventeen enzyme loci from 30 North African snail populations were considered in the present analysis. Five combinations of distance/multivariate analysis were compared: correspondence analysis (CA), nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) on Nei's, Rogers', and <sup>2</sup> distances, and principal coordinates analysis on Rogers' distances. Configuration of the objects resulting from ordination was projected onto three-dimensional graphics with the minimum spanning tree or the relative neighborhood graph superimposed. Pre- and postordination or clustering distance matrices were compared by means of correlation methods. As expected, all combinations led to a clear west versus east pattern of variation. However, the intraregional relationships and degree of connectivity between pairs of operational taxonomic units were not necessarily constant from one method to another. Ordination methods when applied with Nei's and Rogers' distances provided the best fit, with original distances (r = 0.98) compared with UPGMA clustering (r  0.75). The Nei/NMDS combination seems to be a good compromise (distortion index d<sub>t</sub> = 10%) between Rogers/NMDS, which produces a more confusing pattern of differentiation (d<sub>t</sub> = 24%), and x<sup>2</sup>/CA, which tends to distort large distances (d<sub>t</sub> = 31%). NMDS obviously provides a powerful method to summarize relationships between populations, when neither hierarchical structure nor phylogenetic inference are required. These findings led the discussion on the good performance of NMDS, the appropriate distances to be used, and the potential application of this method to other types of allelic data (such as microsatellite loci) or data on nucleotide sequences of genes.
2585252|Kangaroos and their relatives (family Macropodidae) are divided into the subfamilies Macropodinae (kangaroos, wallabies, pademelons) and Potoroinae (rat-kangaroos, potoroos, bettongs). The musky rat-kangaroo, Hypsiprymnodon moschatus, is traditionally allied with other potoroines, based primarily on the basis of osteological characters and aspects of the female reproductive system. Unlike other macropodids, however, which are capable of bipedal hopping, Hypsiprymnodon is a quadrupedal bounder and lacks several derived features of the pes and tarsus that are presumably adaptations for bipedal hopping. Other derived features, such as a complex stomach, loss of P<sub>2</sub> with the eruption of P<sub>3</sub>, and reduction of litter size to one, are also lacking in Hypsiprymnodon but occur in all other macropodids. Thus, available evidence suggests that Hypsiprymnodon either is part of a monophyletic Potoroinae or is a sister taxon to other living macropodids. To test these hypotheses, we sequenced 1,170 bp base pairs of the mitochondrial genome for 16 macropodids. Maximum parsimony, minimum evolution, maximum likelihood, and quartet puzzling all support the hypothesis that macropodines and potoroines are united to the exclusion of Hypsiprymnodon. This hypothesis implies that characters such as bipedal hopping evolved only once in macropodid evolution. Aside from Hypsiprymnodon, the remaining macropodids separate into the traditional Macropodinae and Potoroinae. Macropodines further separate into two clades: one containing the New Guinean forest wallabies Dorcopsis and Dorcopsulus, and one consisting of the genera Macropus, Setonix, Thylogale, Onychogalea, Wallabia, Dendrolagus, Peradorcas, and Lagorchestes. Among potoroines, there is moderate support for the association of Bettongia and Aepyprymnus to the exclusion of Potorous. Divergence times were estimated by using 12S ribosomal RNA transversions. At the base of the macropodid radiation, Hypsiprymnodon diverged from other macropodids approximately 45 million years ago. This estimate is comparable to divergence estimates among families of Australasian possums based on single-copy DNA hybridization and 12S rRNA transversions. Macropodines and potoroines, in turn, diverged approximately 30 million years ago. Among macropodines, Dorcopsis and Dorcopsulus separated from other taxa approximately 10 million years ago.
2585250|Congruence between trees from separately analyzed data sets is a powerful approach for assessing the performance of phylogenetic methods but has been applied primarily to the analysis of molecular data. In this study, different methods for treating polymorphic characters were compared using morphological data from phrynosomatid lizards. Clades were identified that are both traditionally recognized and supported by recent molecular analyses, and species were sampled from these clades to make three "known" phylogenies of eight species each. The ability of different methods to estimate these "known" phylogenies with a finite sample of characters was tested. The phylogenetic methods included eight parsimony methods for coding polymorphism, three distance approaches (UPGMA, neighbor joining, and Fitch-Margoliash) applied to two genetic distance measures (Nei's and the modified Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards chord distance), and continuous maximum likelihood. The effects of excluding polymorphic characters and character weighting (a priori and successive) were also tested. Among the different parsimony approaches, the fixed-only method (excluding all polymorphic characters) performed relatively poorly, whereas the frequency method (including all polymorphic characters) performed relatively well. However, frequency-based distance methods consistently outperformed parsimony, especially with a small sample size (n = 1 individual per species). These results agree closely with those from recent simulation studies of polymorphic data and argue against the common practices of excluding polymorphic morphological characters, ignoring the frequencies of traits within species, and the exclusive use of parsimony to analyze morphological data.
2585246|In sponges, as in other taxa with simple organization, the evaluation and use of morphological characters is difficult. Phylogenetic analysis of the first 850 nucleotides from the 5' end of the 28S rRNA gene is used here to assess the homology of spicules used in the classification of the subclass Tetractinellida. A single well-supported MP tree was obtained. The monophyly of the nine Tetractinellida species studied confirms the tetraxon megasclere as a morphological synapomorphy for the Tetractinellida. Two species are reallocated, Penares helleri as a Geodiidae, now thought to have lost sterraster microscleres, and Stryphnus mucronatus to the Streptosclerophorida. SEM micrographs of Stryphnus microscleres show that the morphology of the sanidasters is compatible with the hypothesis that they are homologous with streptoscleres and confirm this reallocation. Two other synapomorphies are confirmed within the tetractinellid clade, the simultaneous presence of tetraxon megasclere and aster-type microsclere (Astrophorida) and the loss of the streptosclere and persistence of the euaster s.s. microscleres (Euastrophorida) evidenced by the reallocation of Stryphnus mucronatus. The streptosclere microscleres cannot be evaluated in terms of homology because Streptosclerophorida may be paraphyletic (although these nodes are not supported by reliable bootstrap proportions) contrary to the currently accepted classification.
2585251|A new cladistic method for the estimation of ancestral areas is based on reversible parsimony in combination with a weighting scheme that weights steps in positionally plesiomorphic branches more highly than steps in positionally apomorphic branches. By applying this method to cladograms of human mitochondrial DNA, the method is superior to previously proposed algorithms. The method is also an appropriate tool for the solution of the redundant distribution problem in area cladograms. Under the assumption of allopatric speciation, redundant distributions, i.e., sympatry of sister groups, show that dispersal has occurred; thus, the ancestral area of at least one sister group was smaller than the combined distribution of its descendants. With the weighted ancestral area analysis, the ancestral areas can be confined and at least some dispersal events can be distinguished from possible vicariance events. As applied to a cladogram of the Polypteridae, weighted ancestral area analysis is superior to Brooks parsimony analysis (assumption 0) and component analysis under assumptions 1 and 2 (Nelson and Platnick, 1981, Systematics and biogeography: Cladistics and vicariance. Columbia Univ. Press, New York.) in resolving redundancies. The results of the weighted ancestral area analysis may differ from the results of dispersal-vicariance analysis, because the rules of dispersal-vicariance analysis indirectly favor the questionable assumption that the ancestral species occupied only one unit area.
2585248|Many phylogenetic analyses, particularly morphological studies, use higher taxa (e.g., genera, families) rather than species as terminal taxa. This general approach requires dealing with interspecific variation among the species that make up the higher taxon. In this paper, I review different parsimony methods for coding and sampling higher taxa and compare their relative accuracies using computer simulations. Despite their widespread use, methods that involve coding higher taxa as terminals perform poorly in simulations, relative to splitting up the higher taxa and using species as terminals. Among the methods that use higher taxa as terminals, coding a taxon based on the most common condition among the included species (majority or modal coding) is generally more accurate than other coding methods, such as coding taxa as missing or polymorphic. The success of the majority method, and results of further simulations, suggest that in many cases "common equals primitive" within variable taxa, at least for low and intermediate rates of character change. The fixed-only method (excluding variable characters) performs very poorly, a result that is indirectly supported by analyses of published data for squamate reptiles. Sampling only a single species per higher taxon also yields low accuracy under many conditions. Along with recent studies of intraspecific polymorphism, the results of this study show the general importance of (1) including characters despite variation within taxa and (2) using methods that incorporate detailed information on the distribution of states within variable taxa.
2585249|Phylogenetic analysis is usually limited to considering descent relationships structured as a tree. Descent patterns with structures other than a tree characterize evolutionary systems in which entities can inherit genetic material from more than one source, i.e., hybrid ancestry. Descent patterns in a phylogenetic system with a single hybrid event can be described as the sum of two gene trees, each describing the history of part of the genetic material composing the system. Systems with more than one hybrid event will require a larger set of trees. This set of gene trees is called a phylogenetic forest. A potentially reticulate data structure, the hypertree, can represent a forest-structured phylogenetic hypothesis and simplify the calculation of parsimony costs. A workable parsimony criterion for hypertrees is the simultaneous minimization of mutation costs and the complexity of the forest. A method is presented to perform data-directed permutations on hypertrees in a heuristic search for parsimonious solutions. For any given data set, parsimonious hypertrees will range from zero hybrid events and a certain amount of homoplasy to multiple hybrid events with no homoplasy. Choosing from among this set of parsimonious hypertrees is a conceptually difficult problem that will depend on how likely hybrid events are in the particular system. This multitree approach is a simple generalization of cladistic parsimony to reticulate systems of common ancestry.
2585253|An expanded matrix of morphological characters for the genus Aramigus (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), which includes numerous polyploid parthenogenetic lineages, was compared and combined with a published matrix of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) characters. The matrix of morphological characters provides little resolution of the A. tessellatus and A. uruguayensis species complexes but does resolve previously unresolved relationships among other morphologically defined species (A. globoculus + A. intermedius, A. curtulus + A. planioculus). The morphological and mtDNA characters are significantly incongruent (0.435  I<sub>M</sub>  0.463; I<sub>MF</sub> = 0.0735), according to the tests of Farris et al. (P = 0.010) and Templeton (P < 0.005), probably because of hybrid origins of polyploid parthenogenetic lineages. For the few sexual lineages included in both matrices, morphology and mtDNA provide congruent estimates of phylogeny. In spite of recent injunctions against combining data sets that are incongruent because of differing histories, the results of the combined analyses were used to select one of the most-parsimonious mtDNA trees as the best estimate of maternal-lineage genealogy and to reconstruct the evolution of parthenogenesis under the assumption that transitions from sexuality to parthenogenesis are irreversible. Where cytogenetically justified, as in weevils, the irreversibility assumption is useful for producing conservative estimates of the age of parthenogenetic lineages in spite of potential sampling bias against sexuals.
2585247|We compared four approaches for analyzing three data sets derived from staphylinoid beetles, a superfamily whose known species diversity is roughly comparable to that of vertebrates. One data set is derived from adult morphology and the two molecular data sets are from 12S ribosomal RNA and cytochrome b mitochondrial DNA. We found that taxonomic congruence following conditional data combination, herein called compatible evidence (CE), resolved more nodes compatible with an initial conservative hypothesis than did total evidence (TE), conditional data combination (CDC), or taxonomic congruence (TC). CE sets a base of nodes obtained by CDC analysis and then investigates what further agreement may arise in a universe where these nodes are accepted as given. We suggest that CE75-75 may be appropriate for future studies that aim to both generate a well-corroborated tree and investigate conflicts between data sets, partitions, and characters. CE75-75 is a 75% bootstrap consensus CDC tree followed by combinable-component consensus of a 75% bootstrap consensus of each homogeneous set of partitions having hierarchical structure.
41316581|Phylogenies are fundamental to comparative biology as they help to identify independent events on which statistical tests rely. Two groups of phylogenetic comparative methods (PCMs) can be distinguished: those that take phylogenies into account by introducing explicit models of evolution and those that only consider phylogenies as a statistical constraint and aim at partitioning trait values into a phylogenetic component (phylogenetic inertia) and one or multiple specific components related to adaptive evolution. The way phylogenetic information is incorporated into the PCMs depends on the method used. For the first group of methods, phylogenies are converted into variance-covariance matrices of traits following a given model of evolution such as Brownian motion (BM). For the second group of methods, phylogenies are converted into distance matrices that are subsequently transformed into Euclidean distances to perform principal coordinate analyses. Here, we show that simply taking the elementwise square root of a distance matrix extracted from a phylogenetic tree ensures having a Euclidean distance matrix. This is true for any type of distances between species (patristic or nodal) and also for trees harboring multifurcating nodes. Moreover, we illustrate that this simple transformation using the square root imposes less geometric distortion than more complex transformations classically used in the literature such as the Cailliez method. Given the Euclidean nature of the elementwise square root of phylogenetic distance matrices, the positive semidefinitiveness of the phylogenetic variance-covariance matrix of a trait following a BM model, or related models of trait evolution, can be established. In that way, we build a bridge between the two groups of statistical methods widely used in comparative analysis. These results should be of great interest for ecologists and evolutionary biologists performing statistical analyses incorporating phylogenies.
41316577|Investigating patterns and processes of parasite diversification over ancient geological periods should involve comparisons of host and parasite phylogenies in a biogeographic context. It has been shown previously that the geographical distribution of host-specific parasites of sarcopterygians was guided, from Palaeozoic to Cainozoic times, mostly by evolution and diversification of their freshwater hosts. Here, we propose phylogenies of neobatrachian frogs and their specific parasites (Platyhelminthes, Monogenea) to investigate coevolutionary processes and historical biogeography of polystomes and further discuss all the possible assumptions that may account for the early evolution of these parasites. Phylogenetic analyses of concatenated rRNA nuclear genes (18S and partial 28S) supplemented by cophylogenetic and biogeographic vicariance analyses reveal four main parasite lineages that can be ascribed to centers of diversity, namely Australia, India, Africa, and South America. In addition, the relationships among these biogeographical monophyletic groups, substantiated by molecular dating, reflect sequential origins during the breakup of Gondwana. The Australian poly stome lineage may have been isolated during the first stages of the breakup, whereas the Indian lineage would have arisen after the complete separation of western and eastern Gondwanan components. Next, polystomes would have codiverged with hyloid sensu stricto and ranoid frog lineages before the completion of South American and African plate separation. Ultimately, they would have undergone an extensive diversification in South America when their ancestral host families diversified. Therefore, the presence of polystome parasites in specific anuran host clades and in discrete geographic areas reveals the importance of biogeographic vicariance in diversification processes and supports the occurrence and radiation of amphibians over ancient and recent geological periods.
41316582|Current phylogenetic methods attempt to account for evolutionary rate variation across characters in a matrix. This is generally achieved by the use of sophisticated evolutionary models, combined with dense sampling of large numbers of characters. However, systematic biases and superimposed substitutions make this task very difficult. Model adequacy can sometimes be achieved at the cost of adding large numbers of free parameters, with each parameter being optimized according to some criterion, resulting in increased computation times and large variances in the model estimates. In this study, we develop a simple approach that estimates the relative evolutionary rate of each homologous character. The method that we describe uses the similarity between characters as a proxy for evolutionary rate. In this article, we work on the premise that if the character-state distribution of a homologous character is similar to many other characters, then this character is likely to be relatively slowly evolving. If the character-state distribution of a homologous character is not similar to many or any of the rest of the characters in a data set, then it is likely to be the result of rapid evolution. We show that in some test cases, at least, the premise can hold and the inferences are robust. Importantly, the method does not use a "starting tree" to make the inference and therefore is tree independent. We demonstrate that this approach can work as well as a maximum likelihood (ML) approach, though the ML method needs to have a known phylogeny, or at least a very good estimate of that phylogeny. We then demonstrate some uses for this method of analysis, including the improvement in phylogeny reconstruction for both deep-level and recent relationships and overcoming systematic biases such as base composition bias. Furthermore, we compare this approach to two well-established methods for reweighting or removing characters. These other methods are tree-based and we show that they can be systematically biased. We feel this method can be useful for phylogeny reconstruction, understanding evolutionary rate variation, and for understanding selection variation on different characters.
41316583|Acoela are marine microscopic worms currently thought to be the sister taxon of all other bilaterians. Acoels have long been used as models in evolutionary scenarios, and generalized conclusions about acoel and bilaterian ancestral features are frequently drawn from studies of single acoel species. There is no extensive phylogenetic study of Acoela and the taxonomy of the 380 species is chaotic. Here we use two nuclear ribosomal genes and one mitochondrial gene in combination with 37 morphological characters in an analysis of 126 acoel terminals (about one-third of the described species) to estimate the phylogeny and character evolution of Acoela. We present an estimate of posterior probabilities for ancestral character states at 31 control nodes in the phylogeny. The overall reconstruction signal based on the shape of the posterior distribution of character states was computed for all morphological characters and control nodes to assess how well these were reconstructed. The body-wall musculature appears more clearly reconstructed than the reproductive organs. Posterior similarity to the root was calculated by averaging the divergence between the posterior distributions at the nodes and the root over all morphological characters. Diopisthoporidae is the sister group to all other acoels and has the highest posterior similarity to the root. Convolutidae, including several "model" acoels, is most divergent. Finally, we present a phylogenetic classification of Acoela down to the family level where six previous family level taxa are synonymized
41316579|The biogeography of southern Australia is characterized by a repeated pattern of relatedness between the biota of southwestern and southeastern Australia. Both areas possess a temperate climate but are separated by a vast arid region, currently lacking permanent freshwater habitats, which has become increasingly drier since about 15 Ma. Aquatic organisms have thus potentially remained isolated for a considerable time. Pygmy perches (Nannatherina and Nannoperca, Percichthyidae) provide an excellent scenario for investigating biogeographic relationships between southwestern and southeastern regions as multiple species occur on either side of Australia. This allows us to potentially differentiate between "Multiple Invasion" and "Endemic Speciation," the two major hypotheses proposed to account for current distributions. The first suggests that multiple east-west movements have occurred, whereas the second suggests a single east-west split, with current biodiversity in each region being reciprocally monophyletic. Systematic relationships within this group were investigated with the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene; nuclear intron and exon sequences from S7, RAG1, and RAG2; and 53 allozyme loci. Our data supported the hypothesis of multiple movements across southern Australia based on a consistent lack of support for reciprocal monophyly of eastern and western species. This study appears to be the first example of an animal group displaying clear multiple east-west movement in southern Australia, as all other aquatic and terrestrial fauna previously examined displayed a single east-west split. Despite a high degree of sympatry within each region, the only evidence for hybridization was found between Nannoperca australis and N. obscura, with the latter having its mitochondrial genome completely replaced by that of N. australis, with no evidence for nuclear introgression. This is one of only a few confirmed examples of complete replacement of the mitochondrial genome in one species with that of another. Cryptic differentiation was also evident within the two most widespread species, N. australis and N. vittata, indicating that these likely consist of multiple species. We also highlight the need for multiple molecular markers with different strengths in order to obtain a more robust phylogeny, despite problems resulting from potential incongruences between data sets.
41316578|This paper addresses the question of whether one can economically improve the robustness of a molecular phylogeny estimate by increasing gene sampling in only a subset of taxa, without having the analysis invalidated by artifacts arising from large blocks of missing data. Our case study stems from an ongoing effort to resolve poorly understood deeper relationships in the large clade Ditrysia (> 150,000 species) of the insect order Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths). Seeking to remedy the overall weak support for deeper divergences in an initial study based on five nuclear genes (6.6 kb) in 123 exemplars, we nearly tripled the total gene sample (to 26 genes, 18.4 kb) but only in a third (41) of the taxa. The resulting partially augmented data matrix (45% intentionally missing data) consistently increased bootstrap support for groupings previously identified in the five-gene (nearly) complete matrix, while introducing no contradictory groupings of the kind that missing data have been predicted to produce. Our results add to growing evidence that data sets differing substantially in gene and taxon sampling can often be safely and profitably combined. The strongest overall support for nodes above the family level came from including all nucleotide changes, while partitioning sites into sets undergoing mostly nonsynonymous versus mostly synonymous change. In contrast, support for the deepest node for which any persuasive molecular evidence has yet emerged (78-85% bootstrap) was weak or nonexistent unless synonymous change was entirely excluded, a result plausibly attributed to compositional heterogeneity. This node (Gelechioidea + Apoditrysia), tentatively proposed by previous authors on the basis of four morphological synapomorphies, is the first major subset of ditrysian superfamilies to receive strong statistical support in any phylogenetic study. A "more-genes-only" data set (41 taxa  26 genes) also gave strong signal for a second deep grouping (Macrolepidoptera) that was obscured, but not strongly contradicted, in more taxon-rich analyses.
41316580|The analysis of ratios of body measurements is deeply ingrained in the taxonomie literature. Whether for plants or animals, certain ratios are commonly indicated in identification keys, diagnoses, and descriptions. They often provide the only means for separation of cryptic species that mostly lack distinguishing qualitative characters. Additionally, they provide an obvious way to study differences in body proportions, as ratios reflect geometric shape differences. However, when it comes to multivariate analysis of body measurements, for instance, with linear discriminant analysis (LDA) or principal component analysis (PCA), interpretation using body ratios is difficult. Both techniques are commonly applied for separating similar taxa or for exploring the structure of variation, respectively, and require standardized raw or log-transformed variables as input. Here, we develop statistical procedures for the analysis of body ratios in a consistent multivariate statistical framework. In particular, we present algorithms adapted to LDA and PCA that allow the interpretation of numerical results in terms of body proportions. We first introduce a method called the "LDA ratio extractor," which reveals the best ratios for separation of two or more groups with the help of discriminant analysis. We also provide measures for deciding how much of the total differences between individuals or groups of individuals is due to size and how much is due to shape. The second method, a graphical tool called the "PCA ratio spectrum," aims at the interpretation of principal components in terms of body ratios. Based on a similar idea, the "allometry ratio spectrum" is developed which can be used for studying the allometric behavior of ratios. Because size can be defined in different ways, we discuss several concepts of size. Central to this discussion is Jolicoeur's multivariate generalization of the allometry equation, a concept that was derived only with a heuristic argument. Here we present a statistical derivation of the allometric size vector using the method of least squares. The application of the above methods is extensively demonstrated using published data sets from parasitic wasps and rock crabs.
41316575|It has long been recognized that phylogenetic trees are more unbalanced than those generated by a Yule process. Recently, the degree of this imbalance has been quantified using the large set of phylogenetic trees available in the TreeBASE data set. In this article, a more precise analysis of imbalance is undertaken. Trees simulated under a range of models are compared with trees from TreeBASE and two smaller data sets. Several simple models can match the amount of imbalance measured in real data. Most of them also match the variance of imbalance among empirical trees to a remarkable degree. Statistics are developed to measure balance and to distinguish between trees with the same overall imbalance. The match between models and data for these statistics is investigated. In particular, age-dependent (Bellman-Harris) branching process are studied in detail. It remains difficult to separate the process of macroevolution from biases introduced by sampling. The lessons for phylogenetic analysis are clearer. In particular, the use of the usual proportional to distinguishable arrangements (uniform) prior on tree topologies in Bayesian phylogenetic analysis is not recommended.
41316576|A Bayesian coalescent-based method has recently been proposed to delimit species using multilocus genetic sequence data. Posterior probabilities of different species delimitation models are calculated using reversible-jump Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms. The method accounts for species phylogenies and coalescent events in both extant and extinct species and accommodates lineage sorting and uncertainties in the gene trees. Although the method is theoretically appealing, its utility in practical data analysis is yet to be rigorously examined. In particular, the analysis may be sensitive to priors on ancestral population sizes and on species divergence times and to gene flow between species. Here we conduct a computer simulation to evaluate the statistical performance of the method, such as the false negatives (the error of lumping multiple species into one) and false positives (the error of splitting one species into several). We found that the correct species model was inferred with high posterior probability with only one or two loci when 5 or 10 sequences were sampled from each population, or with 50 loci when only one sequence was sampled. We also simulated data allowing migration under a two-species model, a mainland-island model and a stepping-stone model to assess the impact of gene flow (hybridization or introgression). The behavior of the method was diametrically different depending on the migration rate. Low rates at < 0.1 migrants per generation had virtually no effect, so that the method, while assuming no hybridization between species, identified distinct species despite small amounts of gene flow. This behavior appears to be consistent with biologists' practice. In contrast, higher migration rates at 10 migrants per generation caused the method to infer one species. At intermediate levels of migration, the method is indecisive. Our results suggest that Bayesian analysis under the multispecies coalescent model may provide important insights into population divergences, and may be useful for generating hypotheses of species delimitation, to be assessed with independent information from anatomical, behavioral, and ecological data.
27896403|There is an emerging consensus that the intent of most species concepts is to identify evolutionarily distinct lineages. However, the criteria used to identify lineages differ among concepts depending on the perceived importance of various attributes of evolving populations. We have examined five different species criteria to ask whether the three taxonomic varieties of Humulus lupulus (hops) native to North America are distinct lineages. Three criteria (monophyly, absence of genetic intermediates, and diagnosability) focus on evolutionary patterns and two (intrinsic reproductive isolation and niche specialization) consider evolutionary processes. Phylogenetic analysis of amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) data under a relaxed molecular clock, a stochastic Dollo substitution model, and parsimony identified all varieties as monophyletic, thus they satisfy the monophyly criterion for species delimitation. Principal coordinate analysis and a Bayesian assignment procedure revealed deep genetic subdivisions and little admixture between varieties, indicating an absence of genetic intermediates and compliance with the genotypic cluster species criterion. Diagnostic morphological and AFLP characters were found for all varieties, thus they meet the diagnosability criterion. Natural history information suggests that reproductive isolating barriers may have evolved in var. pubescens, potentially qualifying it as a species under a criterion of intrinsic reproductive isolation. Environmental niche modeling showed that the preferred habitat of var. neomexicanus is climatically unique, suggesting niche specialization and thus compliance with an ecological species criterion. Isolation by distance coupled with imperfect sampling can lead to erroneous lineage identification using some species criteria. Compliance with complementary pattern- and process-oriented criteria provides powerful corroboration for a species hypothesis and mitigates the necessity for comprehensive sampling of the entire species range, a practical impossibility in many systems. We hypothesize that var. pubescens maintains its genetic identity, despite substantial niche overlap with var. lupuloides, via the evolution of partial reproductive isolating mechanisms. Variety neomexicanus, conversely, will likely persist as a distinct lineage, regardless of limited gene flow with vars. lupuloides and pubescens because of ecological isolationadaptation to the unique conditions of the Rocky Mountain cordillera. Thus, we support recognition of vars. neomexicanus and pubescens as species, but delay making a recommendation for var. lupuloides until sampling of genetic variation is complete or a stable biological process can be identified to explain its observed genetic divergence.
27896404|Nearly all commonly used methods of phylogenetic inference assume that characters in an alignment evolve independently of one another. This assumption is attractive for simplicity and computational tractability but is not biologically reasonable for RNAs and proteins that have secondary and tertiary structures. Here, we simulate RNA and protein-coding DNA sequence data under a general model of dependence in order to assess the robustness of traditional methods of phylogenetic inference to violation of the assumption of independence among sites. We find that the accuracy of independence-assuming methods is reduced by the dependence among sites; for proteins this reduction is relatively mild, but for RNA this reduction may be substantial. We introduce the concept of effective sequence length and its utility for considering information content in phylogenetics.
27896402|For the last 2 decades, supertree reconstruction has been an active field of research and has seen the development of a large number of major algorithms. Because of the growing popularity of the supertree methods, it has become necessary to evaluate the performance of these algorithms to determine which are the best options (especially with regard to the supermatrix approach that is widely used). In this study, seven of the most commonly used supertree methods are investigated by using a large empirical data set (in terms of number of taxa and molecular markers) from the worldwide flowering plant family Sapindaceae. Supertree methods were evaluated using several criteria: similarity of the supertrees with the input trees, similarity between the supertrees and the total evidence tree, level of resolution of the supertree and computational time required by the algorithm. Additional analyses were also conducted on a reduced data set to test if the performance levels were affected by the heuristic searches rather than the algorithms themselves. Based on our results, two main groups of supertree methods were identified: on one hand, the matrix representation with parsimony (MRP), MinFlip, and MinCut methods performed well according to our criteria, whereas the average consensus, split fit, and most similar supertree methods showed a poorer performance or at least did not behave the same way as the total evidence tree. Results for the super distance matrix, that is, the most recent approach tested here, were promising with at least one derived method performing as well as MRP, MinFlip, and MinCut. The output of each method was only slightly improved when applied to the reduced data set, suggesting a correct behavior of the heuristic searches and a relatively low sensitivity of the algorithms to data set sizes and missing data. Results also showed that the MRP analyses could reach a high level of quality even when using a simple heuristic search strategy, with the exception of MRP with Purvis coding scheme and reversible parsimony. The future of supertrees lies in the implementation of a standardized heuristic search for all methods and the increase in computing power to handle large data sets. The latter would prove to be particularly useful for promising approaches such as the maximum quartet fit method that yet requires substantial computing power.
27896405|The general Markov model (GMM) of nucleotide substitution does not assume the evolutionary process to be stationary, reversible, or homogeneous. The GMM can be simplified by assuming the evolutionary process to be stationary. A stationary GMM is appropriate for analyses of phylogenetic data sets that are compositionally homogeneous; a data set is considered to be compositionally homogeneous if a statistical test does not detect significant differences in the marginal distributions of the sequences. Though the general time-reversible (GTR) model assumes stationarity, it also assumes reversibility and homogeneity. We propose two new stationary and nonhomogeneous modelsone constrains the GMM to be reversible, whereas the other does not. The two models, coupled with the GTR model, comprise a set of nested models that can be used to test the assumptions of reversibility and homogeneity for stationary processes. The two models are extended to incorporate invariable sites and used to analyze a seven-taxon hominoid data set that displays compositional homogeneity. We show that within the class of stationary models, a nonhomogeneous model fits the hominoid data better than the GTR model. We note that if one considers a wider set of models that are not constrained to be stationary, then an even better fit can be obtained for the hominoid data. However, the methods for reducing model complexity from an extremely large set of nonstationary models are yet to be developed.
27896401|Estimation of divergence times is usually done using either the fossil record or sequence data from modern species. We provide an integrated analysis of palaeontological and molecular data to give estimates of primate divergence times that utilize both sources of information. The number of preserved primate species discovered in the fossil record, along with their geological age distribution, is combined with the number of extant primate species to provide initial estimates of the primate and anthropoid divergence times. This is done by using a stochastic forwards-modeling approach where speciation and fossil preservation and discovery are simulated forward in time. We use the posterior distribution from the fossil analysis as a prior distribution on node ages in a molecular analysis. Sequence data from two genomic regions (CFTR on human chromosome 7 and the CYP7A1 region on chromosome 8) from 15 primate species are used with the birthdeath model implemented in mcmctree in PAML to infer the posterior distribution of the ages of 14 nodes in the primate tree. We find that these age estimates are older than previously reported dates for all but one of these nodes. To perform the inference, a new approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) algorithm is introduced, where the structure of the model can be exploited in an ABC-within-Gibbs algorithm to provide a more efficient analysis.
27896400|Identifying and dating historical biological events is a fundamental goal of evolutionary biology, and recent analytical advances permit the modeling of factors known to affect both the accuracy and the precision of molecular date estimates. As the use of multilocus data sets becomes increasingly routine, it becomes more important to evaluate the potentially confounding effects of rate heterogeneity both within (e.g., codon positions) and among loci when estimating divergence times. Here, using Plestiodon lizards as a test case, we examine the effects of accommodating rate heterogeneity among data partitions on divergence time estimation. Plestiodon inhabits both East Asia and North America, yet both the geographic origin of the genus and timing of dispersal between the continents have been debated. For each of the eight independently evolving loci and a combined data set, we conduct single model and partitioned analyses. We found that extreme saturation has obscured the underlying rate of evolution in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), resulting in severe underestimation of the rate in this locus. As a result, the age of the crown Plestiodon clade was overestimated by 1517 Myr by the unpartitioned analysis of the combined loci data. However, the application of partition-specific models to the combined data resulted in ages that were fully congruent with those inferred by the individual nuclear loci. Although partitioning improved divergence date estimates of the mtDNA-only analysis, the ages were nonetheless overestimated, thus indicating an inadequacy of our current models to capture the complex nature of mtDNA evolution in over large time scales. Finally, the statistically incongruent age distributions inferred by the partitioned and unpartitioned analyses of the combined data support mutually exclusive hypotheses of the timing of intercontinental dispersal of Plestiodon from Asia to North America. Analyses that best capture the rate of evolution in the combined data set infer that this exchange occurred via Beringia 18.030 Ma.
41316549|Were molecular data available for extinct taxa, questions regarding the origins of many groups could be settled in short order. As this is not the case, various strategies have been proposed to combine paleontological and neontological data sets. The use of fossil dates as node age calibrations for divergence time estimation from molecular phylogenies is commonplace. In addition, simulations suggest that the addition of morphological data from extinct taxa may improve phylogenetic estimation when combined with molecular data for extant species, and some studies have merged morphological and molecular data to estimate combined evidence phylogenies containing both extinct and extant taxa. However, few, if any, studies have attempted to estimate divergence times using phylogenies containing both fossil and living taxa sampled for both molecular and morphological data. Here, I infer both the phylogeny and the time of origin for Lissamphibia and a number of stem tetrapods using Bayesian methods based on a data set containing morphological data for extinct taxa, molecular data for extant taxa, and molecular and morphological data for a subset of extant taxa. The results suggest that Lissamphibia is monophyletic, nested within Lepospondyli, and originated in the late Carboniferous at the earliest. This research illustrates potential pitfalls for the use of fossils as post hoc age constraints on internal nodes and highlights the importance of explicit phylogenetic analysis of extinct taxa. These results suggest that the application of fossils as minima or maxima on molecular phylogenies should be supplemented or supplanted by combined evidence analyses whenever possible.
41316550|One of the major tenets of the modern synthesis is that genetic differentiation among subpopulations is translated over time into genetic differentiation among species. Phylogeographic exploration is therefore essential to the study of speciation because it can reveal the presence of subpopulations that may go on to become species or that may already represent cryptic species. Acoustic species-specific mating signals provide a significant advantage for the recognition of cryptic or incipient species. Because the majority of species do not have such easily recognized premating signals, data from acoustically signaling species can serve as a valuable heuristic tool. Acoustic signals are also convenient tools for recognizing hybridization events. Here, we demonstrate that evidence of hybridization in the form of intermediate song phenotypes is present in many contact zones between species of the New Zealand grass cicadas of the Kikihia muta species complex and that recurring mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) introgression has created misleading patterns that make it difficult to identify certain taxa using song or mtDNA alone. In one case, introgression appears to have occurred between allopatric taxa by dispersal of introgressed populations of an intermediary species (" hybridization by proxy"). We also present a comparison of mtDNA-tree-and song-based taxonomies obtained for the K. muta complex. We find that 12 mtDNA candidate species are identified using shifts in phylogenetic branching rate found by a single-threshold mixed Yule-coalescent lineage model, while only 7 candidate species are identified using songs. Results from the Yule-coalescent model are dependent on factors such as the number of modeled thresholds and the inclusion of duplicate haplotypes. Genetic distances within song species reach a maximum at about 0.028 substitutions/site when likely cases of hybridization and introgression are excluded. Large genetic breaks or "gaps" are not observed between some northern (warmer climate) song clades, possibly because climate-induced bottlenecks have been less severe. These results support ongoing calls for multimarker genetic studies as well as "integrative taxonomy" that combines information from multiple character sources, including behavior, ecology, geography, and morphology.
41316544|Phylogenetic relationships and taxonomie distinctiveness of closely related species and subspecies are most accurately inferred from data derived from multiple independent loci. Here, we apply several approaches for understanding species-level relationships using data from 18 nuclear DNA loci and 1 mitochondrial DNA locus within currently described species and subspecies of Sistrurus rattlesnakes. Collectively, these methods provide evidence that a currently described species, the massasauga rattlesnake (Sistrurus catenatus), consists of two well-supported clades, one composed of the two western subspecies (S. c tergeminus and S. c edwardsii) and the other the eastern subspecies (S. c catenatus). Within pigmy rattlesnakes (S. miliarius), however, there is not strong support across methods for any particular grouping at the subspecific level. Monophyly based tests for taxonomie distinctiveness show evidence for distinctiveness of all subspecies but this support is strongest by far for the S. c catenatus clade. Because support for the distinctiveness of S. c catenatus is both strong and consistent across methods, and due to its morphological distinctiveness and allopatric distribution, we suggest that this subspecies be elevated to full species status, which has significant conservation implications. Finally, most divergence time estimates based upon a fossil-calibrated species tree are > 50% younger than those from a concatenated gene tree analysis and suggest that an active period of speciation within Sistrurus occurred within the late Pliocene /Pleistocene eras.
41316546|Reconstruction of the phylogeny of the five extant classes of the phylum Echinodermata has proven difficult. Results concerning higher-level taxonomie relationships among echinoderms are sensitive to the choice of analytical parameters and methods. Moreover, the proposal of a putative sixth class based on a small enigmatic disc-shaped echinoderm, Xyloplax, from the deep seas of the Bahamas and New Zealand in the 1980s further complicated the problem. Although clearly an echinoderm, Xyloplax did not have clear affinity among known groups. Using molecular sequence and developmental data from recently collected Xyloplax adults and embryos, we show that rather than representing an ancient distinct lineage as implied by its status as a class, Xyloplax is simply a starfish that is closely related to the asteroid family Pterasteridae. Many members of the Pterasteridae and all Xyloplax inhabit deep or polar seas and brood young. Brooding pterasterids and Xyloplax hold their young in specialized adult chambers until the young reach an advanced juvenile stage after which they are released as free-living individuals. We hypothesize that the unique morphology of Xyloplax evolved via progenesis the truncation of somatic growth at a juvenile body plan but with gonadal growth to maturity. Although the overall phylogeny of extant echinoderms remains sensitive to the choice of analytical methods, the placement of Xyloplax as sister to pterasterid asteroids is unequivocal. Based on this, we argue that the proposed class and infraclass status of Xyloplax should be suppressed.
41316552|The selection of fossil data to use as calibration age priors in molecular divergence time estimates inherently links neontological methods with paleontological theory. However, few neontological studies have taken into account the possibility of a taphonomic bias in the fossil record when developing approaches to fossil calibration selection. The Sppil-Rongis effect may bias the first appearance of a lineage toward the recent causing most objective calibration selection approaches to erroneously exclude appropriate calibrations or to incorporate multiple calibrations that are too young to accurately represent the divergence times of target lineages. Using turtles as a case study, we develop a Bayesian extension to the fossil selection approach developed by Marshall (2008. A simple method for bracketing absolute divergence times on molecular phylogenies using multiple fossil calibrations points. Am. Nat. 171: 726-742) that takes into account this taphonomic bias. Our method has the advantage of identifying calibrations that may bias age estimates to be too recent while incorporating uncertainty in phylogenetic parameter estimates such as tree topology and branch lengths. Additionally, this method is easily adapted to assess the consistency of potential calibrations to any one calibration in the candidate pool.
41316548|Geographic characters traits describing the spatial distribution of a species may both affect and be affected by processes associated with lineage birth and death. This is potentially confounding to comparative analyses of species distributions because current models do not allow reciprocal interactions between the evolution of ranges and the growth of phylogenetic trees. Here, we introduce a likelihood-based approach to estimating region-dependent rates of speciation, extinction, and range evolution from a phylogeny, using a new model in which these processes are interdependent. We demonstrate the method with simulation tests that accurately recover parameters relating to the mode of speciation and source-sink dynamics. We then apply it to the evolution of habitat occupancy in Californian plant communities, where we find higher rates of speciation in chaparral than in forests and evidence for expanding habitat tolerances.
41316547|Robertsonian chromosomal fusions predominate in shaping the genomes of many species of Bovidae. These and other cytogenetic data (from 52 taxa representing 51 species and 9 tribes of Bovidae) were (i) examined for usefulness in defining phylogenetic relationships and (ii) subsequently mapped to a consensus tree based on mitochondrial and nuclear DNA gene sequences with divergence dates of the corresponding species calculated from cytochrome b sequences. This permitted persistence time estimates for the various rearrangements. The chromosomal data resulted in an unsupported higher-level topology, but with recognition of the monophyly of some genera and tribes within Bovidae. The distribution and temporal spread of character states on the species tree is suggestive of a restricted role for hemiplasy (the retention of an ancestral chromosomal polymorphism through multiple speciation events) and for introgression (resulting from secondary contact among taxa), processes that can potentially lead to phylogenetic discordance. We conclude that the most probable interpretation for these data is that genuine karyotypic homoplasy predominates, but that hemiplasy (and/or introgression) is a realistic hypothesis for the observed patterns of several snared characters in Bovidae.
41316554|In popular use of Bayesian phylogenetics, a default branch-length prior is almost universally applied without knowing how a different prior would have affected the outcome. We performed Bayesian and maximum likelihood (ML) inference of phylogeny based on empirical nucleotide sequence data from a family of lichenized ascomycetes, the Psoraceae, the morphological delimitation of which has been controversial. We specifically assessed the influence of the combination of Bayesian branch-length prior and likelihood model on the properties of the Markov chain Monte Carlo tree sample, including node support, branch lengths, and taxon stability. Data included two regions of the mitochondrial ribosomal RNA gene, the internal transcribed spacer region of the nuclear ribosomal RNA gene, and the protein-coding largest subunit of RNA polymerase II. Data partitioning was performed using Bayes' factors, whereas the best-fitting model of each partition was selected using the Bayesian information criterion (BIC). Given the data and model, short Bayesian branch-length priors generate higher numbers of strongly supported nodes as well as short and topologically similar trees sampled from parts of tree space that are largely unexplored by the ML bootstrap. Long branch-length priors generate fewer strongly supported nodes and longer and more dissimilar trees that are sampled mostly from inside the range of tree space sampled by the ML bootstrap. Priors near the ML distribution of branch lengths generate the best marginal likelihood and the highest frequency of "rogue" (unstable) taxa. The branch-length prior was shown to interact with the likelihood model. Trees inferred under complex partitioned models are more affected by the stretching effect of the branch-length prior. Fewer nodes are strongly supported under a complex model given the same branch-length prior. Irrespective of model, internal branches make up a larger proportion of total tree length under the shortest branch-length priors compared with longer priors. Relative effects on branch lengths caused by the branch-length prior can be problematic to downstream phylogenetic comparative methods making use of the branch lengths. Furthermore, given the same branch-length prior, trees are on average more dissimilar under a simple unpartitioned model compared with a more complex partitioned models. The distribution of ML branch lengths was shown to better fit a gamma or Pareto distribution than an exponential one. Model adequacy tests indicate that the best-fitting model selected by the BIC is insufficient for describing data patterns in 5 of 8 partitions. More general substitution models are required to explain the data in three of these partitions, one of which also requires nonstationarity. The two mitochondrial ribosomal RNA gene partitions need heterotachous models. We found no significant correlations between, on the one hand, the amount of ambiguous data or the smallest branch-length distance to another taxon and, on the other hand, the topological stability of individual taxa. Integrating over several exponentially distributed means under the best-fitting model, node support for the family Psoraceae, including Psora, Protoblastenia, and the Micarea sylvicola group, is approximately 0.96. Support for the genus Psora is distinctly lower, but we found no evidence to contradict the current classification.
41316551|Evolutionary biologists have long debated the relative influence of species selection on evolutionary patterns. As a test, we apply a statistical phylogenetic approach to evaluate the influence of traits related to species distribution and life-history characteristics on patterns of diversification in salamanders. We use independent contrasts to test traitmediated diversification while accommodating phylogenetic uncertainty in relationships among all salamander families. Using a neontological data set, we find several species-level traits to be variable, heritable, and associated with differential success (i. e., higher diversification rates) at higher taxonomie categories. Specifically, the macroecological trait of small geographic-range size is strongly correlated with a higher rate of net diversification. We further consider the role that plasticity in life-history traits appears to fulfill in macroevolutionary processes of lineage divergence and durability. We find that pedotypy wherein some, but not all, organisms of a species mature in the gilled form without metamorphosing is also associated with higher net diversification rate than is the absence of developmental plasticity. Often dismissed as an insignificant process in evolution, we provide direct evidence for the role of species selection in lineage diversification of salamanders.
41316545|A common pattern found in phylogeny-based empirical studies of diversification is a decrease in the rate of lineage accumulation toward the present. This early-burst pattern of cladogenesis is often interpreted as a signal of adaptive radiation or density-dependent processes of diversification. However, incomplete taxonomie sampling is also known to artifactually produce patterns of rapid initial diversification. The Monte Carlo constant rates (MCCR) test, based upon Pybus and Harvey's gamma ()-statistic, is commonly used to accommodate incomplete sampling, but this test assumes that missing taxa have been randomly pruned from the phylogeny. Here we use simulations to show that preferentially sampling disparate lineages within a clade can produce severely inflated type-I error rates of the MCCR test, especially when taxon sampling drops below 75%. We first propose two corrections for the standard MCCR test, the proportionally deeper splits that assumes missing taxa are more likely to be recently diverged, and the deepest splits only MCCR that assumes that all missing taxa are the youngest lineages in the clade, and assess their statistical properties. We then extend these two tests into a generalized form that allows the degree of nonrandom sampling (NRS) to be controlled by a scaling parameter, . This generalized test is then applied to two recent studies. This new test allows systematists to account for nonrandom taxonomie sampling when assessing temporal patterns of lineage diversification in empirical trees. Given the dramatic affect NRS can have on the behavior of the MCCR test, we argue that evaluating the sensitivity of this test to NRS should become the norm when investigating patterns of cladogenesis in incompletely sampled phylogenies.
41316553|Tree reconstruction methods are often judged by their accuracy, measured by how close they get to the true tree. Yet, most reconstruction methods like maximum likelihood (ML) do not explicitly maximize this accuracy. To address this problem, we propose a Bayesian solution. Given tree samples, we propose finding the tree estimate that is closest on average to the samples. This "median" tree is known as the Bayes estimator (BE). The BE literally maximizes posterior expected accuracy, measured in terms of closeness (distance) to the true tree. We discuss a unified framework of BE trees, focusing especially on tree distances that are expressible as squared euclidean distances. Notable examples include Robinson-Foulds (RF) distance, quartet distance, and squared path difference. Using both simulated and real data, we show that BEs can be estimated in practice by hill-climbing. In our simulation, we find that BEs tend to be closer to the true tree, compared with ML and neighbor joining. In particular, the BE under squared path difference tends to perform well in terms of both path difference and RF distances.
41316517|The monophyletic group Caniformia (dog-like carnivores) in the order Carnivora comprises 9 families. Except for the general consensus for the earliest divergence of Canidae and the grouping of Procyonidae and Mustelidae, conflicting phylogenetic hypotheses exist for the other caniformian families. In the present study, a data set comprising >22 kb of 22 nuclear intron loci from 16 caniformian species is used to investigate the phylogenetic utility of nuclear introns in resolving the interfamilial relationships of Caniformia. Our phylogenetic analyses support Ailuridae as the sister taxon to a clade containing Procyonidae and Mustelidae, with Mephitinae being the sister taxon to all of them. The unresolved placements of Ursidae and Pinnipeds here emphasize a need to add more data and include more taxa to resolve this problem. The present study not only resolves some of the ambiguous relationships in Caniformia phylogeny but also shows that the noncoding nuclear markers can offer powerful complementary data for estimating the species tree. None of the newly developed introns here have previously been used for phylogeny reconstruction, thus increasing the spectrum of molecular markers available to mammalian systematics. Interestingly, all the newly developed intron data partitions exhibit intraindividual allele heterozygotes (IIAHs). There are 115 cases of IIAHs in total. The incorporation of IIAHs into phylogenetic analysis not only provides insights into the interfamilial relationships of Caniformia but also identifies two potential hybridization events occurred within Ursidae and Otariidae, respectively. Finally, the powers and pitfalls of phylogenetics using nuclear introns as markers are discussed in the context of Caniformia phylogeny.
41316514|Analyses of the increasingly available genomic data continue to reveal the extent of hybridization and its role in the evolutionary diversification of various groups of species. We show, through extensive coalescent-based simulations of multilocus data sets on phylogenetic networks, how divergence times before and after hybridization events can result in incomplete lineage sorting with gene tree incongruence signatures identical to those exhibited by hybridization. Evolutionary analysis of such data under the assumption of a species tree model can miss all hybridization events, whereas analysis under the assumption of a species network model would grossly overestimate hybridization events. These issues necessitate a paradigm shift in evolutionary analysis under these scenarios, from a model that assumes a priori a single source of gene tree incongruence to one that integrates multiple sources in a unifying framework. We propose a framework of coalescence within the branches of a phylogenetic network and show how this framework can be used to detect hybridization despite incomplete lineage sorting. We apply the model to simulated data and show that the signature of hybridization can be revealed as long as the interval between the divergence times of the species involved in hybridization is not too small. We reanalyze a data set of 106 loci from 7 in-group Saccharomyces species for which a species tree with no hybridization has been reported in the literature. Our analysis supports the hypothesis that hybridization occurred during the evolution of this group, explaining a large amount of the incongruence in the data. Our findings show that an integrative approach to gene tree incongruence and its reconciliation is needed. Our framework will help in systematically analyzing genomic data for the occurrence of hybridization and elucidating its evolutionary role.
41316515|The marginal likelihood is commonly used for comparing different evolutionary models in Bayesian phylogenetics and is the central quantity used in computing Bayes Factors for comparing model fit. A popular method for estimating marginal likelihoods, the harmonic mean (HM) method, can be easily computed from the output of a Markov chain Monte Carlo analysis but often greatly overestimates the marginal likelihood. The thermodynamic integration (TI) method is much more accurate than the HM method but requires more computation. In this paper, we introduce a new method, stepping stone sampling (SS), which uses importance sampling to estimate each ratio in a series (the "stepping stones") bridging the posterior and prior distributions. We compare the performance of the SS approach to the TI and HM methods in simulation and using real data. We conclude that the greatly increased accuracy of the SS and TI methods argues for their use instead of the HM method, despite the extra computation needed.
41316512|Phylogenetic analyses using genome-scale data sets must confront incongruence among gene trees, which in plants is exacerbated by frequent gene duplications and losses. Gene tree parsimony (GTP) is a phylogenetic optimization criterion in which a species tree that minimizes the number of gene duplications induced among a set of gene trees is selected. The run time performance of previous implementations has limited its use on large-scale data sets. We used new software that incorporates recent algorithmic advances to examine the performance of GTP on a plant data set consisting of 18,896 gene trees containing 510,922 protein sequences from 136 plant taxa (giving a combined alignment length of >2.9 million characters). The relationships inferred from the GTP analysis were largely consistent with previous large-scale studies of backbone plant phylogeny and resolved some controversial nodes. The placement of taxa that were present in few gene trees generally varied the most among GTP bootstrap replicates. Excluding these taxa either before or after the GTP analysis revealed high levels of phylogenetic support across plants. The analyses supported magnoliids sister to a eudicot + monocot clade and did not support the eurosid I and II clades. This study presents a nuclear genomic perspective on the broad-scale phylogenic relationships among plants, and it demonstrates that nuclear genes with a history of duplication and loss can be phylogenetically informative for resolving the plant tree of life.
41316513|Numerous simulation studies have investigated the accuracy of phylogenetic inference of gene trees under maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian techniques. The relative accuracy of species tree inference methods under simulation has received less study. The number of analytical techniques available for inferring species trees is increasing rapidly, and in this paper, we compare the performance of several species tree inference techniques at estimating recent species divergences using computer simulation. Simulating gene trees within species trees of different shapes and with varying tree lengths (T) and population sizes (), and evolving sequences on those gene trees, allows us to determine how phylogenetic accuracy changes in relation to different levels of deep coalescence and phylogenetic signal. When the probability of discordance between the gene trees and the species tree is high (i. e., T is small and/or  is large), Bayesian species tree inference using the multispecies coalescent (BEST) outperforms other methods. The performance of all methods improves as the total length of the species tree is increased, which reflects the combined benefits of decreasing the probability of discordance between species trees and gene trees and gaining more accurate estimates for gene trees. Decreasing the probability of deep coalescences by reducing  also leads to accuracy gains for most methods. Increasing the number of loci from 10 to 100 improves accuracy under difficult demographic scenarios (i.e., coalescent units  4N e ), but 10 loci are adequate for estimating the correct species tree in cases where deep coalescence is limited or absent. In general, the correlation between the phylogenetic accuracy and the posterior probability values obtained from BEST is high, although posterior probabilities are overestimated when the prior distribution for  is misspecified.
41316518|Recent and rapid radiations provide rich material to examine the factors that drive speciation. Most recent and rapid radiations that have been well-characterized involve species that exhibit overt ecomorphological differences associated with clear partitioning of ecological niches in sympatry. The most diverse genus of rodents, Rattus (66 species), evolved fairly recently, but without overt ecomorphological divergence among species. We used multilocus molecular phylogenetic data and five fossil calibrations to estimate the tempo of diversification in Rattus, and their radiation on Australia and New Guinea (Sahul, 24 species). Based on our analyses, the genus Rattus originated at a date centered on the Pliocene-Pleistocene boundary (1.84-3.17 Ma) with a subsequent colonization of Sahul in the middle Pleistocene (0.85-1.28 Ma). Given these dates, the per lineage diversification rates in Rattus and Sahulian Rattus are among the highest reported for vertebrates (1.1-1.9 and 1.6-3.0 species per lineage per million years, respectively). Despite their rapid diversification, Rattus display little ecomorphological divergence among species and do not fit clearly into current models of adaptive radiations. Lineage through time plots and ancestral state reconstruction of ecological characters suggest that diversification of Sahulian Rattus was most rapid early on as they expanded into novel ecological conditions. However, rapid lineage accumulation occurred even when morphological disparity within lineages was low suggesting that future studies consider other phenotypes in the diversification of Rattus.
41316516|Most phylogenetic models of protein evolution assume that sites are independent and identically distributed. Interactions between sites are ignored, and the likelihood can be conveniently calculated as the product of the individual site likelihoods. The calculation considers all possible transition paths (also called substitution histories or mappings) that are consistent with the observed states at the terminals, and the probability density of any particular reconstruction depends on the substitution model. The likelihood is the integral of the probability density of each substitution history taken over all possible histories that are consistent with the observed data. We investigated the extent to which transition paths that are incompatible with a protein's three-dimensional structure contribute to the likelihood. Several empirical amino acid models were tested for sequence pairs of different degrees of divergence. When simulating substitutional histories starting from a real sequence, the structural integrity of the simulated sequences quickly disintegrated. This result indicates that simple models are clearly unable to capture the constraints on sequence evolution. However, when we sampled transition paths between real sequences from the posterior probability distribution according to these same models, we found that the sampled histories were largely consistent with the tertiary structure. This suggests that simple empirical substitution models may be adequate for interpolating changes between observed sequences during phylogenetic inference despite the fact that the models cannot predict the effects of structural constraints from first principles. This study is significant because it provides a quantitative assessment of the biological realism of substitution models from the perspective of protein structure, and it provides insight on the prospects for improving models of protein sequence evolution.
41316563|Chorotypesstatistically significant groups of coincident distribution areasconstitute biogeographic units that are fuzzy by nature. This quality has been referred to in the literature but has not been analyzed in depth or methodologically developed. The present work redefines chorotypes as fuzzy sets from a pragmatic perspective and basically focuses on the methodological and interpretative implications of this approach. The amphibian fauna in the Iberian Peninsula was used as an example to explore the fuzzy nature of chorotypes. The method on which this article is based is a widely used technique to define chorotypes. This method involves the fuzziness that is inherent to the identification between degree of similarity and degree of membership and includes a probabilistic analysis of the classification for the objective delimitation of chorotypes. The main innovation of this paper is a procedure to analyze chorotypes as fuzzy biogeographic units. A set of fuzzy parameters to deal with the biogeographic interpretation of fuzzy chorotypes is also described. A computer program has been developed and is freely available. History may be related to the degree of fuzziness of chorotypes. In our example, with amphibian distributions in Iberia, less fuzzy chorotypes could have a historical explanation, and the internal fuzziness of chorotypes increases with their distance to hypothetical Pleistocene refugia.
41316560|Chloranthaceae is a small family of flowering plants (65 species) with an extensive fossil record extending back to the Early Cretaceous. Within Chloranthaceae, Hedyosmum is remarkable because of its disjunct distribution1 species in the Paleotropics and 44 confined to the Neotropicsand a long "temporal gap" between its stem age (Early Cretaceous) and the beginning of the extant radiation (late Cenozoic). Is this gap real, reflecting low diversification and a recent radiation, or the signature of extinction? Here we use paleontological data, relaxed-clock molecular dating, diversification analyses, and parametric ancestral area reconstruction to investigate the timing, tempo, and mode of diversification in Hedyosmum. Our results, based on analyses of plastid and nuclear sequences for 40 species, suggest that the ancestor of Chloranthaceae and the Hedyosmum stem lineages were widespread in the Holarctic in the Late Cretaceous. High extinction rates, possibly associated with Cenozoic climatic fluctuations, may have been responsible for the low extant diversity of the family. Crown group Hedyosmum originated c. 36-43 Ma and colonized South America from the north during the Early-Middle Miocene (c. 20 Ma). This coincided with an increase in diversification rates, probably triggered by the uplift of the Northern Andes from the Mid-Miocene onward. This study illustrates the advantages of combining paleontological, phylogenetic, and biogeographic data to reconstruct the spatiotemporal evolution of an ancient lineage, for which the extant diversity is only a remnant of past radiations. It also shows the difficulties of inferring patterns of lineage diversification when incomplete taxon sampling is combined with high extinction rates.
41316565|Generalized least squares (GLS) methods provide a relatively fast means of constructing a confidence set of topologies. Because they utilize information about the covariances between distances, it is reasonable to expect additional efficiency in estimation and confidence set construction relative to other least squares (LS) methods. Difficulties have been found to arise in a number of practical settings due to estimates of covariance matrices being ill conditioned or even noninvertible. We present here new ways of estimating the covariance matrices for distances that are much more likely to be positive definite, as the actual covariance matrices are. A thorough investigation of performance is also conducted. An alternative to GLS that has been proposed for constructing confidence sets of topologies is weighted least squares (WLS). As currently implemented, this approach is equivalent to the use of GLS but with covariances set to zero rather than being estimated. In effect, this approach assumes normality of the estimated distances and zero covariances. As the results here illustrate, this assumption leads to poor performance. A 95% confidence set is almost certain to contain the true topology but will contain many more topologies than are needed. On the other hand, the results here also indicate that, among LS methods, WLS performs quite well at estimating the correct topology. It turns out to be possible to improve the performance of WLS for confidence set construction through a relatively inexpensive normal parametric bootstrap that utilizes the same variances and covariances of GLS. The resulting procedure is shown to perform at least as well as GLS and thus provides a reasonable alternative in cases where covariance matrices are ill conditioned.
41316564|In this study, we develop a distance method for inferring unrooted species trees from a collection of unrooted gene trees. The species tree is estimated by the neighbor joining (NJ) tree built from a distance matrix in which the distance between two species is defined as the average number of internodes between two species across gene trees, that is, average gene-tree internode distance. The distance method is named NJ<L>st</L> to distinguish it from the original NJ method. Under the coalescent model, we show that if gene trees are known or estimated correctly, the NJ<L>st</L> method is statistically consistent in estimating unrooted species trees. The simulation results suggest that NJ<L>st</L> and STAR (another coalescence-based method for inferring species trees) perform almost equally well in estimating topologies of species trees, whereas the Bayesian coalescence-based method, BEST, outperforms both NJ<L>st</L> and STAR. Unlike BEST and STAR, the NJ<L>st</L> method can take unrooted gene trees to infer species trees without using an outgroup. In addition, the NJ<L>st</L> method can handle missing data and is thus useful in phylogenomic studies in which data sets often contain missing loci for some individuals.
41316561|The Anomura presents the greatest degree of morphological disparity in the decapod Crustacea, with body forms ranging from the symmetrical and asymmetrical hermit crabs to squat lobsters and king crabs. The phylogeny of the anomurans has been fraught with controversy. Recent debate has focused primarily on the phenomenon of carcinization, the evolution of crab-like form from a non-crab-like ancestor, focused chiefly on derivation of king crabs from asymmetrical hermit crabsthe "hermit to king" hypothesis. We show by phylogenetic analysis of five nuclear protein-coding gene sequences that hermit crabs have a single origin, but surprisingly, that almost all other major clades and body forms within the Anomura, are derived from within the hermit crabs. The crab-like form and squat lobster form have each evolved at least twice from separate symmetrical hermit crab ancestors. In each case, a carcinization trend can be posited via a transition series from the initial symmetrical long-tailed hermit crab form, through the intermediate squat lobster or asymmetrical hermit crab form, to the final crab-like form. Adaptation to dextral shell habitation evolved at least twice, once in an exclusively deep-water clade and once in the common ancestor of all other asymmetrical hermit crabs (from which king crabs are derived). These remarkable cases of parallelism suggest considerable phenotypic flexibility within the hermit crab ground plan, with a general tendency toward carcinization. Rather than having a separate origin from other major clades, hermit crabs have given rise to most other major anomuran body types.
41316567|Phylogenetic inference and evaluating support for inferred relationships is at the core of many studies testing evolutionary hypotheses. Despite the popularity of nonparametric bootstrap frequencies and Bayesian posterior probabilities, the interpretation of these measures of tree branch support remains a source of discussion. Furthermore, both methods are computationally expensive and become prohibitive for large data sets. Recent fast approximate likelihood-based measures of branch supports (approximate likelihood ratio test [aLRT] and Shimodaira-Hasegawa [SH]-aLRT) provide a compelling alternative to these slower conventional methods, offering not only speed advantages but also excellent levels of accuracy and power. Here we propose an additional method: a. Bayesian-like transformation of aLRT (aBayes). Considering both probabilistic and frequentisi frameworks, we compare the performance of the three fast likelihood-based methods with the standard bootstrap (SBS), the Bayesian approach, and the recently introduced rapid bootstrap. Our simulations and real data analyses show that with moderate model violations, all tests are sufficiently accurate, but aLRT and aBayes offer the highest statistical power and are very fast. With severe model violations aLRT, aBayes and Bayesian posteriors can produce elevated false-positive rates. With data sets for which such violation can be detected, we recommend using SH-aLRT, the nonparametric version of aLRT based on a procedure similar to the Shimodaira-Hasegawa tree selection. In general, the SBS seems to be excessively conservative and is much slower than our approximate likelihood-based methods.
41316566|In this paper, I develop efficient tools to simulate trees with a fixed number of extant species. The tools are provided in my open source R-package TreeSim available on CRAN. The new model presented here is a constant rate birth-death process with mass extinction and/or rate shift events at arbitrarily fixed times 1) before the present or 2) after the origin. The simulation approach for case (2) can also be used to simulate under more general models with fixed events after the origin. I use the developed simulation tools for showing that a mass extinction event cannot be distinguished from a model with constant speciation and extinction rates interrupted by a phase of stasis based on trees consisting of only extant species. However, once we distinguish between mass extinction and period of stasis based on paleontological data, fast simulations of trees with a fixed number of species allow inference of speciation and extinction rates using approximate Bayesian computation and allow for robustness analysis once maximum likelihood parameter estimations are available.
41316559|Discussions aimed at resolution of the Tree of Life are most often focused on the interrelationships of major organismal lineages. In this study, we focus on the resolution of some of the most apical branches in the Tree of Life through exploration of the phylogenetic relationships of darters, a species-rich clade of North American freshwater fishes. With a near-complete taxon sampling of close to 250 species, we aim to investigate strategies for efficient multilocus data sampling and the estimation of divergence times using relaxed-clock methods when a clade lacks a fossil record. Our phylogenetic data set comprises a single mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) gene and two nuclear genes sampled from 245 of the 248 darter species. This dense sampling allows us to determine if a modest amount of nuclear DNA sequence data can resolve relationships among closely related animal species. Darters lack a fossil record to provide age calibration priors in relaxed-clock analyses. Therefore, we use a near-complete species-sampled phylogeny of the perciform clade Centrarchidae, which has a rich fossil record, to assess two distinct strategies of external calibration in relaxed-clock divergence time estimates of darters: using ages inferred from the fossil record and molecular evolutionary rate estimates. Comparison of Bayesian phylogenies inferred from mtDNA and nuclear genes reveals that heterospecific mtDNA is present in approximately 12.5% of all darter species. We identify three patterns of mtDNA introgression in darters: proximal mtDNA transfer, which involves the transfer of mtDNA among extant and sympatric darter species, indeterminate introgression, which involves the transfer of mtDNA from a lineage that cannot be confidently identified because the introgressed haplotypes are not clearly referable to mtDNA haplotypes in any recognized species, and deep introgression, which is characterized by species diversification within a recipient clade subsequent to the transfer of heterospecific mtDNA. The results of our analyses indicate that DNA sequences sampled from single-copy nuclear genes can provide appreciable phylogenetic resolution for closely related animal species. A well-resolved near-complete species-sampled phylogeny of darters was estimated with Bayesian methods using a concatenated mtDNA and nuclear gene data set with all identified heterospecific mtDNA haplotypes treated as missing data. The relaxed-clock analyses resulted in very similar posterior age estimates across the three sampled genes and methods of calibration and therefore offer a viable strategy for estimating divergence times for clades that lack a fossil record. In addition, an informative rank-free clade-based classification of darters that preserves the rich history of nomenclature in the group and provides formal taxonomie communication of darter clades was constructed using the mtDNA and nuclear gene phylogeny. On the whole, the appeal of mtDNA for phylogeny inference among closely related animal species is diminished by the observations of extensive mtDNA introgression and by finding appreciable phylogenetic signal in a modest sampling of nuclear genes in our phylogenetic analyses of darters.
41316562|Despite the recent surge of interest in studying the evolution of development, surprisingly little work has been done to investigate the phylogenetic signal in developmental characters. Yet, both the potential usefulness of developmental characters in phylogenetic reconstruction and the validity of inferences on the evolution of developmental characters depend on the presence of such a phylogenetic signal and on the ability of our coding scheme to capture it. In a recent study, we showed, using simulations, that a new method (called the continuous analysis) using standardized time or ontogenetic sequence data and squared-change parsimony outperformed event pairing and event cracking in analyzing developmental data on a reference phylogeny. Using the same simulated data, we demonstrate that all these coding methods (event pairing and standardized time or ontogenetic sequence data) can be used to produce phylogenetically informative data. Despite some dependence between characters (the position of an event in an ontogenetic sequence is not independent of the position of other events in the same sequence), parsimony analysis of such characters converges on the correct phylogeny as the amount of data increases. In this context, the new coding method (developed for the continuous analysis) outperforms event pairing; it recovers a lower proportion of incorrect clades. This study thus validates the use of ontogenetic data in phylogenetic inference and presents a simple coding scheme that can extract a reliable phylogenetic signal from these data.
41316530|We present an evolutionary placement algorithm (EPA) and a Web server for the rapid assignment of sequence fragments (short reads) to edges of a given phylogenetic tree under the maximum-likelihood model. The accuracy of the algorithm is evaluated on several real-world data sets and compared with placement by pair-wise sequence comparison, using edit distances and BLAST. We introduce a slow and accurate as well as a fast and less accurate placement algorithm. For the slow algorithm, we develop additional heuristic techniques that yield almost the same run times as the fast version with only a small loss of accuracy. When those additional heuristics are employed, the run time of the more accurate algorithm is comparable with that of a simple BLAST search for data sets with a high number of short query sequences. Moreover, the accuracy of the EPA is significantly higher, in particular when the sample of taxa in the reference topology is sparse or inadequate. Our algorithm, which has been integrated into RAxML, therefore provides an equally fast but more accurate alternative to BLAST for tree-based inference of the evolutionary origin and composition of short sequence reads. We are also actively developing a Web server that offers a freely available service for computing read placements on trees using the EPA.
41316531|Fruiting body evolution is one of the central topics in fungal evolutionary biology. A number of hypotheses have been developed to explain the contemporary diversity of fruiting body forms, but their evaluation has been hampered by the lack of well-sampled data sets and suitable statistical methods. Phylogenetic evidence of the physiological changes that accompany switches in fruiting body type is lacking, and very little is known about the age of major events of fruiting body evolution. Based on a new multigene phylogeny, by using Bayesian methods, we demonstrate the existence of correlation between a number of morphological features and switches from nondeliquescent to deliquescent (autodigesting) fruiting bodies in the mushroom family Psathyrellaceae. Our results show that switches in the anatomy of two types of spacer cells (cystidia and pseudoparaphyses) and basidia (bimorphic or monomorphic) as well as the structure of the mushroom cap follow the evolution of deliquescent fruiting bodies, which suggests strong functional linkage between these traits. We performed Bayes factor-based tests, referred hereafter to as evolutionary pathway test (EPT), to decide which of the correlated characters were gained first during evolution. The EPTs strongly suggest that deliquescence was gained first, followed after short waiting times by the other morphological features. Bayesian relaxed molecular clock analyses suggest that the various events of switching between fruiting body types occurred independently at various ages during the history of the family. The utility of two mushroom fossils (Archaemarasmius and Protomycena), the only ones with unambiguous taxonomie for the calibration of agaric trees were also examined. Based on our results, we suggest that the evolutionary benefit of deliquescence may be prevention against desiccation via accelerated ontogeny of the fruiting body. Hypotheses regarding the functional significance of the correlated evolution are presented and discussed. Further, we argue that the changes in fruiting body types in mushrooms in general can be attributed to independent events (e.g., dispersal and adaptation) and not to particular geologic ages.
41316528|With the increasing interest in recognizing the discordance between gene genealogies, various gene tree/species tree reconciliation methods have been developed. We present here the first attempt to assess and compare two such Bayesian methods, Bayesian estimation of species trees (BEST) and BUCKy (Bayesian untangling of concordance knots), in the presence of several known processes of gene tree discordance. DNA alignments were simulated under the influence of incomplete lineage sorting (ILS) and of horizontal gene transfer (HGT). BEST and BUCKy both account for uncertainty in gene tree estimation but differ substantially in their assumptions of what caused gene tree discordance. BEST estimates a species tree using the coalescent model, assuming that all gene tree discordance is due to ILS. BUCKy does not assume any specific biological process of gene tree discordance through the use of a nonparametric clustering of concordant genes. BUCKy estimates the concordance factor (CF) of a clade, which is defined as the proportion of genes that truly have the clade in their trees. The estimated concordance tree is then built from clades with the highest estimated CFs. Because of their different assumptions, it was expected that BEST would perform better in the presence of ILS and that BUCKy would perform better in the presence of HGT. As expected, the species tree was more accurately reconstructed by BUCKy in the presence of HGT, when the HGT events were unevenly placed across the species tree. BUCKy and BEST performed similarly in most other cases, including in the presence of strong ILS and of HGT events that were evenly placed across the tree. However, BUCKy was shown to underestimate the uncertainty in CF estimation, with short credibility intervals. Despite this, the discordance pattern estimated by BUCKy could be compared with the signature of ILS. The resulting test for the adequacy of the coalescent model proved to have low Type I error. It was powerful when HGT was the major source of discordance and when HGT events were unevenly placed across the species tree.
41316534|The Cape region of South Africa is one of the most remarkable hotspots of biodiversity with a flora comprising more than 9000 plant species, almost 70% of which are endemic, within an area of only  90,000 km 2. Much of the diversity is due to an exceptionally large contribution of just a few clades that radiated substantially within this region, but little is known about the causes of these radiations. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of plant diversification, using near complete species-level phylogenies of four major Cape clades (more than 470 species): the genus Protea, a tribe of legumes (Podalyrieae) and two speciose genera within the iris family (Babiana and Moraea), representing three of the seven largest plant families in this biodiversity hotspot. Combining these molecular phylogenetic data with ecological and biogeographical information, we tested key hypotheses that have been proposed to explain the radiation of the Cape flora. Our results show that the radiations started throughout the Oligocene and Miocene and that net diversification rates have remained constant through time at globally moderate rates. Furthermore, using sister-species comparisons to assess the impact of different factors on speciation, we identified soil type shifts as the most important cause of speciation in Babiana, Moraea, and Protea, whereas shifts in fire-survival strategy is the most important factor for Podalyrieae. Contrary to previous findings in other groups, such as orchids, pollination syndromes show a high degree of phylogenetic conservatism, including groups with a large number of specialized pollination syndromes like Moraea. We conclude that the combination of complex environmental conditions together with relative climatic stability promoted high speciation and/or low extinction rates as the most likely scenario leading to present-day patterns of hyperdiversity in the Cape.
41316533|We have evaluated the performance of two classes of probabilistic models for substitution rate variation over phylogenetic trees. In the first class, branch rates are considered to be independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) stochastic variables. Three versions with respect to the underlying distribution (Gamma, Inverse Gaussian, and LogNormal) are considered. The i.i.d. models are compared with the autocorrelated (AC) model, where rates of adjacent nodes in the tree are AC, so that a node rate is LogNormal distributed around the rate of the parent node. The performance of different models is evaluated using three empirical data sets. For all data sets, it was clear that all tested models extracted substantial knowledge from data when posterior divergence time distributions were compared with the prior distributions and, furthermore, that they clearly outperformed a molecular clock. Moreover, the descriptive power of the i.i.d. models, as evaluated by Bayes factors, was either equal to or clearly better than that of the AC model. The latter effect increased with extended taxon sampling. Likewise, under none of the models could we find compelling evidence, in any of the data sets, for rate correlation between adjacent branches/nodes. These findings challenge previous suggestions of universality of autocorrelation in sequence evolution. We also performed an additional comparison with a divergence time prior including calibration information from fossil evidence. Adding fossil information to the prior had negligible effect on Bayes factors and mainly affected the width of the posterior distribution of the divergence times, whereas the relative position of the mean divergence times were largely unaffected.
41316529|Although most of the important evolutionary events in the history of biology can only be studied via interspecific comparisons, it is challenging to apply the rich body of population genetic theory to the study of interspecific genetic variation. Probabilistic modeling of the substitution process would ideally be derived from first principles of population genetics, allowing a quantitative connection to be made between the parameters describing mutation, selection, drift, and the patterns of interspecific variation. There has been progress in reconciling population genetics and interspecific evolution for the case where mutation rates are sufficiently low, but when mutation rates are higher, reconciliation has been hampered due to complications from how the loss or fixation of new mutations can be influenced by linked nonneutral polymorphisms (i.e., the Hill-Robertson effect). To investigate the generation of interspecific genetic variation when concurrent fitnessaffecting polymorphisms are common and the Hill-Robertson effect is thereby potentially strong, we used the Wright-Fisher model of population genetics to simulate very many generations of mutation, natural selection, and genetic drift. This was done so that the chronological history of advantageous, deleterious, and neutral substitutions could be traced over time along the ancestral lineage. Our simulations show that the process by which a nonrecombining sequence changes over time can markedly deviate from the Markov assumption that is ubiquitous in molecular phylogenetics. In particular, we find tendencies for advantageous substitutions to be followed by deleterious ones and for deleterious substitutions to be followed by advantageous ones. Such non-Markovian patterns reflect the fact that the fate of the ancestral lineage depends not only on its current allelic state but also on gene copies not belonging to the ancestral lineage. Although our simulations describe nonrecombining sequences, we conclude by discussing how non-Markovian behavior of the ancestral lineage is plausible even when recombination rates are not low. As a result, we believe that increased attention needs to be devoted to the robustness of evolutionary inference procedures that rely upon the Markov assumption.
41316532|Stochastic modeling of phylogenies raises five questions that have received varying levels of attention from quantitatively inclined biologists. 1) How large do we expect (from the model) the ratio of maximum historical diversity to current diversity to be? 2) From a correct phylogeny of the extant species of a clade, what can we deduce about past speciation and extinction rates? 3) What proportion of extant species are in fact descendants of still-extant ancestral species, and how does this compare with predictions of models? 4) When one moves from trees on species to trees on sets of species (whether traditional higher order taxa or clades within PhyloCode), does one expect trees to become more unbalanced as a purely logical consequence of tree structure, without signifying any real biological phenomenon? 5) How do we expect that fluctuation rates for counts of higher order taxa should compare with fluctuation rates for number of species? We present a mathematician's view based on an oversimplified modeling framework in which all these questions can be studied coherently.
41316527|The phylogenetic comparative method uses estimates of evolutionary relationships to explicitly model the covariance structure of interspecific data. By accounting for common ancestry, the coevolution between 2 or more traits, as a response to one another or to environmental variables, can be studied without confounding similarities due to identity by descent. Because the true phylogeny is unknowable, an estimate must be used, introducing a source of error into phylogenetic comparative analysis that can be difficult to quantify. This manuscript aims to elucidate how tree misspecification is propagated through a comparative analysis. I focus on the phylogenetic regression under a Brownian motion model of evolution and consider the effect of local phylogenetic perturbations on the regression fit. Motivated by Felsenstein's method of independent contrasts, I derive a matrix square root of the phylogenetic covariance matrix that has an obvious phylogenetic interpretation. I use this result to transform the perturbed phylogenetic regression model into an ordinary linear regression in which one interpretable point has been affected. The simplicity of this formulation allows the contributions of data and phylogeny to be disentangled when studying the effect of tree misspecification. Consequentially, I find that branch length misspecification can be easily explained in terms of the reweighting of contrast scores between subtrees. An analytical consideration of this and other perturbations helps to explain why the phylogenetic regression appears generally to be robust to tree misspecification, and I am able to identify conditions under which the regression may not yield robust results. I discuss why soft polytomies do not meet these problematic conditions, leading to the conclusion that unresolved bifurcations should have only modest effects on the regression fit.
10.2307/2413509|The use of comparative methods to test evolutionary hypotheses has become more common at both the macro- and microevolutionary levels. The application of such techniques is especially troublesome at the interface of these levels because phylogenetic relationships are often difficult to estimate. The use of a technique developed to estimate intraspecific cladograms combined with more traditional methods of phylogenetic estimation can improve the estimate in data sets containing a range of diversity when the lower bound of the range approaches 0% divergence. For nucleotide sequence data from the 16S region of the mitochondrial DNA from 72 individuals representing 37 species, this combined-procedures approach improved the estimate of phylogenetic relationships using maximum-parsimony, maximum-likelihood, and neighbor-joining methods. The estimated trees were used to examine systematic hypotheses relating to the crayfish genus Orconectes and species relationships within the subgenus Procericambarus. The monophyly of Procericambarus is not supported by the mitochondrial data, and the hypotheses of unique origins of various morphological features previously used in determining crayfish relationships is unsupported.
10.2307/2413510|We examined the statistical performance (in terms of type I error rates) of Felsenstein's (1985, Am. Nat. 125:1-15) comparative method of phylogenetically independent contrasts for testing hypotheses about evolutionary correlations of continuous-valued characters. We simulated data along two different phylogenies, one for 15 species of plethodontid salamanders and the other for 49 species of Carnivora and ungulates. We implemented 15 different models of character evolution, 14 of which deviated from Brownian motion, which is in effect assumed by the method. The models studied included the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process and punctuated equilibrium (change allowed in only one daughter at each bifurcation) both with and without trends and limits on how far phenotypes could evolve. As has been shown in several previous simulation studies, a nonphylogenetic Pearson correlation of species' mean values yielded inflated type I error rates under most models, including that of simple Brownian motion. Independent contrasts yielded acceptable type I error rates under Brownian motion (and in preliminary studies under slight deviations from this model), but they were inflated under most other models. This new result confirms the model dependence of independent contrasts. However, when branch lengths were checked and transformed, then type I error rates of independent contrasts were reduced. Moreover, the maximum observed type I error rates never exceeded twice the nominal P value at  = 0.05. In comparison, the nonphylogenetic correlation tended to yield extremely inflated (and highly variable) type I error rates. These results constitute another demonstration of the general superiority of phylogenetically based statistical methods over nonphylogenetic ones, even under extreme deviations from a Brownian motion model. These results also show the necessity of checking the assumptions of statistical comparative methods and indicate that diagnostic checks and remedial measures can substantially improve the performance of the independent contrasts method.
10.2307/2413512|Finite mixture coding (FMC) is a new method of coding continuous characters. FMC uses a three-step goodness-of-fit procedure to assign codes. First, for a given measurement, parameters are estimated for a number of density functions that describe a data set either of species means or of measurements of specimens from several species. The density functions represent either a single population or a mixture of populations (e.g., a mixture of two normal distributions). Next, a goodness-of-fit criterion (the Akaike information criterion) is used to determine which of the density functions best describes the data set. The best function indicates the number of populations into which the variates of the data set can be segregated. Finally, species are assigned to the population for which its probability of membership is highest. Each population is then assigned a code, and species falling within the same population share the same code. Although other coding methods incorporate statistical tests or parameters into the coding process, FMC is the only method that produces codes as the direct output of a statistical procedure.
10.2307/2413513|The method of minimum evolution was introduced by Edwards and Cavalli-Sforza (1963, Heredity 18:553, Ann. Hum. Genet. 27:104-105) for the reconstruction of phylogenetic trees. Its relationship to the subsequently developed parsimony methods and the logical basis of the methods are discussed, with special reference to probability models. The minimum evolution method did not derive from Hennig's phylogenetic systematics but rather as an approximation to the maximum-likelihood solution for a model of random evolution.
10.2307/2413511|The correlation that exists among multiple cladograms is often taken as evidence of some underlying macroevolutionary phenomenon common to the histories of those clades and, thus, as an explanation of the patterns of association of the constituent taxa. Such studies have various forms, the most common of which are cladistic biogeography and host-parasite coevolution. The issue of confidence has periodically been a theoretical consideration of vicariance biogeographers but in practice has been largely ignored by others. Previous approaches to assessing confidence in historical associations are examined here in relation to the difference between simple-event and cumulative probabilities and in relation to the restrictiveness of joint hypothesis testing. The phylogenetic covariance probability (PCP) test, a novel approach to assessing confidence in hypotheses of historical association, employs the empirical protocol of Brooks parsimony analysis (BPA) in an iterative, computer-intensive randomization routine. The PCP value consists of the frequency with which a solution as efficient or more efficient than the observed hypothesis of correlated phylogeny is achieved with random associations (e.g., of parasites and hosts or of taxa and areas). Because only the associations, and not the contributing phylogenies, are subjected to randomization, the test is not prone to certain criticisms leveled at other cladistic randomization routines. The behavior of the PCP test is examined in relation to eight published studies of historical association. This test is appropriately sensitive to the degrees of freedom allowed by the number of contributing clades and the number of taxa in those clades, to the extent of noncorrelated associations in the observed hypothesis, and to the relative information content contributing to that hypothesis.
10.2307/2413514|Molecular data are commonly used to reconstruct the evolutionary histories of organisms. However, evolutionary reconstructions from different molecular data sets sometimes conflict. It is generally unknown whether these different estimates of history result from random variation in the processes of nucleotide substitution or from fundamentally different evolutionary mechanisms underlying the histories of the genes analyzed. We describe a novel likelihood ratio test that compares different topologies (each estimated from a different data partition for the same taxa) to determine if they are significantly different. The results of this test indicate that different genes provide significantly different phylogenies for amniotes, supporting earlier suggestions based on less direct tests. These results suggest that some molecular data can give misleading information about evolutionary history.
10.2307/2413515|Several recent studies have included attempts to use the balance of phylogenetic trees, i.e., the extent to which sister groups within a tree tend to be the same size, to test hypotheses about the macroevolutionary processes that produced them. Such tests require measures of balance or imbalance and the moments or probability distributions of these measures under some null models. In earlier work, I developed recursion equations for the mean, variance, skewness, and complete probability distribution of Colless's coefficient of imbalance (I) (Rogers, 1994, Evolution 48:2026-2036). In this paper, I report the extension of these techniques to two additional imbalance measures, the number of unbalanced nodes on a tree (J) and Sackin's index (K), under both the equal-rates Markov (ERM) model and the equal probability (EP) model. I also show how to find the correlations and joint probability distributions of all pairs of these three coefficients. I and K are so highly correlated for trees of all sizes that K contains little additional information about tree balance that is not conveyed by I. The correlation of I and J, however, decreases rapidly with increasing tree size, indicating that the testing of macroevolutionary hypotheses may be refined by employing the joint distribution of these two coefficients. The results of two simulation studies of non-ERM speciation processes are used to illustrate how the joint distribution of I and J may be used.
10.2307/2413527|Cladistic analyses of molecular (chloroplast DNA restriction site) and morphological data matrices for species of Andira, a genus of Neotropical woody plants, were performed. The molecular data provided considerable phylogenetic resolution but failed to resolve relationships within species groups. The morphological data produced large numbers of equally most-parsimonious trees that yielded an entirely unresolved strict consensus tree. This lack of resolution reflects the small number of macromorphological characters in Andira that display discontinuous variation and thus are suitable for cladistic analysis. A directly combined cladistic analysis resulted in four far more highly resolved equally most-parsimonious trees. In contrast, combining the data sets using consensus techniques yielded poor phylogenetic resolution. The increased resolution of the directly combined analysis is explained by the molecular and morphological characters providing phylogenetic resolution at different hierarchical levels. The utility of the phylogenetic framework provided by this combined analysis is demonstrated by using the phylogeny to study the evolution of dispersal syndromes in Andira. Patterns of morphological variation in Andira are typical of many species-rich genera of woody tropical plants, which are an important component of diversity in tropical vegetation. This example demonstrates that cladistic analysis of combined molecular and morphological data may greatly improve phylogeny reconstruction of these organisms.
10.2307/2413525|Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed for salamanders of the plethodontid subfamily Desmognathinae to examine evolution of morphology, ecology, and life history. Mitochondrial DNA sequences encoding 12S and 16S ribosomal RNA and the valine transfer RNA provided 259 phylogenetically informative sites from approximately 1,200 nucleotide positions for 21 specimens representing 15 species and subspecies. These data were analyzed in conjunction with 13 morphological and reproductive characters to generate phylogenetic hypotheses. The directly developing terrestrial desmognathines Phaeognathus hubrichti and Desmognathus wrighti represent, respectively, the first and second phylogenetic branching events within the subfamily, and the remaining terrestrial lineage, D. aeneus, also branches near the base of the phylogenetic tree. These results challenge earlier hypotheses that within Desmognathus the small nonmetamorphosing species, D. aeneus and D. wrighti, represent the end of a graded phylogenetic decrease in size and decrease in use of aquatic habitats. In contrast to previous hypotheses, our results suggest that desmognathine evolution includes transformations in the direction of larger body sizes, lengthened larval periods, and greater use of aquatic habitats.
10.2307/2413524|A phylogenetic analysis of modern and selected fossil geese and swans was performed using 165 characters of the skeleton, trachea, and natal and definitive integument. Five shortest trees were found (length = 318; consistency index for informative characters = 0.634), which differed only in details of relationships among three species of Branta. The trees supported (1) Cnemiornis as sister group to other taxa analyzed; (2) a sister group relationship between the moa-nalos of Hawaii and other geese and swans; (3) Cereopsis as sister group of Anser, Branta, Coscoroba, and Cygnus (contra Livezey, 1986, Auk 103:737-754); (4) monophyly of Anser, Branta, and Geochen and confirmation of generic monophyly of each; and (5) Coscoroba as sister group to Cygnus. Selective exclusion of fossil taxa from the analysis variably affected inferred relationships and had substantial impacts on computational efficiency. Some nodes were not robust to bootstrapping: (1) nodes relating species groups within Anser, Cygnus, and Thambetochen and (2) the node uniting Anser, Branta, Coscoroba, and Cygnus relative to Cereopsis. Bremer (decay) indices indicated similar differences in relative support for nodes. Skeletal characters were comparatively important in establishing higher order relationships, whereas integumentary characters were critical for lower order inferences. Constrained analyses revealed that other proposed phylogenetic hypotheses entailed variable penalities in parsimony. The shortest tree(s) was considered with respect to selected ecomorphological attributes (e.g., body mass, sexual size dimorphism, clutch size) and biogeography, and a revised phylogenetic classification of the geese and swans is proposed.
10.2307/2413530|Many phylogenetic analyses are inspired by or depend upon the monophyly of a group specified a priori. Also, many evolutionary problems for which phylogenies are useful do not require every detail of the phylogeny to be estimated correctly but depend upon the monophyly (or lack thereof) of a particular group. We propose a likelihood-ratio test that compares whether the best trees estimated with and without the constraint of monophyly are significantly different. Simulation suggests that the test is conservative when the null hypothesis (a particular specified constraint) is correct. We applied the likelihood-ratio test of monophyly to the question of the relationship of the presumed-extinct marsupial wolf (Thylacinus). Specifically, we examined the null hypotheses that (1) the marsupial wolf does not form a monophyletic group with dasyurids and (2) the marsupial wolf is a basal member of the Australian radiation of mammals. Both hypotheses were rejected using the likelihood-ratio test of monophyly.
10.2307/2413526|The phylogeny of oscine passerines was estimated by comparing 27 species using DNA-DNA hybridization. In the process, the finer structure of the "sylvioids" was examined (1) to assess the phylogenetic proposals of Sibley and Ahlquist (1990, Phylogeny and classification of birds, Yale Univ. Press, New Haven, Connecticut) and (2) to develop a framework for studies of sylvioid historical ecology. Many of Sibley and Ahlquist's phylogenetic proposals were supported, including their division of the oscines into two clades: corvids and passerids. However, their division of the passerids into three clades, Muscicapoidea, Sylvioidea, and Passeroidea, was not supported; neither their Sylvioidea nor their Passeroidea is monophyletic. The improved picture of oscine phylogeny presented here permits a more rigorous historical analysis of convergence, adaptation, phylogenetic constraint, and other evolutionary phenomena. For example, the sister group of the seed-caching Paridae is the Remizidae (including the verdin, Auriparus), not the nuthatches (Sittidae), which also cache seeds. Thus, seed caching arose separately in the Paridae and Sittidae and is likely to be a key innovation for these groups, i.e., an adaptation responsible for their diversification. Similar cases of convergence and thus potential opportunities for ecophylogenetic study are common throughout the passerines. Unfortunately, such study is hampered by the difficulty of resolving passerine phylogeny, which is characterized by many short internodes.
10.2307/2413528|A Monte Carlo approach was used to estimate the accuracy of a given tree reconstruction method for any number of taxa. In this procedure, we sampled randomly over all possible bifurcating trees assigning substitution rates (branch lengths) to each edge from an exponential distribution to obtain a biologically sensible maximal observed distance. Three different sets of trees were studied: the unrestricted tree space, the biologically meaningful tree space as introduced by Nei et al. (1995, Science 267:253-254), and the population data tree space. We used this technique to elucidate the performance of neighbor joining as a function of the number of taxa, assuming that distances are uncorrected and sequences evolve according to the Jukes-Cantor model. The accuracy of neighbor joining decreases almost exponentially with the number of taxa. However, the rate of decrease depends on the tree space studied. Although the accuracy decreases towards zero, the similarity, i.e., the number of partitions that are identical between model tree and reconstructed tree, is in all cases studied much higher than the value expected for two randomly chosen trees. Although the probability of recovering the true tree is dramatically influenced by sequence length, the average similarity does not decrease substantially if branch lengths are not too short.
10.2307/2413529|Four molecular data sets are available for the diploid intersterile genera of the cereal grain tribe Triticcac, and there are numerous differences among the four published trees. All six pairwise combinations of data sets were examined using tree comparisons, the incongruence length difference test, the Wilcoxon signed ranks test, and a permutation test. We describe some advantages, disadvantages, and properties of the different comparison methods. Test results provide no evidence for significant differences in the phylogenetic signal among the three nuclear data sets, with the exception of the placement of a single taxon. The chloroplast DNA restriction site data, however, support a significantly different tree, and the differences probably reflect a separate evolutionary history of the chloroplast genome.
10.2307/2413523|Published sets of systematic data on crocodilians (18S and 28S nuclear ribosomal DNA [rDNA] restriction fragments, mitochondrial rDNA restriction fragments, 12S mitochondrial rDNA sequences, osteology, external morphology, dentition, nest type, albumin, parasites) were used to test hypotheses of data set incongruence and phylogeny. Comparing incongruence indices between molecular versus molecular data set comparisons and molecular versus morphological data set comparisons showed the orphological/molecular comparisons to be significantly more incongruent, and experiments removing taxa suggested that morphological incongruence can be localized to the separation of Gavialis from Tomistoma. Significance tests of incongruence between the five larger crocodilian data sets relative to each other and to combined data sets supported these hypotheses and demonstrated that only 1 (12S sequences vs. morphology) of the 10 pairwise comparisons of data sets show significant incongruence. Three hypotheses of crocodilian phylogeny were evaluated using combined parsimony analysis, separate parsimony analyses, and evaluation of uncombinable data. The (alligatorids(crocodylids(Gavialis, Tomistoma))) hypothesis of crocodilian relationships was best supported. Although this hypothesis is not supported by one of the molecular data sets and requires additional morphological homoplasy beyond that required in most-parsimonious trees based on morphology, other hypotheses require even more homoplasy, and any particular hypothesis of crocodilian evolution requires additional homoplasy in more than one data set. Alligatorid relationships were robustly supported in both combined and separate analyses. Crocodylus relationships were not well resolved in most-parsimonious trees from any individual data set but were completely resolved in the combined analysis.
10.2307/2413612|Molecular phylogenies can be used to test hypotheses of cospeciation between hosts and parasites by comparing both cladistic relationships and branch lengths. Molecular data can also help discriminate between competing reconstructions of the history of the host-parasite association. Methods for comparing sequence divergence in hosts and parasites are described and applied to data for pocket gophers and their chewing lice. The hypothesis of cospeciation between these two clades is strongly supported. The lengths of homologous branches in the gopher and louse phylogenies are positively correlated, but there is little support for the hypothesis that lice are evolving an order of magnitude faster than are their hosts.
10.2307/2413613|The importance of choice of taxa in phylogenetic analysis has been explored mainly with reference to its effect on the accuracy of tree estimation. Taxon sampling can also introduce other kinds of errors. Even if the sampled topology agrees with the true topology, it may not include the true root node of a clade, a node that is of interest for many reasons. Using a simple Yule model for the diversification process, the probability of identifying this node is derived under random sampling of taxa. For large clades, the minimum sample size needed to be 95% confident of identifying the root node is approximately 40 and is independent of the size of the clade. If rates of diversification differ in the two sister groups descended from the root node, the minimum sample size needed increases markedly. If these two sister groups are so different in diversity that a Yule model would be rejected by conventional diversification tests, then the necessary sample size is an order of magnitude greater than when diversification is homogeneous.
10.2307/2413614|In phylogenetic taxonomy, the clade denoted by a taxon name is determined by the phylogenetic definition of the name and by the phylogenetic context. The clade referred to by the phylogenetic definition of a taxon name depends on (1) the reference phylogeny, (2) the meanings of taxon names referred to in the definition, and (3) whether the name is defined as a node-, stem-, or apomorphy-based taxon. Ambiguity in the clade referred to by the definition results from (1) imprecise wording so that no single ancestor is specified, the clade identified by the definition changes with the extinction of taxa, or the definition is a tautology, (2) failure to specify a reference phylogeny, and (3) the lack of phylogenetic definitions of taxon names referred to in the definition. In phylogenetic taxonomy, phylogenetic pattern has the central role in determining the identity and attributes of the clades denoted by particular taxon names. Because phylogenetic definitions may associate taxon names with different clades on different cladograms, definitions may have to be emended with changes in our understanding of phylogeny to preserve the association between a taxon name and a particular clade. As phylogenetic hypotheses stabilize, so will the definitions and usage of taxon names. Conventions can promote universality in the formation, definition, and usage of taxon names in phylogenetic taxonomy. Ambiguity is reduced by using standard formats for node- and stem-based definitions and by citing authorities for the meaning of taxon names used in definitions. Reference to undefined taxon names in definitions can be avoided by referring instead to the species referred to that taxon in a standard taxonomic reference. Recommended usages of taxon names provide a mechanism for restricting the use of a name to a clade with a particular exclusive common ancestry. Continuity of usage should help to promote the acceptance of phylogenetic taxonomy by biologists. These issues are discussed within the context of the phylogenetic taxonomy of the Carnivora.
10.2307/2413611|Morphometric data from longitudinal growth studies with multiple measurements made in several growth stages on the same specimens confront researchers with difficult statistical problems because traits are correlated both within and across stages. Here, we introduce a statistical model especially designed to deal with this complexity. The common principal component (CPC) model for dependent random vectors is based on the assumption that the same pattern underlies both variation within stages and covariation across stages. Thus, a single transformation, when applied to all stages, renders the resulting CPCs uncorrelated not only within but also across stages. Because of these simplifying assumptions, the CPC model greatly reduces the number of parameters to be estimated; it is thus an efficient tool for data reduction. This model is demonstrated using growth of the water strider Limnoporus canaliculatus. The CPCs can be interpreted as patterns of "size" variation and contrasts between parts that are common to all stages, although there are minor deviations from the model. The "size" CPC accounts for most variation in all instars and is therefore an effective measure of overall growth. Moreover, the CPC model clarifies the link between static and ontogenetic variation by including both levels in a joint analysis and can be used to study morphological integration and constraints on the evolution of ontogenies.
10.2307/2413610|We describe a simple method for generating tighter confidence intervals for the date of divergence of two monophyletic groups of taxa. This technique exploits the variation that exists within each of two groups that have evolved separately from a common ancestor. We illustrate the method (plus a technique to test the molecular clock hypothesis) using sequence dissimilarity within the orders of ratites and of tinamous (small birds from South America commonly regarded as the closest relative to ratites).
10.2307/2413615|A number of Vendian (latest Precambrian) body fossils have traditionally been considered arthropods or arthropodlike organisms. Several Cambrian "weird wonders" have also been linked with the arthropods. However, these relationships are difficult to express in traditional Linnean systematics. I present a morphological cladistic analysis of seven Vendian "arthropodlike" taxa compared with 21 representative Cambrian arthropods, lobopods, and weird wonders. Four arthropods from the later Phanerozoic (a pycnogonid, a monuran, and the problematic Cheloniellon and Arthropleura), five extant tardigrades, two extant kinorhynchs, and an extant priapulid, myriapod, pycnogonid, and onychophoran are also included. Monophyly of the Arthropoda is supported, but the anomalocarids and their relatives (Anomalopoda) fall out very close to the base of the traditional Arthropoda and should be included within it. The relationships among arthropods with uniramous appendages are not well resolved, but the group does not appear to be monophyletic. The biramous arthropods do form a clade and are divided into a crustaceanomorph clade and an arachnomorph clade that includes the trilobites. Most Vendian arthropodlike fossils form two clades, the Vendiamorpha and the Sprigginidae, in the arthropod stem group. The Lobopoda is a monophyletic clade with three branches: tardigrades, onychophorans, and marine lobopods. An unranked taxonomic scheme is proposed for the major clades identified here. There is no compelling reason to accept the hypothesis that the Vendian organisms included here are not metazoans.
10.2307/2413616|Many hypotheses regarding the phylogenetic position of the Chaetognatha (arrow worms) have been proposed; these organisms are problematic primarily because their morphology offers few unambiguous systematic characters that ally them with other taxa. Early researchers proposed a plethora of phylogenetic placements for the Chaetognatha, grouping them with such divergent taxa as acanthocephalans and mollusks, but more traditional hypotheses posit that chaetognaths are, in fact, deuterostomes. Recently, Telford and Holland (1993, Mol. Biol. Evol. 10: 660-676) and Wada and Satoh (1994, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91:1801-1804) disputed the deuterostome affinities of chaetognaths based on 18S nuclear ribosomal RNA (rDNA) gene sequence data. By employing published 18S rDNA gene sequence data, I extended these previous analyses by testing specific hypotheses of chaetognath affinities to nematodes, mollusks, acanthocephalans, and deuterostomes. Both parsimony and neighbor-joining analyses supported the monophyly of a chaetognath-nematode clade. Faith's T-PTP test and winning-sites analyses were employed to discriminate among competing hypotheses. The possibility of long-branch attraction accounting for the chaetognath-nematode relationship was explored by analyzing alternative four-taxon trees. An evolutionary scenario for the origin of the chaetognath lineage from a vermiform benthic organism is presented.
10.2307/2413567|We investigated the triples distance as a measure of the distance between two rooted bifurcating phylogenetic trees. The triples distance counts the number of subtrees of three taxa that are different in the two trees. Exact expressions are given for the mean and variance of the sampling distribution of this distance measure. Also, a normal approximation is proved under the class of label-invariant models on the distribution of trees. The theory is applied to the usage of the triples distance as a statistic for testing the null hypothesis that the similarities in two trees can be explained by independent random structures. In an example, two phylogenies that describe the same seven species of chloroccalean zoosporic green algae are compared: one phylogeny based on morphological characteristics and one based on ribosomal RNA gene sequence data.
10.2307/2413564|There are a number of species of Southeast Asian Rana that are characterized by an unusual suite of sexually dimorphic features and derived reproductive modes. These frogs lack the usual secondary sexual characteristics of ranid frogs: nuptial pads, vocal sacs, and enlarged flexor muscles. Secondary sexual characteristics in frogs are under androgenic control. Phylogenetic analyses using morphological and molecular data indicate that a drop in androgen level and/or a shift in androgen sensitivity may have been involved in the evolution of male parental care and the loss of the common suite of secondary sexual characteristics in these Asian frogs. Phylogenetic analyses also provide important information on experimental design by indicating the most appropriate taxa to use in the exploration of physiological processes controlling the expression of sexual dimorphism. This work is an example of how emergent properties from phylogenetic analyses can be used to formulate and test hypotheses of process and pattern of evolutionary change.
10.2307/2413566|The switch from feeding to nonfeeding larvae is an ecologically important transformation that has evolved on several separate occasions within the echinoids. In each case, this life history transformation has been accompanied by extensive changes in larval morphology. A phylogenetic approach is used here to reconstruct these morphological changes, to begin asking why they have taken the particular forms observed, and to assess the degree of parallel transformation in separate cases. Both traditional character mapping and a less usual aggregate analysis indicate massively parallel transformations in larval morphology associated with, and only with, this particular life history transformation. Some of these parallel morphological transformations may be due to relaxed functional constraints associated with the ancestral life history mode, but many are probably the result of new functional constraints associated with the derived mode. The comparative data suggest a simple and testable model for the switch from feeding to nonfeeding larvae involving three sequential steps.
10.2307/2413565|Robust phylogenetic information can be instrumental to the study of the evolution of female mating preferences and preferred male traits. In this paper, the evolution of a preexisting female bias favoring a sword in male swordtail fish and the evolution of the sword, a complex character, are used to demonstrate how the evolution of mating preferences and preferred traits can be examined in a phylogenetic context. Phylogenetic information suggests that a preference for a sword arose prior to the evolution of the sword in the genus Xiphophorus and that the sword was adaptive at its origin. A phylogenetic approach to the study of female preferences and male traits can also be informative when used in conjunction with mate choice theory in making predictions about evolutionary changes in an initial bias, both prior to the appearance of the male trait it favors and subsequent to the appearance of the trait.
10.2307/2413569|We illustrate one approach to bridging the gap between the statistical methodology of multivariate morphometrics and the graphically oriented methods of geometric morphometrics for landmark data. Partial-warp scores (elements of the weight matrix from relative-warp analysis) are used as variables to describe nonaffine shape variation. The results of various multivariate analyses can then be visualized by reconstruction of images as weighted linear combinations of thin-plate splines. The method was applied to data on seven species of Old World moles of the family Talpidae. There was no evidence for sexual dimorphism or any interaction between sex differences and species differences. There were large statistically significant differences among species with respect to nonaffine shape differences (local deformations). Small but statistically significant differences were found among species with respect to the uniform component of shape variation.
10.2307/2413563|Both male and female gasterosteid fishes display nuptial coloration. Male nuptial coloration originated in the ancestor of the Pungitius + Culaea + Gasterosteus clade. Patterns of origin and diversification of characters involved in male-male, male-female, and parental interactions indicate that the evolution of male color was influenced by intersexual selection, natural selection during parental care, and intrasexual selection, in decreasing order of importance. This macroevolutionary hypothesis was corroborated by examining changes in male color across the breeding cycle for two stickleback species, Gasterosteus aculeatus and Culaea inconstans. Female nuptial coloration may have originated before the male signal. The phylogenetic diversification of the male and female signals are decoupled, suggesting that they have been subject to different selection pressures throughout their evolutionary histories. Macroevolutionary patterns and experimental studies indicate that color signal evolution has been more complex in this group of fishes than was previously thought.
10.2307/2413570|Inconsistency of phylogenetic estimations refers to the property of certain estimation methods to converge on the positively wrong estimate with increasing amounts of data. This property, at least with respect to the maximum parsimony method, has been given the catch phrase "long branches attract." It has also been suggested that this problem can be alleviated by inclusion of more taxa to break up the long branches. Unfortunately, these observations have been based on computations for trees with small numbers of taxa. Here, I present a decomposition equation that allows determination of inconsistency conditions for large numbers of taxa. I show by counterexamples that long branches are a poor predictor of inconsistent conditions and that even trees with equal branch lengths can produce inconsistent estimates. I also tested the idea of breaking up long branches with additional taxa. The addition of taxa alleviates the inconsistency problem only if the average rate of change in the added taxa is low. If the rate is high, the inconsistency problem can become worse. Sampling of random tree models indicates that the inconsistency problem becomes increasingly acute as the number of taxa becomes larger. Conclusions: (1) low rates of change are of paramount importance if the inconsistency problem is to be avoided, (2) if the evolutionary question of interest does not require large numbers of taxa, it seems best to use fewer taxa because larger trees are more likely to contain inconsistent branches, and (3) if taxa are added to counter inconsistency problems, the added taxa should have low rates of change and be close to the common ancestor of the clade (which may be measured by comparison with the outgroup taxa). Longer branches require large numbers of added taxa, but such additions should only be used to resolve the particular branch of interest. Other parts of the tree, especially the branches within the added taxa, may still be inconsistently estimated.
10.2307/2413568|Previous studies using partial regression Mantel tests of matrix correspondence on within-island geographic variation in the color pattern of the Tenerife (Canary Islands) lacertid lizard (Gallotia galloti) support natural selection for different north-south climatically determined biotopes but do not support any historical cause. However, tests on the DNA phylogeny based primarily on population data from 57 localities on Tenerife support the hypothesis that there were populations on two putative precursor islands that have come into secondary contact and introgressed after these islands were joined to form Tenerife by the eruption of the Canadas edifice. Subsequent partial Mantel tests continue to support the hypothesis that color pattern is adapted to the climatic biotopes even when this phylogenetic information is taken into account by (1) testing for color pattern adaptation separately within each lineage and (2) testing for color pattern adaptation across the entire island and simultaneously considering the molecular phylogenetic relationships as representing an alternative explanation. Selection has largely expunged any trace of the geological history from current morphological variation, and the introgression of these island populations after an estimated 0.7 million years of separation gives an insight into the relationships between allopatric divergence and reproductive isolation.
10.2307/2992556|In this empirical study of species boundaries in a small genus of plants, we take the view that species are ambivalent; some appear to be monophyletic taxa, but some lack autapomorphies and are metataxa. As an operational definition, we recognized species from differentiated clusters in phenetic space whose distinctness was assumed to be the manifestation of underlying, fixed, and qualitative differences following speciation. These units were considered appropriate as terminals for phylogenetic reconstruction. The appropriateness of different phenetic methods in relation to models of infraspecific geographic variation and evolution is discussed. At the population level, ordination was more suitable than either cladistics or cluster analysis because it does not impose a rigidly hierarchical pattern on the data when none is expected. Variation among populations of Telopea was investigated by phenetic analysis of adult morphology. The main questions were whether the conventional distinction of T. mongaensis Cheel from T. oreades F. Muell. could be justified and whether disjunct populations referred to T. speciosissima (Smith) R.Br. in the Gibraltar Range, northern New South Wales, constituted a distinguishable taxon. The Gibraltar Range waratahs were distinguishable from typical T. speciosissima by their abundant ferruginous hairs, elliptic to obovate leaves, and numerous teeth along the lower half of the leaf margin; we propose recognizing them as a new species. Ordination analysis revealed a strong ontogenetic pattern within populations of T. speciosissima sensu lato, indicating that adult plants were retaining lobed intermediate leaves. Canonical variate analysis confirmed that this pattern was distinguishable from the between-population geographic pattern, but cluster analysis confounded the geographic and ontogenetic patterns. Conventional recognition of T. oreades and T. mongaensis as distinct species was supported by both ordination and cluster analysis. One population was mixed, with little evidence of hybridization between the sympatric species. Canonical variate analysis of populations was confounded by the heterogeneous population.
10.2307/2992555|The robustness of DNA-hybridization estimates of distance, phylogeny, and rates of evolution was examined via a technique called absorption. Single-copy nuclear DNAs of a study group consisting of four heron species and an ibis were hybridized with DNA from absorber species (either a swallow or stork) to remove shared sequences before they were hybridized among themselves. The amount and kind of DNA that was removed by absorption depended largely upon whether the absorber species was closely or distantly related to the study group and whether it was an outgroup or ingroup member. Absorption with outgroups, which removed between 25% and 80% of the genome, did not alter branching or evolutionary rate patterns but did increase distances slightly and reciprocal measurement asymmetry and tree-fitting error markedly. Increases in distances and homoplasy are expected when conservative sequences have been removed and mainly rapidly evolving sequences are left to hybridize. Absorption with ingroup DNA (i.e., ibis absorbed with stork) also did not affect branching, but it yielded other contrasting results. Genetic distances between ibis and herons were shortened rather than lengthened, and the pattern of rate variation known to occur among heron lineages was negated. The DNA sequences remaining after ingroup absorption appeared to be paraphyletically conserved; they were common to ibis and herons but not to ibis and its sister taxon, the storks. Overall, the effect of our sequence removal experiments was to increase site- and sequence-level noise in the DNA hybridization data without obliterating the phylogenetic signal.
10.2307/2992553|Despite long-standing interest in reconstructing rates of branching in the history of groups and recent attempts to use cladistic information to make inferences about such rates, the conditions under which genealogy affects rate reconstruction have not been demonstrated because studies of branching rates rely on methods that either ignore genealogy (and focus on changes in species richness through time) or do not reconstruct absolute rates. We consider stochastic and deterministic approaches that associate branching rates with branches of a phylogeny, allowing the influence of genealogy to be directly assessed. Both approaches assume that the phylogeny is known. The stochastic approach uses maximum likelihood to estimate one or more parameters of a Yule model in which individual lineages branch according to a Poisson process. In a model with only one rate parameter over the entire tree, genealogy affects the estimation of rate whenever some taxa are not extant (i.e., are known only from fossils) or are direct descendants of fossils of known age. In more complex multiparameter models, the estimated rates always depend on genealogy regardless of when the taxa are observed in time. The deterministic model uses nonlinear optimization methods to reconstruct local branching rates in a tree. This procedure minimizes the transformation in local rate required by the data on topology and times of occurrence. A uniform tree need not entail any transformation in local rate, but a nonuniform tree does. Genealogy therefore affects reconstructed branching rates in both deterministic and stochastic approaches. The approaches are illustrated using Vrba's phylogeny of fossil and extant African bovids.
10.2307/2992554|The evolution of mitochondrial ribosomal DNA sequences was investigated to infer the phylogenetic position of the Asian viper Azemiops feae and to refine weighting methodology for phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences. To compare characteristics of sequence evolution and weighting methodology in a different group of vertebrates, the published mitochondrial ribosomal DNA data included in the study of chiropteran monophyly by Mindell et al. (1991, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88:10322-10326) were also analyzed. Sequence evolution in all taxa was marked by extreme substitution bias. For the L-strand, both mono- and ditypic substitutions involving G were rare in comparison with expected occurrences based on sequence composition. Character state weights were assigned prior to phylogenetic analysis in proportion to the ratio of expected to observed nucleotide differences in pairwise comparisons of sequences. Application of expected to observed ratio (EOR) weights strengthened support for an Azemiops/pitviper clade and for the monophyly of Chiroptera. This method may help in resolving rapid radiations and other relationships obscured by homoplasy
10.2307/2992557|The presence of multiple species lineages can cause problems in biogeographic and cospeciation studies analogous to the problems gene paralogy can cause in molecular systematics. The differential survival of these lineages, coupled with inadequate sampling, can distort estimates of area relationships in biogeography or host-parasite relationships in parasitology
10.2307/2992482|Model organisms provide opportunities to explore the linkages between genetics and phylogenetics. Zea mays ssp. mays is an ideal system for making these links, in part because it is well known genetically and also because it is within the grass family (Gramineae or Poaceae), which is well known phylogenetically. The phylogeny of the genus Zea is reviewed, and cladograms are presented that locate the genus within the tribe Andropogoneae. Study of the genus and its relatives has been biased toward New World taxa, and thus knowledge of many character systems is incomplete. A number of genes and gene systems have been studied in a comparative context, and all of these could be examined more carefully with an appropriate sample of taxa. Cytogenetics has been extensively explored in some groups, but others are largely unknown. Maps of restriction fragment length polymorphisms are yielding information on the arrangement of the nuclear genome and indicating that significant linkage groups are shared between maize and some of its more distant relatives. The alcohol dehydrogenase genes could provide insights into phenomena of gene duplication and intron loss. The anthocyanin pathway and the C<sub>4</sub> photosynthetic pathway are both well understood at the gene level and could provide the basis for comparative studies of patterns of gene expression. Molecular work on developmental mutants is still in its infancy, but these genes might provide the most direct connection with known cladistic characters. Geneticists and phylogeneticists appear to be moving toward common ground.
10.2307/2992483|Fungal model organisms are widely used because, in general, they are less expensive to maintain under laboratory conditions than are members of the two other higher eukaryotic kingdoms, the animals and plants. Ascomycetes have been the most popular fungi with geneticists and molecular developmental biologists, beginning with Neurospora and recently with Saccharomyces and Aspergillus. Fungal molecular evolution studies of 18S ribosomal RNA and DNA have recently produced a robust phylogeny of ascomycetes, and molecular genetic studies of fungal development are unraveling the pathway of spore production. We wondered if systematists and developmental biologists were taking advantage of each other's knowledge. The majority of molecular biology studies of fungi still use model species, and only a few studies of nonmodel organisms have used phylogenetic information in their design. Likewise, studies of asexual spore development and mating type genes have emphasized model fungi, but studies of mating type in nonmodel fungi are beginning to yield results. We predict that truly comparative molecular biological studies of fungal development will be available shortly because the prerequisites have been completed, e.g., a well-supported phylogeny, sophisticated molecular techniques, including complementation by transformation and gene disruption, and morphological developmental pathways that are simpler than those of plants or animals.
10.2307/2992487|We evaluated the house mouse (Mus musculus species complex) and its laboratory descendents as models for three aspects of systematic biology: hybrid zone biology, chromosomal evolution and speciation, and tests for methods of phylogenetic reconstruction. The taxonomy and genetic relationships of the species in the complex are summarized. The comparative phylogenetic method was used to illucidate biogeographical, ecological, and chromosomal events in the group. Hybridization in house mice was evaluated with respect to the emerging discipline of hybrid zone biology Inter- and intraspecific contact zones are described and compared. Zone-specific electrophoretic alleles, new metacentric chromosomes, and increased levels of parasitism are explained as consequences of genome disruption. The interspecific zone is widest in the area of most recent contact between species. Variation in the widths of individual clines is discussed. Chromosomal evolution is proceeding along alternative paths in different commensal lineages of house mice. A karyotypic revolution occurred within the species M. domesticus that led to the reproductive isolation between two local populations. The recency of this karyotypic revolution permits a study of how Robertsonian populations evolve and an evaluation of whether the stasipatric model of speciation is a good explanation for this case. The genealogical history of the inbred strains of mice is well known, and this information has been used to test how faithfully different kinds of data and different kinds of analytical techniques recreate the known phylogeny. Molecular data recapture the correct phylogeny better than do morphological data, and the commonly used analytical methods are all equally robust in producing this phylogeny.
10.2307/2992485|Model organisms are often assumed to be representative of some more inclusive taxon of which the species is a part. This assumption leads to mistaken generalizations about the evolutionary and comparative significance of the data gathered. This paper reviews comparative and evolutionary studies of Xenopus laevis and its relatives. Phylogenetic analysis of data from DNA sequences and morphology indicate that Xenopus is monophyletic and that Silurana is its sister group. The most basal lineages of Pipidae diverged prior to the breakup of Gondwana. The bizarre morphology of Xenopus is in part due to changes in the mode of metamorphosis. Speciation in Xenopus is unique among Anura in being associated with various levels of polyploidy owing to allopolyploidy Several kinds of molecular studies indicate substantial divergence between Xenopus and Silurana. The contribution of data from model studies of Xenopus would be greatly enhanced if comparable data were available from a more basally placed lineage such as Bombina.
10.2307/2992484|Recent molecular and morphological results on the phylogenetics of Drosophila and other Drosophilidae are reviewed. There is some consensus on the redefinition of Drosophila to make it a monophyletic group, except for the controversial placement of the Hawaiian Drosophila and the subgenus Sophophora. The possibility of Hawaiian Drosophila as a group that is morphologically atavistic (e.g., with many character reversals) is discussed. Drosophila development is reviewed, with focus on understanding the developmental genetic and molecular bases of character convergence and reversal in drosophilid phylogenetics and its applications to homology decisions. The clustering of convergent characters on cladograms is discussed as a consequence of developmental constraints. The convergent evolution of broadened head shape in male drosophilids is presented as an example. Molecular and developmental analysis of homoplastic characters pivotal to phylogenetic schemes, such as eye setae in Drosophila sensu stricto and the Hawaiian species, can be of fundamental importance for homology assessment.
10.2307/2992486|The axolotl, Ambystoma mexicanum, has been an important model system in both developmental and evolutionary biology for over 100 years. The axolotl is a recently derived member of the Ambystoma tigrinum complex (Ambystomatidae), a rapidly evolving clade of 17 closely related species ranging from southern Canada to central Mexico. The relationships of the A. tigrinum complex to the remaining species of ambystomatids are controversial; morphological data are ambiguous, although allozyme data suggest a sister-group relationship with A. macrodactylum-A. jeffersonianum with moderate statistical support. At the familial level, ribosomal RNA sequence data strongly suggest that Dicamptodon is the sister group to the Ambystomatidae, followed by the newts (Salamandridae). Two primary foci of laboratory research on the axolotl are the developmental mechanisms of pigment pattern and the physiological control of metamorphosis. Both pigment pattern and metamorphosis are extremely variable within the A. tigrinum complex and are important systematic characters at the inter- and intraspecific levels. Current comparative studies on postmetamorphic color pattern and metamorphosis across the A. tigrinum complex will be particularly important in elucidating the developmental bases of rapid divergence and speciation, and our existing phylogenetic information provides a historical framework to help guide the choice of taxa for additional developmental analyses.
10.2307/2992535|The inconsistency of the maximum-parsimony method for the case of five taxa with a molecular clock was studied using an analytical approach and Monte Carlo simulation. The inconsistency occurs in the case of a symmetrical tree with short internal branches and long external branches but can be avoided by using slowly evolving sequences. The neighbor-joining method is consistent if the evolutionary distances between taxa are estimated accurately However, for short sequences, estimates of distances are subject to large statistical errors, and the probability of obtaining a certain erroneous tree by this method can be larger than the probability of obtaining the true tree. The implications for phylogenetic reconstruction are discussed.
10.2307/2992537|Explicit cladistic and evolutionary methods are available to infer dendrogram structures that represent cladistic and anagenetic relationships. Formal Linnaean ranking from these dendrograms, however, has largely been done subjectively For a classification of 20 species of fusilier fishes restricted to three ranks, there are 18 possible combinations of taxa that can be used for supraspecific ranks from the quantitative evolutionary analysis presented here and a minimum of 13 possible ranks for a cladistic classification. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate with the Caesionidae a method of choosing objectively among possible evolutionary and cladistic classifications, using the dendrogram structure of the Linnaean hierarchy and the optimality criterion of information content. A sequenced, annotated, quantitative evolutionary classification is chosen to represent the Caesionidae based on its ability to reflect both cladistic and patristic relationships, its high information content, and its stability with respect to previously used classifications.
10.2307/2992536|Measures of dissimilarity (metrics) for comparing trees are important tools in the quantitative analysis of evolutionary trees, but many of their properties are incompletely known. The present paper reports formulae for the distributions of three classes of tree comparison metrics: the partition (or symmetric difference) metric, the quartet metric (which compares subsets of four taxa), and a metric based on path-length differences between pairs of taxa. The properties studied include the mean and variance for several underlying distributions of trees, the range, the effect of the number of taxa, and methods of calculation. Three basic theorems and their proofs are reported, one for each class of tree comparison metric. The partition metric generates an asymptotic Poisson distribution for most distributions of trees (its mean is given for three tree distributions). Exact expressions are derived for the variance of the quartet metric and the mean square value of a metric based on path differences. Factors that affect the choice of a metric for a particular study include the degree of similarity of the trees being compared and the type of hypothesis being tested (e.g., whether the trees estimate the same underlying phylogeny or are simply related in some, perhaps unknown, way).
10.2307/2992539|Limitations for using polymorphic characters in phylogenetic analysis include the lack of computer algorithms that allow input of complex branched or reticulate character state trees and the inability to use polymorphisms as data in tree building and character optimization. The step matrix option in PAUP version 3.0 and MacClade versions 2.1 and 3.0 provides a solution to these problems, allowing all homology information among character states to be utilized while retaining a biologically realistic definition of characters. For genetic data, this means that the locus can be coded as the character and allelic combinations can be coded as the character states. For ontogenetic data, this means that the entire ontogenetic sequence can be coded as the character and combinations of observed conditions within ontogenies can be coded as the character states. The unity of the locus or character ontogeny is preserved, and homology information from shared electrophoretic or ontogenetic conditions is not lost. Attention has not been called to the loss of homology information that accompanies coding the locus or an entire ontogeny as the character, possibly because of the lack of a coding option through which these data could be retained. The step matrix option allows any and all assumptions of transformation (order) among character states while retaining the unity of the locus or a whole ontogeny as the character and can be utilized for coding these and other polymorphic characters for phylogenetic analysis.
10.2307/2992538|Multistate morphological characters have generally been treated as either "unordered" or "ordered" in phylogenetic analyses using parsimony Because ordering relations do not apply to the states of characters treated under these methods, I prefer "maximally connected" character to "unordered" character and "minimally connected" character to "ordered" character. This paper formally defines the two character types, compares their properties, and considers the consequences of the two methods for both resolution and congruence. The results demonstrate that minimally connected characters increase resolution relative to maximally connected characters. Minimally connected characters do not, however, necessarily increase congruence among data sets. Because both methods produce nonrandom congruence among data sets, both character types constitute valid phylogenetic methods. A mixed-parsimony approach is advocated, wherein multistate characters are treated as minimally connected whenever reasonable but treated as maximally connected otherwise.
10.2307/2992540|Bootstrapping is a common method for assessing confidence in phylogenetic analyses. Although bootstrapping was first applied in phylogenetics to assess the repeatability of a given result, bootstrap results are commonly interpreted as a measure of the probability that a phylogenetic estimate represents the true phylogeny. Here we use computer simulations and a laboratory-generated phylogeny to test bootstrapping results of parsimony analyses, both as measures of repeatability (i.e., the probability of repeating a result given a new sample of characters) and accuracy (i.e., the probability that a result represents the true phylogeny). Our results indicate that any given bootstrap proportion provides an unbiased but highly imprecise measure of repeatability, unless the actual probability of replicating the relevant result is nearly one. The imprecision of the estimate is great enough to render the estimate virtually useless as a measure of repeatability. Under conditions thought to be typical of most phylogenetic analyses, however, bootstrap proportions in majority-rule consensus trees provide biased but highly conservative estimates of the probability of correctly inferring the corresponding clades. Specifically, under conditions of equal rates of change, symmetric phylogenies, and internodal change of 20% of the characters, bootstrap proportions of 70% usually correspond to a probability of 95% that the corresponding clade is real. However, under conditions of very high rates of internodal change (approaching randomization of the characters among taxa) or highly unequal rates of change among taxa, bootstrap proportions >50% are overestimates of accuracy.
10.2307/2992467|Three methods of phylogenetic tree estimation, UPGMA clustering (UP), maximum parsimony (MP), and neighbor joining (NJ), were used to estimate trees from a large simulation study of 5,400 eight-taxon data sets. The data sets represented nine evolutionary models and 20 tree topologies. The agreement of the trees estimated by the three methods was highly correlated (0.71) with the average agreement with the true tree from which the data sets had been generated. A simple index is proposed for the agreement of different estimation methods that can serve as a measure of the reliability of the joint estimate. This index was coupled with an unbiased character weighting procedure to increase the accuracy of estimation. Accuracy was increased by an average of 24% by use of this procedure in 47 of 61 data sets examined.
10.2307/2992464|Biologists often compare average phenotypes of groups of species defined cladistically or on behavioral, ecological, or physiological criteria (e.g., carnivores vs. herbivores, social vs. nonsocial species, endotherms vs. ectotherms). Hypothesis testing typically is accomplished via analysis of variance (ANOVA) or covariance (ANCOVA; often with body size as a covariate). Because of the hierarchical nature of phylogenetic descent, however, species may not represent statistically independent data points, degrees of freedom may be inflated, and significance levels derived from conventional tests cannot be trusted. As one solution to this degrees of freedom problem, we propose using empirically scaled computer simulation models of continuous traits evolving along "known" phylogenetic trees to obtain null distributions of F statistics for ANCOVA of comparative data sets. These empirical null distributions allow one to set critical values for hypothesis testing that account for nonindependence due to specified phylogenetic topology, branch lengths, and model of character change. Computer programs that perform simulations under a variety of evolutionary models (gradual and speciational Brownian motion, Ornstein-Uhlenbeck, punctuated equilibrium; starting values, trends, and limits to phenotypic evolution can also be specified) and that will analyze simulated data by ANCOVA are available from the authors on request. We apply the proposed procedures to the analysis of differences in homerange area between two clades of mammals, Carnivora and ungulates, that differ in diet. We also apply the phylogenetic autocorrelation approach and show how phylogenetically independent contrasts can be used to test for clade differences. All three phylogenetic analyses lead to the same surprising conclusion: for our sample of 49 species, members of the Carnivora do not have significantly larger home ranges than do ungulates. The power of such tests can be increased by sampling species so as to reduce the correlation between phylogeny and the independent variable (e.g., diet), thus increasing the number of independent evolutionary transitions available for study.
10.2307/2992468|Finite element scaling analysis (FESA) can be improved by using elements with curved outlines and by projection of strain. Elements with curved outlines can be used to improve the approximation of the outlines of a structure. Projection of strain (Zienkiewicz and Taylor, 1988, The finite element method, Volume 1, McGraw-Hill, London) uses variational theory to calculate the distribution of strains at the nodes, i.e., landmark points. With that information, the distribution of strains can be extrapolated over the whole structure. This method helps to smooth out the discontinuities encountered if strains are estimated by conventional methods. The approximate statistical distribution of coordinate-independent quantities of the strain matrix, i.e., trace, determinant and discriminant, and eigenvalues, are shown at the nodes, given the element design and the reference specimen under the assumption of a Gaussian model.
10.2307/2992469|Large head scales distinguish the three species of Sistrurus from other rattlesnakes assigned to the speciose genus Crotalus, but this trait is plesiomorphic and therefore not indicative of monophyly. Do rattlesnakes comprise two clades, one with large head scales and one with fragmented head scales, or must the traditional taxonomy of this group be revised? Evidence from comparative DNA sequence analysis of portions of the 12S and 16S mitochondrial ribosomal RNA genes supports the monophyly of Sistrurus. These data also suggest that rattlesnakes are monophyletic with a mid-Cenozoic origin. A phylogenetic hypothesis is proposed that is congruent with morphological and DNA sequence data. Alternative hypotheses were close in length, and the monophyly of Sistrurus was rather unstable, as determined by bootstrap resampling. Maximum parsimony failed to identify the correct tree topology (as indicated by morphology). Character-state differences, as determined by patristic and pairwise measures, were observed between an outgroup (Agkistrodon) and each rattlesnake species. The tree that agreed best with relative rates of evolution as determined by pairwise comparisons was chosen. A monophyletic Sistrurus was favored over competing alternatives by this best-fit rate test.
10.2307/2992462|The species problem is one of the oldest controversies in natural history. Its persistence suggests that it is something more than a problem of fact or definition. Considerable light is shed on the species problem when it is viewed as a problem in the representation of the natural system (sensu Griffiths, 1974, Acta Biotheor. 23:85-131; de Queiroz, 1988, Philos. Sci. 55:238-259). Just as maps are representations of the earth and are subject to what is called cartographic generalization, so diagrams of the natural system (evolutionary trees) are representations of the evolutionary chronicle and are subject to a temporal version of cartographic generalization, which may be termed systematic generalization. Cartographic generalization is based on judgements of geographical importance, and systematic generalization is based on judgements of historical importance, judgements expressed in narrative sentences (sensu Danto, 1985, Narration and knowledge, Columbia Univ Press, New York). At higher systematic levels, these narrative sentences are conventional and retrospective, but near the species level they become prospective, that is, dependent upon expectations of the future. The truth of prospective narrative sentences is logically indeterminable in the present, and since all the common species concepts depend upon prospective narration, it is impossible for any of them to be applied with precision.
10.2307/2992466|We apply a new morphometric technique in a comparative study of facial growth patterns in three primate species: Macaca fascicularis, Cercopithecus aethiops, and Cebus apella. This method, Euclidean distance matrix analysis (Lele, 1991, Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 85:407-418; Lele and Richtsmeier, 1991, Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 86:415-428), enables a three-dimensional description of differences in facial geometries and statistical testing of differences among forms. We adapt the method to enable comparison of growth patterns among species and to produce hypothetical forms by joining the immature morphology of a given species with the growth pattern of another species. Our results demonstrate the unique properties of postnatal growth patterns for the three species considered. Interspecific differences in adult skeletal morphology are more than an extension of the morphological differences established during prenatal ontogeny. Statistical tests for difference in form between the hypothetical forms and samples of real forms demonstrate that differences in immature facial morphology established by prenatal growth patterns cannot totally account for the suite of differences in adult facial morphologies. Some components of adult morphology are influenced strictly by differences in postnatal growth. We present suggestions for future use of our methodology for the comparison of growth patterns, including the investigation of phylogenies using growth pattern data.
10.2307/2992465|Parthenogenetic lines of the Heteronotia binoei complex are genetically diverse, of hybrid origin, and geographically widespread, ranging from central Australia to the west coast. Analysis of the western populations revealed a class of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) approximately 12% different from the mtDNAs found among parthenogens further east. Detailed analysis of mtDNAs from 59 western individuals revealed far greater diversity than previously reported for any parthenogenetic vertebrate. Phylogenetic comparisons with mtDNAs from the bisexual parental species identified the maternal parent(s) as coming from the SM6 species, most probably from west coast populations. This ancestry contrasts with that of the more eastern parthenogenetic lines, which had as parents females of the other bisexual parental species, CA6. The nucleotide diversity of mtDNA among the western parthenogens, although higher than usual (x = 0.38%), is low compared with the variation found within (2.1%) and among (3.9-7.8%) SM6 populations. This diversity illustrates the importance of rigorous sampling of related bisexual populations for interpreting variation among unisexuals. Despite the high mtDNA diversity, these parthenogens probably arose from a relatively small geographic area. The distinct geographic ranges of parthenogens that have the two major classes of mtDNA suggest that the western populations arose separately and further to the west than did the other lines. If so, then the two groups of parthenogenetic lines should be regarded as separate species.
10.2307/2992463|The success of 16 methods of phylogenetic inference was examined using consistency and simulation analysis. Success-the frequency with which a tree-making method correctly identified the true phylogeny-was examined for an unrooted four-taxon tree. In this study, tree-making methods were examined under a large number of branch-length conditions and under three models of sequence evolution. The results are plotted to facilitate comparisons among the methods. The consistency analysis indicated which methods converge on the correct tree given infinite sample size. General parsimony, transversion parsimony, and weighted parsimony are inconsistent over portions of the graph space examined, although the area of inconsistency varied. Lake's method of invariants consistently estimated phylogeny over all of the graph space when the model of sequence evolution matched the assumptions of the invariants method. However, when one of the assumptions of the invariants method was violated, Lake's method of invariants became inconsistent over a large portion of the graph space. In general, the distance methods (neighbor joining, weighted least squares, and unweighted least squares) consistently estimated phylogeny over all of the graph space examined when the assumptions of the distance correction matched the model of evolution used to generate the model trees. When the assumptions of the distance methods were violated, the methods became inconsistent over portions of the graph space. UPGMA was inconsistent over a large area of the graph space, no matter which distance was used. The simulation analysis showed how tree-making methods perform given limited numbers of character data. In some instances, the simulation results differed quantitatively from the consistency analysis. The consistency analysis indicated that Lake's method of invariants was consistent over all of the graph space under some conditions, whereas the simulation analysis showed that Lake's method of invariants performs poorly over most of the graph space for up to 500 variable characters. Parsimony, neighbor-joining, and the least-squares methods performed well under conditions of limited amount of character change and branch-length variation. By weighting the more slowly evolving characters or using distances that correct for multiple substitution events, the area in which tree-making methods are misleading can be reduced. Good performance at high rates of change was obtained only by giving increased weight to slowly evolving characters (e.g., transversion parsimony, weighted parsimony). UPGMA performed well only when branch lengths were close in length.
3070824|Current models of diversification with evolving speciation rates have trouble mimicking the extreme imbalance seen in estimated phylogenies. However, these models have not incorporated extinction. Here, we report on a simple simulation model that includes heritable and evolving speciation rates coupled with mass extinctions, Random (but not selective) mass extinctions, coupled with evolving among-lineage variation in speciation rates, increase imbalance of postrecovery clades. Thus, random mass extinctions are plausible contributors to the imbalance of modern clades. Paleontological evidence suggests that mass extinctions are often random with respect to ecological and morphological traits, consistent with our simulations. In contrast, evidence that the current anthropogenic mass extinction is phylogenetically selective suggests that the current extinction episode may be qualitatively different from past ones in the way it reshapes future biotas.
3070818|The heritability of speciation rates and extinction risks is a crucial parameter in models of macroevolution, but little direct evidence has been available to assess the occurrence, strength, or generality of this heritability. We tested for heritability using correlations between ancestral and descendent branch lengths in phylogenetic trees, an approach first applied to a bird phylogeny by Harvey et al. (1991, pages 123-137 in Genes in ecology [R. J. Berry et al., eds.], Blackwell Scientific, Oxford). We applied Harvey et al.'s test to some of the largest DNA sequence-based phylogenetic analyses published to date for plants, insects, fungi, and bacteria. If one of two parent lineages splits first and if this is the case for any heritable reason, then on average we expect its daughter lineages to also split first. We also used a randomization procedure to assess significance of branch length heritability. Using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood branch lengths and trees made ultrametric after nonparametric rate smoothing or by enforcing a molecular clock, we found a pattern for most clades consistent with heritable net cladogenesis. Heritability of cladogenesis may be a general phenomenon, detectable across a large number of lineages and a broad range of taxa.
3070823|The relative positions of branching events in a phylogeny contain information about evolutionary and population dynamic processes. We provide new summary statistics of branching event times and describe how these statistics can be used to infer rates of species diversification from interspecies trees or rates of population growth from intraspecies trees. We also introduce a phylogenetic method for estimating the level of taxon sampling in a clade. Different evolutionary models and different sampling regimes can produce similar patterns of branching events, so it is important to consider explicitly the model assumptions involved when making evolutionary inferences. Results of an analysis of the phylogeny of the mosquito-borne flaviviruses suggest that there could be several thousand currently unidentified viruses in this clade.
3070827|Key innovations have often been invoked to explain the exceptional diversification of particular groups. However, there are few convincing examples of traits that are repeatedly and consistently associated with increased diversification. The paucity of such cases may reflect the contingent nature of the diversifying effect of key traits. These contingencies can be viewed as statistical interactions between the trait and at least three kinds of factors: (1) other taxa, (2) other traits of the group itself, and (3) the physical environment. I describe tentative examples in each of these categories: (1) a dampening of the diversification of clades with image-forming eyes by groups that earlier evolved such eyes, (2) an effect of growth form (woody or herbaceous) on the diversifying effect of biotic seed dispersal in angiosperms, and (3) an effect of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> level on the diversifying effect of C<sub>4</sub> photosynthesis in monocots. These examples suggest the need for more complex analyses of the relationship between possible key traits and diversification. They also suggest that radiations may be predictable given certain circumstances, thus supporting a view of evolution as both predictable and contingent. Ironically, a certain degree of predictability may be critical to arguments for evolutionary contingency.
3070828|The phylogeny of grouse (Aves: Tetraoninae) was reconstructed using four noncoding loci: two were W-linked, one was autosomal, and one was the mitochondrial control region (CR). The rapidly evolving CR provided resolution throughout the tree, whereas the slowly evolving nuclear loci failed to resolve deeper nodes. The tree based on all four loci combined was almost identical to the CR tree and did not improve resolution or bootstrap support. The stemminess and imbalance of the trees were good determinants of the quality of the phylogenetic signal. The skewness of the tree score distribution (g<sub>1</sub>) behaved contrary to prediction; loci that had a more symmetric tree score distribution produced trees that had greater stemminess and balance. The quality of the phylogenetic signal was related to the evolutionary rate. Four clades of grouse were discovered. Two of these clades corresponded to currently recognized genera Bonasa and Lagopus. Bonasa was the sister to other grouse and Lagopus was the sister to the other two non-Bonasa clades. The third clade included Falcipennis, Tetrao, and Lyrurus. The fourth clade included the genera Centrocercus, Dendragapus, and Tympanuchus. The data support recognition of Falcipennis canadensis franklinii and Dendragapus obscurus fuliginosus as species.
3070820|Prolific cladogenesis, adaptive radiation, species selection, key innovations, and mass extinctions are a few examples of biological phenomena that lead to differential diversification among lineages. Central to the study of differential diversification rates is the ability to distinguish chance variation from that which requires deterministic explanation. To detect diversification rate variation among lineages, we propose a number of methods that incorporate information on the topological distribution of species diversity from all internal nodes of a phylogenetic tree. These whole-tree methods (M<sub></sub>, M<sub></sub>, and M<sub>R</sub>) are explicitly connected to a null model of random diversification-the equal-rates Markov (ERM) random branching model-and an alternative model of differential diversification: M<sub></sub> is based on the product of individual nodal ERM probabilities; M<sub></sub> is based on the sum of individual nodal ERM probabilities, and M<sub>R</sub> is based on a transformation of ERM probabilities that corresponds to a formalized system that orders trees by their relative symmetry. These methods have been implemented in a freely available computer program, SymmeTREE, to detect clades with variable diversification rates, thereby allowing the study of biological processes correlated with and possibly causal to shifts in diversification rate. Application of these methods to several published phylogenies demonstrates their ability to contend with relatively large, incompletely resolved trees. These topology-based methods do not require estimates of relative branch lengths, which should facilitate the analysis of phylogenies, such as supertrees, for which such data are unreliable or unavailable.
3070819|Two lines of evidence indicate that the degree of symmetry in phylogenetic topologies differs at different hierarchical levels. First, in a set of 61 phylogenies with superspecific taxa as their terminals, trees were on average more unbalanced (asymmetric) when the species richness of terminals was considered than when it was not. Second, nodes with a given number of higher taxa descended from them were on average more unbalanced than were nodes with the same number of species as descendants. There are several possible reasons-some biological, some artifactual-for the differences. Whatever the reason, these results caution against treating species-level and higher level phylogenies as equivalent when considering tree shape. The imbalance measure adopted here permits the use of trees that contain polytomies, facilitating a larger sample than has been achieved previously.
3070829|The Cracidae is one of the most endangered and distinctive bird families in the Neotropics, yet the higher relationships among taxa remain uncertain. The molecular phylogeny of its 11 genera was inferred using 10,678 analyzable sites (5,412 from seven different mitochondrial segments and 5,266 sites from four nuclear genes). We performed combinability tests to check conflicts in phylogenetic signals of separate genes and genomes. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the unrooted tree of ((curassows, horned guan) (guans, chachalacas)) was favored by most data partitions and that different data partitions provided support for different parts of the tree. In particular, the concatenated mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genes resolved shallower nodes, whereas the combined nuclear sequences resolved the basal connections among the major clades of curassows, horned guan, chachalacas, and guans. Therefore, we decided that for the Cracidae all data should be combined for phylogenetic analysis. Maximum parsimony (MP), maximum likelihood (ML), and Bayesian analyses of this large data set produced similar trees. The MP tree indicated that guans are the sister group to (horned guan, (curassows, chachalacas)), whereas the ML and Bayesian analysis recovered a tree where the horned guan is a sister clade to curassows, and these two clades had the chachalacas as a sister group. Parametric bootstrapping showed that alternative trees previously proposed for the cracid genera are significantly less likely than our estimate of their relationships. A likelihood ratio test of the hypothesis of a molecular clock for cracid mtDNA sequences using the optimal ML topology did not reject rate constancy of substitutions through time. We estimated cracids to have originated between 64 and 90 million years ago (MYA), with a mean estimate of 76 MYA. Diversification of the genera occurred approximately 41-3 MYA, corresponding with periods of global climate change and other Earth history events that likely promoted divergences of higher level taxa.
3070821|We used simulations to compare the relative power of eight statistical tests to detect imbalance in phylogenies that is too great to be ascribed to an equal-rates Markov null model. Three of these tests have never had their power assessed before. Our simulations are the first to assess performance under scenarios in which the speciation rates of various lineages can evolve independently. In one of the scenarios explored, rates depend upon the value of an evolving trait, whereas in the other the probability that a species will speciate declines with the time since it last did so. The results indicate that the relative performance of the methods depends upon how the imbalance is generated. Different types of processes lead to different imbalance signatures, i.e., different patterns of imbalance at different depths in the phylogeny, and the measures of tree shape differ in the depth of phylogeny at which they are most sensitive. Relative performance is also affected by tree size but does not appear to depend greatly upon the degree of speciation rate variation among lineages. Two of the indices (Colless's index I<sub>c</sub> and Shao and Sokal's N, show reasonable performance throughout, but another (Shao and Sokal's B<sub>2</sub>) is never indicated to be a preferred method. Two tests that do not require completely resolved phylogenies, mean I<sup></sup> and mean I<sup></sup><sub>10</sub>, have reasonable power.
3070826|Studies of phylogenetic tree shape often concentrate on the balance of phylogenies of extant taxa. Paleontological phylogenies (which include extinct taxa) can contain additional useful information and can directly document changes in tree shape through evolutionary time. Unfortunately, the inclusion of extinct taxa lowers the power of direct examinations of tree balance because it increases the range of tree shapes expected under null models of evolution (with equal rates of speciation and extinction across lineages). A promising approach for the analysis of tree shape in paleontological phylogenies is to break the phylogeny down into time slices, examining the shape of the phylogeny of taxa alive at each time slice and changes in that shape between successive time slices. This method was illustrated with 57 time slices through a stratophenetic phylogeny of the Cretaceous planktonic foraminiferal superfamily Globotruncanacea. At 3 of 56 intervals between time slices, 93-92.5 million years ago (MYA), 89-88.5 MYA, and 85.5-84 MYA, the group showed steep increases in imbalance. Although none of these increases were significant after Bonferroni correction, these points in the history of the Globotruncanacea were nevertheless identified as deserving of further macroevolutionary investigation. The 84 MYA time slice coincides with a peak in species turnover for the superfamily. Time slices through phylogenies may prove useful for identifying periods of time when evolution was proceeding in a nonstochastic manner.
3070822|We explored the impact of phylogeny shape on the results of interspecific statistical analyses incorporating phylogenetic information. In most phylogenetic comparative methods (PCMs), the phylogeny can be represented as a relationship matrix, and the hierarchical nature of interspecific phylogenies translates into a distinctive blocklike matrix that can be described by its eigenvectors (topology) and eigenvalues (branch lengths). Thus, differences in the eigenvectors and eigenvalues of different relationship matrices can be used to gauge the impact of possible phylogeny errors by comparing the actual phylogeny used in a PCM analysis with a second phylogenetic hypothesis that may be more accurate. For example, we can use the sum of inverse eigenvalues as a rough index to compare the impact of phylogenies with different branch lengths. Topological differences are better described by the eigenvectors. In general, phylogeny errors that involve deep splits in the phylogeny (e.g., moving a taxon across the base of the phylogeny) are likely to have much greater impact than will those involving small perturbations in the fine structure near the tips. Small perturbations, however, may have more of an impact if the phylogeny structure is highly dependent (with many recent splits near the tips of the tree). Unfortunately, the impact of any phylogeny difference on the results of a PCM depends on the details of the data being considered. Recommendations regarding the choice, design, and statistical power of interspecific analyses are also made.
3070825|The frequency distribution of numbers of species in taxonomic groups, where many species belong to a few very diverse higher taxa, is mirrored by that of species in most communities, where many individuals belong to a few very abundant species. Various hypotheses mechanistically link a species' community abundance with the diversity of the higher level taxon (genus, family, order) to which it belongs, but empirical data are equivocal about general trends in the relation between rank-taxon diversity and mean abundance. One reason for this inconclusive result may be the effect of the semisubjective nature of rank-based classification. We assessed the relationship between clade diversity and mean species abundance for two diverse tropical tree communities, using both traditional rank-based analysis and two new phylogenetic analyses (based on the ratio of individuals to taxa at each node in the phylogeny). Both rank-based and phylogenetic analyses using taxonomic ranks above the species level as terminal taxa detected a trend associating common species with species-rich families. In contrast, phylogenetic analyses using species as terminal taxa could not distinguish the observed distribution of species abundances from a random distribution with respect to clade diversity. The difference between these results might be due to (1) the absence of a real phylogeny-wide relationship between clade abundance and diversity, (2) the influence of poor phylogenetic resolution within families in our phylogenies, or (3) insufficient sensitivity of our metrics to subtle tree-wide effects. Further development and application of phylogeny-based methods for testing abundance-diversity relationships is needed.
3070830|A cladistic analysis of the tinamous, including the 47 currently recognized species and some distinct subspecies, was conducted based on 80 integumentary characters from adult and natal plumage, ramphoteca (corneum sheath of bill), and podoteca (horny scales of legs). For the adult plumage (50 characters), we studied feather pigmentation patterns from different pterylae (feather tracts). A criterion of overlap of basic pigmentation elements was used to assign costs to the transformation between the states in most of these characters in such a way that transformations between more similar conditions were less costly. The consensus tree was almost fully resolved, and about 50% of its groups were relatively well supported. Because the only outgroup that could be used provided a poor root, two possible rootings of the ingroup subtree were considered; in both cases, only one of the two traditional subfamilies (the steppe tinamous) was recovered, and the other (the forest tinamous) appeared as paraphyletic. The results of the present analysis are compared with those from an osteological data set, using a strict supertree technique. The combined tree has a large number of nodes, indicating a high degree of congruence between the two data sets.
3070894|Comprehensive phylogenetic analyses utilize data from distinct sources, including nuclear, mitochondrial, and plastid molecular sequences and morphology. Such heterogeneous datasets are likely to require distinct models of analysis, given the different histories of mutational biases operating on these characters. The incongruence length difference (ILD) test is increasingly being used to arbitrate between competing models of phylogenetic analysis in cases where multiple data partitions have been collected. Our work suggests that the ILD test is unlikely to be an effective measure of congruence when two datasets differ markedly in size. We show that models that increase the contribution of one data partition over another are likely to increase congruence, as measured by this test. More alarmingly, for many bipartition comparisons, character congruence increases bimodally-either increasing or decreasing the contribution of one data partition will increase congruence-making it impossible to arrive at a single optimally congruent model of analysis.
3070895|Phylogenetic trees can be rooted by a number of criteria. Here, we introduce a Bayesian method for inferring the root of a phylogenetic tree by using one of several criteria: the outgroup, molecular clock, and nonreversible model of DNA substitution. We perform simulation analyses to examine the relative ability of these three criteria to correctly identify the root of the tree. The outgroup and molecular clock criteria were best able to identify the root of the tree, whereas the nonreversible model was able to identify the root only when the substitution process was highly nonreversible. We also examined the performance of the criteria for a tree of four species for which the topology and root position are well supported. Results of the analyses of these data are consistent with the simulation results.
3070900|Large and comprehensive phylogenetic trees are desirable for studying macroevolutionary processes and for classification purposes. Such trees can be obtained in two different ways. Either the widest possible range of taxa can be sampled and used in a phylogenetic analysis to produce a "big tree," or preexisting topologies can be used to create a supertree. Although large multigene analyses are often favored, combinable data are not always available, and supertrees offer a suitable solution. The most commonly used method of supertree reconstruction, matrix representation with parsimony (MRP), is presented here. We used a combined data set for the Poaceae to (1) assess the differences between an approach that uses combined data and one that uses different MRP modifications based on the character partitions and (2) investigate the advantages and disadvantages of these modifications. Baum and Ragan and Purvis modifications gave similar results. Incorporating bootstrap support associated with pre-existing topologies improved Baum and Ragan modification and its similarity with a combined analysis. Finally, we used the supertree reconstruction approach on 55 published phylogenies to build one of most comprehensive phylogenetic trees published for the grass family including 403 taxa and discuss its strengths and weaknesses in relation to other published hypotheses.
3070902|Many biogeographic problems are tested on phylogenetic trees. Typically, the uncertainty in the phylogeny is not accommodated when investigating the biogeography of the organisms. Here we present a method that accommodates uncertainty in the phylogenetic trees. Moreover, we describe a simple method for examining the support for competing biogeographic scenarios. We illustrate the method using mitochondrial DNA sequences sampled from modern humans. The geographic origin of modern human mtDNA is inferred to be in Africa, although support for this hypothesis was ambiguous for data from an early paper.
3070899|Lake Tanganyika, the oldest of the East African Great Lakes, harbors the ecologically, morphologically, and behaviorally most complex of all assemblages of cichlid fishes, consisting of about 200 described species. The evolutionary old age of the cichlid assemblage, its extreme degree of morphological differentiation, the lack of species with intermediate morphologies, and the rapidity of lineage formation have made evolutionary reconstruction difficult. The number and origin of seeding lineages, particularly the possible contribution of riverine haplochromine cichlids to endemic lacustrine lineages, remains unclear. Our phylogenetic analyses, based on mitochondrial DNA sequences of three gene segments of 49 species (25% of all described species, up to 2,400 bp each), yield robust phylogenies that provide new insights into the Lake Tanganyika adaptive radiation as well as into the origin of the Central- and East-African haplochromine faunas. Our data suggest that eight ancient African lineages may have seeded the Tanganyikan cichlid radiation. One of these seeding lineages, probably comprising substrate spawning Lamprologus-like species, diversified into six lineages that evolved mouthbrooding during the initial stage of the radiation. All analyzed haplochromines from surrounding rivers and lakes seem to have evolved within the radiating Tanganyikan lineages. Thus, our findings contradict the current hypothesis that ancestral riverine haplochromines colonized Lake Tanganyika to give rise to at least part of its spectacular endemic cichlid species assemblage. Instead, the early phases of the Tanganyikan radiation affected Central and East African rivers and lakes. The haplochromines may have evolved in the Tanganyikan basin before the lake became a hydrologically and ecologically closed system and then secondarily colonized surrounding rivers. Apparently, therefore, the current diversity of Central and East African haplochromines represents a relatively young and polyphyletic fauna that evolved from or in parallel to lineages now endemic to Lake Tanganyika.
3070893| We have applied Bayesian and maximum likelihood methods of phylogenetic estimation to data from four mitochondrial genes (COI, COII, 12S, and 16S) and a single nuclear gene (EF1) from several genera of New Zealand, Australian, and New Caledonian cicada taxa. We specifically focused on the heterogeneity of phylogenetic signal among the different data partitions and the biogeographic origins of the New Zealand cicada fauna. The Bayesian analyses circumvent many of the problems associated with other statistical tests for comparing data partitions. We took an information-theoretic approach to model selection based on the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC). This approach indicated that there was considerable uncertainty in identifying the best-fit model for some of the partitions. Additionally, a large amount of uncertainty was associated with many parameter estimates from the substitution model. However, a sensitivity analysis on the combined dataset indicated that the model selection uncertainty had little effect on estimates of topology because these estimates were largely insensitive to changes in the assumed model. This outcome suggests strong signal in our data. Our analyses support a New Caledonian affiliation of the New Zealand cicada genera Maoricicada, Kikihia, and Rhodopsalta and Australian affinities for the genera Amphipsalta and Notopsalta. This result was surprising, given that previous cicada biologists suspected a close relationship between Amphipsalta, Notopsalta, and Rhodopsalta based on genitalic characters. Relationships among the closely related genera Maoricicada, Kikihia, and Rhodopsalta were poorly resolved, the mitochondrial data and the EF1 data favoring different arrangements within this clade. 
3070896|Phylogenetic analysis of large datasets using complex nucleotide substitution models under a maximum likelihood framework can be computationally infeasible, especially when attempting to infer confidence values by way of nonparametric bootstrapping. Recent developments in phylogenetics suggest the computational burden can be reduced by using Bayesian methods of phylogenetic inference. However, few empirical phylogenetic studies exist that explore the efficiency of Bayesian analysis of large datasets. To this end, we conducted an extensive phylogenetic analysis of the wide-ranging and geographically variable Eastern Fence Lizard (Sceloporus undulatus). Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian phylogenetic analyses were performed on a combined mitochondrial DNA dataset (12S and 16S rRNA, ND1 protein-coding gene, and associated tRNA; 3,688 bp total) for 56 populations of S. undulatus (78 total terminals including other S. undulatus group species and outgroups). Maximum parsimony analysis resulted in numerous equally parsimonious trees (82,646 from equally weighted parsimony and 335 from weighted parsimony). The majority rule consensus tree derived from the Bayesian analysis was topologically identical to the single best phylogeny inferred from the maximum likelihood analysis, but required ~80% less computational time. The mtDNA data provide strong support for the monophyly of the S. undulatus group and the paraphyly of "S. undulatus" with respect to S. belli, S. cautus, and S. woodi. Parallel evolution of ecomorphs within "S. undulatus" has masked the actual number of species within this group. This evidence, along with convincing patterns of phylogeographic differentiation suggests "S. undulatus" represents at least four lineages that should be recognized as evolutionary species.
3070897|Haplotype phylogenies based on DNA sequence data are increasingly being used to test traditional species-level taxonomies based on morphology. However, few studies have critically compared species limits based on morphological and DNA data, and the methods used to delimit species using either type of data are only rarely explained. In this paper, we review three approaches for species delimitation (tree-based with DNA data and tree-based and character-based with morphological data) and propose explicit protocols for each. We then compare species limits inferred from these approaches, using morphological and mtDNA data for the Yarrow's spiny lizard (Sceloporus jarrovii), a traditionally polytypic species from the southwestern United States and Mexico. All three approaches support division of S. jarrovii into five species, but only two species are the same among the three approaches. We find the greatest support for the five species that are delimited based on mtDNA data, and we argue that mtDNA data may have important (and previously unappreciated) advantages for species delimitation. Because different data and approaches can disagree so extensively, our results demonstrate that the methodology of species delimitation is a critical issue in systematics.
3070898|Notoriously slow rates of molecular evolution and convergent evolution among some morphological characters have limited phylogenetic resolution for the palm family (Arecaceae). This study adds nuclear DNA (18S SSU rRNA) and chloroplast DNA (cpDNA; atpB and rbcL) sequence data for 65 genera of palms and characterizes molecular variation for each molecule. Phylogenetic relationships were estimated with maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony techniques for the new data and for previously published molecular data for 45 palm genera. Maximum parsimony analysis was also used to compare molecular and morphological data for 33 palm genera. Incongruence among datasets was detected between cpDNA and 18S data and between molecular and morphological data. Most conflict between nuclear and cpDNA data was associated with the genus Nypa. Several taxa showed relatively long branches with 18S data, but phylogenetic resolution of these taxa was essentially the same for 18S and cpDNA data. Base composition bias for 18S that contributed to erroneous phylogenetic resolution in other taxa did not seem to be present in Palmae. Morphological data were incongruent with all molecular data due to apparent morphological homoplasy for Caryoteae, Ceroxyloideae, Iriarteae, and Thrinacinae. Both cpDNA and nuclear 18S data firmly resolved Caryoteae with Borasseae of Coryphoideae, suggesting that at least some morphological characters used to place Caryoteae in Arecoideae are homoplastic. In this study, increased character sampling seems to be more important than increased taxon sampling; a comparison of the full (65-taxon) and reduced (45- and 33-taxon) datasets suggests little difference in core topology but considerably more nodal support with the increased character sample sizes. These results indicate a general trend toward a stable estimate of phylogenetic relationships for the Palmae. Although the 33-taxon topologies are even better resolved, they lack several critical taxa and are affected by incongruence between molecular and morphological data. As such, a comparison of results from the 45- and 33-taxon trees offers the best available reference for phylogenetic inference on palms.
3070938|Computer simulations were used to test the effect of increasing phylogenetic topological inaccuracy on the results obtained from correlation tests of independent contrasts. Predictably, increasing the number of disruptions in the tree increases the likelihood of significant error in the r values produced and in the statistical conclusions drawn from the analysis. However, the position of the disruption in the tree is important: Disruptions closer to the tips of the tree have a greater effect than do disruptions that are close to the root of the tree. Independent contrasts derived from inaccurate topologies are more likely to lead to erroneous conclusions when there is a true significant relationship between the variables being tested (i.e., they tend to be conservative). The results also suggest that random phylogenies perform no better than nonphylogenetic analyses and, under certain conditions, may perform even worse than analyses using raw species data. Therefore, the use of random phylogenies is not beneficial in the absence of knowledge of the true phylogeny.
3070939|The use of color (as distinct from color pattern) in comparative evolutionary studies is important, and objective, independent characters are needed. A new method was employed to investigate geographic color variation in the small arboreal lizard Anolis trinitatis on the island of St. Vincent. The simple delta analysis (based on the difference between eigenvector coefficients for adjacent regions of the spectrum) is aimed at increasing the objectivity with which a spectrum is cut into independent segments and does not predetermine segment width or number. There are distinct habitat types within this small island and distinct phylogenetic lineages (based on a kilobase of cytochrome b sequence) within this species. A series of matrix correspondence (Mantel) tests indicate that aspects of color are associated with habitat type (e.g., green dorsum in rain forest lizards), molecular phylogeny, or both. Hence, both adaptation by selection and historical processes are implicated as causes of geographic variation in color. The dewlap variation (e.g., strong ultraviolet reflectance in some Atlantic coastal sites) is very pronounced and, contrary to some expectations, may result in reproductive isolation even within small Lesser Antillean islands.
3070940|Conserved genes have found their way into the mainstream of molecular systematics. Many of these genes are members of multigene families. A difficulty with using single genes of multigene families for phylogenetic inference is that genes from one species may be paralogous to those from another taxon. We focus attention on this problem using heat shock 70 (HSP70) genes. Using polymerase chain reaction techniques with genomic DNA, we isolated and sequenced 123 distinct sequences from 12 species of sharks. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the sequences cluster with constituitively expressed cytoplasmic heat shock-like genes. Three highly divergent gene clades were sampled. A number of similar sequences were sampled from each species within each distinct gene clade. Comparison of published species trees with an HSP70 gene tree inferred using Bayesian phylogenetic analysis revealed several cases of gene duplication and differential sorting of gene lineages within this group of sharks. Gene tree parsimony based on the objective criteria of duplication and losses showed that previously published hypotheses of species relationships and two novel hypothesis based on Bayesian phylogenetics were concordant with the history of HSP70 gene duplication and loss. By contrast, two published hypotheses based on morphological data were not significantly different from the null hypothesis of a random association between species relatedness and the HSP70 gene tree. These results suggest that gene tree parsimony using data from multigene families can be used for inferring species relationships or testing published alternative hypotheses. More importantly, the results suggest that systematic studies relying on phylogenetic inferences from HSP70 genes may by plagued by unrecognized paralogy of sampled genes. Our results underscore the distinction between gene and species trees and highlight an underappreciated source of discordance between gene trees and organismal phylogeny, i.e., unrecognized paralogy of sampled genes.
3070941|Several authors have argued recently that extensive taxon sampling has a positive and important effect on the accuracy of phylogenetic estimates. However, other authors have argued that there is little benefit of extensive taxon sampling, and so phylogenetic problems can or should be reduced to a few exemplar taxa as a means of reducing the computational complexity of the phylogenetic analysis. In this paper we examined five aspects of study design that may have led to these different perspectives. First, we considered the measurement of phylogenetic error across a wide range of taxon sample sizes, and conclude that the expected error based on randomly selecting trees (which varies by taxon sample size) must be considered in evaluating error in studies of the effects of taxon sampling. Second, we addressed the scope of the phylogenetic problems defined by different samples of taxa, and argue that phylogenetic scope needs to be considered in evaluating the importance of taxon-sampling strategies. Third, we examined the claim that fast and simple tree searches are as effective as more thorough searches at finding near-optimal trees that minimize error. We show that a more complete search of tree space reduces phylogenetic error, especially as the taxon sample size increases. Fourth, we examined the effects of simple versus complex simulation models on taxonomic sampling studies. Although benefits of taxon sampling are apparent for all models, data generated under more complex models of evolution produce higher overall levels of error and show greater positive effects of increased taxon sampling. Fifth, we asked if different phylogenetic optimality criteria show different effects of taxon sampling. Although we found strong differences in effectiveness of different optimality criteria as a function of taxon sample size, increased taxon sampling improved the results from all the common optimality criteria. Nonetheless, the method that showed the lowest overall performance (minimum evolution) also showed the least improvement from increased taxon sampling. Taking each of these results into account re-enforces the conclusion that increased sampling of taxa is one of the most important ways to increase overall phylogenetic accuracy.
3070942|The molecular systematics of vertebrates has been based entirely on alignments of primary structures of macromolecules; however, higher order features of DNA sequences not used in traditional studies also contain valuable phylogenetic information. Recent molecular data sets conflict over the phylogenetic placement of flightless birds (ratites - paleognaths), but placement of this clade critically influences interpretation of character change in birds. To help resolve this issue, we applied a new bioinformatics approach to the largest molecular data set currently available. We distilled nearly one megabase (1 million base pairs) of heterogeneous avian genomic DNA from 20 birds and an alligator into genomic signatures, defined as the complete set of frequencies of short sequence motifs (strings), thereby providing a way to directly compare higher order features of nonhomologous DNA sequences. Phylogenetic analysis and principal component analysis of the signatures strongly support the traditional hypothesis of basal ratites and monophyly of the nonratite birds (neognaths) and imply that ratite genomes are linguistically primitive within birds, despite their base compositional similarity to neognath genomes. Our analyses show further that the phylogenetic signal of genomic signatures are strongest among deep splits within vertebrates. Despite clear problems with phylogenetic analysis of genomic signatures, our study raises intriguing issues about the biological and genomic differences that fundamentally differentiate paleognaths and neognaths.
3070792|The Hawaiian flora, because of its great isolation, high levels of endemism, known lineages, and high rates of endangerment, offers unique opportunities to explore patterns of endangerment related to phylogeny, ecological and life history traits, and geographic patterns. Nine percent of the native flora of 1159 taxa are already extinct, and 52.5% are at risk (extinct, endangered, vulnerable, or rare). Risk is strongly associated with limited geographic distribution at several scales: endemic taxa (native only to the Hawaiian Islands) are at far greater risk than indigenous taxa (with both Hawaiian and extra-Hawaiian ranges); single-island endemics are more at risk than multi-island endemics; small islands have the highest proportion of endemic taxa at risk; and endemics with more limited habitat distributions (elevation, community type) are more at risk. Historic population density is a strong predictor of risk, and taxa with low historic population densities are at greatest risk with rapid anthropogenic changes. Among the major islands, Maui Nui has the highest percent of taxa that are extinct. Kaua'i has the lowest percent of extinct taxa and the highest proportion of single-island endemic taxa that are rare. Endemic taxa at risk are associated with distributions in shrublands, forests, bogs, and cliff habitats. Endemic taxa with distributions in low elevation dry habitats have the highest proportion of taxa at risk, but the greatest absolute numbers of taxa at risk have distributions in mesic lowland and montane forests, and in wet montane forests. The life history patterns associated with risk are complicated, and inclusion of the effects of evolutionary relationships (lineages) changes some of these patterns. Species level analyses without respect to lineage shows risk associated with monomorphic (hermaphroditic) breeding systems and bird pollination because of the large number of hermaphroditic, bird-pollinated species in the Campanulaceae. Analyses incorporating the effect of lineage greatly reduce the impact of large lineages and result in an association of risk with insect pollination, and no effect of breeding system. There is no association of lineage size and the percent of taxa at risk within the lineage; endemic taxa from lineages with large radiations are at no greater risk than endemic single-taxon lineages. The percentages of taxa at risk at the family level in the Hawaiian Islands and worldwide (excluding Hawaiian taxa) are positively correlated, although flowering plant families in the Hawaiian Islands have a much greater proportion of taxa at risk. Some of the approaches described here may be useful to predict geographical and biological patterns of endangerment in island and island-like ecosystems under increasing pressures of endangerment and extinction.
3070794|In this paper we explore the role that biosystematists can play in conservation planning. Conservation planning concerns the location and design of reserves that both represent the biodiversity of a region and enable the persistence of that biodiversity by maintaining key ecological and evolutionary processes. For conservation planning to be effective, quantitative targets are needed for the spatial components of a region that reflect evolutionary processes. Using examples from southern Africa's Succulent Karoo, we demonstrate how spatially explicit data on morphological variation within taxa provide essential information for conservation planning in that such variation represents an important surrogate for the spatial component of lineage diversification. We also provide an example of how the spatial components of evolutionary processes can be identified and targeted for conservation action. Key to this understanding are the recognition and description of taxonomic units at all spatial scales. Without the recognition of subspecific variation, it is difficult to formulate evolutionary hypotheses, let alone set quantitative targets for the conservation of this variation. Given the escalating threats to biodiversity, and the importance of planning for persistence by incorporating ecological and evolutionary processes into conservation plans, it is essential that systematists develop hypotheses on the spatial surrogates for these processes for a wide range of lineages. The important questions for systematists to be asking are (1) how is variation distributed in the landscape, and (2) how did it come about? Conservation planners too need to highlight these spatial components for conservation action.
3070790|Conservation planning has tended to focus more on pattern (representation) than process (persistence) and, for the former, has emphasized species and ecosystem or community diversity over genetic diversity. Here I consider how best to incorporate knowledge of evolutionary processes and the distribution of genetic diversity into conservation planning and priority setting for populations within species and for biogeographic areas within regions. Separation of genetic diversity into two dimensions, one concerned with adaptive variation and the other with neutral divergence caused by isolation, highlights different evolutionary processes and suggests alternative strategies for conservation. Planning for both species and areas should emphasize protection of historically isolated lineages (Evolutionarily Significant Units) because these cannot be recovered. By contrast, adaptive features may best be protected by maintaining the context for selection, heterogeneous landscapes, and viable populations, rather than protecting specific phenotypes. A useful strategy may be to (1) identify areas that are important to represent species and (vicariant) genetic diversity and (2) maximize within these areas the protection of contiguous environmental gradients across which selection and migration can interact to maintain population viability and (adaptive) genetic diversity. These concepts are illustrated with recent results from analysis of a rainforest fauna from northeast Australia.
3070793|Systematic data in the form of collections data are useful in biodiversity studies in many ways, most importantly because they serve as the only direct evidence of species distributions. However, collecting bias has been demonstrated for most areas of the world and has led some to propose methods that circumvent the need for collections data. New methods that model collections data in combination with abiotic data and predict potential total species distribution are examined using 25,111 records representing 5,123 species of plants and animals from Guyana; some methods use the reduced number of 320 species. These modeled species distributions are evaluated and potential high-priority biodiversity sites are selected based on the concept of irreplaceability, a measure of uniqueness. The major impediments to using collections data are the lack of data that are available in a useful format and the reluctance of most systematists to become involved in biodiversity and conservation research.
3070787| A reticulogram is a general network capable of representing a reticulate evolutionary structure. It is particularly useful for portraying relationships among organisms that may be related in a nonunique way to their common ancestor-relationships that cannot be represented by a dendrogram or a phylogenetic tree. We propose a new method for constructing reticulograms that represent a given distance matrix. Reticulate evolution applies first to phylogenetic problems; it has been found in nature, for example, in the within-species microevolution of eukaryotes and in lateral gene transfer in bacteria. In this paper, we propose a new method for reconstructing reticulation networks and we develop applications of the reticulate evolution model to ecological biogeographic, population microevolutionary, and hybridization problems. The first example considers a spatially constrained reticulogram representing the postglacial dispersal of freshwater fishes in the Qubec peninsula; the reticulogram provides a better model of postglacial dispersal than does a tree model. The second example depicts the morphological similarities among local populations of muskrats in a river valley in Belgium; adding supplementary branches to a tree depicting the river network leads to a better representation of the morphological distances among local populations of muskrats than does a tree structure. A third example involves hybrids between plants of the genus Aphelandra. 
3070791|Biodiversity of North American freshwaters is among the greatest in the world. However, due to extensive habitat degradation, pollution, and introductions of nonindigenous species, this biodiversity is also among the most endangered. Unlike habitat degradation and pollution, nonindigenous species represent a permanent loss of biodiversity because their removal or control is often impossible. Most species introduced into nonnative North American ranges, however, are not from Eurasia but have been introduced from geographically isolated regions within North America. Although the ecological effects of introduced species have been widely documented, the effects of hybridization, especially between closely related species, represents an equally serious mechanism of extinction but is much less studied. Identification of which species are likely to hybridize after contact is of critical importance to prevent the further loss of native species. Molecular phylogenetics serves as a powerful tool to identify freshwater species at risk of introgression, if we can assume that genetic distance is a good predictor of the potential for hybridization. Although not a thorough review of all cases of hybridization, this article documents the extent and effects of hybridization in fishes, crayfishes, mussels, and other invertebrates in light of the currently accepted phylogenetic relationships. We suggest this approach may be the first step in addressing the potential threat of hybridization between many of the closely related species in North American fresh waters.
3070788|A new method, ParaFit, has been developed to test the significance of a global hypothesis of coevolution between parasites and their hosts. Individual host-parasite association links can also be tested. The test statistics are functions of the host and parasite phylogenetic trees and of the set of host-parasite association links. Numerical simulations are used to show that the method has correct rate of type I error and good power except under extreme error conditions. An application to real data (pocket gophers and chewing lice) is presented.
3070795|Vast gaps in available information on the spatial distribution of biodiversity pose a major challenge for regional conservation planning in many parts of the world. This problem is often addressed by basing such planning on various biodiversity surrogates. In some situations, distributional data for selected taxa may be used as surrogates for biodiversity as a whole. However, this approach is less effective in data-poor regions, where there may be little choice but to base conservation planning on some form of remote environmental mapping, derived, for example, from interpretation of satellite imagery or from numerical classification of abiotic environmental layers. Although this alternative approach confers obvious benefits in terms of cost-effectiveness and rapidity of application, problems may arise if congruence is poor between mapped land-classes and actual biological distributions. I propose three strategies for making more effective use of available biological data and knowledge to alleviate such problems by (1) more closely integrating biological and environmental data through predictive modeling, with increased emphasis on modeling collective properties of biodiversity rather than individual entities; (2) making more rigorous use of remotely mapped surrogates in conservation planning by incorporating knowledge of heterogeneity within land-classes, and of varying levels of distinctiveness between classes, into measures of conservation priority and achievement; and (3) using relatively data-rich regions as test-beds for evaluating the performance of surrogates that can be readily applied across data-poor regions.
3070912|Mapping of mutations on a phylogeny has been a commonly used analytical tool in phylogenetics and molecular evolution. However, the common approaches for mapping mutations based on parsimony have lacked a solid statistical foundation. Here, I present a Bayesian method for mapping mutations on a phylogeny. I illustrate some of the common problems associated with using parsimony and suggest instead that inferences in molecular evolution can be made on the basis of the posterior distribution of the mappings of mutations. A method for simulating a mapping from the posterior distribution of mappings is also presented, and the utility of the method is illustrated on two previously published data sets. Applications include a method for testing for variation in the substitution rate along the sequence and a method for testing whether the d<sub>N</sub>/d<sub>S</sub> ratio varies among lineages in the phylogeny.
3070914|Methods for Bayesian inference of phylogeny using DNA sequences based on Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques allow the incorporation of arbitrarily complex models of the DNA substitution process, and other aspects of evolution. This has increased the realism of models, potentially improving the accuracy of the methods, and is largely responsible for their recent popularity. Another consequence of the increased complexity of models in Bayesian phylogenetics is that these models have, in several cases, become overparameterized. In such cases, some parameters of the model are not identifiable; different combinations of nonidentifiable parameters lead to the same likelihood, making it impossible to decide among the potential parameter values based on the data. Overparameterized models can also slow the rate of convergence of MCMC algorithms due to large negative correlations among parameters in the posterior probability distribution. Functions of parameters can sometimes be found, in overparameterized models, that are identifiable, and inferences based on these functions are legitimate. Examples are presented of overparameterized models that have been proposed in the context of several Bayesian methods for inferring the relative ages of nodes in a phylogeny when the substitution rate evolves over time.
3070910|The molecular clock, i.e., constancy of the rate of evolution over time, is commonly assumed in estimating divergence dates. However, this assumption is often violated and has drastic effects on date estimation. Recently, a number of attempts have been made to relax the clock assumption. One approach is to use maximum likelihood, which assigns rates to branches and allows the estimation of both rates and times. An alternative is the Bayes approach, which models the change of the rate over time. A number of models of rate change have been proposed. We have extended and evaluated models of rate evolution, i.e., the lognormal and its recent variant, along with the gamma, the exponential, and the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes. These models were first applied to a small hominoid data set, where an empirical Bayes approach was used to estimate the hyperparameters that measure the amount of rate variation. Estimation of divergence times was sensitive to these hyperparameters, especially when the assumed model is close to the clock assumption. The rate and date estimates varied little from model to model, although the posterior Bayes factor indicated the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process outperformed the other models. To demonstrate the importance of allowing for rate change across lineages, this general approach was used to analyze a larger data set consisting of the 18S ribosomal RNA gene of 39 metazoan species. We obtained date estimates consistent with paleontological records, the deepest split within the group being about 560 million years ago. Estimates of the rates were in accordance with the Cambrian explosion hypothesis and suggested some more recent lineage-specific bursts of evolution.
3070909|Bayesian methods for estimating evolutionary divergence times are extended to multigene data sets, and a technique is described for detecting correlated changes in evolutionary rates among genes. Simulations are employed to explore the effect of multigene data on divergence time estimation, and the methodology is illustrated with a previously published data set representing diverse plant taxa. The fact that evolutionary rates and times are confounded when sequence data are compared is emphasized and the importance of fossil information for disentangling rates and times is stressed.
3070913|The objective of this study was to obtain a quantitative assessment of the monophyly of morning glory taxa, specifically the genus Ipomoea and the tribe Argyreieae. Previous systematic studies of morning glories intimated the paraphyly of Ipomoea by suggesting that the genera within the tribe Argyreieae are derived from within Ipomoea; however, no quantitative estimates of statistical support were developed to address these questions. We applied a Bayesian analysis to provide quantitative estimates of monophyly in an investigation of morning glory relationships using DNA sequence data. We also explored various approaches for examining convergence of the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulation of the Bayesian analysis by running 18 separate analyses varying in length. We found convergence of the important components of the phylogenetic model (the tree with the maximum posterior probability, branch lengths, the parameter values from the DNA substitution model, and the posterior probabilities for clade support) for these data after one million generations of the MCMC simulations. In the process, we identified a run where the parameter values obtained were often outside the range of values obtained from the other runs, suggesting an aberrant result. In addition, we compared the Bayesian method of phylogenetic analysis to maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony. The results from the Bayesian analysis and the maximum likelihood analysis were similar for topology, branch lengths, and parameters of the DNA substitution model. Topologies also were similar in the comparison between the Bayesian analysis and maximum parsimony, although the posterior probabilities and the bootstrap proportions exhibited some striking differences. In a Bayesian analysis of three data sets (ITS sequences, waxy sequences, and ITS + waxy sequences) no supoort for the monophyly of the genus Ipomoea, or for the tribe Argyreieae, was observed, with the estimate of the probability of the monophyly of these taxa being less than 3.4 x 10<sup>-7</sup>.
3070908|Only recently has Bayesian inference of phylogeny been proposed. The method is now a practical alternative to the other methods; indeed, the method appears to possess advantages over the other methods in terms of ability to use complex models of evolution, ease of interpretation of the results, and computational efficiency. However, the method should be used cautiously. The results of a Bayesian analysis should be examined with respect to the sensitivity of the results to the priors used and the reliability of the Markov chain Monte Carlo approximation of the probabilities of trees.
3070916|The melanogaster species group of Drosophila (subgenus Sophophora) has long been a favored model for evolutionary studies because of its morphological and ecological diversity and wide geographic distribution. However, phylogenetic relationships among species and subgroups within this lineage are not well understood. We reconstructed the phylogeny of 17 species representing 7 "oriental" species subgroups, which are especially closely related to D. melanogaster. We used DNA sequences of four nuclear and two mitochondrial loci in an attempt to obtain the best possible estimate of species phylogeny and to assess the extent and sources of remaining uncertainties. Comparison of trees derived from single-gene data sets allowed us to identify several strongly supported clades, which were also consistently seen in combined analyses. The relationships among these clades are less certain. The combined data set contains data partitions that are incongruent with each other. Trees reconstructed from the combined data set and from internally homogenous data sets consisting of three or four genes each differ at several deep nodes. The total data set tree is fully resolved and strongly supported at most nodes. Statistical tests indicated that this tree is compatible with all individual and combined data sets. Therefore, we accepted this tree as the most likely model of historical relationships. We compared the new molecular phylogeny to earlier estimates based on morphology and chromosome structure and discuss its taxonomic and evolutionary implications.
3070911|Current methods to identify recombination between subtypes of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) fall into a sequential testing trap, in which significance is assessed conditional on parental representative sequences and crossover points (COPs) that maximize the same test statistic. We overcame this shortfall by testing for recombination while inferring parental heritage and COPs using an extended Bayesian multiple change-point model. The model assumes that aligned molecular sequence data consist of an unknown number of contiguous segments that may support alternative topologies or varying evolutionary pressures. We allowed for heterogeneity in the substitution process and specifically tested for intersubtype recombination using Bayes factors. We also developed a new class of priors to assess significance across a wide range of support for recombination in the data. We applied our method to three putative gag gene recombinants. HIV-1 isolate RW024 decisively supported recombination with an inferred parental heritage of AD and a COP 95% Bayesian credible interval of (1152, 1178) using the HXB2 numbering scheme. HIV-1 isolate VI557 barely supported recombination. HIV-1 isolate RF decisively rejected recombination as expected, given that the sequence is commonly used as a reference sequence for subtype B. We employed scaled regeneration quantile plots to assess convergence and found this approach convenient to use even for our variable dimensional model parameter space.
3070915|The main goals of this study were to provide a robust phylogeny for the families of the superfamily Curculionoidea, to discover relationships and major natural groups within the family Curculionidae, and to clarify the evolution of larval habits and host-plant associations in weevils to analyze their role in weevil diversification. Phylogenetic relationships among the weevils (Curculionoidea) were inferred from analysis of nucleotide sequences of 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA; ~2,000 bases) and 115 morphological characters of larval and adult stages. A worldwide sample of 100 species was compiled to maximize representation of weevil morphological and ecological diversity. All families and the main subfamilies of Curculionoidea were represented. The family Curculionidae sensu lato was represented by about 80 species in 30 "subfamilies" of traditional classifications. Phylogenetic reconstruction was accomplished by parsimony analysis of separate and combined molecular and morphological data matrices and Bayesian analysis of the molecular data; tree topology support was evaluated. Results of the combined analysis of 18S rDNA and morphological data indicate that monophyly of and relationships among each of the weevil families are well supported with the topology ((Nemonychidae, Anthribidae) (Belidae (Attelabidae (Caridae (Brentidae, Curculionidae))))). Within the clade Curculionidae sensu lato, the basal positions are occupied by mostly monocot-associated taxa with the primitive type of male genitalia followed by the Curculionidae sensu stricto, which is made up of groups with the derived type of male genitalia. High support values were found for the monophyly of some distinct curculionid groups such as Dryophthorinae (several tribes represented) and Platypodinae (Tesserocerini plus Platypodini), among others. However, the subfamilial relationships in Curculionidae are unresolved or weakly supported. The phylogeny estimate based on combined 18S rDNA and morphological data suggests that diversification in weevils was accompanied by niche shifts in host-plant associations and larval habits. Pronounced conservatism is evident in larval feeding habits, particularly in the host tissue consumed. Multiple shifts to use of angiosperms in Curculionoidea were identified, each time associated with increases in weevil diversity and subsequent shifts back to gymnosperms, particularly in the Curculionidae.
3070917|A formal method was developed to determine areas of endemism. The study region is divided into cells, and the number of species that can be considered as endemic is counted for a given set of cells (= area). Thus, the areas with the maximum number of species considered endemic are preferred. This is the first method for the identification of areas of endemism that implements an optimality criterion directly based on considering the aspects of species distribution that are relevant to endemism. The method is implemented in two computer programs, NDM and VNDM, available from the authors.
3070882|We used mitochondrial DNA sequences to determine the phylogenetic placement of southern smelts (Retropinnidae), a group of diadromous fishes endemic to New Zealand and Australia. Our genetic data strongly support a sister group relationship between retropinnids and northern hemisphere smelts (Osmeridae), a relationship that seems consistent with the similar appearance and life history strategies of these two groups. Our analysis indicates that Retropinnidae and Osmeridae together represent the sister group to the southern hemisphere galaxiid fishes (Galaxiidae). However, this finding conflicts with several recent osteological analyses, which supported a sister relationship for Retropinnidae and Galaxiidae, giving a monophyletic southern hemisphere assemblage (Galaxioidea). We review cases of incongruence and discuss factors that might explain significant disagreement between molecular and morphological data matrices. We suggest that repeated evolutionary simplification may have undermined the accuracy of morphological hypotheses of osmeroid relationships. Although equally weighted parsimony analysis of morphological data rejects the molecular hypothesis (Osmeridae + Retropinnidae), implementation of a range of weighting schemes suggests that incongruence is nonsignificant under asymmetric character transformation models. We propose that a simple "equal transformation cost" parsimony analysis may be biologically unrealistic, especially when reductive homoplasy is widespread; as is increasingly being accepted, complex character states are more readily lost than gained. Therefore, we recommend that morphological systematists routinely implement a range of character transformation models to assess the sensitivity of their phylogenetic reconstructions. We discuss the antitropical biogeography of osmeroid fishes in the context of vicariance and transequatorial dispersal.
3070883|We test hypotheses for the evolution of a life history trait among a group of parasitoid wasps (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonoidea), namely, the transition among koinobiont parasitoids (parasitoids whose hosts continue development after oviposition) between attacking exposed hosts and attacking hosts that are concealed within plant tissue. Using a range of phylogeny estimates based on 28S rDNA sequences, we use maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) methods to estimate the ancestral life history traits for the main clades in which both traits occur (using the programs MacClade and Discrete, respectively). We also assess the robustness of these estimates; for MP, we use step matrices in PAUP<sup>*</sup> to find the minimum weight necessary to reverse estimates or make them ambiguous, and for ML, we measure the differences in likelihood after fixing the ancestral nodes at the alternative states. We also measure the robustness of the MP ancestral state estimate against uncertainties in the phylogeny estimate, manipulating the most-parsimonious tree in MacClade to find the shortest suboptimal tree in which the ancestral state estimate is reversed or made ambiguous. Using these methods, we find strong evidence supporting two transitions among koinobiont Ichneumonoidea: (1) to attacking exposed hosts in a clade consisting of the Helconinae and related subfamilies, and (2) the reverse transition in a clade consisting of the Euphorinae and related subfamilies. In exploring different methods of analyzing variable-length DNA sequences, we found that direct optimization with POY gave some clearly erroneous results that had a profound effect on the overall phylogeny estimate. We also discuss relationships within the superfamily and expand the Mesostoinae to include all the gall-associated braconids that form the sister group of the Aphidiinae.
3070886|Probabilistic tests of topology offer a powerful means of evaluating competing phylogenetic hypotheses. The performance of the nonparametric Shimodaira-Hasegawa (SH) test, the parametric Swofford-Olsen-Waddell-Hillis (SOWH) test, and Bayesian posterior probabilities were explored for five data sets for which all the phylogenetic relationships are known with a very high degree of certainty. These results are consistent with previous simulation studies that have indicated a tendency for the SOWH test to be prone to generating Type 1 errors because of model misspecification coupled with branch length heterogeneity. These results also suggest that the SOWH test may accord overconfidence in the true topology when the null hypothesis is in fact correct. In contrast, the SH test was observed to be much more conservative, even under high substitution rates and branch length heterogeneity. For some of those data sets where the SOWH test proved misleading, the Bayesian posterior probabilities were also misleading. The results of all tests were strongly influenced by the exact substitution model assumptions. Simple models, especially those that assume rate homogeneity among sites, had a higher Type 1 error rate and were more likely to generate misleading posterior probabilities. For some of these data sets, the commonly used substitution models appear to be inadequate for estimating appropriate levels of uncertainty with the SOWH test and Bayesian methods. Reasons for the differences in statistical power between the two maximum likelihood tests are discussed and are contrasted with the Bayesian approach.
3070888|Primate lentiviruses (PLV) from closely related primate species have been observed to be more closely related to each other than to PLV from more distantly related primate species. The current explanation for this observation is the codivergence hypothesis; that is, the divergence of a virus lineage results from the divergence of the host lineage. We show that, alternatively, frequent cross-species transmission of PLV, coupled with a tendency for more closely related primate species to exchange viruses "successfully," can result in apparent codivergence. This host-switching hypothesis reconciles several puzzling observations related to the evolution of PLV.
3070885|An approximately unbiased (AU) test that uses a newly devised multiscale bootstrap technique was developed for general hypothesis testing of regions in an attempt to reduce test bias. It was applied to maximum-likelihood tree selection for obtaining the confidence set of trees. The AU test is based on the theory of Efron et al. (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 13429-13434; 1996), but the new method provides higher-order accuracy yet simpler implementation. The AU test, like the Shimodaira-Hasegawa (SH) test, adjusts the selection bias overlooked in the standard use of the bootstrap probability and Kishino-Hasegawa tests. The selection bias comes from comparing many trees at the same time and often leads to overconfidence in the wrong trees. The SH test, though safe to use, may exhibit another type of bias such that it appears conservative. Here I show that the AU test is less biased than other methods in typical cases of tree selection. These points are illustrated in a simulation study as well as in the analysis of mammalian mitochondrial protein sequences. The theoretical argument provides a simple formula that covers the bootstrap probability test, the Kishino-Hasegawa test, the AU test, and the Zharkikh-Li test. A practical suggestion is provided as to which test should be used under particular circumstances.
3070881|Several species in the rodent genus Mus are used as model research organisms, but comparative studies of these mice have been hampered by the lack of a well-supported phylogeny. We used DNA sequences from six genes representing paternally, maternally, and biparentally inherited regions of the genome to infer phylogenetic relationships among 10 species of Mus commonly used in laboratory research. Our sample included seven species from the subgenus Mus; one species each from the subgenera Pyromys, Coelomys, and Nannomys; and representatives from three additional murine genera, which served as outgroups in the phylogenetic analyses. Although each of the six genes yielded a unique phylogeny, several clades were supported by four or more gene trees. Nodes that conflicted between trees were generally characterized by weak support for one or both of the alternative topologies, thus providing no compelling evidence that any individual gene, or part of the genome, was misleading with respect to the evolutionary history of these mice. Analysis of the combined data resulted in a fully resolved tree that strongly supports monophyly of the genus Mus, monophyly of the subgenus Mus, division of the subgenus Mus into Palearctic (M. musculus, M. macedonicus, M. spicilegus, and M. spretus) and Asian (M. cervicolor, M. cookii, and M. caroli) clades, monophyly of the house mice (M. m. musculus, "M. m. molossinus," M. m. castaneus, and M. m. domesticus), and a sister-group relationship between M. macedonicus and M. spicilegus. Other clades that were strongly supported by one or more gene partitions were not strongly supported by the combined data. This appears to reflect a localized homoplasy in one partition obscuring the phylogenetic signal from another, rather than differences in gene or genome histories.
3070880|A new approach to a nomenclatural system, including elements from both Linnaean and phylogenetic nomenclature, is proposed. It is compatible with the existing Linnaean system, including "standard names" corresponding to principal and secondary ranks, and uses a variant of the definitions from the Phylocode system. A new infrafamilial classification, using this nomenclatural approach, of the Apocynaceae s.l. (i.e., including the Asclepiadaceae) based mainly on analyses of rbcL and ndhF data is discussed. Twenty-one tribes and four rankless taxa are defined.
3070884|Heterochrony is important as a potential mechanism of evolutionary change. However, the analysis of developmental timing data within a phylogenetic framework to identify important shifts has proven difficult. In particular, analytical problems with sequence (event) heterochrony revolve around the lack of an absolute time frame in development to allow standardization of timing data across species. An important breakthrough in this regard is the method of "event-pairing," which compares the relative timing of developmental events in a pairwise fashion. The resulting event-pair-encoded data can be mapped onto a phylogeny, which can provide important biological information. However, event-paired data are cumbersome to work with and lack a rigorous quantitative framework under which to analyze them. Critically, the otherwise advantageous relativity of event-pairing prevents an assessment of whether one or both events in a single event-pair have changed position during evolutionary history. Building on the method of event-pairing, we describe a protocol whereby event-pair transformations along a given branch are analyzed en bloc. Our method of "event-pair cracking" thereby allows developmental timing data to be analyzed quantitatively within a phylogenetic framework to infer key heterochronic shifts. We demonstrate the utility of event-pair cracking through a worked example and show how it provides a set of desired features identified by previous authors.
3651100|Matrix representation with parsimony (MRP) supertree construction has been criticized because the supertree may specify clades that are contradicted by every source tree contributing to it. Such unsupported clades may also occur using other supertree methods; however, their incidence is largely unknown. In this study, I investigated the frequency of unsupported clades in both simulated and empirical MRP supertrees. Here, I propose a new index, QS, to quantify the qualitative support for a supertree and its clades among the set of source trees. Results show that unsupported clades are very rare in MRP supertrees, occurring most often when there are few source trees that all possess the same set of taxa. However, even under these conditions the frequency of unsupported clades was <0.2%. Unsupported clades were absent from both the Carnivora and Lagomorpha supertrees, reflecting the use of large numbers of source trees for both. The proposed QS indices are correlated broadly with another measure of quantitative clade support (bootstrap frequencies, as derived from resampling of the MRP matrix) but appear to be more sensitive. More importantly, they sample at the level of the source trees and thus, unlike the bootstrap, are suitable for summarizing the support of MRP supertree clades.
3651095|The insect order Diptera, the true flies, contains one of the four largest Mesozoic insect radiations within its suborder Brachycera. Estimates of phylogenetic relationships and divergence dates among the major brachyceran lineages have been problematic or vague because of a lack of consistent evidence and the rarity of well-preserved fossils. Here, we combine new evidence from nucleotide sequence data, morphological reinterpretations, and fossils to improve estimates of brachyceran evolutionary relationships and ages. The 28S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) gene was sequenced for a broad diversity of taxa, and the data were combined with recently published morphological scorings for a parsimony-based phylogenetic analysis. The phylogenetic topology inferred from the combined 28S rDNA and morphology data set supports brachyceran monophyly and the monophyly of the four major brachyceran infraorders and suggests relationships largely consistent with previous classifications. Weak support was found for a basal brachyceran clade comprising the infraorders Stratiomyomorpha (soldier flies and relatives), Xylophagomorpha (xylophagid flies), and Tabanomorpha (horse flies, snipe flies, and relatives). This topology and similar alternative arrangements were used to obtain Bayesian estimates of divergence times, both with and without the assumption of a constant evolutionary rate. The estimated times were relatively robust to the choice of prior distributions. Divergence times based on the 28S rDNA and several fossil constraints indicate that the Brachycera originated in the late Triassic or earliest Mesozoic and that all major lower brachyceran fly lineages had near contemporaneous origins in the mid-Jurassic prior to the origin of flowering plants (angiosperms). This study provides increased resolution of brachyceran phylogeny, and our revised estimates of fly ages should improve the temporal context of evolutionary inferences and genomic comparisons between fly model organisms.
3651099|Systematic and biogeographical relationships within the Hawaiian clade of the pantropical understory shrub genus Psychotria (Rubiaceae) were investigated using phylogenetic analysis of 18S-26S ribosomal DNA internal (ITS) and external (ETS) transcribed spacers. Phylogenetic analyses strongly suggest that the Hawaiian Psychotria are monophyletic and the result of a single introduction to the Hawaiian Islands. The results of phylogenetic analyses of ITS and ETS partitions alone give slightly different topologies among basal lineages of the Hawaiian clade; however, such differences are not well supported. Relationships in the section Straussia clade in particular are not well resolved because of few nucleotide changes on internal branches, suggesting extremely rapid radiation in the lineage. Parsimony and likelihood reconstructions of ancestral geographical distributions using the topologies inferred from both parsimony and likelihood analysis of combined data and using different combinations of models and branch lengths gave highly congruent results. However, for one internal node (corresponding to the majority of the "greenwelliae" clade), parsimony reconstructions were unable to distinguish between three possible island states, whereas likelihood reconstructions resulted in clear ordering of possible states, with the island of O'ahu slightly more probable than other islands under all but one model and branch length combination considered (the Jukes-Cantor-like model with branch lengths inferred under parsimony, under which conditions Maui Nui is more probable). A pattern of colonization from oldest to youngest islands was inferred from the phylogeny, using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood. Additionally, a much higher incidence of intraisland versus interisland speciation was inferred.
3651098|The interface of the Asian and Australian faunal zones is defined by a network of deep ocean trenches that separate intervening islands of the Philippines and Wallacea (Sulawesi, the Lesser Sundas, and the Moluccas). Studies of this region by Wallace marked the genesis of the field of biogeography, yet few workers have used molecular methods to investigate the biogeography of taxa whose distribution spans this interface. Some taxa, such as the fanged frogs of the ranid genus Limnonectes, have distributions on either side of the zoogeographical lines of Wallace and Huxley, offering an opportunity to ask how frequently these purported barriers were crossed and by what paths. To examine diversification of Limnonectes in Southeast Asia, the Philippines, and Wallacea, we estimated a phylogeny from mitochondrial DNA sequences obtained from a robust geographic sample. Our analyses suggest that these frogs dispersed from Borneo to the Philippines at least twice, from Borneo to Sulawesi once or twice, from Sulawesi to the Philippines once, and from the Philippines to Sulawesi once. Dispersal to the Moluccas occurred from Sulawesi and to the Lesser Sundas from Java/Bali. Species distributions are generally concordant with Pleistocene aggregate island complexes of the Philippines and with areas of endemism on Sulawesi. We conclude that the recognition of Zoogeographic lines, though insightful, may oversimplify the biogeography of widespread taxa in this region.
3651096|We conducted a phylogenetic study of pygopodid lizards, a group of 38 species endemic to Australia and New Guinea, with two major goals: to reconstruct a taxonomically complete and robustly supported phylogeny for the group and to use this information to gain insights into the tempo, mode, and timing of the pygopodid radiation. Phylogenetic analyses of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), nuclear DNA (nDNA), and previously published morphological data using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods on the independent and combined three data sets yielded trees with similar and largely stable ingroup topologies. However, relationships among the six most inclusive and unambiguously supported clades (Aprasia, Delma, Lialis, Ophidiocephalus, Pletholax, and Pygopus) varied depending on data set analyzed. We used parametric bootstrapping to help us understand which of the three-branch schemes linking these six taxa was most plausible given our data. We conclude based on our results that the arrangement ((((Delma, Lialis)Pygopus)Pletholax)(Aprasia, Ophidiocephalus)) represents the best hypothesis of intergeneric relationships. A second major problem to arise in our study concerned the inability of our two outgroup taxa (Diplodactylus) to root trees properly; three different rooting locations were suggested depending upon analysis. This long-branch attraction problem was so severe that the outgroup branch also interfered with estimation of ingroup relationships. We therefore used the molecular clock method to root the pygopodid tree. Results of two independent molecular clock analyses (mtDNA and nDNA) converged upon the same root location (branch leading to Delma). We are confident that we have found the correct root because the possibility of our clock estimates agreeing by chance alone is remote given that there are 65 possible root locations (branches) on the pygopodid tree (~1 in 65 odds). Our analysis also indicated that Delma fraseri is not monophyletic, a result supported by a parametric bootstrapping test. We elevated the Western Australian race, Delma f. petersoni, to species status (i.e., Delma petersoni) because hybridization and incomplete lineage sorting could be ruled out as potential causes of this paraphyletic gene tree and because D. grayii is broadly sympatric with its sister species D. fraseri. Climate changes over the past 23 million years, which transformed Australia from a wet, green continent to one that is largely dry and brown, have been suspected as playing a major role in the diversification of Australia's temperate biotas. Our phylogenetic analyses of pygopodid speciation and biogeography revealed four important findings consistent with this climate change diversification model: (1) our fossil-calibrated phylogeny shows that although some extant pygopodid lineages predate the onset of aridification, 28 of 33 pygopodid species included in our study seem to have originated in the last 23 million years; (2) relative cladogenesis tests suggest that several major clades underwent higher than expected rates of speciation; (3) our findings support earlier studies showing that speciation of mesic-adapted biotas in the southeastern and southwestern corners of Australia largely occurred within each of these regions between 12 and 23 million years ago as opposed to repeated dispersal between these regions; and (4) we have identified for the first time the existence of several pairs of sympatric sister species of lizards living in arid and semiarid ecosystems. These sympatric sister species seem to be younger than allopatric or parapatric sister-species pairs, which is not consistent with previous beliefs.
3651097|Several tests of molecular phylogenies have been proposed over the last decades, but most of them lead to strikingly different P-values. I propose that such discrepancies are principally due to different forms of null hypotheses. To support this hypothesis, two new tests are described. Both consider the composite null hypothesis that all the topologies are equidistant from the true but unknown topology. This composite hypothesis can either be reduced to the simple hypothesis at the least favorable distribution (frequentist significance test [FST]) or to the maximum likelihood topology (frequentist hypothesis test [FHT]). In both cases, the reduced null hypothesis is tested against each topology included in the analysis. The tests proposed have an information-theoretic justification, and the distribution of their test statistic is estimated by a nonparametric bootstrap, adjusting P-values for multiple comparisons. I applied the new tests to the reanalysis of two chloroplast genes, psaA and psbB, and compared the results with those of previously described tests. As expected, the FST and the FHT behaved approximately like the Shimodaira-Hasegawa test and the bootstrap, respectively. Although the tests give overconfidence in a wrong tree when an overly simple nucleotide substitution model is assumed, more complex models incorporating heterogeneity among codon positions resolve some conflicts. To further investigate the influence of the null hypothesis, a power study was conducted. Simulations showed that FST and the Shimodaira-Hasegawa test are the least powerful and FHT is the most powerful across the parameter space. Although the size of all the tests is affected by misspecification, the two new tests appear more robust against misspecification of the model of evolution and consistently supported the hypothesis that the Gnetales are nested within gymnosperms.
3651094|Previous studies have demonstrated that the agent of Pneumocystis pneumonia (PcP), Pneumocystis carinii, is actually a complex of eukaryotic organisms, and cophylogeny could explain the distribution of the hosts and parasites. In the present work, we tested the hypothesis of cophylogeny between the primate-derived Pneumocystis group and their hosts. Specific strains isolated from 20 primate species, including humans, were used to produce a phylogeny of the parasites. Aligned sequences corresponding to DNA sequences of three genes (DHPS, mtSSU-rRNA, and mtLSU-rRNA) were separately analyzed and then combined in a single data set. The resulting parasite phylogeny was compared with different controversial phylogenies for the hosts. This comparison demonstrated that, depending upon which topology is accepted for the hosts, at least 61% and perhaps 77% of the homologous nodes of the respective cladograms of the hosts and parasites may be interpreted as resulting from codivergence events. This finding and the high specificity of these parasites suggests that cophylogeny may be considered the dominant pattern of evolution for Pneumocystis organisms, representing a new example of parallel evolution between primates and their specific parasites. Because the phylogeny of Pneumocystis followed very closely the differentiation of their hosts at the species level, the study of the parasites could provide valuable information on the phylogeny of their hosts. We used this information to explore controversial hypotheses of the phylogeny of the Platyrrhini by comparison with the phylogeny of their specific Pneumocystis parasites. If these organisms were closely associated as lung parasites with primates through the ages, the hypothesis of the Pneumocystis spp. being new pathogenic agents could be refuted. However, these organisms are opportunistic symbionts, becoming pathogenic whenever the immunological defences of their hosts decline. This study also provides support for the hypothesis that the different Pneumocystis species are genetically independent organisms, helping to clarify their taxonomic status.
3651084|Any change in shape of a configuration of landmark points in two or three dimensions includes a uniform component, a component that is a wholly linear (affine) transformation. The formulas for estimating this component have been standardized for two-dimensional data but not for three-dimensional data. We suggest estimating the component by way of the complementarity between the uniform component and the space of partial warps. The component can be estimated by regression in either one space or the other: regression on the partial warps, followed by their removal, or regression on a basis for the uniform component itself. Either of the new methods can be used for both two- and three-dimensional landmark data and thus generalize Bookstein's (1996, pages 153-168 in Advances in morphometrics [L. F. Marcus et al., eds.], Plenum, New York) linearized Procrustes formula for estimating the uniform component in two dimensions.
3651086|Damselflies of the endemic Hawaiian genus Megalagrion have radiated into a wide variety of habitats and are an excellent model group for the study of adaptive radiation. Past phylogenetic analysis based on morphological characters has been problematic. Here, we examine relationships among 56 individuals from 20 of the 23 described species using maximum likelihood (ML) and Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrial (1,287 bp) and nuclear (1,039 bp) DNA sequence data. Models of evolution were chosen using the Akaike information criterion. Problems with distant outgroups were accommodated by constraining the best ML ingroup topology but allowing the outgroups to attach to any ingroup branch in a bootstrap analysis. No strong contradictions were obtained between either data partition and the combined data set. Areas of disagreement are mainly confined to clades that are strongly supported by the mitochondrial DNA and weakly supported by the elongation factor 1 data because of lack of changes. However, the combined analysis resulted in a unique tree. Correlation between Bayesian posterior probabilities and bootstrap percentages decreased in concert with decreasing information in the data partitions. In cases where nodes were supported by single characters bootstrap proportions were dramatically reduced compared with posterior probabilities. Two speciation patterns were evident from the phylogenetic analysis. First, most speciation is interisland and occurred as members of established ecological guilds colonized new volcanoes after they emerged from the sea. Second, there are several instances of rapid radiation into a variety of specialized habitats, in one case entirely within the island of Kauai. Application of a local clock procedure to the mitochondrial DNA topology suggests that two of these radiations correspond to the development of habitat on the islands of Kauai and Oahu. About 4.0 million years ago, species simultaneously moved into fast streams and plant leaf axils on Kauai, and about 1.5 million years later another group moved simultaneously to seeps and terrestrial habitats on Oahu. Results from the local clock analysis also strongly suggest that Megalagrion arrived in Hawaii about 10 million years ago, well before the emergence of Kauai. Date estimates were more sensitive to the particular node that was fixed in time than to the model of local branch evolution used. We propose a general model for the development of endemic damselfly species on Hawaiian Islands and document five potential cases of hybridization (M. xanthomelas x M. pacificum, M. eudytum x M. vagabundum, M. orobates x M. oresitrophum, M. nesiotes x M. oahuense, and M. mauka x M. paludicola).
3651082|We propose a Bayesian method for testing molecular clock hypotheses for use with aligned sequence data from multiple taxa. Our method utilizes a nonreversible nucleotide substitution model to avoid the necessity of specifying either a known tree relating the taxa or an outgroup for rooting the tree. We employ reversible jump Markov chain Monte Carlo to sample from the posterior distribution of the phylogenetic model parameters and conduct hypothesis testing using Bayes factors, the ratio of the posterior to prior odds of competing models. Here, the Bayes factors reflect the relative support of the sequence data for equal rates of evolutionary change between taxa versus unequal rates, averaged over all possible phylogenetic parameters, including the tree and root position. As the molecular clock model is a restriction of the more general unequal rates model, we use the Savage-Dickey ratio to estimate the Bayes factors. The Savage-Dickey ratio provides a convenient approach to calculating Bayes factors in favor of sharp hypotheses. Critical to calculating the Savage-Dickey ratio is a determination of the prior induced on the modeling restrictions. We demonstrate our method on a well-studied mtDNA sequence data set consisting of nine primates. We find strong support against a global molecular clock, but do find support for a local clock among the anthropoids. We provide mathematical derivations of the induced priors on branch length restrictions assuming equally likely trees. These derivations also have more general applicability to the examination of prior assumptions in Bayesian phylogenetics.
3651083|Systematists expect their hypotheses to be asymptotically precise. As the number of phylogenetically informative characters for a set of taxa increases, the relationships implied should stabilize on some topology. If true, this increasing stability should clearly manifest itself if an index of congruence is plotted against the accumulating number of characters. Continuous jackknife function (CJF) analysis is a new graphical method that portrays the extent to which available data converge on a specified phylogenetic hypothesis, the reference tree. The method removes characters with increasing probability, analyzes the rarefied data matrices phylogenetically, and scores the clades shared between each of the resulting trees and the reference tree. As more characters are removed, the number of shared clades must decrease, but the rate of decrease will depend on how decisively the data support the reference tree. Curves for stable phylogenies are clearly asymptotic with nearly 100% congruence for a substantial part of the curve. Less stable phylogenies lose congruent nodes quickly as characters are excluded, resulting in a more linear or even a sigmoidal relationship. Curves can be interpreted as predictors of whether the addition of new data of the same type is likely to alter the hypothesis under test. Continuous jackknife function analysis makes statistical assumptions about the collection of character data. To the extent that CJF curves are sensitive to violations of unbiased character collection, they will be misleading as predictors. Convergence of data on a reference tree does not guarantee historical accuracy, but it does predict that the accumulation of further data under the sampling model will not lead to rapid changes in the hypothesis.
3651087|We developed a recurrence relation that counts the number of tandem duplication trees (either rooted or unrooted) that are consistent with a set of n tandemly repeated sequences generated under the standard unequal recombination (or crossover) model of tandem duplications. The number of rooted duplication trees is exactly twice the number of unrooted trees, which means that on average only two positions for a root on a duplication tree are possible. Using the recurrence, we tabulated these numbers for small values of n. We also developed an asymptotic formula that for large n provides estimates for these numbers. These numbers give a priori probabilities for phylogenies of the repeated sequences to be duplication trees. This work extends earlier studies where exhaustive counts of the numbers for small n were obtained. One application showed the significance of finding that most maximum-parsimony trees constructed from repeat sequences from human immunoglobins and T-cell receptors were tandem duplication trees. Those findings provided strong support to the proposed mechanisms of tandem gene duplication. The recurrence relation also suggests efficient algorithms to recognize duplication trees and to generate random duplication trees for simulation. We present a linear-time recognition algorithm.
3651079|In simultaneous analyses of multiple data partitions, the trees relevant when measuring support for a clade are the optimal tree, and the best tree lacking the clade (i.e., the most reasonable alternative). The parsimony-based method of partitioned branch support (PBS) "forces" each data set to arbitrate between the two relevant trees. This value is the amount each data set contributes to clade support in the combined analysis, and can be very different to support apparent in separate analyses. The approach used in PBS can also be employed in likelihood: a simultaneous analysis of all data retrieves the maximum likelihood tree, and the best tree without the clade of interest is also found. Each data set is fitted to the two trees and the log-likelihood difference calculated, giving "partitioned likelihood support" (PLS) for each data set. These calculations can be performed regardless of the complexity of the ML model adopted. The significance of PLS can be evaluated using a variety of resampling methods, such as the Kishino-Hasegawa test, the Shimodiara-Hasegawa test, or likelihood weights, although the appropriateness and assumptions of these tests remains debated.
3651078|Allodapine bees have long been regarded as providing useful material for examining the origins of social behavior. Previous researchers have assumed that sociality arose within the Allodapini and have linked the evolution of sociality to a transition from mass provisioning to progressive provisioning of brood. Early phylogenetic studies of allodapines were based on morphological and life-history data, but critical aspects of these studies relied on small character sets, where the polarity and coding of characters is problematic. We used nucleotide sequence data from one nuclear and two mitochondrial gene fragments to examine phylogenetic structure among nine allodapine genera. Our data set comprised 1,506 nucleotide positions, of which 402 were parsimony informative. Maximum parsimony, log determinant, and maximum likelihood analyses produced highly similar phylogenetic topologies, and all analyses indicated that the tropical African genus Macrogalea was the sister group to all other allodapines. This finding conflicts with that of previous studies, in which Compsomelissa + Halterapis formed the most basal group. Changing the basal node of the Allodapini has major consequences for understanding evolution in this tribe. Our results cast doubt on the previous hypotheses that progressive provisioning and castelike social behavior evolved among lineages leading to the extant allodapine taxa. Instead, our results suggest that mass provisioning in Halterapis is a derived feature and that social behavior is an ancestral trait for all allodapine lineages. The forms of social behavior present in extant allodapines are likely to have resulted from a long evolutionary history, which may help explain the complexity of social traits found in many allodapine bees.
3651081|Cospeciation generally increases the similarity between host and parasite phylogenies. Incongruence between host and parasite phylogenies has previously been explained in terms of host switching, sorting, and duplication events. Here, we describe an additional process, failure of the parasite to speciate in response to host speciation, that may be important in some host-parasite systems. Failure to speciate is likely to occur when gene flow among parasite populations is much higher than that of their hosts. We reconstructed trees from mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences for pigeons and doves (Aves: Columbiformes) and their feather lice in the genus Columbicola (Insecta: Phthiraptera). Although comparisons of the trees from each group revealed a significant amount of cospeciation, there was also a significant degree of incongruence. Cophylogenetic analyses generally indicated that host switching may be an important process in the history of this host-parasite association. Using terminal sister taxon comparisons, we also identified three apparent cases where the host has speciated but the associated parasite has not. In two of these cases of failure to speciate, these comparisons involve allopatric sister taxa of hosts whose lice also occur on hosts sympatric with both of the allopatric sisters. These additional hosts for generalist lice may promote gene flow with lice on the allopatric sister species. Relative rate comparisons for the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene indicate that molecular substitution occurs about 11 times faster in lice than in their avian hosts.
3651085|Spiders of the recently described linyphiid genus Orsonwelles (Araneae, Linyphiidae) are one of the most conspicuous groups of terrestrial arthropods of Hawaiian native forests. There are 13 known Orsonwelles species, and all are single-island endemics. This radiation provides an excellent example of insular gigantism. We reconstructed the cladistic relationships of Orsonwelles species using a combination of morphological and molecular characters (both mitochondrial and nuclear sequences) within a parsimony framework. We explored and quantified the contribution of different character partitions and their sensitivity to changes in the traditional parameters (gap, transition, and transversion costs). The character data show a strong phylogenetic signal, robust to parameter changes. The monophyly of the genus Orsonwelles is strongly supported. The parsimony analysis of all character evidence combined recovered a clade with of all the non-Kauai Orsonwelles species; the species from Kauai form a paraphyletic assemblage with respect to the latter former clade. The biogeographic pattern of the Hawaiian Orsonwelles species is consistent with colonization by island progression, but alternative explanations for our data exist. Although the geographic origin of the radiation remains unknown, it appears that the ancestral colonizing species arrived first on Kauai (or an older island). The ambiguity in the area cladogram (i.e., post-Oahu colonization) is not derived from conflicting or unresolved phylogenetic signal among Orsonwelles species but rather from the number of taxa on the youngest islands. Speciation in Orsonwelles occurred more often within islands (8 of the 12 cladogenic events) than between islands. A molecular clock was rejected for the sequence data. Divergence times were estimated by using the nonparametric rate smoothing method of Sanderson (1997, Mol. Biol. Evol. 14:1218-1231) and the available geological data for calibration. The results suggest that the oldest divergences of Orsonwelles spiders (on Kauai) go back about 4 million years.
3651080|We performed a phylogenetic analysis of the species, species groups, and subgenera within the predominantly eusocial lineage of Lasioglossum (the Hemihalictus series) based on three protein coding genes: mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I, nuclear elongation factor 1 and long-wavelength rhodopsin. The entire data set consisted of 3,421 aligned nucleotide sites, 854 of which were parsimony informative. Analyses by equal weights parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods yielded good resolution among the 53 taxa/populations, with strong bootstrap support and high posterior probabilities for most nodes. There was no significant incongruence among genes, and parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods yielded congruent results. We mapped social behavior onto the resulting tree for 42 of the taxa/populations to infer the likely history of social evolution within Lasioglossum. Our results indicate that eusociality had a single origin within Lasioglossum. Within the predominantly eusocial clade, however, there have been multiple (six) reversals from eusociality to solitary nesting, social polymorphism, or social parasitism, suggesting that these reversals may be more common in primitively eusocial Hymenoptera than previously anticipated. Our results support the view that eusociality is hard to evolve but easily lost. This conclusion is potentially important for understanding the early evolution of the advanced eusocial insects, such as ants, termites, and corbiculate bees.
3651137|We conducted a geometric morphometric analysis of interspecific body shape variation among representatives of 31 species of darters (Pisces: Percidae) to determine whether there is evidence of a phylogenetic effect in body shape variation. Cartesian transformation grids representing relative shape differences of individual species and subspecies revealed qualitative similarities within most traditionally recognized taxonomic groups (genera and subgenera). Canonical variates analysis and a UPGMA cluster analysis were conducted to explore further the relationships among body shapes of species; both analyses revealed patterns of variation consistent with the interpretation that shape is associated with taxonomic affinities. Normalized Mantel statistics revealed a significant positive association between body shape differences and phylogenetic interrelatedness for each of four recent phylogenetic hypotheses, providing evidence of a phylogenetic effect. This result is somewhat surprising, however, given the largely incompatible nature of these four phylogenies. We provide evidence that this result may be due to (1) the inclusion of multiple sets of closely related species to represent the traditionally recognized genera and subgenera within each phylogeny and/or (2) the inclusion of several species with relatively divergent shapes and their particular positions within the phylogenies relative to one another or to the other species of darters.
3651139|Haeckel created much of our current vocabulary in evolutionary biology, such as the term phylogeny, which is currently used to designate trees. Assuming that Haeckel gave the same meaning to this term, one often reproduces Haeckel's trees as the first illustrations of phylogenetic trees. A detailed analysis of Haeckel's own evolutionary vocabulary and theory revealed that Haeckel's trees were genealogical trees and that Haeckel's phylogeny was a morphological concept. However, phylogeny was actually the core of Haeckel's tree reconstruction, and understanding the exact meaning Haeckel gave to phylogeny is crucial to understanding the information Haeckel wanted to convey in his famous trees. Haeckel's phylogeny was a linear series of main morphological stages along the line of descent of a given species. The phylogeny of a single species would provide a trunk around which lateral branches were added as mere ornament; the phylogeny selected for drawing a tree of a given group was considered the most complete line of progress from lower to higher forms of this group, such as the phylogeny of Man for the genealogical tree of Vertebrates. Haeckel's phylogeny was mainly inspired by the idea of the scala naturae, or scale of being. Therefore, Haeckel's genealogical trees, which were only branched on the surface, mainly represented the old idea of scale of being. Even though Haeckel decided to draw genealogical trees after reading "On the Origin of Species" and was called the German Darwin, he did not draw Darwinian branching diagrams. Although Haeckel always saw Lamarck, Goethe, and Darwin as the three fathers of the theory of evolution, he was mainly influenced by Lamarck and Goethe in his approach to tree reconstruction.
3651140|The problem of missing data is often considered to be the most important obstacle in reconstructing the phylogeny of fossil taxa and in combining data from diverse characters and taxa for phylogenetic analysis. Empirical and theoretical studies show that including highly incomplete taxa can lead to multiple equally parsimonious trees, poorly resolved consensus trees, and decreased phylogenetic accuracy. However, the mechanisms that cause incomplete taxa to be problematic have remained unclear. It has been widely assumed that incomplete taxa are problematic because of the proportion or amount of missing data that they bear. In this study, I use simulations to show that the reduced accuracy associated with including incomplete taxa is caused by these taxa bearing too few complete characters rather than too many missing data cells. This seemingly subtle distinction has a number of important implications. First, the so-called missing data problem for incomplete taxa is, paradoxically, not directly related to their amount or proportion of missing data. Thus, the level of completeness alone should not guide the exclusion of taxa (contrary to common practice), and these results may explain why empirical studies have sometimes found little relationship between the completeness of a taxon and its impact on an analysis. These results also (1) suggest a more effective strategy for dealing with incomplete taxa, (2) call into question a justification of the controversial phylogenetic supertree approach, and (3) show the potential for the accurate phylogenetic placement of highly incomplete taxa, both when combining diverse data sets and when analyzing relationships of fossil taxa.
3651136|Assessment of the reliability of a given phylogenetic hypothesis is an important step in phylogenetic analysis. Historically, the nonparametric bootstrap procedure has been the most frequently used method for assessing the support for specific phylogenetic relationships. The recent employment of Bayesian methods for phylogenetic inference problems has resulted in clade support being expressed in terms of posterior probabilities. We used simulated data and the four-taxon case to explore the relationship between nonparametric bootstrap values (as inferred by maximum likelihood) and posterior probabilities (as inferred by Bayesian analysis). The results suggest a complex association between the two measures. Three general regions of tree space can be identified: (1) the neutral zone, where differences between mean bootstrap and mean posterior probability values are not significant, (2) near the two-branch corner, and (3) deep in the two-branch corner. In the last two regions, significant differences occur between mean bootstrap and mean posterior probability values. Whether bootstrap or posterior probability values are higher depends on the data in support of alternative topologies. Examination of star topologies revealed that both bootstrap and posterior probability values differ significantly from theoretical expectations; in particular, there are more posterior probability values in the range 0.85-1 than expected by theory. Therefore, our results corroborate the findings of others that posterior probability values are excessively high. Our results also suggest that extrapolations from single topology branch-length studies are unlikely to provide any general conclusions regarding the relationship between bootstrap and posterior probability values.
3651138|Convergence, i.e., similarity between organisms that is not the direct result of shared phylogenetic history (and that may instead result from independent adaptations to similar environments), is a fundamental issue that lies at the interface of systematics and evolutionary biology. Although convergence is often cited as an important problem in morphological phylogenetics, there have been few well-documented examples of strongly supported and misleading phylogenetic estimates that result from adaptive convergence in morphology. In this article, we propose criteria that can be used to infer whether or not a phylogenetic analysis has been misled by convergence. We then apply these criteria in a study of central Texas cave salamanders (genus Eurycea). Morphological characters (apparently related to cave-dwelling habitat use) support a clade uniting the species E. rathbuni and E. tridentifera, whereas mitochondrial DNA sequences and allozyme data show that these two species are not closely related. We suggest that a likely explanation for the paucity of examples of strongly misleading morphological convergence is that the conditions under which adaptive convergence is most likely to produce strongly misleading results are limited. Specifically, convergence is most likely to be problematic in groups (such as the central Texas Eurycea) in which most species are morphologically very similar and some of the species have invaded and adapted to a novel selective environment.
3651135|An intraspecific phylogeny was established for the New Zealand short-tailed bat Mystacina tuberculata using a 2,878-bp sequence alignment from multiple mitochondrial genes (control region, ND2, 12S ribosomal RNA [rRNA], 16S rRNA, and tRNA). The inferred phylogeny comprises six lineages, with estimated divergences extending back between 0.93 and 0.68 million years to the middle Pleistocene. The lineages do not correspond to the existing subspecific taxonomy. Although multiple lineages occur sympatrically in many populations, the lineages are geographically structured. This structure has persisted despite repeated cycles of range expansion and contraction in response to climatic oscillations and catastrophic volcanic eruptions. The distribution of lineages among populations in central North Island indicates that a hybrid zone was formed by simultaneous colonization from single-lineage source populations inhabiting remote forest refugia. The observed pattern is not typical of microbats, which because of their high mobility generally exhibit low levels of genetic differentiation and geographic structure over continental ranges. Although lineages of M. tuberculata occur sympatrically in many populations, genetic distances between them are sufficiently large to suggest that they may be considered evolutionary significant units or taxonomic subspecies.
3651134|Phylogenetic relationships among advanced snakes (Acrochordus + Colubroidea = Caenophidia) and the position of the genus Acrochordus relative to colubroid taxa are contentious. These concerns were investigated by phylogenetic analysis of fragments from four mitochondrial genes representing 62 caenophidian genera and 5 noncaenophidian taxa. Four methods of phylogeny reconstruction were applied: matrix representation with parsimony (MRP) supertree consensus, maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analysis. Because of incomplete sampling, extensive missing data were inherent in this study. Analyses of individual genes retrieved roughly the same clades, but branching order varied greatly between gene trees, and nodal support was poor. Trees generated from combined data sets using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analysis had medium to low nodal support but were largely congruent with each other and with MRP supertrees. Conclusions about caenophidian relationships were based on these combined analyses. The Xenoderminae, Viperidae, Pareatinae, Psammophiinae, Pseudoxyrophiinae, Homalopsinae, Natricinae, Xenodontinae, and Colubrinae (redefined) emerged as monophyletic, whereas Lamprophiinae, Atractaspididae, and Elapidae were not in one or more topologies. A clade comprising Acrochordus and Xenoderminae branched closest to the root, and when Acrochordus was assessed in relation to a colubroid subsample and all five noncaenophidians, it remained associated with the Colubroidea. Thus, Acrochordus + Xenoderminae appears to be the sister group to the Colubroidea, and Xenoderminae should be excluded from Colubroidea. Within Colubroidea, Viperidae was the most basal clade. Other relationships appearing in all final topologies were (1) a clade comprising Psammophiinae, Lamprophiinae, Atractaspididae, Pseudoxyrophiinae, and Elapidae, within which the latter four taxa formed a subclade, and (2) a clade comprising Colubrinae, Natricinae, and Xenodontinae, within which the latter two taxa formed a subclade. Pareatinae and Homalopsinae were the most unstable clades.
3651122|Many questions in evolutionary biology are best addressed by comparing traits in different species. Often such studies involve mapping characters on phylogenetic trees. Mapping characters on trees allows the nature, number, and timing of the transformations to be identified. The parsimony method is the only method available for mapping morphological characters on phylogenies. Although the parsimony method often makes reasonable reconstructions of the history of a character, it has a number of limitations. These limitations include the inability to consider more than a single change along a branch on a tree and the uncoupling of evolutionary time from amount of character change. We extended a method described by Nielsen (2002, Syst. Biol. 51:729-739) to the mapping of morphological characters under continuous-time Markov models and demonstrate here the utility of the method for mapping characters on trees and for identifying character correlation.
3651124|Marmots have a prominent role in the study of mammalian social evolution, but only recently has their systematics received the attention it deserves if sociobiological studies are to be placed in a phylogenetic context. Sciurid morphology can be used as model to test the congruence between morphological change and phylogeny because sciurid skeletal characters are considered to be inclined to convergence. However, no morphological study involving all marmot species has ever been undertaken. Geometric morphometric techniques were applied in a comparative study of the marmot mandible. The adults of all 14 living marmot species were compared, and mean mandible shape were used to investigate morphological evolution in the genus Marmota. Three major trends were observed. First, the phylogenetic signal in the variation of landmark geometry, which describes mandible morphology, seems to account for the shape differences at intermediate taxonomic levels. The subgenera Marmota and Petromarmota, recently proposed on the basis of mitochondrial cytochrome b sequence, receive support from mandible morphology. When other sciurid genera were included in the analysis, the monophyly of the genus Marmota and that of the tribe Marmotini (i.e., marmots, prairie dogs, and ground squirrels) was strengthened by the morphological data. Second, the marmotine mandible may have evolved as a mosaic of characters and does not show convergence determined by size similarities. Third, allopatric speciation in peripheral isolates may have acted as a powerful force for modeling shape. This hypothesis is strongly supported by the peculiar mandible of M. vancouverensis and, to a lesser degree, by that of M. olympus, both thought to have originated as isolated populations in Pleistocene ice-free refugia.
3651123|Recovery of evolutionary history and delimiting species boundaries in widely distributed, poorly known groups requires extensive geographic sampling, but sampling regimes are difficult to design a priori because evolutionary diversity is often "hidden" by inadequate taxonomy. Large data sets are needed, and these provide unique challenges for analysis when they span intra- and interspecific levels of divergence. However, protocols have been designed to combine methods of analysis for DNA sequences that exhibit both very shallow and relatively deeper divergences. In this study, we combined several tree-based phylogeny reconstruction methods with nested-clade analysis to extract maximum historical signal at various levels in the poorly known Liolaemus elongatus-kriegi lizard complex in temperate South America. We implemented a recently descrirbed tree-based protocol for DNA sequences to test for species boundaries, and we propose modifications to accommodate large data sets and gene regions with heterogeneous substitution rates. Combining haplotype trees with nested-clade analyses allowed testing of species boundaries on the basis of a priori defined criteria. The results obtained suggest that the number of putative species in the L. elongatus-kriegi complex could be doubled. We discuss these findings in the context of the advantages and limitations of a combined approach for retrieval of maximum historical information in large data sets and with reference to the yet formidable unresolved issues of sampling strategies.
3651125|The ruminants constitute the largest group of ungulates, with >190 species, and its distribution is widespread throughout all continents except Australia and Antarctica. Six families are traditionally recognized within the suborder Ruminantia: Antilocapridae (pronghorns), Bovidae (cattle, sheep, and antelopes), Cervidae (deer), Giraffidae (giraffes and okapis), Moschidae (musk deer), and Tragulidae (chevrotains). The interrelationships of the families have been an area of controversy among morphology, palaeontology, and molecular studies, and almost all possible evolutionary scenarios have been proposed in the literature. We analyzed a large DNA data set (5,322 nucleotides) for 23 species including both mitochondrial (cytochrome b, 12S ribosomal RNA (rRNA), and 16S rRNA) and nuclear (-casein, cytochrome P-450, lactoferrin, and -lactalbumin) markers. Our results show that the family Tragulidae occupies a basal position with respect to all other ruminant families, confirming the traditional view that separates Tragulina and Pecora. Within the pecorans, Antilocapridae and Giraffidae emerge first, and the families Bovidae, Moschidae, and Cervidae are allied, with the unexpected placement of Moschus close to bovids rather than to cervids. We used these molecular results to assess the homoplastic evolution of morphological characters within the Ruminantia. A Bayesian relaxed molecular clock approach based on the continuous autocorrelation of evolutionary rates along branches was applied to estimate the divergence ages between the major clades of ruminants. The evolutionary radiation of Pecora occurred at the Early/Late Oligocene transition, and Pecoran families diversified and dispersed rapidly during the Early and Middle Miocene. We propose a biogeographic scenario to explain the extraordinary expansion of this group during the Cenozoic era.
3651126|We conducted a simulation study of the phylogenetic methods UPGMA, neighbor joining, maximum parsimony, and maximum likelihood for a five-taxon tree under a molecular clock. The parameter space included a small region where maximum parsimony is inconsistent, so we tested inconsistency correction for parsimony and distance correction for neighbor joining. As expected, corrected parsimony was consistent. For these data, maximum likelihood with the clock assumption outperformed each of the other methods tested. The distance-based methods performed marginally better than did maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood without the clock assumption. Data correction was generally detrimental to accuracy, especially for short sequence lengths. We identified another region of the parameter space where, although consistent for a given method, some incorrect trees were each selected with up to twice the frequency of the correct (generating) tree for sequences of bounded length. These incorrect trees are those where the outgroup has been incorrectly placed. In addition to this problem, the placement of the outgroup sequence can have a confounding effect on the ingroup tree, whereby the ingroup is correct when using the ingroup sequences alone, but with the inclusion of the outgroup the ingroup tree becomes incorrect.
3651127|Character construction, the methods by which characters and character states are produced from observations of variation, is a crucial but poorly understood step in phylogenetic analysis. Alternative approaches are used in practice, but there has been relatively little investigation of their theoretical bases and analytical consequences. We reviewed three published numerical analyses of the phylogenetic relationships within the Triassic Aetosauria. Combined data from these studies were used to explore the impact of alternative approaches to character construction. Some previous aetosaurian characters represent parallel variations in the morphology of osteoderms from different body regions, and their independence is questionable, leading us to propose more composite alternative constructions. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that inferred relationships within the Aetosauria are in general poorly resolved and weakly supported by the available data and are sensitive to alternative approaches to character construction. Thus, the results from this and previous studies should not, for the most part, be accepted as robust hypotheses of aetosaurian interrelationships. The treatment of systems of intraorganismal (e.g. serial, antimeric) homologues, such as osteoderms, in character construction is discussed. Applied to parallel variations in systems of intraorganismal homologues, previous advice on choosing among alternative character constructions and Hennig's auxiliary principle agree in favoring a more composite approach, in accordance with common practice.
3651067|Debate exists over how to incorporate information from multipartite sequence data in phylogenetic analyses. Strict combined-data approaches argue for concatenation of all partitions and estimation of one evolutionary history, maximizing the explanatory power of the data. Consensus/independence approaches endorse a two-step procedure where partitions are analyzed independently and then a consensus is determined from the multiple results. Mixtures across the model space of a strict combined-data approach and a priori independent parameters are popular methods to integrate these methods. We propose an alternative middle ground by constructing a Bayesian hierarchical phylogenetic model. Our hierarchical framework enables researchers to pool information across data partitions to improve estimate precision in individual partitions while permitting estimation and testing of tendencies in across-partition quantities. Such across-partition quantities include the distribution from which individual topologies relating the sequences within a partition are drawn. We propose standard hierarchical priors on continuous evolutionary parameters across partitions, while the structure on topologies varies depending on the research problem. We illustrate our model with three examples. We first explore the evolutionary history of the guinea pig (Cavia porcellus) using alignments of 13 mitochondrial genes. The hierarchical model returns substantially more precise continuous parameter estimates than an independent parameter approach without losing the salient features of the data. Second, we analyze the frequency of horizontal gene transfer using 50 prokaryotic genes. We assume an unknown species-level topology and allow individual gene topologies to differ from this with a small estimable probability. Simultaneously inferring the species and individual gene topologies returns a transfer frequency of 17%. We also examine HIV sequences longitudinally sampled from HIV+ patients. We ask whether posttreatment development of CCR5 coreceptor virus represents concerted evolution from middisease CXCR4 virus or reemergence of initial infecting CCR5 virus. The hierarchical model pools partitions from multiple unrelated patients by assuming that the topology for each patient is drawn from a multinomial distribution with unknown probabilities. Preliminary results suggest evolution and not reemergence.
3651070|A phylogenetic comparative method is proposed for estimating historical effects on comparative data using the partitions that compose a cladogram, i.e., its monophyletic groups. Two basic matrices, Y and X, are defined in the context of an ordinary linear model. Y contains the comparative data measured over t taxa. X consists of an initial tree matrix that contains all the x<sub>j</sub> monophyletic groups (each coded separately as a binary indicator variable) of the phylogenetic tree available for those taxa. The method seeks to define the subset of groups, i.e., a reduced tree matrix, that best explains the patterns in Y. This definition is accomplished via regression or canonical ordination (depending on the dimensionality of Y) coupled with Monte Carlo permutations. It is argued here that unrestricted permutations (i.e., under an equiprobable model) are valid for testing this specific kind of groupwise hypothesis. Phylogeny is either partialled out or, more properly, incorporated into the analysis in the form of component variation. Direct extensions allow for testing ecomorphological data controlled by phylogeny in a variation partitioning approach. Currently available statistical techniques make this method applicable under most univariate/multivariate models and metrics; two-way phylogenetic effects can be estimated as well. The simplest case (univariate Y), tested with simulations, yielded acceptable type I error rates. Applications presented include examples from evolutionary ethology, ecology, and ecomorphology. Results showed that the new technique detected previously overlooked variation clearly associated with phylogeny and that many phylogenetic effects on comparative data may occur at particular groups rather than across the entire tree.
3651064|Homoplasy among morphological characters has hindered inference of higher level rodent phylogeny for over 100 years. Initial molecular studies, based primarily on single genes, likewise produced little resolution of the deep relationships among rodent families. Two recent molecular studies (Huchon et al., 2002, Mol. Biol. Evol. 19:1053-1065; Adkins et al., 2003, Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 26:409-420), using larger samples from the nuclear genome, have produced phylogenies that are generally concordant with each other, but many of the deep superfamilial nodes were still lacking substantial statistical support. Data are presented here for a total of approximately 3,600 base pairs from portions of three different nuclear protein-coding genes, CB1, IRBP, and RAG2, from 19 rodents and three outgroups. Separate analyses, with data partitioned according to both genes and codon position, produced conflicting results. Trees obtained from all partitions of CB1 and RAG2 and those obtained from the first-plus second-position sites of IRBP were generally concordant with each other and the trees from the two recent studies, whereas trees obtained from the third-position sites of IRBP were not. Although the IRBP third-position sites represent only 1/9 of the total data set, combined analyses using either parsimony or likelihood resulted in trees in agreement with the IRBP third-position sites and in disagreement with the remaining 8/9 of the sites from this data set and the two recent multigene studies. In contrast, maximum-likelihood analysis using a site-specific rates model did recover a tree that is highly congruent with the trees in the two recent studies. If the IRBP third-position sites are removed from the current data set, then combined likelihood analyses obtain a tree that is highly congruent with those of the two recent studies. This analysis also provides, for the first time in a study of rodent phylogeny, robust statistical support for every bipartition, with just one exception. This tree divides rodents into two major clades. The first contains Myodonta (Muroidea plus Dipodidae) and the only unresolved trichotomy, from which descend Geomyoidea, Pedetidae, and Castoridae. On the other side of the root is a clade containing Sciuroidea plus Gliridae, and Hystricognathi. Some uncertainty remains on the placement of the root. Trees on which the Hystricognathi are the basal sister group to Myodonta, Geomyoidea, Pedetidae, and Castoridae are also found within a Bayesian 95% credible set, as estimated by Metropolis-coupled Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling.
3651071|The increase in the number of large data sets and the complexity of current probabilistic sequence evolution models necessitates fast and reliable phylogeny reconstruction methods. We describe a new approach, based on the maximum-likelihood principle, which clearly satisfies these requirements. The core of this method is a simple hill-climbing algorithm that adjusts tree topology and branch lengths simultaneously. This algorithm starts from an initial tree built by a fast distance-based method and modifies this tree to improve its likelihood at each iteration. Due to this simultaneous adjustment of the topology and branch lengths, only a few iterations are sufficient to reach an optimum. We used extensive and realistic computer simulations to show that the topological accuracy of this new method is at least as high as that of the existing maximum-likelihood programs and much higher than the performance of distance-based and parsimony approaches. The reduction of computing time is dramatic in comparison with other maximum-likelihood packages, while the likelihood maximization ability tends to be higher. For example, only 12 min were required on a standard personal computer to analyze a data set consisting of 500 rbcL sequences with 1,428 base pairs from plant plastids, thus reaching a speed of the same order as some popular distance-based and parsimony algorithms. This new method is implemented in the PHYML program, which is freely available on our web page: http://www.lirmm.fr/w3ifa/MAAS/.
3651062|We compared the utility of five nuclear gene segments amplified with type I sequence-tagged site (STS) primers versus the complete mitochondrial cytochrome b (cyt b) gene in resolving phylogenetic relationships within the Mustelidae, a large and ecomorphologically diverse family of mammalian carnivores. Maximum parsimony and likelihood analyses of separate and combined data sets were used to address questions regarding the levels of homoplasy, incongruence, and information content within and among loci. All loci showed limited resolution in the separate analyses because of either a low amount of informative variation (nuclear genes) or high levels of homoplasy (cyt b). Individually or combined, the nuclear gene sequences had less homoplasy, retained more signal, and were more decisive, even though cyt b contained more potentially informative variation than all the nuclear sequences combined. We obtained a well-resolved and supported phylogeny when the nuclear sequences were combined. Maximum likelihood and Bayesian phylogenetic analyses of the total combined data (nuclear and mitochondrial DNA sequences) were able to better accommodate the high levels of homoplasy in the cyt b data than was an equally weighted maximum parsimony analysis. Furthermore, partition Bremer support analyses of the total combined tree showed that the relative support of the nuclear and mitochondrial genes differed according to whether or not the homoplasy in the cyt b gene was downweighted. Although the cyt b gene contributed phylogenetic signal for most major groupings, the nuclear gene sequences were more effective in reconstructing the deeper nodes of the combined tree in the equally weighted parsimony analysis, as judged by the variable-length bootstrap method. The total combined data supported the monophyly of the Lutrinae (otters), whereas the Melinae (badgers) and Mustelinae (weasels, martens) were both paraphyletic. The American badger, Taxidea taxus (Taxidiinae), was the most basal taxon. Because hundreds of type I STS primer sets spanning the complete genomes of the human and mouse have been published and thus represent many independently segregating loci, the potential utility of these markers for molecular systematics of mammals and other groups is enormous.
3651073|Biotic element analysis is an alternative to the areas-of-endemism approach for recognizing the presence or absence of vicariance events in a given region. If an ancestral biota was fragmented by vicariance events, biotic elements or clusters of distribution areas should emerge. We propose a statistical test for clustering of distribution areas based on a Monte Carlo simulation with a null model that considers the spatial autocorrelation in the data. The hypothesis tested is that the observed degree of clustering of ranges can be explained by the range size distribution, the varying number of taxa per cell, and the spatial autocorrelation of the occurrences of a taxon alone. A method for the delimitation of biotic elements which uses model-based Gaussian clustering is introduced. We demonstrate our methods and show the importance of grid size by means of a case study, an analysis of the distribution patterns of southern African species of the weevil genus Scobius. The example highlights the difficulties in delimiting areas of endemism if dispersal has occurred and illustrates the advantages of the biotic element approach.
3651066|Although the conditions under which the parsimony method becomes inconsistent have been studied for almost two decades, the probability that the parsimony method would encounter conditions causing inconsistency under simple models of cladogenesis is unknown. Here, we examine the statistical behavior of the parsimony method under a birth-death model of cladogenesis, when the molecular clock holds. The parsimony method can become inconsistent a high proportion of the time even under this simple model of cladogenesis. When taxon sampling is poor or rates of evolution are high, the probability that parsimony will become inconsistent increases.
3651063|Previous work has shown that it is often essential to account for the variation in rates at different sites in phylogenetic models in order to avoid phylogenetic artifacts such as long branch attraction. In most current models, the gamma distribution is used for the rates-across-sites distributions and is implemented as an equal-probability discrete gamma. In this article, we introduce discrete distribution estimates with large numbers of equally spaced rate categories allowing us to investigate the appropriateness of the gamma model. With large numbers of rate categories, these discrete estimates are flexible enough to approximate the shape of almost any distribution. Likelihood ratio statistical tests and a nonparametric bootstrap confidence-bound estimation procedure based on the discrete estimates are presented that can be used to test the fit of a parametric family. We applied the methodology to several different protein data sets, and found that although the gamma model often provides a good parametric model for this type of data, rate estimates from an equal-probability discrete gamma model with a small number of categories will tend to underestimate the largest rates. In cases when the gamma model assumption is in doubt, rate estimates coming from the discrete rate distribution estimate with a large number of rate categories provide a robust alternative to gamma estimates. An alternative implementation of the gamma distribution is proposed that, for equal numbers of rate categories, is computationally more efficient during optimization than the standard gamma implementation and can provide more accurate estimates of site rates.
3651065|Although calyptraeid gastropods are not well understood taxonomically, in part because their simple plastic shells are the primary taxonomic character, they provide an ideal system to examine questions about evolution in the marine environment. I conducted a phylogenetic analysis of calyptraeid gastropods using DNA sequence data from mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) and 16S genes and the nuclear 28S gene. The resultant phylogeny was used to examine the biogeographic patterns of speciation in the Calyptraeidae. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of the combined data sets for 94 calyptraeid operational taxonomic units and 24 outgroups produced well-resolved phylogenies. Both approaches resulted in identical sister-species relationships, and the few differences in deeper topology did not affect biogeographic inferences. The geographic distribution of the species included here demonstrate numerous dispersal events both between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans and across the equator. When parsimony is used to reconstruct the movement from the Pacific to the Atlantic oceans on the phylogeny, there are 12 transitions between oceans, primarily from the Pacific to the Atlantic. When the latitude is coded as north versus south of the equator, the most-parsimonious reconstruction gives the origin of calyptraeids in the north followed by 15 dispersal events to regions south of the equator and no returns to the north. Many clades of the most closely related species are either sympatric or occur along a single coastline. Closely related species can, however, occur in such divergent regions as Southern California and South Africa. There is little evidence for sister-species pairs or larger clades having been split by the Isthmus of Panama or the Benguela upwelling, but the East Pacific Barrier appears to separate the most basal taxa from the rest of the family.
3651069|Phylogenetic estimation has largely come to rely on explicitly model-based methods. This approach requires that a model be chosen and that that choice be justified. To date, justification has largely been accomplished through use of likelihood-ratio tests (LRTs) to assess the relative fit of a nested series of reversible models. While this approach certainly represents an important advance over arbitrary model selection, the best fit of a series of models may not always provide the most reliable phylogenetic estimates for finite real data sets, where all available models are surely incorrect. Here, we develop a novel approach to model selection, which is based on the Bayesian information criterion, but incorporates relative branch-length error as a performance measure in a decision theory (DT) framework. This DT method includes a penalty for overfitting, is applicable prior to running extensive analyses, and simultaneously compares all models being considered and thus does not rely on a series of pairwise comparisons of models to traverse model space. We evaluate this method by examining four real data sets and by using those data sets to define simulation conditions. In the real data sets, the DT method selects the same or simpler models than conventional LRTs. In order to lend generality to the simulations, codon-based models (with parameters estimated from the real data sets) were used to generate simulated data sets, which are therefore more complex than any of the models we evaluate. On average, the DT method selects models that are simpler than those chosen by conventional LRTs. Nevertheless, these simpler models provide estimates of branch lengths that are more accurate both in terms of relative error and absolute error than those derived using the more complex (yet still wrong) models chosen by conventional LRTs. This method is available in a program called DT-ModSel.
3651068|Many empirical studies have revealed considerable differences between nonparametric bootstrapping and Bayesian posterior probabilities in terms of the support values for branches, despite claimed predictions about their approximate equivalence. We investigated this problem by simulating data, which were then analyzed by maximum likelihood bootstrapping and Bayesian phylogenetic analysis using identical models and reoptimization of parameter values. We show that Bayesian posterior probabilities are significantly higher than corresponding nonparametric bootstrap frequencies for true clades, but also that erroneous conclusions will be made more often. These errors are strongly accentuated when the models used for analyses are underparameterized. When data are analyzed under the correct model, nonparametric bootstrapping is conservative. Bayesian posterior probabilities are also conservative in this respect, but less so.
3651072|Divergence time and substitution rate are seriously confounded in phylogenetic analysis, making it difficult to estimate divergence times when the molecular clock (rate constancy among lineages) is violated. This problem can be alleviated to some extent by analyzing multiple gene loci simultaneously and by using multiple calibration points. While different genes may have different patterns of evolutionary rate change, they share the same divergence times. Indeed, the fact that each gene may violate the molecular clock differently leads to the advantage of simultaneous analysis of multiple loci. Multiple calibration points provide the means for characterizing the local evolutionary rates on the phylogeny. In this paper, we extend previous likelihood models of local molecular clock for estimating species divergence times to accommodate multiple calibration points and multiple genes. Heterogeneity among different genes in evolutionary rate and in substitution process is accounted for by the models. We apply the likelihood models to analyze two mitochondrial protein-coding genes, cytochrome oxidase II and cytochrome b, to estimate divergence times of Malagasy mouse lemurs and related outgroups. The likelihood method is compared with the Bayes method of Thorne et al. (1998, Mol. Biol. Evol. 15:1647-1657), which uses a probabilistic model to describe the change in evolutionary rate over time and uses the Markov chain Monte Carlo procedure to derive the posterior distribution of rates and times. Our likelihood implementation has the drawbacks of failing to accommodate uncertainties in fossil calibrations and of requiring the researcher to classify branches on the tree into different rate groups. Both problems are avoided in the Bayes method. Despite the differences in the two methods, however, data partitions and model assumptions had the greatest impact on date estimation. The three codon positions have very different substitution rates and evolutionary dynamics, and assumptions in the substitution model affect date estimation in both likelihood and Bayes analyses. The results demonstrate that the separate analysis is unreliable, with dates variable among codon positions and between methods, and that the combined analysis is much more reliable. When the three codon positions were analyzed simultaneously under the most realistic models using all available calibration information, the two methods produced similar results. The divergence of the mouse lemurs is dated to be around 7-10 million years ago, indicating a surprisingly early species radiation for such a morphologically uniform group of primates.
3651109|Previous phylogenetic analyses of tetrapod 18S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences support the grouping of birds with mammals, whereas other molecular data, and morphological and paleontological data favor the grouping of birds with crocodiles. The 18S rRNA gene has consequently been considered odd, serving as "definitive evidence of different genes providing significantly different estimates of phylogeny in higher organisms" (p. 156; Huelsenbeck et al., 1996, Trends Ecol. Evol. 11:152-158). Our research indicates that the previous discrepancy of phylogenetic results between the 18S rRNA gene and other genes is caused mainly by (1) the misalignment of the sequences, (2) the inappropriate use of the frequency parameters, and (3) poor sequence quality. When the sequences are aligned with the aide of the secondary structure of the 18S rRNA molecule and when the frequency parameters are estimated either from all sites or from the variable domains where substitutions have occurred, the 18S rRNA sequences no longer support the grouping of the avian species with the mammalian species.
3651113|Kluge's (2001, Syst. Biol. 50:322-330) continued arguments that phylogenetic methods based on the statistical principle of likelihood are incompatible with the philosophy of science described by Karl Popper are based on false premises related to Kluge's misrepresentations of Popper's philosophy. Contrary to Kluge's conjectures, likelihood methods are not inherently verificationist; they do not treat every instance of a hypothesis as confirmation of that hypothesis. The historical nature of phylogeny does not preclude phylogenetic hypotheses from being evaluated using the probability of evidence. The low absolute probabilities of hypotheses are irrelevant to the correct interpretation of Popper's concept termed degree of corroboration, which is defined entirely in terms of relative probabilities. Popper did not advocate minimizing background knowledge; in any case, the background knowledge of both parsimony and likelihood methods consists of the general assumption of descent with modification and additional assumptions that are deterministic, concerning which tree is considered most highly corroborated. Although parsimony methods do not assume (in the sense of entailing) that homoplasy is rare, they do assume (in the sense of requiring to obtain a correct phylogenetic inference) certain things about patterns of homoplasy. Both parsimony and likelihood methods assume (in the sense of implying by the manner in which they operate) various things about evolutionary processes, although violation of those assumptions does not always cause the methods to yield incorrect phylogenetic inferences. Test severity is increased by sampling additional relevant characters rather than by character reanalysis, although either interpretation is compatible with the use of phylogenetic likelihood methods. Neither parsimony nor likelihood methods assess test severity (critical evidence) when used to identify a most highly corroborated tree(s) based on a single method or model and a single body of data; however, both classes of methods can be used to perform severe tests. The assumption of descent with modification is insufficient background knowledge to justify cladistic parsimony as a method for assessing degree of corroboration. Invoking equivalency between parsimony methods and likelihood models that assume no common mechanism emphasizes the necessity of additional assumptions, at least some of which are probabilistic in nature. Incongruent characters do not qualify as falsifiers of phylogenetic hypotheses except under extremely unrealistic evolutionary models; therefore, justifications of parsimony methods as falsificationist based on the idea that they minimize the ad hoc dismissal of falsifiers are questionable. Probabilistic concepts such as degree of corroboration and likelihood provide a more appropriate framework for understanding how phylogenetics conforms with Popper's philosophy of science. Likelihood ratio tests do not assume what is at issue but instead are methods for testing hypotheses according to an accepted standard of statistical significance and for incorporating considerations about test severity. These tests are fundamentally similar to Popper's degree of corroboration in being based on the relationship between the probability of the evidence e in the presence versus absence of the hypothesis h, i.e., between p(e|hb) and p(e|b), where b is the background knowledge. Both parsimony and likelihood methods are inductive in that their inferences (particular trees) contain more information than (and therefore do not follow necessarily from) the observations upon which they are based; however, both are deductive in that their conclusions (tree lengths and likelihoods) follow necessarily from their premises (particular trees, observed character state distributions, and evolutionary models). For these and other reasons, phylogenetic likelihood methods are highly compatible with Karl Popper's philosophy of science and offer several advantages over parsimony methods in this context.
3651117|Morphological and molecular data sets favor robustly supported, contradictory interpretations of crocodylian phylogeny. A longstanding perception in the field of systematics is that such significantly conflicting data sets should be analyzed separately. Here we utilize a combined approach, simultaneous analyses of all relevant character data, to summarize common support and to reconcile discrepancies among data sets. By conjoining rather than separating incongruent classes of data, secondary phylogenetic signals emerge from both molecular and morphological character sets and provide solid evidence for a unified hypothesis of crocodylian phylogeny. Simultaneous analyses of four gene sequences and paleontological data suggest that putative adaptive convergences in the jaws of gavialines (gavials) and tomistomines (false gavials) offer character support for a grouping of these taxa, making Gavialinae an atavistic taxon. Simple new methods for measuring the influence of extinct taxa on topological support indicate that in this vertebrate order fossils generally stabilize relationships and accentuate hidden phylogenetic signals. Remaining inconsistencies in minimum length trees, including concentrated hierarchical patterns of homoplasy and extensive gaps in the fossil record, indicate where future work in crocodylian systematics should be directed.
3651110|Idiosyncratic markers are features of genes and genomes that are so unusual that it is unlikely that they evolved more than once in a lineage of organisms. Here we explore further the potential of idiosyncratic markers and changes to typically conserved tRNA sequences for phylogenetic inference. Hard ticks were chosen as the model group because their phylogeny has been studied extensively. Fifty-eight candidate markers from hard ticks (family Ixodidae) and 22 markers from the subfamily Rhipicephalinae sensu lato were mapped onto phylogenies of these groups. Two of the most interesting markers, features of the secondary structure of two different tRNAs, gave strong support to the hypothesis that species of the Prostriata (Ixodes spp.) are monophyletic. Previous analyses of genes and morphology did not strongly support this relationship, instead suggesting that the Prostriata is paraphyletic with respect to the Metastriata (the rest of the hard ticks). Parallel or convergent evolution was not found in the arrangements of mitochondrial genes in ticks nor were there any reversals to the ancestral arthropod character state. Many of the markers identified were phylogenetically informative, whereas others should be informative with study of additional taxa. Idiosyncratic markers and changes to typically conserved nucleotides in tRNAs that are phylogenetically informative were common in this data set, and thus these types of markers might be found in other organisms.
3651116|The phylogeny of Crocodylia offers an unusual twist on the usual molecules versus morphology story. The true gharial (Gavialis gangeticus) and the false gharial (Tomistoma schlegelii), as their common names imply have appeared in all cladistic morphological analyses as distantly related species, convergent upon a similar morphology. In contrast, all previous molecular studies have shown them to be sister taxa. We present the first phylogenetic study of Crocodylia using a nuclear gene. We cloned and sequenced the c-myc proto-oncogene from Alligator mississippiensis to facilitate primer design and then sequenced an 1,100-base pair fragment that includes both coding and noncoding regions and informative indels for one species in each extant crocodylian genus and six avian outgroups. Phylogenetic analyses using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference all strongly agreed on the same tree, which is identical to the tree found in previous molecular analyses: Gavialis and Tomistoma are sister taxa and together are the sister group of Crocodylidae. Kishino-Hasegawa tests rejected the morphological tree in favor of the molecular tree. We excluded long-branch attraction and variation in base composition among taxa as explanations for this topology. To explore the causes of discrepancy between molecular and morphological estimates of crocodylian phylogeny, we examined puzzling features of the morphological data using a priori partitions of the data based on anatomical regions and investigated the effects of different coding schemes for two obvious morphological similarities of the two gharials.
3651115|A nuclear low-copy gene phylogeny provides strong evidence for the hybrid origin of seven polyploid species in Geinae (Rosaceae). In a gene tree, alleles at homoeologous loci in an allopolyploid species are expected to be sisters to orthologues in the ancestral taxa rather than to each other. Alleles at a duplicated locus in an autopolyploid, however, are expected to be more closely related to each other than they are to any orthologous copies in closely related species. We cloned and sequenced about 1.9 kilobases from the 5' end of the GBSSI-1 gene from two diploid, one tetraploid, and six hexaploid species. Each of the three loci in the hexaploid species forms a separate group, two of which are more closely related to copies in other species than they are to each other. This finding indicates that the hexaploid lineage evolved through two consecutive allopolyploidization events. Based on the GBSSI-1 gene tree, we hypothesized that there was an initial hybridization between a diploid species from the ancestral lineage of Coluria and Waldsteinia and an unknown diploid species to form the tetraploid Geum heterocarpum lineage. Backcrossing of G. heterocarpum with a representative of the unknown diploid lineage then resulted in a hexaploid lineage that has radiated considerably since its origin, comprising at least 40 extant species with various morphologies. A penalized likelihood analysis indicated that Geinae may be about 17 million years old, implying that the hypothesized allopolyploid speciation events are relatively ancient. Six of the 22 cloned Geinae GBSSI-1 copies in this study, which all are duplicate copies in polyploid taxa, may have become pseudogenes. We compared the GBSSI-1 phylogeny with one from chloroplast data and explored implications for the evolution of some fruit characters.
3651111|Because calcareous sponges are triggering renewed interest with respect to basal metazoan evolution, a phylogenetic framework of their internal relationships is needed to clarify the evolutionary history of key morphological characters. Morphological variation was scored at the suprageneric level within Calcispongia, but little phylogenetic information could be retrieved from morphological characters. For the main subdivision of Calcispongia, the analysis of morphological data weakly supports a classification based upon cytological and embryological characters (Calcinea/Calcaronea) rather than the older classification scheme based upon the aquiferous system (Homocoela/Heterocoela). The 18S ribosomal RNA data were then analyzed, both alone and in combination with morphological characters. The monophyly of Calcispongia is highly supported, but the position of this group with respect to other sponge lineages and to eumetazoan taxa is not resolved. The monophyly of both Calcinea and Calcaronea is retrieved, and the data strongly rejected the competing Homocoela/Heterocoela hypothesis. The phylogeny implies that characters of the skeleton architecture are highly homoplastic, as are characters of the aquiferous system. However, axial symmetry seems to be primitive for all Calcispongia, a conclusion that has potentially far-reaching implications for hypotheses of early body plan evolution in Metazoa.
3651114|The existence of multiple likelihood maxima necessitates algorithms that explore a large part of the tree space. However, because of computational constraints, stepwise addition-based tree-searching methods do not allow for this exploration in reasonable time. Here, I present an algorithm that increases the speed at which the likelihood landscape can be explored. The iterative algorithm combines the computational speed of distance-based tree construction methods to arrive at approximations of the global optimum with the accuracy of optimality criterion based branch-swapping methods to improve on the result of the starting tree. The algorithm moves between local optima by iteratively perturbing the tree landscape through a process of reweighting randomly drawn samples of the underlying sequence data set. Tests on simulated and real data sets demonstrated that the optimal solution obtained using stepwise addition-based heuristic searches was found faster using the algorithm presented here. Tests on a previously published data set that established the presence of tree islands under maximum likelihood demonstrated that the algorithm identifies the same tree islands in a shorter amount of time than that needed using stepwise addition. The algorithm can be readily applied using standard software for phylogenetic inference.
3651112|We examined relationships between fragrance and phylogeny using a number of approaches to coding fragrance data and comparing the hierarchical information in fragrance data with the phylogenetic signal in a DNA sequence data set. We first used distance analyses to determine which coding method(s) best distinguishes species while grouping conspecifics. Results suggest that interspecific differences in fragrance composition were maximized by coding as presence/absence of fragrance compounds and biosynthetic pathways rather than when quantitative information was also included. Useful systematic information came from both compounds and pathways and from fragrance emitted by both floral and vegetative tissues. The coding methods that emerged from the distance analyses as best distinguishing species were then adapted for use in phylogenetic analysis. Although hierarchical signal among fragrance data sets was congruent, this signal was highly incongruent with the phylogenetic signal in the DNA sequence data. Notably, topologies inferred from fragrance data sets were congruent with the DNA topology only in the most distal portions (e.g., sister group pairs or closely related species that had similar fragrance profiles were often recovered by analyses of fragrance). Examination of consistency and retention indices for individual fragrance compounds and pathways as optimized onto one of the most-parsimonious trees inferred from DNA data revealed that although most compounds were homoplastic, some compounds were perfectly congruent with the DNA phylogeny In particular, compounds and pathways found in a few taxa were less homoplastic than those found in many taxa. Pathways that synthesize few volatiles also seem to have lower homoplasy than those that produce many. Although fragrance data as a whole may not be useful in phylogeny reconstruction, these data can provide additional support for clades reconstructed with other types of characters. Factors other than phylogeny, including pollinator interactions, also likely influence fragrance composition.
10.2307/2992506|The claim that fossils strongly influence the outcome of phylogenetic analysis for extant taxa has been recently demonstrated in a study of higher amniote relationships (Gauthier, Kluge, and Rowe, 1988, Cladistics 4:105-209). Similar, albeit more limited, effects are also apparent in the case of higher (eutherian) mammal phylogeny. For example, the incorporation of selected fossil taxa shifts the balance of evidence concerning hyracoid relationships in favor of a close affinity between this order and sirenians and proboscideans (Tethytheria). The use of fossils introduces character conflict to a grouping of hyracoids and perissodactyls, indicating that some traits shared by extant hyracoids and extant perissodactyls were acquired independently Although analysis of the combined (Recent and fossil) data set favors the hyracoid-tethythere clade over the hyracoid-perissodactyl clade in the most parsimonious tree, the former grouping is highly vulnerable to collapse when minor homoplasy is introduced. This instability is expected because the fossils function as transitional taxa, with the effect of reducing the number of characters for particular nodes. At the same time, such transitional taxa can more precisely represent the actual transformation events and accordingly provide important information on phylogenetic history. The overall effects of fossils in analysis of higher eutherian mammals is much more subtle than in the amniote case. A primary reason for this discrepancy appears to be the large proportion of characters for extant amniote taxa that show marked transformation relevant to early splitting events. This level of information loss though marked transformation is not as evident in the case of the mammalian orders. Both extant and fossil taxa can introduce major shifts to the original topology of a given tree. Nonetheless, the tendency for fossils to preserve characters lost in living taxa suggests a pivotal role for fossils in many current and pending studies.
10.2307/2992502|The reliability of phylogenies reconstructed from data on multigene families is investigated via simulation. The evolutionary scenario used is a character-based model of a two-gene family in four species in which clocklike divergence is postulated but neither convergence nor reversal is allowed except as a result of recombination and gene conversion. Thus, any homoplasy emerging from parsimony reconstructions from the simulated data matrices can be attributed to concerted evolution. The probabilities of correctly reconstructing two standard trees are estimated by replicate runs of the simulation. One standard tree (the OP or "orthology/paralogy" tree) reflects the true gene genealogy in the absence of concerted evolution; the other (the CE or "concerted evolution" tree) depicts gene relationships under complete homogenization of the gene family. The probability of correct reconstruction of the OP tree declines quickly as concerted evolution increases, but above an intermediate level of concerted evolution the probability of correctly inferring the CE tree increases rapidly Trees similar but not identical to the correct trees can be reconstructed above or below the critical intermediate level of concerted evolution. Levels of homoplasy and numbers of equally parsimonious minimal trees are maximized, and bootstrap confidence levels are minimized, near this intermediate level of concerted evolution. When reconstructing the correct gene tree is the goal, both consistency indices and bootstrap levels will show misleadingly high values when concerted evolution is high. However, because the correct species tree can be inferred from either the OP or CE tree (in the absence of homoplasy from sources other than concerted evolution), these same measures correlate well with fidelity of reconstructing the species tree.
10.2307/2992503|We discuss and clarify several aspects of applying Felsenstein's (1985, Am. Nat. 125: 1-15) procedures to test for correlated evolution of continuous traits. This is one of several available comparative methods that maps data for phenotypic traits onto an existing phylogenetic tree (derived from independent information). Application of Felsenstein's method does not require an entirely dichotomous topology. It also does not require an assumption of gradual, clocklike character evolution, as might be modeled by Brownian motion. Almost any available information can be used to estimate branch lengths (e.g., genetic distances, divergence times estimated from the fossil record or from molecular clocks, numbers of character changes from a cladistic analysis). However, the adequacy for statistical purposes of any proposed branch lengths must be verified empirically for each phylogeny and for each character. We suggest a simple way of doing this, based on graphical analysis of plots of standardized independent contrasts versus their standard deviations (i.e., the square roots of the sums of their branch lengths). In some cases, the branch lengths and/or the values of traits being studied will require transformation. An example involving the scaling of mammalian home range area is presented. Once adequately standardized, sets of independent contrasts can be analyzed using either linear or nonlinear (multiple) regression. In all cases, however, regressions (or correlations) must be computed through the origin. We also discuss ways of correcting for body size effects and how this relates to making graphical representations of relationships of standardized independent contrasts. We close with a consideration of the types of traits that can be analyzed with independent contrasts procedures and conclude that any (continuous) trait that is inherited from ancestors is appropriate for analysis, regardless of the mechanism of inheritance (e.g., genetic or cultural).
10.2307/2992504|Two new optimality indices are developed for selecting subsets of trees from a set of most parsimonious trees. The optimal character compatibility index (OCCI) quantifies, for each most parsimonious tree, the proportion of characters that are postulated to have changed only once. The tree(s) with the highest OCCI value is (are) selected. The optimum parsimonious likelihood index (OPLI) selects the tree(s), from a set of most parsimonious trees, that is (are) most likely to give the observed data under certain assumptions. In simulation trials, both the OCCI and OPLI are highly efficient at retrieving the closest approximation to the true tree.
10.2307/2992505|Hybridization is frequent in certain freshwater fishes, but evidence for introgression is usually inconclusive. Most putative cases of introgression are unsubstantiated because morphological data alone are not constrained enough to provide unambiguous evidence for it. Definitive evidence for some cases has been provided by studies of proteins and mitochondrial DNA. The ability to hybridize is a context-dependent retained plesiomorphic trait, at least among lineages separated for up to about 5 million years. Hybridization and possibly introgression occurred in the distant past; they are not limited to anthropogenically disturbed habitats. Local variation and homoplasy are usual consequences. Introgression may substitute blocks of homoplastic characters, which may then become wide-spread in a recipient lineage. The mitochondrial DNA molecule may become such a block. The consequence for evolutionary studies is the loss of hierarchical structure in phylogenetic data and the loss of evidence of evolutionary history. False cladograms and poor estimates of evolutionary rates may result. Estimates of evolutionary divergence times and rates of evolution in fishes are often based simply on phenograms of genetic distances scaled with mammalian rate estimates. Rates calculated in this way are about two times slower than those calculated from divergence times based on fossil evidence for apomorphies that diagnose branching of fish lineages.
10.2307/2992583|Just as the factors responsible for the origin of an adaptation may not be responsible for its maintenance, the processes currently operating in a community may not have been important in assembling the community Consequently, historical and ecological studies must be integrated to understand why communities are structured as they are. Examples from Caribbean Anolis assemblages indicate the unique ecological insight a historical perspective can provide. In the Lesser Antilles, phylogenetic analysis indicates that character displacement probably has occurred, but perhaps only once, and that patterns of size dissimilarity across islands result from ecological size assortment subsequent to the evolutionary change in size. In the Greater Antilles, not only are communities composed of a suite of convergent "ecomorphs," but the buildup of multispecies communities has followed a very similar trajectory, a finding not demonstrable by nonhistorical analyses. Further, phylogenetic analyses suggest the appropriate direction for ecological research concerning the occurrence of "empty niches."
10.2307/2992584|Systematists should distinguish between cladistic analysis, i.e., a numerical procedure, and phylogenetic analysis, i.e., the reconstruction of hierarchic descent relationships. Modern cladistic analysis uses parsimony to construct hierarchic arrangements (trees) of terminal units (terminals) that have been scored for a series of attributes. The interpretation of cladistic relationships as representative of phylogenetic relationships requires two conditions, both of which were identified by Hennig (1966, Phylogenetic systematics, Univ. Illinois Press, Urbana). First, descent relationships among the terminals must be hierarchic; that is, all terminals must have been generated by the subdivision or replication of previously existing ancestors. This is a necessary condition for phylogenetic analysis, rather than an empirical discovery of it, because the results of cladistic analysis are always hierarchically structured (however poorly resolved). Because resolution of a cladistic hierarchy does not demonstrate that a hierarchic descent system underlies the character distribution pattern it reflects, additional information is necessary, in any given case, to determine that phylogenetic analysis is appropriate. Second, to have congruence between an observable attribute hierarchy and the descent hierarchy that is to be inferred, the attribute must have been transmitted from an ancestor to all of its descendants, either in its original state or in a modified state. Both conditions are met by asexual organisms and by nonrecombining genetic elements (e.g., the chloroplast and mitochondrial genomes) but not by individual sexually reproducing organisms that bear such genetic elements. Populations of sexually reproducing organisms can meet the first condition (i.e., hierarchic descent) when new populations are founded by the division of previously existing populations and individuals do not disperse among existing populations. When the first condition is met, the second also is met for genetically fixed attributes of the populations, because populations descended from an ancestral population that was fixed for an attribute also will be fixed for that attribute (in original or modified state). In contrast, attributes that are not fixed in a population may not occur in all or any descendant populations, even if descent relationships among populations are hierarchic. The occurrence of a unique fixed character combination in an extended genealogical population (phylogenetic species sensu Nixon and Wheeler, 1990, Cladistics 6:211-223) is evidence that this population has diverged from other such populations and thus that descent relationships among such populations are hierarchic. The fixed characters of phylogenetic species therefore constitute evidence that a hierarchic descent system exists and provide the means for analyzing phylogenetic relationships among these species. Phylogenetic species can be delimited by a procedure (population aggregation analysis) that involves a search for fixed differences among local populations, followed by successive rounds of aggregation of populations and previously aggregated population groups that are not distinct from each other.
10.2307/2992586|A molecular approach was used to test hypotheses about the phylogeny of selected brachyuran crabs. Partial 18S ribosomal (r) RNA and rDNA sequences, ranging in length from 950 to 1,779 nucleotides, were obtained for 12 decapod crustaceans, 10 of which are generally considered to be brachyurans. Pairwise sequence-divergence estimates ranged from 0.5% to 3.9% among the so-called "true" crabs (i.e., excluding dromiids) and from 1.1% to 15.5% among the infraorders that were studied. The smallest infraorder divergence occurred between an anomuran and a dromiid crab, which suggested a dromiid-anomuran rather than a dromiid-brachyuran relationship. Results from sequence-divergence estimates and phylogenies inferred by maximum parsimony analyses of aligned sequences suggest that (1) the Raninidae demarcate the lower limit of the Brachyura and form a distinct lineage that diverged early from the lineage leading to other members of this infraorder, as indicated by a number of autapomorphic characters in the 18S rRNA molecule; (2) the Dromiidae should be removed from the Brachyura; (3) there is little support for either the family Dromiidae or the section Oxystomata as a monophyletic group; (4) there is an average substitution rate of roughly 1%/50 million years, which results in insufficient sequence variation within the 18S molecule to resolve relationships among brachyurans that share a post-Cretaceous divergence; and (5) the 18S ribosome-based brachyuran phylogeny is concordant with findings on spermatozoan ultrastructure and on larval rather than adult morphology.
10.2307/2992587|The phylogenetic significance of fossils is limited in many groups, such as freshwater fishes, by the sparse fossil record that is available. Nevertheless, even these fossils have a role in phylogenetic analysis. Fossils can be a source of new species, characters, and character states. Fossils can also suggest different character polarities. They often clarify the order in which synapomorphies were acquired and demonstrate convergence in the apparent synapomorphies of living species. In extreme cases, they can change estimated phylogenies based only on living species. Species that diverged early in the history of their group usually have more primitive features than younger species, but these early forms tend to be removed from the fauna by extinction. Therefore, important phylogenetic contributions tend to be greater for fossils that are very early members of their groups and are most revealing when several species document the stem-group lineage. However, even single and very derived fossil species can present surprising combinations of character states, suggest new characters, and alter phylogenies. Examples illustrating these points from the North American freshwater record of fishes include the oldest known (Paleocene) osmerid, the oldest (Paleocene and Cretaceous) esocids, Tertiary hiodontids, and the oldest (Eocene) salmonine.
10.2307/2992585|The search for centers of origin has fallen into disrepute because of unfounded assumptions and spurious criteria. Nevertheless, a proper approach to understanding ancestral areas would enhance the study of the natural history of organisms. If there is reason to assume that a group originally had a more restricted distribution than it has today, a method for estimating that ancestral distribution is warranted. I describe a cladistic procedure for approximating ancestral areas of individual groups from the topological information in their area cladograms. Each area is treated as a single character, which may be optimized onto the cladogram using either forward or reverse Camin-Sokal parsimony. By comparing the numbers of necessary gains and losses under the two optimizations, respectively, it is possible to estimate which areas were most likely parts of the ancestral area. By applying the method to a cladogram of the globally distributed angiosperm family Asteraceae, I estimated that the ancestral area involved both South America and the Pacific. Application to recently published cladograms of human mitochondrial DNA provides an objective evaluation of the support for any particular geographic origin of humans.
10.2307/2992588|We estimated measurement error (ME) associated with 15 skeletal characters in seven species of passerine birds. The total sample variance of the characters, from three measurements of each character on each individual, was partitioned into among- and within-individual components of variation. Measurement error, defined as that portion of the total sample variance made up by within-individual variation, ranged from <1% to >80%. Percent ME was inversely related to the size of a character, among-individual variation, and experience of the measurer. Other sources of ME included the character's flexibility and the definition of character landmarks. Although observer experience reduced ME, the effect was only substantial after more specimens were measured than are often used in morphometric studies. The magnitude of statistically detectable differences between groups was examined in relation to the level of ME and the sample sizes of groups. Measurement error increased the chances of finding no group difference, i.e., making type II errors. Type II errors can be reduced either by averaging two or more repeated measurements of the same individual, thereby reducing ME, or by increasing the sample size. We show how averaging repeated measurements changes the minimum detectable effect size between groups when both ME and sample size vary. The pattern of character-specific measurement error is consistent across passerine species; both reliable and unreliable characters for morphometric studies are identified.
10.2307/2992518|A statistical framework to test the consensus of dendrograms (=phenograms of some authors) is extended to the comparison of cladograms (additive trees). Additive trees can be compared through their associated path-length matrices. The procedure calls for a decomposition of additive trees into ultrametric and star components that are independently permuted and summed together to obtain randomized path-length matrices. This triple permutation test evaluates the null hypothesis that the trees under comparison are no more similar than random additive trees with a random topology, random labels, and randomized branch lengths. Along with the global test, the integrated approach rationalizes the simultaneous use of tests involving each component separately. The method is applied to kangaroo phylogenies to measure the congruence among trees derived from different character sets.
10.2307/2992520|Lizards of the genus Coleonyx exhibit diversity in standard metabolic rate (SMR), evaporative water-loss rate (EWLR), and temperature preference (TP). We conducted a phylogenetic analysis of these characters to reconstruct the historical sequence of character evolution and to address the adaptive significance of particular character states. Four equally parsimonious hypotheses of derived-state acquisition are presented. Our preferred hypothesis was selected by considering additional information on the natural history, distribution, and biogeography of several species. Our analysis indicates that the North American ancestor of Coleonyx was a mesophilic forest dweller characterized by a low SMR, a high EWLR, and a low TP In one stage of character transformation, both low EWLR and high TP evolved independently in two xerophilic clades: C. switaki and variegatus-brevis-fasciatus. Coleonyx reticulatus, a xeric-habitat species that occupies a somewhat mesic microhabitat, retained the ancestral states of high EWLR and low TP. A second stage of character transformation was the evolution of high SMR in the ancestral lineage of the variegatus-brevis-fasciatus clade. We tested the hypothesis that low SMR represents an adaptation in Coleonyx for inhabiting an energy-poor microhabitat. Our analysis reveals that low SMR is the ancestral state for this genus. Furthermore, within the genus low SMR is not historically correlated with energy-poor microhabitats. Although two species with low SMR, C. switaki and C. reticulatus, inhabit microhabitats in which a reduced SMR might be functional, there is no causal relationship between low SMR and energy-poor microhabitat. Thus, this adaptive hypothesis is rejected for the genus Coleonyx. We present a testable hypothesis for the evolution of high SMR in the variegatus-brevis-fasciatus clade. A historical biogeographic scenario based on phylogenetic relationships within the genus, the geological and climatological history of North and Central America, and physiological-ecological character evolution is presented. This study illustrates the importance of the phylogenetic approach to the study of physiological-ecological character evolution, a methodology that can distinguish between contemporary versus historical causal factors and produce testable adaptive hypotheses.
10.2307/2992521|Divergence in a set of area traits describing morphological form of the mandible in rats and mice was examined by finite element scaling analysis (FESA) and conventional statistical analyses. The area traits correspond to the skeletal derivatives of mesenchymal condensations involved in the production of the rodent mandible. Three major questions are addressed. (1) Can differences in the form of the adult rodent mandible be explained by changes in specific morphogenetic components? To answer this question, four specific hypotheses that might account for differences between mice and rats in morphological form of the mandible were evaluated: isometric size-scaling, mesenchymal condensation differentiation, muscle hypertrophy, and differential tooth growth. The results support all hypotheses except differential tooth growth, suggesting a complex and multidimensional differentiation in mandibular form between these taxa. The FESA and statistical analyses give qualitatively the same results for all of the hypotheses tested. (2) Has morphological change in mandible form been accompanied by significant changes in the genetic correlation structure? Genetic correlation patterns among traits are different between these species, and these differences persist after the genetic correlation between mandible dimensions and body weight is accounted for. This result differs from those of previous reports on pelvic dimensions in these animals, where no significant change in genetic correlation structures was found, suggesting mosaic evolution of the skeletal system in these taxa. (3) Does using different extrinsic and intrinsic covariates to scale animals to the same size produce equivalent effects on the covariance structure of the traits? Results show that different extrinsic and intrinsic covariates in analysis of covariance often produce very different results.
10.2307/2992522|Two conflicting hypotheses concern the origin of flying mammals. The traditional hypothesis states that the two major groups of bats, the microchiropterans and the megachiropterans, are sister groups that constitute the taxon Chiroptera. In contrast, the diphyly hypothesis suggests that megachiropterans are more closely related to primates than to microchiropterans. Different suites of morphological characters provide support for each of these hypotheses, and previous molecular studies have not provided a clear resolution of the problem. We analyzed a region of the mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA gene from 11 species of mammals, including 2 species of megachiropterans, 2 species of microchiropterans, a primate, a colugo (Dermoptera), a tree shrew (Scandentia), and 4 outgroups, to test the diphyly hypothesis. A phylogenetic analysis of 257 base pairs resulted in two shortest unrooted trees that significantly support the monophyly of the bats and also suggest that the colugo is more closely related to primates than to the bats: (((Primates, Dermoptera) Scandentia) (Microchiroptera, Megachiroptera)). The topology supporting the diphyly hypothesis is 10 steps longer than the most-parsimonious unrooted tree. Although the traditional hypothesis is supported with respect to bat monophyly, the rDNA data support the nontraditional grouping of colugo and primates (a hypothesis also supported by neurological data).
10.2307/2992519|The method of Estabrook, McMorris, and Meacham (1985, Syst. Zool. 34:193-200) to measure the similarity of two phylogenetic trees for the same collection of evolutionary units (EUs) has been generalized to include an evaluation of the similarity of the placement of individual EUs. These measures do not vary when the direction of evolutionary change along the individual branches is changed in either of the two trees being compared. Thus, these measures depend only on the convexity of various groups of EUs on the two trees. These measures are also applicable to phylogenetic trees that are only partially resolved. These concepts are illustrated with previously published pairs of estimates of the phylogenetic tree for genera of rodents and for genera of ducks.
10.2307/2992523|Two complaints against the linear functional regression model have been that the estimated regression lines are not symmetrical in x and y and that they depend on the scale of the observed data in unpredictable ways. If one takes into account the ratio of measurement errors , then the estimates from linear functional regression are symmetrical (i.e., the regression of y on x and x on y are the same line). Using nonlinear least squares estimation, functional regression is easily applied to fit both nonlinear and linear models. Again taking into account , linear and nonlinear models can be naturally rescaled (as with ordinary regression estimates) according to the units of the observed variables. The log-transformed functional regression model and the relationships between principal axis methods and the linear functional regression model are considered. Controversies surrounding the "standard major axis" are discussed; simulation results are presented, and the validity of the method is questioned. Treatment of the linear, allometry, polynomial, and von Bertalanffy models is discussed, and a numerical example is presented.
10.2307/2992517|Empirical comparison of species concepts can be made by taking advantage of a common operational exigency: the use of phenotypically irreducible clusters of individuals as first order estimates of species. A phylogenetic analysis of diatoms was undertaken using such clusters as terminal taxa. Cladistic analysis and biogeographic distributions suggest that different populations of the widespread, plesiomorphic Stephanodiscus magarae (at least 2 million years old) are ancestral to three autapomorphic taxa that emerged during the Holocene in North America. This phylogenetic hypothesis is supported in one case by a time-transgressive morphological continuity between fossils of the plesiomorphic species (S. magarae) and of one of the derived endemics (S. yellowstonensis) found only within the Yellowstone Lake basin. Given the phylogenetic hypothesis, the clusters diagnosed by autapomorphy each evolved as a unit, but the cluster identified solely by a unique combination of plesiomorphic characters did not (S. magarae). Each of the autapomorphic species is found in close proximity to lakes containing S. magarae, whereas lakes containing S. magarae populations are widely dispersed. Thus, it would be difficult to simultaneously explain evolution of autapomorphic endemics by breeding isolation and maintenance of the plesiomorphic similarity of S. magarae populations by interbreeding. Autapomorphic taxa were found on the ecological periphery of the species complex but S. magarae occurs both in the ecological center and periphery of the entire complex; therefore, the plesiomorphic cluster is not an ecological unit. The results caution against the acceptance of smallest phenetically recognizable clusters of organisms as either units or products of evolution. Cladistic analysis and the autapomorphic species concept should be a routine part of studies of speciation. Stratigraphy and parsimony analysis agreed on the ancestral morphology of S. yellowstonensis.
10.2307/2992567|Sequences (644-681 bp) from the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene were obtained for 24 individuals representing the geographic range and morphological diversity of the polytypic salamander ring species Ensatina eschscholtzii. These data were used to estimate the phylogeny of components of the ring to test the biogeographic scenario underlying current interpretations of speciation in this complex. The analysis revealed high levels of nucleotide variation among subspecies. Strong subdivision was evident within the subspecies platensis and oregonensis. The phylogenetic hypothesis of minimum length that is best supported by the data contains one monophyletic group that includes populations from the southern Sierra Nevada and mountains of southern California (croceater, klauberi, and southern platensis) and another that includes populations of the southern and central coastal regions (xanthoptica and eschscholtzii). Samples of oregonensis were typically basal, but their precise branching order was unstable. Both oregonensis and platensis were paraphyletic, with several disparate lineages in oregonensis and a strong northsouth dichotomy in platensis. The data were incompatible with a biogeographic model that required all subspecies to be monophyletic but were compatible with slightly modified predictions of a model assuming stepwise colonizations from north to south down the Sierra Nevada and independently down the coastal ranges. These features provide strong support for the biogeographic scenario central to the interpretation of Ensatina eschscholtzii as a ring species. Division of this complex into separate species on the basis of the observed patterns of monophyly for mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is unwarranted because further sampling could reveal additional instances of paraphyly across subspecies and, more generally, because mtDNA alone should not be used to infer species boundaries.
10.2307/2992569|Annelids and arthropods have long been considered to be each other's closest relatives, as evidenced by similarities in their segmented body plans. In the first cladistic analysis of metazoan morphology accompanied by an explicit data matrix, Schram (Meglitsch and Schram, 1991, Invertebrate zoology, 3rd edition, Oxford Univ Press, New York) suggested tentative support for this conventional "Articulata" hypothesis. Our reanalysis of the Schram data matrix yielded weak support for an alternative "Eutrochozoa" grouping of annelids, molluscs, and certain other spiralian phyla, exclusive of arthropods. Likewise, recent 18S ribosomal RNA sequence comparisons have favored the Eutrochozoa hypothesis. This study presents a new analysis of 141 independently assembled characters, purported to represent the current state of knowledge of metazoan morphology and embryology. This maximum parsimony analysis resulted in robust support of Eutrochozoa. For this data compilation and method of analysis, the Articulata hypothesis could only be supported by adding multiple ad hoc proposals of evolutionary events. Instead, the more parsimonious Eutrochozoa hypothesis is favored as the best-supported current reconstruction of higher level animal genealogy.
10.2307/2992568|Patterns of morphological covariation were quantified with factor analysis for 32 populations representing the seven closely related species of Partula snails from the island of Moorea, French Polynesia. Variation in the patterns of covariation shows little connection with the taxonomic hierarchy in this group and does not reflect the reproductive relationships of these species. Nevertheless, there are associations of patterns of covariation with morphologically and geographically recognized subspecies in the two most diverse species, P taeniata and P suturalis. Among species, there is an association between the similarity of morphological covariation and genetic similarity, as measured by allozymes. Morphological covariation in Partula on Moorea provides no special information for distinguishing taxa and appears to have evolved gradually, without sudden or discontinuous change, and independently of speciation.
10.2307/2992570|Genetic variation in 114 woodrats (Neotoma) from 33 locations in the eastern and central United States was examined using analysis of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) restriction sites. Results indicate that three major lineages of Neotoma floridana (southern, western, and northern) diverged in the early Pleistocene. The southern lineage exhibits substantial mtDNA variability and population structure. The pattern of mtDNA variation in the southern lineage suggests that vicariance events, including the insularization of Florida, have been important determinants of geographic variation. The low levels of sequence variation within the northern and western lineages indicate that woodrat populations in these areas are probably the result of relatively recent (Holocene) range expansions. These conclusions are not entirely consistent with the current taxonomy of eastern woodrats and suggest that taxonomic revision is warranted.
10.2307/2992571|Fossil species are often described on the basis of differences in linear dimensions among specimens. In addition, vertebrate paleontologists frequently refer individual skeletal elements to species described from different elements, based on some estimate of the relative proportions of these elements. Frequently, the variance of a particular dimension or the relative proportions among dimensions in fossil species are based on ranges and correlation structures in Recent taxa closely related to the fossil taxa. To describe a species according to size (i.e., linear distance between two landmarks), or to refer specimens to a species based on relative proportions of two or more dimensions, not only assumes that there is a historical component to morphometric data but also that population parameters in Recent species are applicable to the fossil species. In this paper, the assumption that linear dimensions of organisms reflect the evolutionary history of the species of which these organisms are a part is examined. Only those linear dimensions that reflect this history (as opposed to apomorphic dimensions reflecting drift or an adaptation) can be used in a phylogenetically based taxonomy of fossils. Methods for estimating linear dimensions and their variances in hypothesized common ancestors of Recent taxa and fossil species are described, and the variance of a dimension in a fossil species is estimated using parsimony procedures. However, calculating a size range for a fossil species is problematic because there is no theoretical basis by which the mean or any other measure of central tendency for that species can be estimated. Two methods for estimating the range for a particular dimension in a fossil species using reconstructed ancestral variances and the actual measurements of individual fossil specimens are proposed. Estimates of a linear dimension in a fossil species are made using existing phylogenetic hypotheses and the results from analyses of covariance and linear regression models. These methods and the assumptions used in the taxonomy of fossils are discussed using the morphometry and phylogenetic history of Recent and fossil Sulidae (Aves: Pelecaniformes).
